Aitken Spence PLC DYNAMIC EVOLVING Annual Report 2012-2013 Financial, environmental and social performance Aitken Spence has long been recognised as one of the best performing companies in the South Asian region. Our heritage in Sri Lanka that goes back well over a century and a half also makes us one of the best established companies; a leader in the industries we serve and a benchmark of corporate citizenship for many. Today, our energy and drive to perform has not diminished. In every task we execute, the overriding desire to excel shines through. As a result, the last decade has seen us transform our company into a dynamic, Forward looking statements When formulating this integrated report, we have attempted to move from a rapidly evolving and diversified conglomerate, compliance-driven approach to an approach led by our business activities and user needs, in order to better report what we do. While we have ensured as far as possible preferred by thousands of partners, that reporting compliance requirements have been met, we have also made an effort customers and investors. to present in this context our business model, strategy and performance. Furthermore, we have enhanced our reporting of future plans and outlook, therefore The strength, the reach, a visionary approach this report contains many forward looking statements. In most cases these will be indicated by the use of words such as ‘target’, ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘may’, ‘anticipate’, and values honed by years of commitment to ‘plan’, ‘will’, ‘strategy’, ‘prospect’, ‘foresee’, ‘possibility’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, ‘can’, ‘intend’, and others with similar meaning. a single cause our passion for excellence. These statements are based on our current plans, estimates and projections; therefore such statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties as a number of factors could cause the actual result to deviate from the targeted one. Among the factors that would impact future results are global and local political and economic conditions; changes to government policy; currency and interest rate fluctuations; changes to the competitive landscape; failure to recruit the right employees; unexpected changes in costs and expenses; new investments and divestitures; and our success/failure at marketing new products and services. As such, please note that Aitken Spence undertakes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements herein, after the distribution of this Annual Report. Þ This is an integrated annual report. A guide to reading it is given overleaf. IN PREPARING OUR SECOND INTEGRATED REPORT WE HAVE SOUGHT AN INTRODUCTION TO THE CONTENTS TO TELL THE STORY OF THIS REPORT OF THE YEAR ENDED We are pleased to present to stakeholders our integrated annual report for the year ended 31st March 2013. 31ST MARCH 2013 IN A This report covers the integrated sustainable economic performance of COMPREHENSIVE AND the companies in which Aitken Spence PLC has significant operational and management control, including activities in Asia and Africa. The CONCISE MANNER. report provides information on our subsidiaries, joint ventures and equityour systems and is focused on educating the stakeholders about the accounted investees. The names and details of the companies are set operations of Aitken Spence. out on pages 245 to 250. A feedback form with contact details for comments, suggestions and The material issues discussed in the report, set out on pages 4 and 5, queries by stakeholders is available online. Further our social media were identified through an internal process of engagement with executive could also be used to get in touch with us for feedback and comments. management across the business to determine what would substantially influence the sustainability of the Group, and the assessments and We have provided material disclosures on governance, ethics, strategy, decisions of our stakeholders. risk, opportunity and remuneration in relation to our financial, economic, ethical, social and environmental performance and prospects, at both The information herein is provided in accordance with the Sri Lanka Group and operating level. It is our hope that the annual integrated report Accounting Standards (SLFRSs and LKASs) in alignment with the will set the basis for meaningful engagement with our stakeholders in the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) the Companies Act year ahead. No.07 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, as well as the Code of Corporate Governance Principles 2009 and other related Our sustainability priorities were identified mostly through a scientific guidance. This being the first reporting cycle since the transition to the assessment of the impacts we have on the different environs that make new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the annual audited accounts and up the systems within the sphere of the Aitken Spence Group’s influence. the notes to the accounts explain the implications and reconciliations These priorities were further verified by studying the historical data of the as a result of the convergence. We have once again used the Global organisation, feedback from specific key stakeholders and guidance from Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines in preparing our integrated the senior management and the subsidiary sustainability teams. annual report and this year, we have reported at a self-declared B level. In order to identify the indicators in respect of which information should A limitation in this report is that the sustainability performance is be disclosed on, we first short listed performance indicators of significant monitored for our operations only in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Also, importance to the Group which need to be monitored. These indicators where sustainability systems are still in the implementation process, were then filtered through the sustainability sub-committee following comprehensive data is not yet available. Our reporting process is driven which the senior management were consulted. Identification of the and supervised entirely by the internal expertise of the Group and our disclosures was governed by materiality of the indicators, completeness short to medium term goal is to make the disclosures inclusive of all of the information available and the requirements of the stakeholders. operational activities material and relevant to the impacts and risks within We recognise that we have some way to go before we can report regarding all issues identified as material to our stakeholders. We have however made a strong start on formulating a stakeholder engagement SNAPSHOT OF MATERIAL ISSUES page 04 strategy with the support of an independent third party, and expect to implement this in the year ahead, both at Group-level and within our STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT page 18 operating activities. This is aimed at determining the factors that would CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE page 28 substantially influence the sustainability of the Aitken Spence Group, and the assessments and decisions of our stakeholders. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW page 34 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS page 157 Þ Forwww.aitkenspence.com/sustainability a full GRI table go to Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 CONTENTS Page Page GROUP OVERVIEW INVESTOR INFORMATION 4 Snapshot of Material Issues 228 Investor Information 10 About Aitken Spence PLC 12 Group Highlights SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 14 What We Do 233 Awards and Certifications 16 Business Geographies 237 UN Global Compact 18 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Study 239 GRI Index 245 Group Companies and Directorate LEADERSHIP REVIEW 251 Glossary of Terms 28 Chairman’s Message 254 Notice of Meeting 34 Managing Director’s Review 255 Form of Proxy IBC Corporate Information GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW 42 Management Discussion and Analysis 43 Aitken Spence Strategy 48 Tourism Sector 62 Cargo Logistics Sector 74 Strategic Investments Sector 86 Services Sector 98 Financial Review 105 People and Culture GOVERNANCE REVIEW 110 Corporate Governance Report 116 Nomination Committee Report 117 Remuneration Committee Report LEADERSHIP 118 Audit Committee Report REVIEW 126 Risk Management Report 130 Board of Directors 28 Chairman’s Message 135 Board of Management 34 Managing Director’s Review 142 Senior Management Teams FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP PERFORMANCE 150 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities REVIEW 151 Annual Report of Directors 48 Tourism Sector 156 Independent Auditors’ Report 62 Cargo Logistics Sector 157 Financial Statements 74 Strategic Investments Sector 225 Ten Year Summary 86 Services Sector 226 Consolidated Financial Statements in USD page 2 | 3 SNAPSHOT OF MATERIAL ISSUES MATERIAL MATERIAL ISSUE 1: ISSUE 2: COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL ECONOMY ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY ENABLING ACCESS TO ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND MANAGING CARBON EMISSIONS EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES ECO SYSTEM CONSERVATION MATERIAL MATERIAL ISSUE 3: ISSUE 4: ECONOMIC DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT VALUE TO CUSTOMERS FOREIGN INCOME GENERATION TO THE COUNTRY QUALITY ASSURANCE STRENGTHENING LIVELIHOODS EXCEEDING CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS INNOVATION VALUE CREATION IN THE ECONOMY PRODUCT SAFETY MATERIAL MATERIAL ISSUE 5: ISSUE 6: SUSTAINED RETURNS PEOPLE AND CULTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COMPETENCY DEVELOPMENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY WORK LIFE BALANCE HUMAN RIGHTS Material issues are in random order. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW MATERIAL ISSUE 7: LEADERSHIP REVIEW RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN THE DIVERSITY OF THE OPTIMISED LOGISTIC SOLUTIONS GROUP’S OPERATIONS IN GROUP PERFORMANCE RELIABILITY OF THE SUPPLY CHAIN BOTH SCALE AND NATURE ETHICAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL COMPLIANCE MEANS THAT EACH INDUSTRY SEGMENT REVIEW MATERIAL ISSUE 8: HAS ITS OWN UNIQUE ASSURANCE, SET OF STAKEHOLDERS, REPORTING, CONCERNS, IMPACTS, GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND BENEFITS. INTERNAL CONTROL THEREFORE A ‘ONE-SIZEINTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY POLICY FITS-ALL’ SOLUTION IS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TRANSPARENCY IN REPORTING NEITHER SUITABLE NOR CODE OF ETHICS SUSTAINABLE FOR THE GROUP. INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 4 | 5 THE NEW LOOK The Aitken Spence corporate office at Vauxhall Street gets a whole new look. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 6 | 7 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW THE NEW LOOK The new spacious foyer and lobby area of the Aitken Spence Tower II completes the modern and cosmopolitan appearance of the office complex. The lobby design with floor to ceiling glass walls maximises the usage of natural light and minimises the energy consumption. Beyond the reception four spacious elevators have been installed to ease congestion during peak times. Two of the elevators are observation lifts which provide the visitors a panoramic view of the city of Colombo. Friendly though sophisticated, the new vibrant look of the Aitken Spence Towers symbolises an organisation that is ready for tomorrow whilst retaining its core values. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 8 | 9 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW About Aitken Spence PLC OUR VISION We are a diversified conglomerate with a leadership position in hotels and tourism, maritime, integrated logistics and cargo To achieve excellence in all our services; and power generation industries in Sri Lanka. We also have activities, establish high growth significant interests in printing and packaging, garments, plantations, businesses in Sri Lanka and insurance and information technology. across new frontiers, and become Established in 1868 by two British entrepreneurs focused on trading a globally competitive market and maritime services, the business was converted to a Private Limited Liability Company in 1952 and listed on the Colombo Stock leader in the region. Exchange in 1983. Aitken Spence owns and manages an internationally-acclaimed for several decades. We are also a principal agent in Sri Lanka for chain of hotels and resorts in Sri Lanka, the Maldives, India and Western Union Money Transfer. Oman. Our travel company, a joint venture with TUI, is Sri Lanka’s largest and represents over 200 leading tour operators worldwide. We received the accreditation of being recognised by Forbes as one of the most successful publicly traded companies with annual Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s largest provider of logistics solutions, sales under USD 1 billion outside of the United States, for three with an unrivalled gamut of services that include maritime services, consecutive years. cargo, express, container-related services, warehousing, supply chain management and specialised transport. We are amongst Sri The Company is a signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact Lanka’s largest independent power producers with a portfolio in and has been repeatedly recognised by the country’s leading thermal, wind and hydro power plants. business chamber as one of the best corporate citizens in Sri Lanka for the past seven consecutive years. Today, we operate in six countries spanning South Asia, the Middle East and Africa. We believe in leading strategic growth businesses We were adjudged as Sri Lanka’s Best Corporate Citizen in 2012. and possess a credible record of working with global leaders in the We were also recognised with sector awards in the Economic and sectors in which we operate. Governance, Environment and Financial Performance categories. We have been the agents for Lloyd’s of London in Sri Lanka since 1876 and have been representing Singapore Airlines, TNT and OTIS Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW We enthusiastically embrace the Code of Governance Principles and take pleasure LEADERSHIP REVIEW in releasing our second integrated report. We operate 25 hotels and resorts in four We are the largest logistics operator with a track countries and can claim to be the largest resort record of pioneering services covering the entire operator in Sri Lanka. range of logistic operations TOURISM CARGO LOGISTICS GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to the contribution made to the national The success of our involvement in insurance, grid through thermal power generation over the elevator agency, money transfer, property last decade, we have now embarked on the development and management and other services generation of renewable energy, and have already throughout the years has proven our commitment commissioned hydro and wind power plants. towards serving our customers and principals. STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SERVICES INVESTOR INFORMATION The Board fully subscribes to the guiding The integrated reporting process is a journey, principles of giving all stakeholders one on which we embark not with trepidation greater insight into the sustainability but with enthusiasm. We welcome feedback of our businesses and the state of the on our reporting practices and standards. markets in which we operate, as well MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS as frankly and factually reflecting the opportunities and challenges we face. TOURISM SECTOR page 48 CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR page 62 SUPPLEMENTARY STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR page 74 INFORMATION SERVICES SECTOR page 86 page 10 | 11 GROUP HIGHLIGHTS Tourism Cargo Logistics Tourism Cargo Logistics Strategic Investments Services Strategic Investments Services 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Rs. Bn Rs. Mn REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March 2013 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 0 2 4 6 8 10 0.0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Rs. Rs. EARNINGS PER SHARE DIVIDENDS PER SHARE for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Financial Indicators 2012-2013 2011-2012 % Change Group revenue with equity-accounted investees (Rs.mn) 38,252 31,988 19.6 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Group revenue (Rs.mn) 37,140 31,022 19.7 Profit from operations (Rs.mn) 5,503 5,402 1.9 Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company 3,267 2,897 12.8 excluding non recurring capital gains (Rs. mn) Profit attributable to equity shareholders of the company (Rs.mn) 3,267 3,488 (6.3) Earnings per share (Rs.) 8.05 8.59 (6.3) Dividends per share (Rs.) 1.50 1.40 7.1 GROUP PERFORMANCE Sustainability Indicators 2012-2013 2011-2012 % Change REVIEW Total amount of GHG emissions reduced and/or offset (tonnes) 4,626 2,018 129.2 Number of employees trained 9,350 7,570 23.5 4% 1% 7% 5% 5% GOVERNANCE 61% 45% 5 years and below 24% 6 to 10 years 31% 11 to 15 years Tourism 16 to 20 years Cargo Logistics 21 to 30 years Strategic Investments 31 years and above Services 17% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LENGTH OF SERVICE SECTOR-WISE EMPLOYEE ANALYSIS as at 31st March 2013 as at 31st March 2013 2013 2013 INVESTOR INFORMATION 2012 2012 2011 2011 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 0 100 200 300 400 500 SUPPLEMENTARY GJ m3 ‘000 TOTAL QUANTIFIED ENERGY SAVED IN TOTAL VOLUME OF RAIN WATER & TREATED SRI LANKAN OPERATIONS WASTE WATER REUSED AT OWNED PROPERTIES INFORMATION for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March page 12 | 13 WHAT WE DO TOURISM Hotels Inbound & Outbound travel Airline GSA We REMAIN A PIONEERING LEADER IN THE TOURISM SECTOR, WITH A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF AWARD WINNING PROPERTIES in four countries Aitken Spence is one of Sri Lanka’s leading conglomerates with a business portfolio that includes interests in tourism, freight, ports and shipping, power and energy, plantations, and more. From 1868 onwards, Aitken Spence has been a meaningful player in the local economy, with the right fundamentals, the drive to create win-win solutions, and with a strong ethical platform. As an entity, we constantly evaluate our portfolio of businesses and the markets that we operate in to ensure that they offer us strong value proposition. Over the years, we have grown organically with most of our businesses returning profits and recording steady growth; we have embraced change, introduced a performance driven culture and constantly seek new industries and geographies where we can have a lasting impact. STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Power Generation Printing & Packaging Garment Manufacture Plantations THE diversified interests IN THESE COMPLEX SECTORS DELIVER HIGH EMPLOYMENT, vigorous activity and ECONOMIC VALUE ADDITIONS TO THE COUNTRY Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW CARGO LOGISTICS Maritime Services Integrated Logistics Freight Forwarding Courier Services LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE We are the leading provider REVIEW of Maritime services, freight forwarding AND integrated logistics in Sri Lanka Þ THE TRUE ECONOMIC VALUE OF OUR BUSINESS THE BOARD AND THE EXECUTIVE TEAM ARE OF ONE MIND IN BELIEVING THAT SUBSTANTIVE, INTEGRATED REPORTING WILL GIVE ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS AN ACCURATE AND MEANINGFUL UNDERSTANDING OF OUR BUSINESS, ITS PLACE IN SOCIETY GOVERNANCE AND ITS SUSTAINABILITY. WE TAKE PRIDE IN THE STEPS WE HAVE TAKEN THIS YEAR TO BUILD ON THE EFFORT OF PAST YEARS TO ASSIST OUR STAKEHOLDERS TO ASSESS, IN THE BROADER SCOPE, THE TRUE ECONOMIC VALUE OF OUR BUSINESS. SERVICES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inward Money Transfer Elevator Agency Insurance Property Management INVESTOR INFORMATION Information Technology SUPPLEMENTARY IN SRI LANKA THESE SECTORS INFORMATION HAVE PERFORMED ADMIRABLY OVER THE YEARS page 14 | 15 BUSINESS GEOGRAPHIES ASIA Bangladesh India Dhaka Oman Chittagong Chennai Puducherry Kochi Coimbatore Trivandrum Andaman Sri Lanka Islands AFRICA Maldives Mozambique South Africa TOURISM Þ CONTRIBUTION TO GROUP REVENUE CARGO LOGISTICS 37% 15% 47% 1% STRATEGIC INVESTMENT TOURISM CARGO STRATEGIC SERVICES SERVICES LOGISTICS INVESTMENTS Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Jaffna LEADERSHIP REVIEW Vavuniya Trincomalee Mihintale GROUP PERFORMANCE Fiji REVIEW Islands Dambulla Kurunegala GOVERNANCE Kandy Negombo Katunayake FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Welisara Pudaluoya Mabole Biyagama Pussellawa Colombo Malabe Nuwara Eliya Ratmalana Bandarawela Kalutara Horana Matugama Beruwala INVESTOR INFORMATION Ahungalla Talgaswela Embilipitiya Elpitiya Wanduraba Galle Matara Koggala SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 16 | 17 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Study EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS, THE COMMUNITY, THE ENVIRONMENT Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Materiality Assessment Our key stakeholders can be clustered into the following broad categories: The process of impact assessment, identification of material issues, management system guidelines and best practices are primarily guided by scientific study at KEY STAKEHOLDER Aitken Spence. The Group’s SBUs engage with their key CATEGORIES: stakeholders as and when necessary and the key concerns LEADERSHIP REVIEW highlighted through these engagements influence the Þ Employees strategies. The sustainability strategy of the Aitken Spence Investors, shareholders, banks Þ  Group is built on an impact based assessment method and in all efforts priority is given to the impacts identified and financial institutions through scientific studies and stakeholder feedback. Þ Customers GROUP PERFORMANCE Industry Partnerships and Þ  Associations REVIEW Þ Suppliers/ Service Providers Þ Community Environment/ Environmental Þ  GOVERNANCE Interest Groups Government and Regulatory Þ  Bodies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Channels of Engagement The Group uses many channels of engagement, which facilitate continuous feedback to both the Company and its stakeholders. At Aitken Spence, the feedback thus received is analysed based on (1) the relevance and priority of each stakeholder, (2) severity of Basis for identification and selection of any significant impacts, (3) business priorities and (4) striking the stakeholders with whom we should engage INVESTOR INFORMATION triple bottom line balance. The methods of engagement for the key stakeholders with whom we have proactively engaged are discussed Organisations working towards true sustainability must engage in this report. with their stakeholders in healthy, mutually beneficial and lasting relationships. We value the multiple relationships built by Aitken The Group conducts scientific study and maintains regular contact Spence across industries and developed over time and believe that with significant stakeholder groups that are directly related to us; these regular engagement with these stakeholders is critical to maintain include shareholders, partners, employees, interest groups, Global those bonds. Compact network links and communities that are directly related to us. The diversity of the Group’s operations in both scale and nature means The stakeholder engagement diagram on pages 20 to 21 indicates SUPPLEMENTARY that each industry segment has its own unique set of stakeholders, the channels of engagement with each stakeholder group and the concerns, impacts, risks, opportunities and benefits. Therefore a key concerns raised through such engagement. They are discussed in ‘one-size-fits-all’ solution is neither suitable nor sustainable for the greater detail in the relevant sections of the Management Discussion INFORMATION Group. As such what we practice is both unique and diverse. and Analysis on pages 42 to 97. page 18 | 19 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY STUDY: EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS, THE COMMUNITY, THE ENVIRONMENT Stakeholder A Employees Þ B Investors, shareholders, banks and financial Þ institutions C Customers Þ D Industry Partnerships and Þ Associations Stakeholder Relationships E Suppliers/ Service Providers Þ F Community Þ G Environment/ Environmental Þ Interest Groups H Government & Regulatory Þ Authorities Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Channels of Engagement Key areas of interest for stakeholders and the organisation GROUP OVERVIEW • Employee satisfaction surveys • Occupational health and safety • Internal newsletters and intranet • Remuneration and benefits • Performance reviews • Career progression • Open door policy • Skills development • Grievance handling procedures LEADERSHIP REVIEW • Human Rights at the Workplace • Small group meetings with the Managing Director • Work life balance • Group and SBU level events • Return on Investment/ ROE • Annual General Meeting and other meetings • Ethical conduct • Financial reporting • Environmental and social governance • Website and social media • Resilient balance sheet • Media • Sustainable profitability • Investor discussions • Corporate communication • Quality and reliability of products and services GROUP PERFORMANCE • Customer satisfaction surveys • Ethical production REVIEW • Buyer inspections/ audits • Value for given price • Direct contact • Data security and privacy of information disclosed to the organisation • Customer service and support points-of-contact • Innovation of products and services to meet new trends in markets and customer need • Adherence to international benchmarks • Direct contact • Prevention of corruption • Participation in forums and training programmes • Assurance of products / services GOVERNANCE • Communication via sub agents or representatives • Progress on agreed activities / procedures • Site visits and service level agreements • Capitalising on new business opportunities by catering to the • Meetings and lobby groups needs of the clientele • Ethical conduct and production • Direct dialogue • Profitability • Participation in seminars on quality and efficiency • Assurance for service requirements, concerns, solutions FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Supplier appraisals • Professionalism and on time service • Efficiency and effectiveness of operations • Competitive advantage • Development of infrastructure • Direct communication • Employment generation and extending opportunities for local • Local purchasing engagements entrepreneurs/ students • Dialogues with community groups • Environmental conservation • Media and annual reports • Building sustainable social relationships • Safety, health and welfare INVESTOR INFORMATION • Dialogue with policymakers, regulatory • Climate change mitigation authorities and experts • Management of environmental impacts • Direct communication • Waste management • Compliance reviews • Compliance with environmental standards, laws and • Media regulations of the country • Dialogue with policymakers, regulatory • Compliance SUPPLEMENTARY authorities and experts • Generation of employment • Reports and meetings • Foreign income generation • Participation in industry / national level events • Payment of taxes / fees / levies due to government INFORMATION • Compliance reviews / regulatory bodies • Media • Prevention of corruption page 20 | 21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY STUDY: EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS, THE COMMUNITY, THE ENVIRONMENT Engaging with employees Engaging with shareholders We practice an open door policy across the Group where employees Shareholders have access to the highest governance body to express are able to have direct contact with Senior Management by requesting their views, comments and observations. Feedback thus obtained for a meeting. Any employee with a new product idea or innovative give direction to the strategies and action plans across the Group. service opportunity is able to discuss their ideas with their supervisors Our presence on social media and disclosure of information in line and/ or senior managers. There have been many ideas implemented with international standards is meant to provide avenues for the across the Group which have originated from our employees. stakeholders to find information and communicate with the Company their concerns and suggestions. Grievances of the employees are treated with importance and if necessary, employees are able to email the respective Managing Directors with any grievances or feedback. The Group has a whistle Customers blowing policy whereby staff members can forward any grievances, During the year, the Company also carried out a customer satisfaction complaints or feedback to a private email address monitored by an survey on a sample SBU to understand customer needs and the independent third party. Full confidentiality is offered to employees position of our product offering in the market. Various surveys are who provide feedback. Issues brought up are communicated to the conducted to reach customers and potential customers. Customer highest governance body and necessary action is taken according to surveys are carried out frequently in evaluating the service standards each individual case. Social media and the Aitken Spence blog are offered by various industries under the Aitken Spence Group. monitored by the Group Business Development division and feedback Customers are approached through visits to customer sites/offices, is conveyed to the Board of Management. by email and over the phone. This provides knowledge to increase the levels of service standards and to enhance the relationship ensuring To enable more opportunities for staff members to communicate the trust placed on both parties. Having one-to-one discussions with with Managing Directors, divisional meetings are convened by the our clients and potential customers enables Aitken Spence as a Managing Directors as and when necessary. An annual youngservice provider to address customer concerns in order to maintain executives meeting is a new addition where a selected group of and continuously improve the service standards. executives throughout the Group meet the highest governance body to communicate their views on the growth potential of the company, areas for improvement and any other concerns. STAKEHOLDER engagement, KEY AREAS oF INTEReST and the organisation’s response: Aitken Spence human resources conducts a variety of surveys engaging various stakeholders. ‘Employee Satisfaction Surveys’ are As the stakeholder engagement diagram shows, some of the key conducted frequently to strategically identify and project the employee sustainability issues and concerns addressed through stakeholder viewpoint in a variety of areas which are considered equally important engagement include return on investment, profit and growth for to the employee and the employer. Aitken Spence human resources investors, business partners and shareholders; career progression, has strict measures in place to ensure the confidentiality of the benefits, remuneration, working facilities and personal development for information gathered. This is in order to encourage employees to put employees; product and service quality, cost, reliability for customers; forward their true ideas and opinions. Addressing these concerns economic, social and environmental impact including local purchasing has an immense impact on enhancing productivity and efficiency and employment for communities. levels. Another tool used to engage with the employees is through the During the year, there were several examples of the Company conduct of work studies and job evaluations. Here, discussions are responding to stakeholder concerns, directly addressing issues held with the employee to gather their input with respect to their job that arose during engagement. In Mabole, for example the logistics in order to see how improvements could be made. These evaluations sector launched a project to develop the container yard and a 400ft include the analysis of the type of work, workload, responsibilities, stretch of road at the cost of the company to improve the facility for accountabilities, and facilities provided. customers and community members. An employee suggestion to the Exit interviews for employees who are resigning or retiring from management saw fruition with the introduction of “Chillax Evenings”, the organisation are also channels where feedback is obtained on a monthly get-together organised by the Group for the enjoyment of company practices, workplace satisfaction and other pertinent details. employees. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW STRENGTHS, Opportunities and Challenges challenges for the company and in order to evaluate the Company’s competitive strengths and advantages. This process allows the At Aitken Spence, we constantly assess our businesses and their LEADERSHIP REVIEW company to proactively address each opportunity and challenge stakeholders and monitor the current business and operational in order to improve our readiness and mitigate our risks, thereby environments with a view to identifying the potential opportunities and achieving our ultimate goals of building a sustainable business: Strengths of the Organisation Strengths The Advantage Our Approach Management Strong domain knowledge, proven Proactive key employee retention processes, succession GROUP PERFORMANCE expertise experience in building businesses, planning to train and mentor next line of intellectual REVIEW reputed for intellectual capital leadership Diversity of Presence in many key industry sectors Regular strategic evaluation of micro and macro economic industries insulates overall Group performance fundamentals with a view to invest and/or divest to and business against potential risks and negative maintain optimum portfolio sectors impacts to some business sectors GOVERNANCE Geographic The geographic distribution of Seeking expansion in overseas markets utilising our and regional operations allows the Group to spread management capabilities and investment capacity diversity its risk among several regions, leaving it better prepared to offset a potential downturn in one region with strong performance from another FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Stable financial Ability to attract and retain strategic Focused strategic decision making in choosing areas of structure partnerships, capacity to expedite new investment, diversified portfolio of businesses, tactical investments/ventures, greater access decision making in business entry and exit strategies, to funds and more advantageous management of Group wide cash flows negotiation powers with financial institutions, greater efficiency in day to day operations INVESTOR INFORMATION Reputation Has earned the respect and trust of Strong focus on governance and sustainable development; existing and potential stakeholders as a commitment to long-standing global partners responsible corporate citizen Brand Strong corporate brand with high equity Corporate communications division to manage brand allows for easy recognition and recall; and perception through positive and consistent brand strategy of umbrella branding results communication; brand awareness education for employees in wide acceptance and economies of SUPPLEMENTARY scope INFORMATION page 22 | 23 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY STUDY: EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS, THE COMMUNITY, THE ENVIRONMENT Strengths The Advantage Our Approach Job satisfaction An empowered, motivated workforce, Proactive engagement with employees to address and security of driven towards performance and aware mutual concerns; extensive training for personal and employees of the wider goals of the organisation skills development; responding to the changing nature of the workforce; promotion of work -life balance; regular benchmarking of remuneration and benefits. Stability and A good investment for shareholders; A positive but conservative philosophy towards growth consistency stable partner for stakeholders and a and expansion to ensure long-term performance and just and meaningful contributor towards sustainability; agile decision making the economy Governance Strong focus on internal controls, well Regular training and awareness sessions to employees at and risk established policies and procedures. all levels. management Encourage culture of doing business Regular interactions with the members of the Board Audit ethically and inculcating strong Committee and external auditors to discuss key concerns corporate values at all levels. or early warning signs. IT infrastructure State of the art ERP and network More emphasis on information security, data protection infrastructure backed by a highly and compliance systems. skilled technical resource pool to take Future investments in IT will be driven by more energy the organisation to the next level in efficient/carbon neutral equipment and technology. digitization by proactively engaging in technology. Property A strong base of land and infrastructure Evaluating opportunities to utilise existing land and and physical in sought-after locations; iconic physical property base for further expansion; strong ethic on infrastructure infrastructure considered benchmarks maintaining high standards of infrastructure with proper in respective industries. construction process utilising best available inputs. Þ STAKEHOLDER INPUT In developing our sustainability strategy we have had significant stakeholder input from OUR customers, INVESTORS, SUPPLIERS, FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, government officials and trade unions. We have also involved our staff and management, extensively across a number of businesses, in workshops and interviews for their opinions on the challenges and priorities we may face as a group in the future. Our individual businesses are each directly responsible for engaging with their own stakeholders on relevant issues. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Opportunities Opportunity Addressing the opportunities Emerging global niche markets and new customer Developing products to address global trends and demands LEADERSHIP REVIEW segments provide opportunities to attract new investors efficiency and productivity enhancement and management in and provide new growth opportunities. ports. Macro economic growth, rapidly advancing middleExploring business ventures beyond existing geographical class and emerging unique business opportunities in presence. the Asian and African continent pave the way for new GROUP PERFORMANCE business ventures. Evolution of technology and business connectivity create Integrating digital concepts and technology to business REVIEW unlimited opportunities for products and services that strategies. cater to evolving customer needs. Diversity in operations and the product/service offering. As organisations increase effort to maximise cost Investing in a Knowledge Process Outsourcing operation to efficiency within the operations, focus is shifting towards cater to the global market demand. outsourcing business operations. Focus on climate change mitigation has opened doors Leadership in eco-friendly products and services. GOVERNANCE to many opportunities in new products and services that Positioning in the country as a responsible corporate citizen. contribute positively towards climate change mitigation Ecosystem conservation efforts. and ensuring a sustainable future. Renewable energy projects of the Group companies. Provision of eco-friendly and socially responsible Carbon neutral printing facility. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS products and services create opportunities to increase Carbon neutral destination management operations and brand equity. owned fleet. Investment in innovative agricultural projects. Infrastructure development in the country is enabling Partnering with new hotel operators and brands. growth opportunities for businesses. There is an increased demand for business intelligence Development of internal educational capabilities and INVESTOR INFORMATION education as evolving business opportunities require a engagement with external academic institutions and industry more skilled workforce. associations. Future direction for stakeholder customers in new markets and potential stakeholders. Towards this engagement end, we have taken steps to take targeted action in the forthcoming year to improve our performance in this area. An independent A large organisation such as Aitken Spence is required to constantly stakeholder engagement study will be undertaken with third parties improve its practices, systems and strategies. As a result we tend to to determine whether the material issues we have identified internally challenge ourselves and set the benchmark higher and higher. SUPPLEMENTARY remain valid and to identify new material issues that the Group needs As such, we find that the most evident area of improvement in to take action on. Our aim is to find guidance from the stakeholders for INFORMATION our approach is in proactive engagement with the general public, our sustainability strategy. page 24 | 25 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY STUDY: EMPLOYEES, INVESTORS, THE COMMUNITY, THE ENVIRONMENT Challenges Challenges Addressing the challenges Impacts on environment, • Environmental Management Systems and network of trained and certified ecosystem services and internal EMS auditors biodiversity • Pollution control across the Group • Green Philosophy implemented across the hotel operations in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. • Energy management systems across the hotel chain; ISO 50001 certified energy management system at the Heritance hotels • Obtaining and retaining LEED certified architecture Retention and attraction of talent • Sustainable talent management schemes • Succession planning • Encouraging work life balance for employees • Employee competency development • Proactive employee relations Data security • Ongoing monitoring and risk management of the IT Systems Competition from new entrants • Quality assurance of products and services in traditional businesses • Total solution product offering through diversification Increasing energy cost • Energy management activities across Aitken Spence • Creating awareness on the importance of energy conservation amongst all stakeholders • Investment in renewable energy Fluctuating weather patterns due • Forestry management to climate change • Renewable energy investment • Monitoring and control of emissions • Energy management systems and environmental management systems Regulatory barriers and adverse • Diversification in geographical markets macro economic trends locally • Diversification of products and globally Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW A GREAT PLACE TO WORK The aim of Aitken Spence is to develop a culture LEADERSHIP REVIEW and a workforce that is empowered to realise A VALUABLE INVESTMENT their potential for growth. Aitken Spence is a Aitken Spence is a valuable investment great place to work because of the plethora of that has proven its stability and leadership. opportunities available to experience and learn In all key industries the Group has been in diverse sectors and disciplines. operating in for over 150 years. • Sustainable talent management • Stable financial structure • Productive work environment • Diversity in operations GROUP PERFORMANCE • Work life balance • Sustained returns • Employee competency • Economic growth development REVIEW • Diversity • Human rights and proactive employee relations • Compliance GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HIGH INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITIES WE WORK IN LEADERSHIP IN ECOSYSTEM SERVICE Aitken Spence believes that the business CONSERVATION should provide opportunities for communities to develop themselves and Environmental and ecosystem become more self-sufficient. Towards this, conservation is a passion for Aitken our efforts and investments amounting Spence. The Group takes pride in the INVESTOR INFORMATION to millions in investment have been bold steps taken by the SBUs to lead by recognised at many platforms. example. • First carbon neutral green printing • Infrastructure development facility • Local purchasing and entrepreneurship • Destination management operation development and owned fleet of vehicles which are • Extending learning opportunities: carbon neutral Empowering Sri Lanka First, setting up the • Certified energy management Aitken Spence School of Hospitality systems SUPPLEMENTARY • Channelling funds for community • Investment in forestry management development and biodiversity conservation • Elder and childcare programmes INFORMATION • Awareness building and setting standards on environmental conservation • Renewable energy page 26 | 27 Chairman’s Message D.H.S. JAYAWARDENA Chairman “the Aitken Spence passion for excellence has stood in good stead prompting us to achieve excellence in everything we do – it is this passion that defines our people and the way our businesses are run; that drives our strategies and our commitment to being A good corporate citizen.” Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 28 | 29 CHAIRMAN’S message achieving the USD 4,000 per capita mark by 2016. The International The Board proposes a dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share Monetary Fund estimates the economy will grow by 6.3% in 2013. which is a dividend growth of 7.1%. As the Company continues to grow and invest through internally At the beginning of the year the Central Bank adopted a tight monetary generated funds and debt, we have been able to policy which included raising interest rates and imposing an 18% maintain healthy levels of debt and equity, whilst ceiling on the credit growth of commercial banks. Although the Central utilising debt capital at optimal levels. Bank lifted its credit ceiling by end 2012, the prevalent high interest rate regime continued to impact growth with most businesses forced to restrict planned investments as the higher cost of debt servicing made investment justification difficult. Furthermore, macro-economic challenges such as rising energy and labour costs result in difficult I have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report on the economic, conditions for both local and foreign investors. social and environmental performance of your company, together with the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013. Your company has had a year of mixed fortunes with challenges Rs. Rs. Rs. and pressures that have tested our strength and our ability to adapt, combined with fresh opportunities and prospects that excite us about 37.1Bn Revenue 5.5Bn 4.3Bn Profit for Profit from the road ahead. Throughout these opportunities and challenges Operations the Year the Aitken Spence passion for excellence has stood in good stead prompting us to achieve excellence in everything we do – it is this passion that defines our people and the way our businesses are run; that drives our strategies and our commitment to being a good Corporate Performance corporate citizen. Revenue of the Group for the year under review was Rs 37.1 billion which was a 19.7% growth over the previous year. Profit after tax of Economic Environment the Group was Rs 4.3 billion which was an increase of 10.6% over the previous year’s profit after tax of Rs 3.8 billion excluding the reported World economic growth was a slow 3.2% in 2012, compared to capital gains on the sale of the shares of Colombo International 3.8% in 2011; amid continued downturn in the Euro zone and Container Terminals Ltd. sluggish demand in other advanced economies. Although European policymakers seem to have prevented a near breakup of the Euro area, Net profit attributable to shareholders amounted to Rs. 3.3 billion, problems such as low capital and constant adjustment to new fiscal compared to Rs. 3.5 billion inclusive of capital gains recorded last year. measures continue to impact the advanced economies of Europe. The Board proposes a dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share which is a Emerging markets and developing economies yet again out-performed dividend growth of 7.1%. As the Company continues to grow and their advanced counterparts and grew at 5.1% in 2012; and are invest through internally generated funds and debt, we have been expected to perform marginally better in 2013. Emerging economies, able to maintain healthy levels of debt and equity, whilst utilising debt especially those in Asia, have witnessed a revival of exports and a capital at optimal levels. return of consumer demand. Following two years of 8% growth, the Sri Lankan economy grew at a slower but healthy pace of 6.4% in 2012. Sri Lanka’s strong capital 2013 and banking system controls have enabled the country to withstand the pressures of the global slowdown. However, unfavourable weather 2012 conditions during the year added pressure by negatively affecting 2011 agricultural output and severely impacting hydro power generation. Inflation remained at single digit levels for the fourth consecutive year, 0 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 Rs. reaching 7.6% in December 2012; per capita income grew to USD DIVIDENDS PER SHARE 2,923 from USD 2,836 in 2011, with the Government working towards for the year ended 31st March Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW Þ EXCEPTIONAL PERFORMANCE “Heritance Kandalama and HERITANCE Tea Factory, performed exceptionally well during the year to record the highest ever profits. Heritance GROUP PERFORMANCE AyuRveda Maha GedAra completed its first full year of operations, providing a REVIEW good return and showing much potential for the future, affirming the Group’s decision in converting the property into a specialised ayurveda resort”. GOVERNANCE We are proud to say that we have not approached our shareholders for 2013 funds in fifteen years. This is particularly noteworthy considering that our dividend record has improved significantly during this period, and 2012 will continue to grow in line with our earnings record. 2011 The Sri Lankan Tourism sector has performed reasonably well but was 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 Rs. Mn affected somewhat with the country attracting a higher number of SHAREHOLDER'S FUNDS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS lower-end or budget tourists who do not regularly patronise star class as at 31st March establishments. Our beach front properties were particularly affected by this trend. However the round trip properties Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Tea Factory, performed exceptionally well during the year to record the highest ever profits. Heritance Ayurveda Maha delighted that we have entered into a public-private partnership with Gedara completed its first full year of operations, providing a good the government of Fiji to manage cargo handling at the country’s main return and showing much potential for the future, affirming the Group’s ports – Suva and Lautoka. The previous year we strengthened our decision in converting the property into a specialised ayurveda resort. maritime portfolio by increasing our stake in the Colombo International INVESTOR INFORMATION Our proposed new resorts in Negombo and Kalutara are nearing Nautical and Engineering College (CINEC), an investment that has completion and will be added to our portfolio in the coming years. already proven to be successful. Your Company’s strength in cargo logistics lies in its position as the single largest composite provider of Our resorts in the Maldives returned an excellent performance once end-to-end logistics solutions, an advantage we will continue to exploit again, a remarkable achievement considering the political uncertainty as opportunities arise. there as well as the new taxation policies that came into effect this year. The Maldivian tourism industry has consistently attracted high The power segment faces some uncertainty both in Sri Lanka and in value tourists and our substantial investments in our Adaaran resorts Bangladesh where we are faced with inordinate delays due to external continue to pay rich dividends. factors which are beyond our control. We are optimistic that a positive SUPPLEMENTARY outcome would be witnessed in the next financial year, both in Sri The maritime segment saw a scaling down of its operations in the Lanka and in Bangladesh. INFORMATION African continent this year due to some of the efficiency management contracts in the African ports coming to an end. We will continue The Aitken Spence Printing facility in Mawaramandiya is truly a to explore further investment opportunities in that region. I am also showpiece of the Group’s commitment to sustainable development page 30 | 31 CHAIRMAN’S message Þ SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE “Aitken Spence has over the last few years accelerated its sustainability agenda; striving to set benchmarks in environmental and social governance. This report presents a comprehensive analysis of our sustainability performance which I trust would attract your interest.” 2013 Outlook 2012 The opportunity created by His Excellency the President Mahinda Rajapaksa by defeating three decades of terror cannot be diminished; 2011 Sri Lanka’s infrastructure development over the past few years has 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 been substantial and I welcome the addition of the new Mattala Rs. Rajapaksa International Airport as well as the anticipated opening of NET ASSETS PER SHARE As at 31st March the new Colombo-Katunayake expressway. For serious investors with a long term view, Sri Lanka remains one of the best places to invest, and and environmental conservation. I look forward to reporting better as a key private sector player, Aitken Spence looks forward to working returns from our investment in the new green facility in the near future. in partnership with such investors in future. It is heartening to note the good results of both the plantation and In order for Sri Lanka to continue with the anticipated growth, a vibrant garment segments – these results can be attributed to a strong focus and empowered private sector must be an essential player in the on improving productivity and efficiency while managing costs. economy; we urge the regulators to ensure that the right competitive and operating environment is created for businesses to grow in order I am proud to say the strength of our Group is “our people”. The quality for us to contribute meaningfully to the economy. and expertise of our people remains the source of our competitive edge. Through three decades of war, the private sector continued to lead economic development in the country, by investing and building Governance and risk management are vital elements of the Aitken businesses under difficult socio-political conditions. Today, the private Spence culture and we place great emphasis on ensuring that all sector must be encouraged to think bigger and to take Sri Lanka to the appropriate systems are in place to secure our shareholder wealth world. The state must have confidence in the private sector which is an and minimise any negative impacts on stakeholders. Our corporate essential engine of growth to the country’s economy. governance structure is in compliance with “The Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance” issued jointly by the Securities The need of the hour is an enabling environment that entrusts and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered the economic development to local entrepreneurs who have the Accountants of Sri Lanka. capability to power it, in partnership with the public sector. While foreign investment is important for countries such as ours, it is equally Aitken Spence has over the last few years accelerated its sustainability important that such investors are screened for their viability and their agenda; striving to set benchmarks in environmental and social long term capacity and that an equal playing field is provided to the governance. This report presents a comprehensive analysis of our local business community as well. sustainability performance which I trust would attract your interest. We welcome you to provide us with feedback on how we may improve our A key factor that must be addressed in the pursuit of our economic reporting in future. goals is the quality of our human resources. While opportunities have emerged requiring skilled and qualified human resources, finding suitable candidates to fill such positions has become a challenge. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Governance and risk management are vital elements of the Aitken Spence culture and we place great LEADERSHIP REVIEW emphasis on ensuring that all appropriate systems are in place to secure our shareholder wealth and minimise any negative impacts on stakeholders. GROUP PERFORMANCE Appreciations REVIEW I thank my colleagues on the Board for their steady vision and the support they have extended to me. On behalf of the Board, I thank the Board of Management and the Sector Management teams for leading Aitken Spence through challenging times, while instilling in its culture a passion for excellence. GOVERNANCE I take this opportunity to thank Mr. Gehan Perera who retired from the Board of Directors after serving the Company for over 30 years. I also wish to welcome Mr. C. R. De Silva, President’s Counsel and a former Attorney General and Solicitor General of Sri Lanka, to the Board of Directors. I thank each and every member of the Aitken Spence team for their FINANCIAL STATEMENTS contribution and commitment towards our vision and goals. Their sense of accountability; their professionalism and their passion will hold the company in good stead in the future. A special thank you to our shareholders, who have always shown faith in the Company and its management; it is your confidence that drives us forward to achieve success, thereby ensuring that your interests are secured. Thus your continued support and cooperation is greatly INVESTOR INFORMATION appreciated. D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman SUPPLEMENTARY 27th May 2013 INFORMATION page 32 | 33 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Managing GROUP OVERVIEW Director’s Review LEADERSHIP REVIEW J.M.S. BRITO Deputy Chairman and Managing Director GROUP PERFORMANCE “WE PRESENT AN REVIEW INTEGRATED REPORT THAT DISCUSSES THE ECONOMIC, SOCIAL GOVERNANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGIES AND PERFORMANCE OF AITKEN SPENCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PLC. THIS REPORT DISCUSSES THE VIABILITY OF OUR OPERATIONS TODAY AND THE INVESTOR INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR BUSINESSES TOMORROW.” SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 34 | 35 Managing director’s review Þ STRONG FOUNDATION “The strong foundation of Aitken Spence is the breadth and magnitude of our many industry sectors; giving us the capacity to deliver integrated, composite solutions. This, allows us to offer the multinational clientele the guarantee of a compliant and responsible business partner.” The Group was once again able to achieve a commendable performance for the year 2012/13 despite the macro-economic and Rs. Rs. Rs. global challenges we encountered. Our diversity and innate capabilities provided us with the ability to respond strategically and with agility to 8.05 69.10 119.60 changing conditions whilst staying on course with the greater vision of Earnings per Net Assets Market price share per share per share Aitken Spence. This year too, we present an integrated report that discusses the social, environmental and economic strategies and performance Given the external pressures in the global and local economy, Aitken of Aitken Spence PLC., and its subsidiaries and equity-accounted Spence focused during the year on achieving operational excellence, investees. This report discusses the manner in which we add value to cost optimisation, and adopting a positive approach in our marketing stakeholders across these parameters, the viability of our operations culture, which are explained in greater detail in the following pages as today and the sustainability of our businesses tomorrow. At the outset, well as in the Management Discussion and Analysis of this report. The we have disclosed the material issues that affect our business – these strong foundation of Aitken Spence is the breadth and magnitude of overarching issues are those we have identified as posing the greatest our many industry sectors; giving us the capacity to deliver integrated, impact on our sustainability and our strategies are aligned towards composite solutions. This, together with our proven reputation for mitigating any adverse impacts while growing our businesses. compliance with human rights, labour laws and health and safety as well as our leadership in environmental sustainability, allows us The report is presented in conformance with the new Sri Lanka to offer the multinational clientele the guarantee of a compliant and Accounting Standards (SLFRSs and LKASs) following convergence responsible business partner. with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) with effect from 1st January 2012. We have also followed the GRI guidelines for Our sectoral and geographic diversification allows us greater flexibility sustainability reporting. and risk-control while a number of our businesses earn dollar-based revenues; insulating us from foreign exchange fluctuations to a Performance greater degree. These factors, together with our well institutionalised processes and access to capital at competitive rates, holds us in good The Group recorded a net profit from operations for the period of Rs. stead for the future. 5.5 billion. This being a 14.4% increase over the net profit recorded for the previous year of Rs. 4.8 billion, before capital gains. The In terms of expansion, we will continue to explore new avenues of Group’s consolidated revenue increased by 19.7% to reach Rs. 37.1 business as well as new markets both in Sri Lanka and overseas, billion during the year whilst the Group’s consolidated net assets per where we may utilise our proven capabilities in management to build share stood at Rs. 69.10 at the end of the financial year. This being sustainable new businesses. 11.5% higher than at the end of the last financial year. The share price of your company stood at Rs. 119.60 at the end of Tourism the financial year, reflecting a 6.1% growth over the previous year and Although the Tourism sector recorded a good performance during the I am happy to note that the current share price is around Rs. 135.00. year, our expectations of a strong performance from the Sri Lankan The total shareholder return for the year was 7.5% whilst the three hotels sector were somewhat impacted by the changing ground year compound total shareholder return was 10.5% per annum. realities of the tourism industry. Even though tourist numbers into Sri Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW Lanka grew beyond one million in 2012, the star class space in which The inbound travel segment returned a strong GROUP PERFORMANCE we perform was not heavily patronised. However it is noteworthy that performance during the year, the segment has many hotels and guest houses at the lower end are benefitting from strategically explored several new markets in Asia and the growth of this tourist segment, expanding the positive impact of REVIEW Eastern Europe which have been identified as growth the industry on the economy. Nevertheless the operating standards of markets. Our joint venture partner TUI has shown such accommodation must be well regulated to ensure that Sri Lanka strong commitment to building the Sri Lankan market. faces no reputational risk. As Sri Lanka is an island and thus limited by its ability to grow the industry purely on volume, the industry’s marketing strategy and tourist promotion drive internationally must be stepped up in order to attract the higher spending tourists. strong European markets. The segment has strategically explored GOVERNANCE Our Sri Lankan resorts, Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Tea several new markets in Asia and Eastern Europe which have been Factory as well as Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara, returned good identified as growth markets. Our joint venture partner TUI has shown performances. The beach properties however faced the brunt of the strong commitment to building the Sri Lankan market, and we hope market’s shift towards low-cost accommodation. that they would fly the new Boeing Dreamliner aircraft due to be added to their fleet in the near future to Sri Lanka as well. The travel segment is being mindful of the potential impact of low-end travellers, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS who typically opt for informal tour operators and guides, bypassing the 2013 larger, organised destination management companies. 2012 2011 2013 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 Rs. Mn REVENUE 2012 for the year ended 31st March INVESTOR INFORMATION 2011 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Rs. Mn Our Maldivian sector enjoyed a successful year, despite some political OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March instability and the introduction of a new system of taxation. The Maldives has consistently promoted itself well on an international scale and has, as a result, been able to attract the top end of the tourism market. We expect further improvement in the Maldives economy The tourism industry is benefitting from much of the infrastructure following the presidential election due to be held in September 2013. development in the country as well as from the expansion of the SUPPLEMENTARY national carrier’s route network, the new regional airlines adding Sri Our managed hotels in Oman reported improved performances but our Lanka as a destination, and the interest shown by international hotel INFORMATION operations in India remain under pressure due to high operating costs. chains to enter the market. While Sri Lanka’s beaches and cultural offering will remain its main attractions, it is also important from The inbound travel segment returned a strong performance during a tourism perspective to transform Colombo into an international the year, but continues to see declining interest from the traditionally page 36 | 37 Managing director’s review manage cargo handling operations at the ports of Suva and Lautoka. One of the highlights was the launch of the new Under the Public Private Partnership, Aitken Spence PLC., will own eco-friendly green factory of our printing segment. a 51% stake in Ports Terminal Ltd., which holds the concessions, The factory is one of the best available in Sri Lanka for an investment value of approximately FJD 10.5 million subject and the region and its LEED certified standards are to the approvals of the relevant regulatory authorities. This strategic globally marketable. venture allows us to use our extensive knowledge and experience in port efficiency management to develop the two largest Fijian ports as premier regional maritime hubs. The logistics segment has been able to exploit its position as an metropolis with more exciting sporting and cultural events as well integrated solutions provider to perform well amid stagnating market as world class shopping, entertainment including gaming and dining conditions. Declining trade impacted container activities but segments options. In this respect, the Colombo beautification programme such as warehousing, container freight station, project cargo handling spearheaded by the Urban Development Authority must be praised and bulk liquid transportation returned strong performances. We for the transformation that it is continuing to achieve while thanking have continued to invest in state of the art systems and equipment the Government of Sri Lanka for the development of the country’s to achieve greater levels of operational efficiency, to combat the infrastructure and the facilitation of a climate for business growth. industry downturn and increased competition. The development of the container yard in Wattala has faced many delays; however we have Cargo Logistics focused on ensuring the highest quality of construction to ensure the The maritime segment scaled down its port efficiency enhancement lowest maintenance requirements in the future. operations in Africa with the conclusion of majority of its contacts, The freight forwarding and courier segment contributed significantly which together with the slowdown in external trade in Sri Lanka, had during the year, with its sea freight and air freight operations a negative impact on the sector’s performance. However, the liner performing exceptionally well. The segment benefitted from smart and freight forwarding operations contributed positively by retaining pricing strategies, increased bargaining power and better marketing, customers and generating higher volumes. Inward, outward and despite lower than expected growth in key European markets. I am transshipment volumes declined during the year and it is essential that happy to note that the segment’s overseas operations in Bangladesh concrete measures are taken to ensure the Port of Colombo continues and the Maldives also made encouraging contributions. to attract transshipment demand. The investment made by Aitken Spence in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (CINEC) last year yielded positive results which contributed significantly Strategic Investments to the segment’s performance. The power segment has made a satisfactory contribution during the year, due to the full operation of our 100MW thermal power plant We entered into a fifteen year concession agreement with the Fijian in Embilipitiya. Unfortunately the performance of the segment was government-owned Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd., on 30th April 2013, to affected as the operations of our power plants in Matara and Horana 1% 3% 24% 37% 62% 47% Tourism Tourism Cargo Logistics Cargo Logistics 11% Strategic Investments Strategic Investments Services Services 15% SECTOR REVENUE SECTOR OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March 2013 for the year ended 31st March 2013 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Þ GROUP OVERVIEW CAPACITY BUILDING “The Aitken Spence Group has always positioned itself primarily as a repository of the skills, knowledge and expertise of its people. Our fundamental business strategy revolves around unleashing the human potential of our people by providing them the right culture, conditions and opportunities to perform at their best.” LEADERSHIP REVIEW were discontinued with the cessation of our 10 year Power Purchase The Plantations segment enjoyed a successful year, with both palm Agreements with the Ceylon Electricity Board. Negotiations on oil and tea reporting gains while rubber continued to be under extending those contracts are continuing with the companies offering pressure. The segment’s strategic diversification into palm oil has very attractive tariffs. The segment has also faced strain on its finances paid rich dividends, as the low labour-intensity of palm oil has GROUP PERFORMANCE due to unusual delays in settlements from the Ceylon Electricity Board. enabled significant cost savings. Overall, the company benefitted from the strong agricultural practices and a great commitment to cost In Bangladesh, our two proposed power projects are facing uncertainty management, combined with continuous investment in manpower REVIEW from delays in obtaining land as well as lending restrictions placed training in a bid to improve quality and productivity. We have also on banks. We are confident that these issues will be overcome in the announced a venture with a Chinese partner to export value added coming year. tea customised for the Chinese market, a move which allows us to In the year under review, we began operations of our wind power capitalise on the growing demand for value addition. plant which is yet to experience a full season of wind. We anticipate The plantations industry faces yet another wage increase in 2013/14, the plant to perform well in 2013/14. The country’s current energy GOVERNANCE hence to ensure the sustainability of the industry, it is important to woes are indicative of the need to seek viable sources of renewable consider linking future wage increases to attendance and performance energy. We hope to pursue opportunities in renewable energy and and permit market forces have a greater influence on wage rates. look forward to state support towards these initiatives. The segment’s proposed project to convert Colombo’s municipal waste to energy is also in the pipeline, and we hope to see progress of this project in the Services coming year. This project will also provide a sustainable solution to the The services sector had a good year, with a strong performance from perennial garbage disposal problem faced by the city of Colombo. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the inward money transfer segment while growth was reported in the insurance segment and elevator segment. The Garments segment reported a very positive year, and has been able to retain its preferred vendor status with key buyers. The segment The OTIS elevator agency continues to see demand for the high-end has been fortunate that most of its customers are based in the US product, securing several prestigious contracts in Sri Lanka and the market, which is gradually recovering unlike the European markets Maldives during the year. Over the last few years, OTIS has expanded which continue to remain under pressure, especially after the removal its presence across Sri Lanka. In order to cater to the service needs of of GSP+ concessions. During the year, we modernised the factory and these installations, the segment will establish maintenance centers in consolidated operations to create greater efficiencies which resulted the regions. INVESTOR INFORMATION in improved productivity levels; and we anticipate continued strong performance from the segment. MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd., had yet another healthy performance achieving higher volumes as well as higher revenues per transaction. One of the highlights for 2012/13 was the launch of the new ecoInward remittances grew by 16.3% as a result of better education friendly green factory of our printing segment. The factory is one of of migrant workers and the growing number of professional/skilled the best available in Sri Lanka and the region and its LEED certified migrant workers. MMBL has stepped up its marketing efforts in key standards are globally marketable. While the result of the move is corridors and has also created greater accessibility by expanding its yet to be evident in its performance due to the high debt servicing retail network to over 2,500 payout locations. costs, the segment has also invested in state of the art equipment SUPPLEMENTARY which has helped increased productivity. We hope to see the impact The newly launched Information Technology segment has had positive of these improvements during the coming year. The present interest responses to its internally developed software and is in negotiations rate scenario however will continue to be a challenge to the segment, regarding several significant implementations. The company is an INFORMATION which is servicing high levels of debt, related to the relocation. Oracle Gold level partner as well as an Oracle University reseller and page 38 | 39 Managing director’s review Þ FOCUS DRIVEN “the Aitken Spence Team has proven once again why it is considered one of the best in Sri Lanka – for its ability to work towards a common vision, its ability to respond with agility to changing conditions and its single minded focus on performance.” training organisation – progress from these business lines is expected This year we were adjudged as Sri Lanka’s Best Corporate Citizen to reflect in the performance of 2013/14. by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. The sector awards for the Economic and Governance category and Environment category were The Property Management segment completed our Head Office also won by Aitken Spence while being accredited with the category Aitken Spence Towers II at Vauxhall Street, with the construction award for the best Financial Performance. of a contemporary new lobby and the addition of more passenger elevators. The company has also attracted several prestigious corporate clients to lease office space at the Towers, thereby achieving 100% utilisation of the space. 2013 The service sector also ventured into the in-demand high-end 2012 retirement community market by forming a joint venture with US 2011 partners to build and operate a luxury gated community. With the 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 graying population increasing globally, we see this venture as an % opportunity to utilise our strength in tourism services. The proposed RETURN ON EQUITY for the year ended 31st March retirement community will consist of luxury villas and associated support services, to be built in Negombo. The project is at present being marketed internationally, particularly targeting Sri Lankan As a Group engaged in many businesses that are labour-driven, we expatriates in the US, Europe and Canada. are concerned about the lack of skilled labour available in the market. The country has a shortage of training facilities, resulting in supply People and culture constraints in critical sectors such as tourism. While we are doing our part by operating our own hotel school as well as the CINEC Maritime The Aitken Spence Group has always positioned itself primarily as a Campus for potential maritime and management professionals, we repository of the skills, knowledge and expertise of its people. Our urge the authorities to address the lack of quality training opportunities fundamental business strategy revolves around unleashing the human for the labour force. The growing number of professional and skilled potential of our people by providing them the right culture, conditions workers opting for foreign employment or migration is also cause for and opportunities to perform at their best. Over the past few years, alarm. we have formalised our performance and results-oriented culture, and have thus been able to better understand and analyse knowledge and skill gaps while identifying top performers who may be groomed for IT and shared services succession. At corporate level, the Group’s IT strategy focused this year on We express our continued support to the United Nations Global strengthening information security and server virtualisation, following Compact, its ten principles and its focused initiatives on specific the extensive streamlining, rationalisation and consolidation efforts sustainability challenges. We continue to play a leading role in the undertaken during the last few years. A fully fledged disaster recovery Global Compact Network Sri Lanka, by working together with peers to centre is now in operation, and all major operational data has been strengthen the proliferation of sustainable business practices in the moved into the centre at year end. An Oracle IPM was implemented at country. the Group shared services during the year while an Oracle warehouse Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW management solution incorporating billing and service contracts was I am honoured by the trust placed in myself and my colleagues on implemented for the logistics sector, a first in Sri Lanka. the Board by our shareholders, and wish to emphasise that we are LEADERSHIP REVIEW committed to building value for your investment. The future we believe is in cloud computing; we are taking rational steps towards cloud computing while being cautious that security Our day to day operations rely on a complex ecosystem of business is ensured as companies such as ours have a critical need to partners, principals, suppliers and customers, whose trust and loyalty control the database and prevent hacking. A cloud-based solution are essential for our success. I say thank you to each and every one of was implemented in our Maldives resorts during the year. In the them. forthcoming year we will be on evaluating more cloud based solutions and energy efficient hardware; the Group is also progressing well This year too, the Aitken Spence Team has proven once again why it is considered one of the best in Sri Lanka – for its ability to work GROUP PERFORMANCE towards obtaining ISO 27000 with the process scheduled for completion during the second half of 2013/14. towards a common vision, its ability to respond with agility to changing conditions and its single minded focus on performance. I thank all the REVIEW men and women of the Aitken Spence family for their commitment, Appreciations hard work and dedication. My appreciations go to the Chairman and Board of Directors who have I wish you all the very best and look forward to a successful future. extended support and advice to me at all times; and my colleagues on the Board of Management who have as always, executed the ambitious plans we have set out to achieve. GOVERNANCE I wish to place on record the contributions made by key members of our Board of Management, Mr. Gehan Perera, and Mr. Devan de Mel J.M.S. Brito and the Managing Director of our Logistics segment, Mr. Nimal Perera Deputy Chairman and Managing Director who retired from service to the Group during the year. Their long term contribution to the Group has been significant and we wish them well. 27th May 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 40 | 41 Management Discussion and Analysis SUSTAINABILITY mEANS: The To secure access to the capital resources we sustainability require to maximise our contribution to the sectors we operate financial, manufactured, OF THE AITKEN human, social and environmental capital we SPENCE GROUP is need to maintain the trust of our stakeholders and to conduct our operations in an ethical way dependent on our while minimising our impact on the societies and the natural environment within which we operate. ability to fulfil our core purpose of delivering PRODUCTS & SERVICES that enable economic TOURISM SECTOR page 48 and social CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR page 62 development in a STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR page 74 sustainable way. SERVICES SECTOR page 86 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW The Aitken Spence Strategy Aitken Spence is a leading conglomerate in Sri Lanka, listed on We are the market leaders in most of the business segments we the Colombo Stock Exchange with a well diversified portfolio of operate due to a fine balance of paying attention to our stakeholders LEADERSHIP REVIEW businesses. The pillars on which our diversification strategy rests are to identify their evolving needs and having the capacity and capability the four core sectors in which the company operates, namely, tourism, to respond through innovations in products and services to meet cargo logistics, strategic investments and services. Over the years, those requirements. We take pride in outperforming the competition by delivering exceptionally high standards of product performance and customer service, while adhering to principles of sustainability. In doing so, we have provided consistently high returns to our shareholders while satisfying the multiple needs of all stakeholders. GROUP PERFORMANCE WE ASPIRE TO DELIVER REVIEW STAKEHOLDER VALUE BY; Positive economic value Þ  creation through geographical, GOVERNANCE business and product diversification. we have expanded our operations in key segments where we have Þ E mployment generation, reward built core competencies and ventured into new business areas where we have acquired proficiencies through joint ventures and strategic and retention. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS partnerships with international and local corporates. We have also taken our expertise in core sectors to overseas markets and replicated Þ C  ontribution to society the success story achieved in Sri Lanka. Our operations are spread across the globe, from Asia, to Africa and the Middle East and to through our corporate social the South Pacific. We have been in business for over one and a half centuries with our roots firmly planted on a fertile base nurtured by responsibility initiatives. indigenous knowledge supplemented with superior technical skills. We are a Sri Lankan enterprise with a truly global reach. Sustaining the business Þ  INVESTOR INFORMATION The diversity of our businesses minimises investment risks and environment in which we smoothens any adverse impact on profitability if fluctuations occur in a particular industry. This has provided us opportunities for growth even operate. during times of economic downturn. Our success in implementing the diversification strategy is built upon the contributions made by the highly skilled and experienced The Business Sense human resource base we are privileged to have. Whether in The Group has inherent strengths in the four core sectors in which we SUPPLEMENTARY product development, customer service or introducing innovations operate, which make these sectors attractive for further expansion and transcending global boundaries, our highly motivated employees lead investments. Therefore we continue to look for new opportunities as where it matters. we believe in the long term sustainability of these sectors. INFORMATION page 42 | 43 The Aitken Spence Strategy Þ THE CASE FOR CONGLOMERATES The case for conglomerates can be summed up in one word: diversification. According to BASIC financial theory, because the business cycle affects industries in different ways, diversification results in a reduction of investment risk. A downturn suffered by one subsidiary, for instance, can be counterbalanced by stability, or even expansion, in another venture. Tourism Our destination management company Aitken Spence Travels Þ Idyllic location of resorts in Sri Lanka and Maldives (Pvt) Ltd., is equipped with the finest resources and possesses the capability to offer best value propositions to our partners and clients. Þ Management competence and experience This has fortified our reputation as the most professional destination Þ Unique architectural design of properties management service provider in the country. The company also Þ Excellence in service. holds the distinction of winning the presidential award for the “Best Destination Management Company in Sri Lanka” a record three times Cargo Logistics and is Sri Lanka’s first Destination Management Company to be ISO Þ Only Sri Lankan corporate with the requisite infrastructure to 9001:2008 quality certified. provide the total range of logistics solutions in Sri Lanka Þ Reliability in services, backed by an experienced team A leading independent power producer – In addition to investments in thermal power generation, we are also embracing renewable energy Þ Experience in management of ports in overseas jurisdictions for our future Sri Lankan projects in keeping with our commitment Þ Vast network of reputed International Principals and Agents. to the environment. We have already commissioned hydro and wind power plants and are on course to set up the first ever waste to energy Strategic Investments plant in Sri Lanka. Þ Infrastructure investments in strategic areas Þ  Ability to leverage on the expertise and experience to cultivate new Maritime services Agents for major international shipping lines. markets Only Sri Lankan company to venture into port management overseas with a recent foray into acquisition and investment. Þ  Use of advanced technology in all avenues of production and manufacture Largest integrated logistics operation in the country We offer Þ Commitment towards economic and community development integrated transportation services in air-sea freight forwarding, Þ Preferred vendor status among key customers. warehousing, distribution, courier services and ground transport, covering the gamut of services related to the physical cargo flow Services process, from shipper to recipient. Our transportation fleet is the Þ  A motivated and highly skilled human resource dedicated towards largest owned by a private operator and we operate the largest customer service container freight station in Sri Lanka. Þ Excellent relationships built with the principals over the years State of the art environmentally friendly printing facility We are Þ State of the art facilities and commercial premises the leaders in providing high quality printing solutions to our clientele. Þ Proven reliability and efficiency in activities performed. Our state of the art LEED Gold Certified environmentally friendly, carbon neutral printing facility is the first of its kind in the region. The Our Unique Forte 77,000 sq. ft new facility is spread over 3.4 acres on the outskirts of Colombo and boasts many modern technological and sustainable The number one Sri Lankan resort operator Aitken Spence has features. twenty five resorts under its umbrella in diverse geographical locations with a total room portfolio in excess of 2,000. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW Our state of the art LEED Gold Certified environmentally friendly, carbon neutral printing facility. A team of over 6,000 people – who are experienced and skilled to 2013 innovate and evolve with the current global economic environment. GROUP PERFORMANCE 2012 More than USD 50 million invested in overseas projects We are an emerging global powerhouse. Aitken Spence directly and through 2011 REVIEW its subsidiaries has to date invested in excess of USD 50 million in the 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 Maldives, India and Bangladesh and has just concluded an agreement Times CURRENT RATIO for investment in the South Pacific. We believe that our foray into as at 31st March the global arena will give us the geographic diversity in investments necessary to be resilient in a rapidly changing global market, to Consistent return on capital employed achieve consistent returns for our shareholders. Our prudent corporate strategies have resulted in the delivery of GOVERNANCE a consistent return on capital employed in the business, thereby Consistent shareholder returns enhancing shareholder wealth. We believe in conceptualising and Over the years, Aitken Spence had delivered on its promise to the implementing long term strategies aimed at ensuring a consistently shareholders by ensuring a consistent return on their investments. We high return on capital employed and this will be our focus in the future. have provided one of the most consistent and dependable investment opportunities to discerning investors. 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 2013 2011 2012 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 % 2011 RETURN ON EQUITY for the year ended 31st March 0 0.20 0.40 0.60 0.80 1.00 1.20 1.40 1.60 Rs. DIVIDENDS PER SHARE Strong asset base INVESTOR INFORMATION for the year ended 31st March Our asset base had been accumulated steadfastly over the years and provides a strong foundation which ensures that the Company Prudent management of funds is able to withstand shocks and tremors in the competitive business Our prudent financial management practices ensure that Aitken environment. Spence always maintains a healthy working capital to power its businesses. We use our negotiating skills and bargaining strength 2013 to source lowest cost funding on both a short term and long term bases from the competitive market without unduly burdening the 2012 shareholders of the Company. SUPPLEMENTARY 2011 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 INFORMATION Rs. Mn SHAREHOLDER'S FUNDS as at 31st March page 44 | 45 The Aitken Spence Strategy Sustaining Future Growth with reliable partners into mini hydropower projects, and vegetable/ fruit cultivation. The Aitken Spence Group constantly seeks strategies to fuel the growth and expansion of our current business segments as well as In the present context, the following areas have been identified opportunities of diversification into new business areas. Our organic as having potential for strategic growth, and as such the Group is and inorganic growth initiatives have focused on local development pursuing its options for business expansion with strategic partners in strategies as well as global market opportunities; and are geared these segments. towards creating value to all our stakeholders. Þ  Real Estate Development with the focus on luxury retirement We believe that sustainable growth can only be achieved by being communities; proactive, through meticulous planning and decision making, leading Þ  Commercial Agriculture with special emphasis on high-tech to investments with solid fundamentals which generate consistent organic farming technology in Sri Lanka to cater to the export as returns over time. well as the domestic market. Across all our businesses, we are investing and facilitating research Þ  Knowledge Business Processes and Information Technology and development to ensure that we continuously innovate to remain Solutions to meet the needs of customers with specific needs. the market leader. We are also ensuring the quality of our workforce Þ  Executive and tertiary education in specialised areas such as hotel by improving retention through better employee engagement and management, utilising the vast resource of industry knowledge ensuring career progression through coaching and mentoring. We available in the Group to cater to the increasing demand for also continuously introduce techniques to enhance efficiency and tertiary and executive education in Sri Lanka. effectiveness in the operations and processes. Sustainability Strategy Tourism The sustainability strategy of Aitken Spence PLC is built on the concept Strategies for the Tourism sector include seeking hotel management that any business solution must strike a sound balance between contracts in Asia and Middle East in the short term and acquiring economic, social and environmental impacts in order to be sustainable. new properties in the Maldives; working on a franchise operation in Developing a sustainability strategy for a group of our size and Sri Lanka with a reputed international hotel chain and setting up new diversity is an ongoing process, and one that takes into account the properties in Sri Lanka in niche positions: in the medium to long term. vast theoretical expectations and global trends related to sustainable development. At Aitken Spence, the process of sustainability involves Cargo Logistics identifying what is required to ensure the sustainability of the operation; acknowledging the reality of the current situation; and setting qualitative Strategies for the Cargo Logistics sector would be to exploit the strong goals and quantitative targets to fix the gaps in the system. brand equity enjoyed by Aitken Spence allowing it to secure further opportunities in port management and efficiency enhancement and In 2009, the Group formalised the Integrated Sustainability Policy setting up inland container depots and warehousing in the global which encapsulates the Group’s long term goals in 19 qualitative policy market. We are also looking at avenues of expanding cargo logistic clause statements, related to compliance, ethical conduct, environment, services in the region. community outreach, sustainable processes, governance, stakeholder engagement, quality, customer service, talent management, innovation, Strategic Investments sector health and safety, human rights, information security, continuous The way forward for the power segment would be to focus on setting improvement and credible reporting. up green field power plants in the emerging markets and to undertake The Board of Aitken Spence PLC., the Board of Management and the the investment in renewable energy projects in Sri Lanka. The strategy Sustainability Committee are responsible for setting guidelines and for printing segment would be to differentiate the portfolio and offer giving direction to the implementation of this policy. The strategic solutions which benchmark international standards. Our approach business units are expected to work towards the gradual adherence of in the plantation segment would be to focus on the higher-margin the policy, through a tiered system of implementation of essential action packaged tea products which can be exported to emerging markets points, expected action points and exemplary action points. such as China, Japan and Korea, explore opportunities for palm oil rehabilitation/management in emerging markets and diversification Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 “In the Management Discussion and Analysis that follows, GROUP OVERVIEW we have presented the above sustainability performance information together with the financial and operational details in order that a more comprehensive, better integrated LEADERSHIP REVIEW picture emerges.” Companies must undertake a process of leading positive change Reporting our performance GROUP PERFORMANCE through the championing of a clearly identified strategic sustainability REVIEW The main focus areas of the Group, subject to the relevance and thrust, known as Strategic Differentiation. The differentiation so materiality to the SBU and nature of operations, are energy and water identified must be one that is directly connected to the operations of consumption; renewable energy; waste resource management; each SBU and therefore a source of sustainable business benefit. biodiversity conservation and protection of ecosystems; community The Group’s sustainability activities are conceptualised, directed development; education and skills development; product and service and managed entirely through internal expertise, and driven by the quality and responsibility; occupational health and safety; human rights Sustainability Team which is supported by subsidiary-level sustainability at the workplace and sustainability reporting. GOVERNANCE sub committees. In the Management Discussion and Analysis that follows, we have The inaugural Sustainability Awards of Aitken Spence PLC were presented the above sustainability performance information together conducted in August 2012 where Aitken Spence Hotels emerged with the financial and operational details in order that a more winners, Aitken Spence Cargo and Aitken Spence Printing tied for comprehensive, better integrated picture emerges. We have set second place and Aitken Spence Travels came in third place. This forth the stakeholder engagement mechanism together with the key awards scheme is based on the results of a sustainability rating system. material issues that have arisen during our engagement with the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS main stakeholders. Furthermore, we have also provided sector-wise Alongside the Strategic Differentiation of SBUs, the Group has identified summaries of the capital building activities undertaken by each sector; the Empowering Sri Lanka First (ESLF) initiative as its collective effort our strengths, weaknesses and opportunities; and the issues that have for differentiation. Across the island, many youth lose opportunities for arisen from sector-specific stakeholder engagement. With the purpose lucrative employment because of their lack of English language skills of disclosing information according to integrated reporting the depictions and/or inability to effectively utilise technology. The purpose of ESLF is to in the sector reviews summarises the key inputs, value adding activities provide English and IT learning opportunities to less privileged children and the targeted result of these activities for each sector. in grade 3 until they complete grade 5. INVESTOR INFORMATION We are very keen to hear from you on how you perceive this report. The classes will be held in less-privileged communities, initially in Please enable us to make our reporting better by writing to us at close proximity to Aitken Spence business interests. As the first phase, (info@aitkenspence.lk) to tell us whether this report has met with your classes in Dambulla, Ahungalla and Mawaramandiya are scheduled to expectations; what you would like us to include in future reports and commence in early May 2013. relevant teachers will be selected from what changes you would like us to make in the way we have presented the same community in the hope that they can add more value to the this report. educational opportunities available for children of the communities. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 46 | 47 TOURISM SECTOR TOURISM Hotels Inbound & Outbound travel Airline GSA We REMAIN A PIONEERING LEADER IN THE TOURISM SECTOR, WITH A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF AWARD WINNING PROPERTIES in four countries Contribution to Group 2012-13 2011-12 Revenue (Rs. mn) 14,063 11,262 Profit before tax (Rs. mn) 3,445 2,622 Total assets (Rs. mn) 23,829 20,880 Total liabilities (Rs. mn) 7,440 7,109 Employees 2,789 2,957 REVENUE 14bn PBT 3,445mn ASSETS 24bn EMPLOYEES 2,789 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 48 | 49 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM The global tourism industry crossed the milestone of 1 billion tourists Sector profile: in 2012, with worldwide tourist arrivals growing by 4.7% in 2012 Activity & Market Position from 980 million in 2011. Despite economic pressures around the world, tourism demand remained robust and the UN World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) expects growth in 2013 to be between 3% and The first resort chain in Sri Lanka to be awarded the 4%. Emerging economies of the Asia and Pacific region performed ISO 50001 certification for energy management systems. stronger than their developed counterparts, reporting 233 million arrivals, a growth of 7%. Of the sub-regions, South Asia grew slower at 4% while South East Asia recorded a higher growth of 9%, which “4thBest Ayurveda Resort” at the FIT Health and Wellness Awards held at ITB 2013 in Berlin. the UNWTO attributes to the implementation of policies that foster intra regional cooperation and coordination in tourism. The Chinese and Russian markets accounted for the highest growth 1972 The general sales agency of Singapore Airlines was rates in expenditure abroad at 42% and 31% respectively while it obtained by the Group; which we have retained up to is also significant to note that the strategically important traditional now. source markets the United Kingdom and Germany also performed well 1974 The first resort hotel, ‘Neptune Hotel’ was constructed growing by 5% and 3% respectively. in Beruwala designed by the renowned architect Sri Lanka reached its own milestone during the year, surpassing the Geoffrey Bawa. Neptune is now re-branded as 1 million arrivals mark to welcome 1,005,605 tourists who brought ‘Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara’. in all-time high annual revenue of USD 1.04 billion, a 25.1% growth 1977 The Company which is an IATA agent moved into year on year. However classified hotels have reported declines in inbound and outbound travel, with this ‘Aitken Spence guest nights and occupancy rates in 2012, mainly due to the rapid Travels Ltd’ was incorporated. expansion of unregistered hotels, guest houses and home stays, a concept promoted by the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority. 1978 ‘Aitken Spence Travels’ entered into an agency The presence and demand for the informal sector is not reflected in agreement with TUI which is a one of the world’s official tourism statistics and therefore its impact has not yet been leading leisure travel companies. fully estimated. However, a strong indication of the informal sector’s 1981 The first five star resort ‘Triton’ was constructed performance is the declining occupancy rates reported by the formal in Ahungalle designed by the renowned architect sector hotels, especially during the peak months. Geoffrey Bawa. Triton Hotel is now branded as ‘Heritance Ahungalle’ According to records, Sri Lanka attracted tourists mainly from India, UK, Germany, France and Australia which together represented 46.8% 1991/92 Aitken Spence Hotels is listed in the Colombo Stock of tourist arrivals. Out of these tourists, 74% arrived on holiday, 9% Exchange with an issued share capital of Rs.150mn for business purposes and 17% to visit friends and relatives, attend 1993 Became the first Sri Lankan hospitality company conventions and meetings, or for religious and cultural purposes. to broaden its horizons and develop an overseas The country’s infrastructure to support the tourism industry improved portfolio by entering into the Maldivian tourism significantly during the year, including the second international airport sector with the acquisition of Bathala Island resort in opening in Mattala, the development of tourism on the East coast with Maldives. the proposed addition of over 800 rooms, and the city beautification programme in Colombo. With the proposed completion of the Katunayake expressway and the outer circular road in the near future, travel time within Sri Lanka would be significantly reduced which would be a benefit for travellers to experience the bio diversity within 37% 69% 48% the country in a short period of time. REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX CAPITAL EMPLOYED Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Stakeholder Engagement Key areas of interest for stakeholders Investor Board meetings Growth in revenue across all properties Annual General Meetings and other meetings Pursue growth opportunities through acquisitions and management Media contracts in appropriate resorts. Higher return on investment Customer Direct contact Client service Social media Create unique guest/client experience Quality and service of products LEADERSHIP REVIEW Employees Performance appraisals Recognition and rewards Management meetings Skills development Internal group gatherings Career progression Work-life balance Community Direct contact Employment opportunities Community gatherings Local infrastructure development Economic development Responsible business operation Pollution prevention GROUP PERFORMANCE Regulators Media Compliance Direct contact Contribution towards industry standards REVIEW Meetings Contribution towards inbound marketing of the destination Regular liaison with various government departments Environmental Interest Groups Direct contact Championing ecosystem service conservation and water security Industry seminars and forums Pollution prevention and waste control Setting standards Renewable energy Suppliers Direct contact Providing opportunities for local suppliers GOVERNANCE Industry seminars and forums Reliable working relationships Financial institutions Direct contact Reliability and reputation Meetings Return on investment 2013 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 2012 2011 2011 INVESTOR INFORMATION 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 12,000 15,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Þ BEST PERFORMING SECTOR The Leisure & Tourism sector is GROWING AT A VERY RAPID PACE, covering a wide and diverse range of products and services. As the sector continues to grow globally, so do the openings for companies LIKE US, WHO ALREADY HAVE A FIRM SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOOTHOLD IN THE INDUSTRY WITH A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF LUXURY HOTEL PROPERTIES. page 50 | 51 SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM was the Maldivian resort segment which saw a 25.8% improvement 1994 Commenced commercial operations of Heritance in revenue over last year. The destination management segment also Kandalama one of the world’s defining ecologically witnessed an 15.9% year on year revenue growth. conscious hotels and became the first Asian hotel to receive the prestigious ‘green globe 21’ certification. The sector recorded profit before tax of Rs 3.4 billion which is a 31.4% increase in profitability. The tax charge for the sector increased by 1996 The first theme hotel in Sri Lanka ‘The Tea Factory’ 34.7%, mainly due to Maldives resorts being taxed for a full financial commences operations. year in 2012/13, after the introduction of Business Profit Tax in the 2004 Aitken Spence Travels enters into a JV partnership Maldives. with TUI of which the results are exceptional. The profit after tax of the sector increased by 30.8% to record Rs 2.9 2005 Launched ‘Adaaran Prestige Water Villa’a twenty billion. The Tourism sector contributes 68.8% of the profit after tax of exclusive luxury water villas at Meedhupparu Island ; the Group. Maldives. 2006 Entering the Indian hospitality industry by securing Hotels the management of five hotel properties in India. The Sri Lankan hotels sector returned a better performance than 2007 Obtains the management of four hotel properties the previous year as the round trip properties have done very well, in Oman, becoming the first hospitality company to resulting in a profit before tax growth of 66.5%. Heritance Kandalama enter the Middle East. and Heritance Tea Factory posted their highest ever profits with profit before tax being 131.0% higher than the previous year. The 2008 The Group opens ‘Adaaran Prestige Vadoo’ the fifth new conference facility opened at our flagship hotel Heritance resort with fifty luxury villas in close proximity to the Kandalama has been well received by the MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Malè atoll. Conferences, Exhibitions) market. Over 850 rooms were added to the formal room inventory in the However we were not able to achieve the profit growth anticipated country during the year, 23 of them in the 3 star category and 834 in from Sri Lankan resorts, particularly the beach properties due to stiff the unclassified category which includes boutique and small luxury competition as a result of the country not yet being able to harness hotels. its full potential of attracting high spending tourists and due to the mushrooming of small time guest houses and similar places of The Maldivian tourism industry achieved a 2.9% growth in arrivals accommodation, most of which are not registered with Sri Lanka during 2012 to 958,027 from 931,333 in 2011. The Maldivian target Tourist Board. This is a serious concern for registered hotels as the of 1 million tourists was missed due to a combination of factors that operation of non registered places of accommodation could pose a affected tourism, including political instability and a decline in average serious reputation risk to the country. room nights from 7 in 2011 to 6.7 in 2012. The typically high-value Maldivian tourism market continues to see the highest demand from During the year, the sector completed the first phase of development the relatively low yield Chinese market. Chinese arrivals grew 24% at the former Ramada Resort which was reopened as The Sands by to 229,551 in 2012 over the previous year while three years ago in Aitken Spence Hotels. The second phase, which has now commenced, 2009, this figure stood at just 60,660. will see the addition of a further 90 rooms. Heritance Ahungalla and The Sands did not perform up to expectation, Performance of the Sector as the entire beach offering was under pressure from heightened competition due to the substantial addition of rooms by both formal The Tourism sector of the Group comprises of the operation of resorts and informal operators. We note with concern that a significant in Sri Lanka and overseas, provision of destination management percentage of tourists visiting Sri Lanka for “sun, sea and sand” are services, managing hotels in Sri Lanka and overseas and, the GSA budget travellers and hence the pressure on rates in the star class operations for Singapore Airlines in Sri Lanka, and Sri Lankan Airlines beach properties have hampered their performance. in the Maldives. Phased refurbishment at Hilltop was completed during the year and The sector recorded a revenue growth of 24.9% over the previous year the resort is being positioned as a three star resort in Kandy. to achieve Rs 14.1 billion. The main contributor towards this growth Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Aitken Spence has a chain of luxury hotels and resorts in Sri Lanka, LEADERSHIP REVIEW Maldives, India and Oman. With over three decades in the hotels industry, our expertise in the sector is unmatched. INPUTS VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT Þ Our expertise Þ Talent enhancement Þ Customer satisfaction & loyalty Þ Our brand behaviour & values Þ Strategic management Þ Skilled & motivated employees GROUP PERFORMANCE Þ Strategically positioned iconic properties Þ Nuturing the brand Þ Market intrinsic knowledge Þ Partnerships & networks Þ Development of infrastructure Þ Positive economic value Þ Financial resources Þ Cultivating partnerships & networks Þ Empowering the community REVIEW Þ Enhancing service quality Þ Enhanced brand image Þ Leading the industry with best practices Þ Unique product /service offerings Þ Innovation Þ Conservation of ecosystems Þ Global reach to customers Þ Group synergies Our decision to venture into a specialised ayurveda resort has paid presence in the region by offering our proven management expertise. GOVERNANCE dividends with Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara becoming profitable Aitken Spence has a well established reputation for being a proficient during its first full year of operations. The property has enjoyed hotel management company, and with our special capabilities in consistently high demand, with occupancy rates around 95%, and resort management we are well positioned to pursue similar hotel has already become internationally acclaimed as the best ayurvedic management contracts in other countries in the region. treatment-based property in Sri Lanka. Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara was recognised as the “Best Ayurveda Resort” at the fourth Finding skilled and qualified staff remains a daunting challenge for the entire tourism sector in Sri Lanka; the lack of training facilities in FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIT Health and Wellness Awards held at ITB 2013 in Berlin, the world’s largest travel trade fair. the country has meant that despite high demand, the right kind of candidates are not available for recruitment. At Aitken Spence, we train The Maldivian sector continued to be a major contributor to the profits young recruits at our own hotel school and provide them with extensive of the Group as it has been for the last decade, despite the political on-the-job training; while high performing employees are also offered volatility and new tax policies prevalent during the year. cross-exposure opportunities at our overseas properties so that they are exposed to diverse tourism environments, while ensuring the We welcome a move by the Maldivian government to increase the continuity of their career. We have also focused on recruiting a greater buildable area on its islands from 20% to 30%, and are evaluating number of people from the North and East, to support the economies INVESTOR INFORMATION expansion opportunities on the islands we currently lease, while being of the former war-torn regions. mindful that such expansion does not dilute the experience by causing congestion. FUTURE OUTLOOK The hotel management segment of the Group which manages and The Government is working towards a target of attracting 2.5 oversees all 25 resorts operated by the group in Sri Lanka, Oman, million tourists by the year 2016, with earnings projected to reach Maldives and India performed exceptionally well with a 16.5% USD 2.7 billion by then. In working towards this goal, the Sri Lanka increase in revenue and 39.8% in profit before tax.The growth in Tourism Development Authority together with the industry must make contribution was seen from the Maldives and Oman with the segment concerted effort to ensure a sustainable increase in capacity and SUPPLEMENTARY bouncing back in 2012/13, with the year ahead looking promising. resources. The market must evolve towards attracting the higher-end The performance of the Group’s managed properties in India is INFORMATION segments, as growth in the low-end segments alone will not enable yet to deliver the desired results, and the Group is monitoring their the achievement of the set targets. performance with a view to adopting appropriate strategies in future. Nevertheless we are constantly seeking opportunities to expand our page 52 | 53 SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM The global shift towards booking holidays online continues to grow and our e-business department, set up a few years ago in response to market dynamics, has performed exceedingly well. The web marketing platform handles all four destinations and has been capitalised fully to drive revenue growth this year. We will continue to fortify the e-business segment to grow direct sales volumes. The short terms plans for Aitken Spence include the addition of 90 more rooms at “The Sands” in Kalutara and 143 more at a new Heritance property in Negombo. We are also evaluating potential development projects on the land portfolio available to us while seeking opportunities in tourism hotspots such as the Galle Fort. Aitken Spence is also in a strong position to selectively offer its management services to suitable partners in Sri Lanka and overseas. The Heritance brand continues to deliver on its promise, with glowing tributes from the public and a series of international awards Inbound Travel testifying to its lasting value... The traditional European markets performed poorly due to the protracted recession, with 373,063 arrivals during 2012, a lower than It is critical to position and market Sri Lanka as a destination in a way expected 18.4% increase from 2011. Eastern European markets such that attracts the optimal mix of tourists while protecting the country’s as Russia and Ukraine contributed better with a 43% increase. While tourism offering. We look forward to promoting a national marketing the Indian market dominated with 176,000 arrivals, it only recorded a effort on a global platform, similar to those recently undertaken marginal growth of 3%. Arrivals from East Asia rose 38% from 96,000 by our regional competitors with much success. The imminent to 132,000 during the year, with major interest from China, Japan, entry of several international hotel chains enhances the image and Thailand, Taiwan, the Philippines and Korea. marketability of the destination; while welcoming the move, as The competitive framework for Destination Management Companies significant players in the industry we also urge authorities to exercise (DMC) changed drastically during the year, with the mushrooming fairness in regulations and prioritise environmental issues in any of small travel agents who offer cost-based pricing to principals. As proposed development. the demand for specialised activities grows, the market has become In 2013/14, the Sri Lankan hotels sector faces one of its toughest further fragmented with some DMC’s choosing to focus on niche years yet in terms of cost escalation as the government has increased segments. minimum wages by 40% while energy prices will rise by 25%. Rises The growth of the informal sector had its impact on the destination in energy and payroll costs will have a spiralling effect on other management companies, which did not report a significant increase associated overheads, leading to an estimated overall cost escalation in numbers. In addition to this threat from within, the destination of 20 to 25%. The segment has taken all possible cost management management companies in Sri Lanka compete not just among measures to mitigate the impact from these cost increases. While themselves, but also with the regional DMCs. Increasing fuel prices the East coast and Northern peninsula offer exciting new ground have also had their impact on the industry due to high prices of for tourism developments, the industry must be supported with the airfare and transportations and this trend is set to continue as regional necessary transportation infrastructure to draw in tourists to these destinations such as India, Thailand and Indonesia offer comparatively regions. A robust domestic air transportation is essential in this regard better value. The cost of package tours has also been impacted by – allowing travellers to reach their destination easier and faster. increased government taxes and the increase in entrance ticket prices The extended downturn in Europe will continue to impact beach at places of interest. properties, with the growth expected from the traditional markets Thus the industry requires the support of a well-managed master being minimal due to their extreme price sensitivity. To offset the drop plan to market the destination to attract the right mix of tourists. in European arrivals, we are now strategically focusing on alternative While it is economically important for every segment of tourist to be markets such as India, Middle East, and China, while promoting the represented, the industry and the economy do not stand to gain from MICE segment. the proliferation of visitors who focus on extracting the best value Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 “Our integration into Worldcome – a global destination GROUP OVERVIEW management specialist consisting of 22 companies around the world has paved the way for extensive cross selling opportunities.” LEADERSHIP REVIEW by seeking budget category accommodation, using public transport, The corporate business and incentive travel segment is a growing engaging informal guides and opting for shorter stays. influence in global travel and in a bid to drive this segment, we have now become part of the Carlsson Wagonlit Travel network which is a GROUP PERFORMANCE We note greater interest in Sri Lanka among operators with the global leader in business travel, meetings and event management. This country receiving global attention as a tourism hotspot and the partnership allows us to leverage our strengths with the reputation and enhancement of tourism infrastructure. The potential for the sector REVIEW expertise of a global specialist. thus remains positive; the current challenges of the sector however require immediate attention and collective action by both the private Aitken Spence Travels continues to strengthen its people, systems and sector and tourism authorities. processes in order to enhance its leadership position and to remain competitive. The company is ISO 9001:2008 certified. Recognising the The strategic direction for the travel sector during the short to medium importance of being aware of the impact we have on the environment, term involves consolidating and growing the traditional European we have also completed calculating our carbon footprint and have GOVERNANCE markets through product differentiation and competitive pricing, as offset the same, thereby becoming a carbon neutral entity. that market continues to hold the strongest potential for Sri Lanka. However we will focus also on a set of emerging markets identified Training and development is a priority and during the year, as having high potential while also concentrating on new specialised management staff received an average 9 hours of training per person segments such as nature, wildlife, wellness, and medical tourism. We while operational staff underwent an average of 65 hours of training. have partnered with key tour operators in our target markets to secure The travel industry is typically a high turnover industry and to counter high margins, by striking a healthy balance between volumes and this we have in place many strategies to improve retention, including, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS contribution. empowerment initiatives and overseas exposure for our staff. These efforts enabled AST to improve its customer satisfaction levels where a World tourism is shifting towards an experiential model, with more survey of all tourists managed during the year saw our service ranked travellers avoiding group travel and making greater use of online and above satisfactory by 99.5%, of whom 73% ranked us excellent. technology platforms to garner themselves better deals and more exciting tour options. We also recognise the impact of social media to a business such as ours and will work towards an effective social Singapore Airlines GSA media strategy. Our 40 year relationship with Singapore Airlines as its longest serving INVESTOR INFORMATION General Sales Agent (GSA) performed to expected targets for both Aitken Spence Travels (AST), the destination management segment of passenger and cargo volumes. During the year, the GSA moved into the Group recorded the highest ever profits with an increase in profit new premises on the ground floor of Aitken Spence Towers, delivering before tax of 7.5 %. more convenience to customers and gaining greater visibility. The strength of Aitken Spence lies in its ability to build strategic It is encouraging that Singapore Airlines sees strategic potential in Sri partnerships with leaders in the travel industry; However expanding Lanka; the product offering is a competitive one – with daily flights the business in an environment where the role of DMCs is diminishing and better aircraft deployed on the route. While margin pressures will involve building a closer network, especially with charter and tour dominate the business, we have nevertheless consistently invested in operators, hoteliers and airlines. SUPPLEMENTARY training our personnel to deliver the highest degree of professionalism Our integration into Worldcome – a global destination management and domain knowledge, which will continue to be our competitive INFORMATION specialist consisting of 22 companies around the world has paved the advantage. way for extensive cross selling opportunities which we hope to harness during the coming year. page 54 | 55 SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM Strengths and services offered to the guests which cannot be achieved without Þ Risk distributed among four destinations and strong regional protecting the environment first. presence Þ Iconic properties in the best locations. Aitken Spence Hotels was ahead of the rest of the Group in the Þ Experienced management team implementation of the Environmental Management Systems (EMSs) and all Aitken Spence properties have EMSs aligned with the Þ Expansion opportunities due to availability of land owned by the Company in the east coast and south coast. requirements of the ISO 14001 standard to manage their impact on the environment. All Heritance properties and Aitken Spence properties Opportunities in Sri Lanka, with the exception of Hotel Hill Top, have obtained the Þ Rapidly developing infrastructure facilities in Sri Lanka ISO 14001 certification as well. Adaaran resorts in Maldives have also Þ Diversity in Sri Lanka and the cultural heritage. implemented EMS’s. Aitken Spence Travels also implemented an EMS Þ People and culture which obtained the ISO 14001:2004 certification in March 2013. Challenges Environment Þ Sri Lankan resorts need to compete with cheaper regional destinations. Provision of energy efficient or renewable energy based products Þ Increase in energy cost and services to the customer is a key operational activity for this Þ Political uncertainty in the Maldives sector. Aitken Spence Travels has achieved significant savings in Þ High construction and operating cost fuel consumption through its management systems showing its commitment to protecting the environment. By better scheduling and combining transfers, Aitken Spence Travels saved 9,440 litres of petrol Management approach for environmental and 10,115 litres of diesel during the year. Aitken Spence Travels and social sustainability measured its carbon footprint for the year and obtained the carbon The sector has sought leadership in environmental and social neutral certification, becoming the first carbon neutral destination sustainability and has consistently benchmarked itself against management operation and owned fleet in the country. international standards and best practices. Today, the sector sets yardsticks for the entire region in environmental and social Our hotels have long understood the need for environmental and sustainability through the many different management systems, energy management systems as strategies towards sustainability of policies, procedures and general practices it has in place to identify the businesses and managing cost escalations. Both Heritance Tea and manage environmental and social aspects of the operation. Factory and Heritance Kandalama use gasifiers to produce energy from sustained biomass, which in turn powers the boilers to produce Aitken Spence Travels maintains a quality policy, environmental policy steam for hot water generation and laundry operations. At Heritance and a safety policy for the chauffeurs. Aitken Spence owned and Ayurveda Maha Gedara, kitchen waste is used to produce biogas managed hotels maintain an environmental policy, switching off policy, for use in the Ayurvedic herbal preparation. Heritance Ayurveda purchasing policy, 7R principle, food safety policy and energy and Maha Gedara also generates electricity through solar photovoltaic water saving policies. systems which feed the national grid via a net metering agreement with the local service provider. The property also reduces the furnace Aitken Spence Travels operations have ISO 9001:2008 certified quality oil consumed by using solar hot water panels to augment the management systems to proactively identify customer needs and temperature of the water before it is fed to the clarifier. provide services that meet those needs through continuous quality improvement. To ensure the safety of the food and beverage products Aitken Spence Hotels segment has successfully quantified its carbon offered to the customers, Aitken Spence hotels have implemented food emissions from energy resources used for the hotel management safety systems that are in line with the ISO 22000/HACCP standard operation. Heritance Ahungalla was the first resort hotel in the world to requirements. All hotel properties in Sri Lanka and Maldives with the obtain the ISO 50001 certification for its energy management system. exception of Hotel Hilltop are ISO 22000/ HACCP: 2005 certified. The Heritance chain has the honour of being the first hotel chain in Sri HACCP systems are implemented in the hotel properties in Oman as Lanka to obtain the ISO 50001 across all hotel operations. Measures well. to save energy at the hotels include replacing old equipment to reduce excess energy consumption and several operational strategies. The sector has strategic interests in conserving eco systems as they believe in adding the unique flavour of each location to the products Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 “The sector has sought leadership in environmental and GROUP OVERVIEW social sustainability and has consistently benchmarked itself against international standards and best practices. Today, the sector sets yardsticks for the entire region in environmental LEADERSHIP REVIEW and social sustainability.” Preventive maintenance systems and energy management teams topics, such as the forest diversity of Sri Lanka that can add value to GROUP PERFORMANCE address energy related matters of each hotel. their clients. A unique concept that took form within Aitken Spence Hotels is the 7R concept for waste management that has the ultimate Direct energy consumed in the owned operations of the sector objective of zero waste dumping. The concept can be explained REVIEW Diesel 5,291,227 ltrs Biomass 640,052 kg through some examples from the hotels. Petrol 831,816 ltrs LPG 189,597 kg Reject products, services, techniques which can cause environmental Furnace Oil 169,230 ltrs Biogas 9,879 kg damage. All non biodegradable material such as packaging material Indirect energy consumed (GJ) and plastic are rejected wherever possible Electricity 29,633 GJ Solar energy 4,920 GJ Reduce the use of resources especially non renewable and nonbio GOVERNANCE Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 6,744 improvements (GJ) degradable resources. Aitken Spence Travels reduced the usage of Total amount of Green House Gas Emissions (tonnes) 21,747 paper by introducing the e-ﬁling system and e-faxing. The hotels have implemented different methods to reduce resource consumption. A GHG emissions reduced and/ or offset (tonnes) 2,309 plastic inventory is maintained in the hotels with the goal of gradually eliminating the use of plastics. Ongoing awareness programs through The Maldives resorts have also taken action to reduce energy leaflets and pamphlets in rooms educate guests on minimising consumption, such as changing the power house configuration of electricity and water usage. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the generators to achieve maximum efficiency, replacing the old equipment in the reverse osmosis plant to reduce the excess energy Reuse every possible resource to reduce the consumption of fresh consumption, enabling the use of natural light by introducing skylights, resources. Many of the hotels reuse treated water from sewage and introducing efficient solar water heating systems. treatment plants for watering their gardens. In a bid to reduce the water consumption all hotels of the Group Reclaim what cannot be reused. All waste water is reclaimed by the place 1.5 litres water bags in cistern tanks in all guest rooms and in hotels to be treated and reused for gardening. Sludge from the sewage all public area washrooms, and indirectly save energy through the treatment plant is converted to fertilizer and sold to community farmers INVESTOR INFORMATION reduced need for treated water. Seven of the hotels in Sri Lanka have at nominal prices. All waste material from the hotels is segregated, waste water treatment units. quantified and either sold for reuse or recycled so that none of it ends up in waste dumps. Waste water management in the owned operations of the Tourism Sector Total water withdrawal 1,281,296 m3 Segregation of waste in Owned Operations Total volume of water treated 320,952 m3 Dry waste 215,587 kg Cardboard & 23,137 kg paper Total volume of grey water and treated waste water reused 256,151 m 3 Wet waste 1,157,750 kg Iron 23,428 kg The sector takes considerable effort to ensure continuous education PET bottles 588,484 Nos Used oil 38,187 ltrs SUPPLEMENTARY of staff members to achieve the behavioural change required to meet and 951 kg their environmental targets. The environmental policy of the hotels Plastic cans 16,781 Nos Timber 165 T/load and INFORMATION and 28 kg 4,500 kg and the Green philosophy behind their management approach are displayed in the hotel rooms and the social media sites to educate the Glass bottles 35,464 Nos Hazardous waste 921 kg and 8,470 kg guests. Aitken Spence Travels educates their employees on important Glass pieces 9,921 kg page 56 | 57 SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM Repair what is broken and reuse them. All our resorts repair broken uplift indigenous arts and craft by promoting local handicrafts at our items to reuse them wherever possible. crafts centre. The Arts & Crafts Centre was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.8 million which benefits 10 award winning crafts persons while also Replace what cannot be rejected, reduced or reused with more promoting local culture to a global audience. environmental friendly options. While cost, quality and reliability are key factors when selecting Recycle every material so that nothing goes to waste dumps. resource suppliers, priority is given to local suppliers where ‘local’ is From waste water, cooking oil and engine oil to metal cans, plastic defined by the proximity to the location of the operation. For example, containers, PET bottles, all waste material that can be recycled is sold most Sri Lankan hotels define ‘local’ as the vicinity within a 10km or handed over to be recycled responsibly. to 20km radius of the hotel. For Heritance Kandalama, ‘local’ refers The sector takes special care to manage areas rich in biodiversity. to a region within a 30 to 40km radius as well as the Kandalama Heritance Kandalama maintains a 190 acre area of owned-forest village. For other operations, this definition is somewhat different and which is protected from poachers. Our resorts in Sri Lanka do not due to availability of resources, it is not an easy task implementing a border on areas of high biodiversity value. In other properties. Adaaran written policy for local purchasing. Adaaran properties define ‘local’ as Select Hudhuranfushi is located on a leased island of 84 acres, Maldives. Adaaran Select Meedhupparu on a leased island of 44 acres, Adaaran All hotels also focus on providing employment to persons from their Club Rannalhi on a leased island of 8 acres and Adaaran Prestige locality 10% of the senior management at Heritance Ahungalla and Vadoo on a leased island of 2.5 acres, where all the islands maintain 19% of the senior management at Heritance Kandalama are from the erosion control and the house reef around the island is protected. In respective local communities while on average, many of the hotels can subsurface areas, Heritance Ahungalla has a area of 12 acres while claim about 80% staff members from the local community. Heritance Tea Factory has an area of 25 acres that is subsurface as part of the old tea factory. Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi is on an Aitken Spence Travels would define the 20km radius vicinity of each island located in Male’ atol. Adaaran Select Meedhupparu is on an event or destinations that tourists are taken to as ‘local’ and sources island located in the Raa atol and Vadoo island of Adaaran Prestige 100% of the resources from local suppliers if the environmental Vadoo is located in the Vadoo Channel. All the islands are within areas and social benchmarks set by the industry and principals are met. which are rich in marine bio diversity. Efforts are taken in all properties For example, for safaris in Kaudulla, Minneriya and the Eco Park to ensure biodiversity is preserved. During construction and the supply the suppliers are sourced from Habarana. Around Rs. 21 million of materials and goods, the management takes utmost care not to has been spent on renting safari vehicles from local suppliers harm or damage bio diversity of the environment. Beach erosion is instead of investing in our own vehicles for the above purpose. The controlled through beach nourishment programmes. travels segment also extends investment and support towards the development of local communities. Aitken Spence Travels provided Local Purchasing & Value Chain assistance to thirteen regular transport suppliers to purchase brand Heritance properties have a written purchasing policy and common new vehicles so that they could provide better quality service to their practices for preferring locally based suppliers. Suppliers are registered guests. based on the proximity and operational efficiency to contribute towards Local Purchasing the economic growth of the local supplier, taking into consideration Vegetables & fruits: Sri Lanka Hotels: 90 – 100% where possible the cost, quality, efficiency as well as food miles travelled, to reduce carbon emissions in the provision of meals at the hotels. As per the Fish: Sri Lanka Hotels: 100% where possible Maldives Hotels: 100% local purchasing policy of Heritance Hotels, priority is always given to the suppliers within the immediate community of the hotel. Further, Meat: Sri Lanka Hotels: Between 25 – 40% food items such as vegetables and fruits are purchased from the Building material Sri Lanka Hotels: 70 – 80% villagers at their field itself at a reasonable rate. In addition, Heritance Safari vehicles: Aitken Spence Travels: 100% properties also give priority to local suppliers in construction, civil The sector also works with industry stakeholders to maintain social work, repairs and other services. We obtain the services of dedicated and environmental sustainability and to reach satisfactory levels of and certified suppliers to fulfill the balance requirement of supplies. At industry relations. During the year, Aitken Spence Travels conducted Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara, we have embraced on a project to Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW The Arts and Crafts Centre was constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.8 million LEADERSHIP REVIEW which benefits 10 award winning crafts persons while also promoting local culture to a global audience. training programmes on park ethics to the suppliers in Yala, Habarana, of discussing with the village coordinators and the staff, Heritance Horton Plains, Mirissa and Balapitiya. All externally sourced vehicle Tea Factory hotel organised a teacher to provide extra classes for the chauffeurs were given training in vehicle maintenance and ﬁrst aid year 5 students who sit for the scholarship examination. In the year GROUP PERFORMANCE while the chauffeurs were given a separate training in endemic birds in 2012 as a result of the hotel’s initiative, for the first time in 10 years, Sri Lanka and tourist attractions in the island. Currently more than 100 one student in the area successfully passed the grade 5 Scholarship REVIEW chauffeurs have been trained. Discussions were held with suppliers examination. The hotel also donated two computers to the local school. regularly to improve their products and services. In other community engagement efforts the sector has been At “The Sands” Kalutara, the Executive Chef and his team educated involved in philanthropic activities, child and elder care programmes, local suppliers on ISO 22000, the international standard for food safety entrepreneurship development, employee volunteerism and management system. Further, The Sands provided a drinking water educational assistance activities. Aitken Spence Travels contributed line to beach operators. Heritance Kandalama initiated the Hospitality essential items worth Rs. 0.2 million to 100 families in the North GOVERNANCE School ‘Kandalama School of Tourism and Hotel Operation’ to train and Central province that were affected by the floods. The Grilicidia project develop local youth to gain access to the current job market further of Heritance Kandalama and Heritance Tea Factory provides local strengthening their commitment to contribute positively towards the farmers with an income exceeding Rs. 13 million while also being a development of tourism in Sri Lanka. cleaner energy source for the hotel. Heritance Kandalama committed Rs.0.8 million, towards organising employee volunteerism activities Community Engagement such as building a house for a disabled person in Diganpathaha, Dambulla. Earl’s Regency conducted an awareness programme with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Heritance Ahungalla maintains the children’s ward at the Balapitiya base hospital and assists them regularly. Total funds channelled from live demonstrations for advanced level school children from 3 schools the hotel towards donation of sports equipment, educational goods to commemorate the World Tourism Day 2012. and financial assistance to the community amounts to Rs. 0.2 million. In Maldives, Adaaran Select Meedhupparu donated eight computers Heritance Kandalama invested Rs. 9.4 million on the community in to local schools distributed among three local islands. Adaaran Select provision of facilities for differently abled persons, sanitation facilities, Meedhupparu also organised island clean up campaigns, reef clean building material, educational assistance, access to water and other up and tree planting campaigns to encourage employee volunteerism. forms of assistance. The sector extends assistance towards differently abled persons and INVESTOR INFORMATION Before these projects are carried out, the organisation conducts allows provisions in the properties with lifts and low height steps and community needs assessments to determine infrastructure and other ramps. Heritance Ahungalla employs six differently abled persons while services needed and responds accordingly. Needs assessments are Heritance Kandalama and Poovar Island Resort hotel employ three generally conducted through direct contact with community members differently abled persons each. Heritance Tea Factory hotel and Earl’s or community leaders. Heritance Kandalama identifies community Regency employ two differently abled persons at each property. needs through meetings with religious leaders, Grama Niladaris, school principals and community members. Heritance Tea Factory has appointed two employees to coordinate with the village in assessing the requirements of the community and SUPPLEMENTARY gaining their feedback. More than 50% of the hotel staff lives within the village that we operate in and regular discussions with them INFORMATION have also helped us to determine the services needed. As a result page 58 | 59 SECTOR REVIEW: TOURISM Þ KEY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIES Our integrated sustainability policy is, in effect, a proactive long term strategy that allows us to address issues that may affect future viability, right now. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Product Responsibility INVESTOR INFORMATION The Quality Management Systems implemented across the sector ensure that efforts are taken to provide the best experience to customers and channels are made available for customers to provide feedback. The Diamond Club maintains information about customer loyalty and provides services according to the customer preferences. While no major conflicts or breaches of customer data have been experienced in the segment with the clients, any complaints received from clients help the sector to improve the services. SUPPLEMENTARY Adaaran properties introduced all -inclusive holiday packages to their customers as research identified customers prefer to buy all -inclusive holiday INFORMATION packages. The sector pays attention to continuously improve product and service quality and allocate a percentage of the revenue for research and development activities. page 60 | 61 CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR CARGO LOGISTICS Maritime Services Freight Forwarding & Courier Integrated Logistics We are the leading provider of maritime services, INTEGRATED logistics and freight forwarding in Sri Lanka Contribution to Group 2012-13 2011-12 Revenue (Rs. mn) 5,743 5,663 Profit before tax (Rs. mn) 556 839 Total assets (Rs. mn) 5,747 5,169 Total liabilities (Rs. mn) 2,064 1,716 Employees 1,055 1,076 REVENUE 5.7bn PBT 556mn ASSETS 5.7bn EMPLOYEES 1,055 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 62 | 63 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW SECTOR REVIEW: CARGO LOGISTICS Sector profile: Activity & Market Position First Sri Lankan company to venture into port efficiency management outside the country. OVER 3 DECADES of successful partnership with TNT Express, one of the world’s leading courier company. 1873 Commencement of Aitken Spence & Co. in Colombo We have integrated our as the largest shipping agency. operations in air-sea freight forwarding, 1980 Diversified operations into international freight warehousing, distribution, forwarding in Sri Lanka. couriers and transport ... 1981 The Group was appointed as agents for TNT Express, one of the world’s leading courier companies. Sluggish external trade had an impact on the performance of the cargo handling, ports and aviation subsector of the economy which recorded 1985 Commenced container transportation services and a only 5.7% growth in 2012, compared to 7.2% in 2011. Container inland container terminal in Mattakkuliya. throughput volumes in the port of Colombo totalled 4.2 million Twenty 1987/88 Established Ace Container Terminals (Pte) Ltd to Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs), 1.8% lower than the previous year while handle the first free trade zone inland dry port in the the total cargo handled remained flat at 65.1 million metric tons. country. Transshipment volumes were 1.9% lower and domestic container throughput dropped by 2.5% while ship traffic also fell by 4.6% as 2007 The first Sri Lankan Company to venture into ‘Port Sri Lanka’s external trade declined. Sri Lankan imports dropped by Efficiency Management’ outside Sri Lanka. 5.4% to USD 19.2 billion from USD 20.3 billion in 2011, and exports 2009 Acquires ‘Logilink (Pvt) Ltd’ a container freight station dropped by 7.4% to USD 9.8 billion from USD 10.6 billion. operation with specialised solutions for warehousing and garments on hangers. Container volumes from Asia to Europe declined by 5% consequent to the contraction of imports to Europe while the industry dynamics 2011 The Group becomes the largest shareholder of indicated a rationalisation of operations among players and CINEC which is the Sri Lanka’s largest private sector considerable dips in freight rates. Despite world trade remaining maritime & higher education campus. flat, ship capacity increased substantially during the year. The supply thereby largely outweighing demand, resulting in heavy competition and pressure on rates. The sector also faced mounting strain from increasing energy prices and exchange rate fluctuations. In these challenging conditions, the Cargo Logistics sector recorded a revenue of Rs. 5.7 billion which was a 1.4% growth over the previous year; however profit before tax declined by 33.7% to 556.3 million, attributed mainly to the ceasing of some contracts in the sector’s port management activities in the African continent. It is to the credit of the 15% 11% 10% sector that it has successfully managed to offset the negative impacts of the loss of revenue from the African continent through various new REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX CAPITAL EMPLOYED strategies. The sector contributes by 10.7% to the Group’s profits from operations. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Stakeholder Engagement Key areas of interest for stakeholders Customer Media Reasonable price and good service level Direct contact Speed and efficiency of delivery and clearing of goods Contact centres Sales teams Employees Performance appraisals Occupational health and safety Meetings Improve trade union relationships Discussion forums Employee relationship management LEADERSHIP REVIEW Employee benefits Career progression and training Investors Board meetings Profitability Annual General Meetings Brand enhancement Investor meetings Reputation Suppliers Service level agreements Reliable working relationship Direct contact Competitive rates with industry standards Social media Continuous interaction through procurement GROUP PERFORMANCE External stakeholders Media Health and safety Direct contact Emission control from heavy machinery REVIEW Pollution prevention Responsible operations Regulators Media Occupational health and safety Direct contact Compliance with industry standards Financial institutions Direct contact Reliability and reputation Meetings Return on investment GOVERNANCE 2013 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 2012 2011 2011 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn INVESTOR INFORMATION REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Þ LARGEST LOCAL LOGISTICS SOLUTION PROVIDER Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s largest logistics operator with a track record of superior performance and pioneering services WITH logistic operations from container handling, cargo, courier, supply chain management and SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION port management. OUR maritime services segment represents leading shipping lines. page 64 | 65 SECTOR REVIEW: CARGO LOGISTICS Maritime With the investment made in Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (CINEC) last year, Aitken Spence became the The maritime segment is involved in a multitude of business single largest shareholder of the world class maritime education and activities including, the provision of port management and efficiency training facility catering to around 14,000 students per year. CINEC improvement services, representing global container shipping lines, contributed 31.7 % to the profit before tax of the maritime segment. providing agency services to vessels calling at ports in Sri Lanka, The partnership with CINEC allows us to exploit the tremendous freight forwarding and providing maritime and management education. demand for skilled human resources as Sri Lanka positions itself as a major regional hub for maritime services. With some of our port management contracts coming to an end in the African continent, the overall performance of the segment reflected a On the African continent, we are seeking a shift towards investment decline in profits. The extent of the African operation’s impact on the driven operations. Towards this end, we will forge prospective maritime segment’s performance is evident in the results of the sector, partnerships with players in the supply chain management industry while the segment’s revenue decreased by 26.5% and profit before with a view to entering joint ventures that can add value and increase tax declined by 60.6%, the segment’s revenue from activities other synergies. The African continent is a fertile market for players offering than the African operations recorded a 25.0% growth while net profit productivity and efficiency enhancement solutions with the greater before tax from these activities increased by 15.9%. African economy also speeding towards development and offering much promise to our operations there. Our experience in the region The liner and freight forwarding business areas were able to retain has grown from an initial strategy of training and development to customers and generate increased volumes which were reflected in a mentoring and then to efficiency management. As in the past, we will revenue growth of 12.3%. The segment reported a marginal decline in evolve as the opportunities arise. profits due to exchange rate adjustments and increased competition, which manifested in the form of rampant price undercutting in the We took a significant step in expanding our global horizons by entering industry, resulting in lower margins. in to a fifteen year concession agreement with Fiji Ports Corporation Ltd, a company owned by the government of Fiji, to manage the cargo Declines were also reported in inward, outward and transshipment handling operations at the ports of Suva and Lautoka. This strategic volumes. This was largely due to the drop in market rates far below venture is a Public Private partnership where Aitken Spence PLC., the levels that our principal’s were willing to offer. In the liner business, will be the major shareholder in Ports Terminal Ltd., the concession we are restricted by the strategies of the shipping principal that we holder. Ports of Suva and Lautoka are the main international ports represent and our performance depends largely on the principal’s catering to the needs of Fiji and are vital nerve centres of the islanddecision on freight rates, service calls, transshipment routing etc. We nation’s economy. We will be making use of our extensive international make every effort to add value to the partnership with our principals by experience in port efficiency and productivity management practices monitoring trends and adjusting local strategies accordingly. to ensure Suva and Lautoka become world class ports in the South The face of the global shipping industry is changing and it is critical Pacific. that we prepare for the impacts of this change. Among the recent We will soon enter into a strategic partnership in Bangladesh to developments, consolidation between major operators has resulted operate and manage the agency for a leading global container line. in four large alliances exerting control over 80% of the worldwide capacity while larger vessels with greater capacity have commenced The overarching goals of the maritime segment include the operations servicing a limited number of ports of call. Such management of current volumes and customer bases in the short term developments on a global scale require us to ensure that our business and in the medium term, seeking new business opportunities in the strategies are sufficiently dynamic in order to reap consistent benefits. maritime sector in Sri Lanka. In the long-term we will be focussing our efforts on new business ventures overseas. As such the segment is We also note with concern that container ports in India have been actively pursuing opportunities outside Sri Lanka for investment in port facing a capacity crunch leading to slow growth in transshipment management, liner shipping and inland container terminals. Among the cargo which could have an adverse impact on Sri Lanka’s maritime opportunities we plan to pursue in the short term are provisioning large industry. Hence appropriate diversification strategies must be adopted logistics support for potential oil exploration projects and offshore by the industry to ensure that the country remains a competitive marine services. location. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW The partnership with CINEC allows us to exploit LEADERSHIP REVIEW the tremendous demand for skilled human resources as Sri Lanka positions itself as a major regional hub for maritime services. INPUTS VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT Þ Our expertise Þ Talent enhancement Þ Customer satisfaction & loyalty GROUP PERFORMANCE Þ Our brand behaviour & values Þ Service provision Þ Skilled & motivated employees Þ Specialised equipment & fleet Þ Strategic management Þ Market intrinsic knowledge Þ Partner brands & networks Þ Expansion & improvement of Þ Positive economic value REVIEW Þ Logistics management systems & infrastructure Þ Innovative integrated logistics solutions technology Þ Cultivating partnerships & networks Þ Financial resources Þ Effective supply chain management Þ Quality assurance Þ Optimising utilisation of logistics solutions Þ Group synergies GOVERNANCE Strengths: Integrated Logistics • Management expertise and the ability of retaining trained The integrated logistics segment which encompasses the land-based employees logistics operations of the Group reported encouraging performance, • The reputation that we have in the market which is assisting as we benefitted from the demand for integrated products and us to retain existing customers and secure new customers. services, thereby surmounting many negative factors affecting the • Ability to offer services to all destinations as well as offering business. Container related activities reflected a decline on the back FINANCIAL STATEMENTS value added services to customers of the weakening external trade but these setbacks were overcome through strong performance in warehousing, container freight station Opportunities: operations and bulk liquid transportation. • The G6 alliance will be offering six coordinated services to the East coast of USA. Continuous capital investments were made during the year to improve • The development of the Colombo south container terminal efficiency levels, especially in relation to depots, container freight and Magam Ruhunupura Mahinda Rajapaksa Port. stations (CFS), transport and special operation activities. The segment • Opportunities for managing maritime related activities in saw strong potential in logistics solutions for project cargo handling INVESTOR INFORMATION overseas markets. and increasing demands for warehousing services during the first half of the year. Challenges: • Slow down on global trade and the Euro economic crisis. The CFS operations performed exceptionally well, with Logilink, • Consolidation between major shipping lines. our specialised CFS solution for the garment sector, enjoying • Increase in the supply of global container carrier capacity 100% utilisation. This BOI company is patronised by major supply vis-a-vis the demand. international brands and is a model that we may expand in future. The segment now offers the largest fleet of reefer containers and cold storage solutions in the company; and has a strong presence SUPPLEMENTARY at the Bandaranaike International Airport while also being offered an opportunity to establish a presence at the Mattala Rajapaksa INFORMATION International Airport and Magam Ruhunupura Mahinda Rajapaksa Port in Hambantota. page 66 | 67 SECTOR REVIEW: CARGO LOGISTICS “Our overseas operations in Bangladesh and the Maldives had noteworthy growth. We are expanding our portfolio of offerings in overseas markets by adding more products to the mix; this is in pursuit of regional expansion as a strategy for future growth.” The future for the segment lies in providing one-stop innovative • Diversity of the operation as we provide the entire spectrum logistics products using the synergies within cargo and maritime of logistics activities. activities. Towards this end, we are already developing suitable • Experienced and skilled staff. products in partnership with Group companies and suppliers, and evaluating state of the art equipment, which can provide a distinct Opportunities: competitive advantage. We anticipate the segment’s profits to be • Infrastructure development in the country would create challenged from a dip in rates as a reaction to the downturn in the opportunities for logistic solutions in project cargo handling. industry and increased competition. The segment however is poised to • Business opportunities with the south container terminal benefit by capturing opportunities from the continuing post-war boom of the port of Colombo, Magam Ruhunupura Mahinda in infrastructure projects as well as the country’s critical requirement Rajapaksa Port and the Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport. for energy projects. • Overseas expansion in integrated logistics. The proposed development of the container yard in Mabole is nearing completion and is slated to become the best and largest container Challenges: depot facility in the country. • Continuing slow down in the global economy. • Capacity increases in the industry. The IT infrastructure of the sector was enhanced during the year • Contraction of imports to Europe as a result of the prolonged with the implementation of the Oracle warehouse management recession system, which brings in greater efficiencies and better monitoring abilities. Furthermore, the implementation of a revamped transport Freight Forwarding and Courier management system and container tracking system is in progress. We are also testing a GPS fleet tracking system ahead of its The freight forwarding and courier segment performed exceptionally implementation. Tangible results from these implementations should well in 2012/13, with strong growth recorded from its air freight, come online during the next financial year. courier and the overseas operations. The revenue and profit before tax of the freight forwarding and express segment grew by 38.4% and In the medium to long term, we have also targeted overseas 55.8% respectively compared to the previous year. investments such as an internal container depot in Cape Town and the establishment of a fully-fledged maritime campus in South Africa. The division recorded strong performances in the freight segment, despite the drop in overall imports. In a competitive sphere that Strengths: consists of over 300 players, it was an impressive achievement to achieve higher than targeted performance. The brokerage division was • One of the largest private sector owned Logistics Infrastructure facilities in the country negatively affected, while the project cargo handling division also failed to achieve projected results as some anticipated businesses did not materialise and also due to the escalation in transport costs, which Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW could not be passed on in full to the customer. The Qatar Airways The greatest challenge for companies such as ours is the Cargo GSA operation which was operational for the full financial year is mushrooming of unregulated suppliers whose model is not viable showing promising growth. for larger, structured players. However we are pursuing opportunities of backward integration in order to sustain the business through While we were under pressure from the low growth in European strategies for volume growth. In the short term, we will be impacted by markets which were originally expected to do well, our pricing the escalation in fuel and energy prices which cannot immediately be strategies, increased bargaining power and better marketing efforts passed on to the customer. drove positive results. We also strategically set forth to protect our key LEADERSHIP REVIEW accounts especially during peak periods by bearing additional airline A positive development in this scenario is that our comprehensive costs ourselves. integrated supply chain solutions are complemented by our compliance with human rights, labour laws and health and safety. Our overseas operations in Bangladesh and the Maldives had These compliance levels allow us to offer multinational clientele the noteworthy growth, despite Bangladesh experiencing a dip in guarantee of a compliant and responsible business partner. freight operations. An encouraging contribution was reported from the Maldives which boosted the overall overseas business. We are Strengths: expanding our portfolio of offerings in overseas markets by adding • Ability to provide total logistics solutions. GROUP PERFORMANCE more products to the mix; this is in pursuit of regional expansion as a strategy for future growth. Our operations in Pakistan are also turning • Sustained Cargo Sector EMS ISO 14001:2004 Certification. First Freight Forwarder in Sri Lanka to achieve this the corner and are expected to achieve growth in profitability in the REVIEW certification in 2011. A requirement by key strategic near future. customers. The international express division representing TNT, witnessed an 8% • Risk distribution due to regional presence. growth in volumes, in a stagnant industry which reported a 4% drop. Opportunities: In particular, the division benefitted from the favourable cross currency • Intra-Asia container volume growth expected mainly due to exchange rate between the Euro and the US dollar. A key development growth in China and India. GOVERNANCE during the year was the abandonment of merger plans between TNT Express and UPS (United Parcel Service). Aitken Spence has been the • Despite negative growth of garment industry possible shift of orders from Bangladesh in the short / medium term due to local partner of TNT for well over three decades and we look forward to the prevailing political climate in Bangladesh. strengthening this partnership in the years to come. • Regular inflow of transshipments from Bangladesh, Maldives We welcome a move by the authorities to introduce electronic data & certain Asia Pacific origins to keep cargo volumes up exchanges to monitor local movements of cargo by connecting the through Colombo gateway. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS entire documentation chain from the Sri Lanka Ports Authority to Challenges: Customs. The exchanges are now in their implementation phase and • Global Economy to remain sluggish through weaker demand once fully online, will have long term positive effects. The success from developed countries of the system may have its downside though, as it could lead to the redundancy of the role of clearing agents. • Increased airline capacity and over capacity in container ships will put pressure on freight rates. The sector is closely following developments in Mattala, where • Increasing in energy and fuel cost. the second international airport is beginning to expand operations by welcoming more airlines. Our strengths in catering to the new Management Approach for Social and INVESTOR INFORMATION economy of Hambantota will be in the form of support services and Environmental Sustainability warehousing for both sea and air transport. During the year, we In order to manage its social and environmental impacts, the cargo established our presence in Hambantota by opening an office at the logistics sector has adopted the integrated sustainability policy and heart of this fast growing district. its implementation framework in addition to the existing management The freight forwarding industry continues to face difficulty in attracting systems, procedures and general practices. The Aitken Spence Cargo quality employees; while making every effort to train and promote from segment has maintained the ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems within. The segment has felt the crunch of key resources opting for Certification since 1997; Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd was one of opportunities overseas. In order to improve the readiness of the current the first cargo airline GSA’s to obtain this certification in 2008. In the cadre, we also undertake strategic training in partnership with the year 2011, Aitken Spence Cargo (which includes Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd, SUPPLEMENTARY CINEC maritime campus to develop their knowledge and capacity to Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd.) provide customers with a total solution in logistics. became the first major freight forwarder in Sri Lanka to obtain the INFORMATION page 68 | 69 SECTOR REVIEW: CARGO LOGISTICS “The sector prioritises investing in its people and during the year specialised training programmes received increased focus. A human resources programme was also initiated to enhance two way communication, facilitated by human resources co-ordinators appointed to each segment. ” ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management system surveyors with a reputed container surveyor, reefer container (EMS). Aitken Spence Logistics also has in place a safety policy and is technician and inspector. Familiarisation visits were also organised in the process of documenting their EMS while maintaining required for customers as well as academic institutions such as the CINEC system procedures for the EMS. Aitken Spence Shipping has also Maritime Campus while educational programmes were conducted for been maintaining the ISO 9001 certification since 1996. The sector specific freight forwarding communities as well. has implemented the procedures required for an EMS aligned to the ISO 14001 standard, and is in the process of documenting their EMSs The sector prioritises investing in its people and during the year which include seven separate systems. specialised training programmes received increased focus. A human resources programme was also initiated to enhance two way Aitken Spence Cargo has been an exceptionally active member of the communication, facilitated by human resources coordinators appointed Group’s sustainability team. to each segment. The sector has been faced with a shortage of skilled labour and our response to this trend has been to offer our existing Stakeholder Management workers improved compensation and facilities; we will also evaluate The cargo logistics industry in Sri Lanka has not yet evolved to a stage the option of outsourcing key tasks should the need arise. where suppliers can be screened on the grounds of environmental or social concerns. While there is no formal written policy for the selection Occupational Health & Safety of suppliers, the companies in the sector however opt for suppliers that In a labour intensive business such as ours, health and safety offer environment friendly services and/or products where feasible, conditions must be constantly monitored and potential threats while the procurement of material is handled locally as much as mitigated accordingly. We ensure our employees use modern safety possible, resorting to imports only where the required items are not equipment while health and safety audits are conducted regularly. available locally. Workers also receive training on safe practices in a bid to continuously improve their working conditions and ensure workplace safety. The key stakeholders are kept informed about the organisation’s commitments. For example, senior management communicates with Community Engagement our international agents and principals about the recognition achieved by the company for efforts in sustainability, thereby demonstrating Employee volunteerism is encouraged at organisational level; some of actions, awareness and commitment to environmental sustainability. the year’s events included the annual blood donation drive of Aitken Spence PLC; a career guidance seminar and donation of seven The logistics segment also conducted several capacity building computers for the use of the Dedunupitiya MV school in Mawanella; programmes to strengthen industrial relations with several stakeholder and the donation of another ten computers to a school in the vicinity groups; these included training programmes conducted for container of our packing warehouse. In keeping with the spirit of supporting Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW We ensure our employees use modern safety equipment while health and safety audits are conducted regularly. Workers LEADERSHIP REVIEW also receive training on safe practices in a bid to continuously improve their working conditions and ensure workplace safety. youth education, Aitken Spence Shipping also provided internship and disclose more detailed information about energy savings and carbon training opportunities to maritime and logistics sector students. Aitken emissions in the future. GROUP PERFORMANCE Spence Logistics also provided funds to the Hendala Temple and schools in the vicinity in the form of sponsorships to encourage their The sector is keen to increase awareness of its sustainability efforts academic activities. and engages with key stakeholders as often as possible. Aitken REVIEW Spence Cargo organised an awareness programme for senior The sector has a documented procedure to review and evaluate management and staff covering the integrated sustainability policy, UN sustainability activities against the expected outcomes. Such evaluation Millennium Development Goals and the UN Global Compact and other is carried out by senior management team members, including the sustainability efforts. More capacity building programmes have been Managing Director. In the recent management review, it was found that conducted for staff members on environmental management system projects carried out thus far have met the expected outcomes and the related activities as well as fire safety, occupational health and safety intended benefits. and quality management system related activities. The sector also GOVERNANCE took measures to create awareness among business partners and the Environment Management general public by sending bilingual communication material regarding Total carbon emissions for the sector were calculated at 5,700.8 Corporate Sustainability, UNGC, and Aitken Spence Integrated tonnes carbon dioxide. There is a limitation to this number as Aitken Sustainability Policy to key service providers. Spence Logistics has maintained records for their significant direct The sector is in full compliance with all regulatory requirements and energy consumption but has insufficient data calculated on indirect has obtained all necessary permits and licenses for its operations. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS energy consumption. Increased operations in the sector meant that As such there have been no significant fines and/or non monetary there was a negative cumulative energy saving during the year. sanctions on environmental or other grounds. Efforts to save energy and reduce carbon emissions within the sector The sector also applies the 7R principle where possible. Aitken include increasing awareness among staff members on the ‘Switch Spence Logistics uses low strength detergents to clean containers Off’ policy, use of daylight wherever possible, rewiring of electrical and take effort to store solid waste of hazardous nature securely until equipment and lighting to make switch arrangements more effective, proper disposal is carried out. Aitken Spence Cargo recycles packing replacing tungsten lights and restricted usage of the boiler and water materials such as bubble wrap, demi paper, cartons, plywood sheets INVESTOR INFORMATION dispensers. and wood wool/ paper, thus saving on the purchase of new material. Aitken Spence Logistics has introduced manual trolleys to reduce In addition the division uses shredded waste paper as packing material the use of electrical forklifts inside the warehouse, while it has also in the warehouses to reduce paper usage. opted for battery operated forklifts in place of those that consume diesel. The company has also increased energy efficiency by opting Product Responsibility for turbine ventilation instead of exhaust fans in the warehouses. Aitken Spence Cargo and Aitken Spence Shipping which operate The Logistics sector also took action to reduce machine idling time, under ISO 9001 quality management systems, have in place specific and has minimised night-time container handling operations to save procedures and processes to continually improve customer service. SUPPLEMENTARY energy and reduce noise pollution. Furthermore, as our contribution The periodic re-certification audits conducted by independent third towards minimising the environmental impact of our operations, we parties assure that the quality management systems meet international INFORMATION have invested in state of the art machinery that complies with stringent standards at both Aitken Spence Cargo and Aitken Spence Shipping. ‘Euro 3’ emission standards. Aitken Spence Logistics is putting in place systems to obtain better energy management data, and hope to page 70 | 71 SECTOR REVIEW: CARGO LOGISTICS Þ A VERY PROFITABLE SECTOR As part of our Total LOGISTICS Solution, we provide Air Freight, Sea Freight, Brokerage, MARITIME and Supply Chain solutions, operating through a worldwide network of agents. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION As part of its continuous improvement of products and services, the Air Freight division of Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd has supported the initiative of one of its key partners to introduce prototype “Garments on Hangers” loading devices which could be used as a substitute for normal aluminium fabrications. The sector is constantly seeking such new products and mechanisms which demonstrate our commitment to greener logistic solutions. As the industry shifts towards greener operations, the sector is ready to take on a leadership role in driving sustainability. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 72 | 73 STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Power Generation Printing & Packaging Garment Manufacture Plantations THE diversified interests IN THESE COMPLEX SECTORS DELIVER HIGH EMPLOYMENT, vigorous activity and INCREASINGLY GOOD returns. Contribution to Group 2012-13 2011-12 Revenue (Rs. mn) 17,908 14,581 Profit before tax (Rs. mn) 838 1,562 Total assets (Rs. mn) 22,890 21,519 Total liabilities (Rs. mn) 12,605 11,967 Employees 1,913 1,363 REVENUE 18bn PBT 838mn ASSETS 23bn EMPLOYEES 1,913 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 74 | 75 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW SECTOR REVIEW: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS The strategic investments sector of the Group comprises of the Sector profile: following business activities – power generation, printing and Activity & Market Position packaging, manufacture of garments and the plantation segment. The revenue of the sector increased to Rs 17.9 billion which is a growth of 22.8% and the profit from operations grew by 12.5% to First LEED Gold certified environmental friendly green printing facility in the Region. Rs. 1.3 billion excluding the capital gain recorded on the sale of the shareholding in Colombo south container terminal the previous year. The strategic investment sector contributed 46.8%to the revenue of Sri Lanka’s first power generation company to obtain ISO 14001,OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 for all three thermal the Group and 16.7% to the profit before tax of the Group. power plants in Sri Lanka. Power Generation 1955 Started ‘Aitken Spence Printing division’ which The revenue of the segment grew by 24.9% due to the Embilipitiya provides printing & packaging services to the local markets. power plant recording 66.4% growth in revenue over the previous year. However, the segment had a lacklustre year of performance 1977 Established ‘Aitken Spence Garments’ even before with profit before tax declining by 16.4% due to the conclusion of the birth of an open economy; with the aim of the power purchase agreements of the two power plants in Horana manufacturing & exporting garments to apparel and Matara. The ten-year power purchase agreements of Matara and importers in the USA & EU. Horana concluded in April 2012 and December 2012 respectively. We 1985 Aitken Spence Printing (Pvt) Ltd was incorporated to are presently in negotiations with the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) on provide printing and packaging services which was the renewal of the two power purchase agreements and are cautiously initially successfully operated as a division of Aitken optimistic about reaching a mutually beneficial conclusion in the near Spence & Co. future. 1997 Aitken Spence plantation’s purchased a majority stake in ‘Elpitiya Plantations (EPP)’ which owns 15 tea & The Embilipitiya power plant recorded a profit before tax growth of over rubber estates. 200% in comparison with the previous financial year, during which the plant was not functioning for a period of four months. 2002 The first 20 MW thermal power plant of the Group commences commercial operations in Matara. The segment had made a strategic decision to explore opportunities 2003 The second 20 MW thermal power plant commences for expansion in thermal power generation overseas due to there being commercial operations in Horana. only limited prospects available in Sri Lanka. We have encountered certain difficulties in the proposed expansion plans in Bangladesh 2004 Entered into a joint venture to build & operate a 100 MW power plant in Embilipitiya. as a result of the complexities involved in securing land for the commencement of the projects. However we are optimistic that these 2008 Elpitiya Plantations’ installed & commissioned a mini problems will be resolved in the near term in order to bring the power hydropower plant at its Sheen estate in Nuwara Eliya. projects to fruition. 2012 Aitken Spence Printing re-locates to a state of the art printing facility which is the first LEED certified The segment is also pursuing opportunities in renewable resources printing facility in Sri Lanka. such as biomass, solar and wind energy; such renewable resources are economically important and viable for countries such as ours that are overdependent on high-cost thermal power. As the first step in the strategic shift to renewable energy, we commenced commercial operations of our wind power generation plant situated at Ambewela during the financial year. This plant is 47% 17% 35% yet to go through a full season of wind as it commenced operation during the off season. Commercial operations also commenced at the Branford hydropower plant located at Matale, which unfortunately REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX CAPITAL EMPLOYED Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Stakeholder Engagement Key areas of interest for stakeholders Investors Board meetings Ethical conduct Annual General Meetings Environmental and social governance Investor meetings Profitability and Value addition Customer Media Quality assurance and support services Direct contact Customer satisfaction Contact centres Product safety Sales teams Innovative product and service offering LEADERSHIP REVIEW Employees Performance appraisals Job satisfaction Meetings Occupational health and safety Discussion forums Career progression Work life balance Suppliers Service level agreements Ethical business conduct Direct contact Profitability Social media Reliable after sales service Continuous interaction through procurement Sustainable working relationships GROUP PERFORMANCE Community development Media Infrastructure development Direct contact Employment opportunities Entrepreneurship development REVIEW Ethical conduct Environmental Interest Groups Media Pollution prevention Direct contact Ecosystem service conservation Forums and industry events Championing environmental protection Setting standards Government and Regulators Media Compliance with national level regulations and industry standards Direct contact Occupational health and safety GOVERNANCE Regular liaison with various government departments Economic development Financial institutions Direct contact Reliability and reputation Meetings Return on investment 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 2012 2012 2011 2011 INVESTOR INFORMATION 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Rs. Mn Rs. Mn REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March for the year ended 31st March Þ BEST PERFORMING SECTOR The STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS sector is GROWING AT A VERY RAPID PACE, covering a wide and diverse range of products and services. As the sector continues SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION to grow globally, so do the openings for companies LIKE THE AITKEN SPENCE GROUP, WHO ALREADY HAVE A FIRM FOOTHOLD IN THE INDUSTRY WITH A STRONG PORTFOLIO OF WORLD CLASS SERVICES. page 76 | 77 SECTOR REVIEW: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS faced flood damage during the latter part of 2012 and was closed for Our customer base has also become more diversified, with the repairs shortly thereafter. Although both plants have not contributed at revenue split between local and export orders becoming healthier. We expected levels during the financial year, we are optimistic that they will continue to strategically expand our overseas markets through will reach full potential in the financial year 2013/14. targeted marketing efforts. We firmly believe that renewable energy power plants will have The high interest rate regime is a concern for the segment which has immense potential for the future and would continue to seek new extensive borrowings; the heavy competition in the segment does not opportunities to expand in this direction. We are confident that our allow us to pass on such interest costs to customers. The depreciation investments in such plants would be supported by the relevant of the rupee also influences our raw material imports as 90% of the authorities and the CEB as it would ease the burden on the state in material we utilise are imported. The company also bears the majority meeting the future demand for electricity in the country. of cost increases resulting from the weakening of the rupee in order to remain competitive. On the positive side, the segment has benefitted Strengths: from the Government’s introduction of the SVAT tax policy under which • Domain expertise as the leading Independent Power VAT payments are deferred, as well as the TIEP (Temporary Import for Producer Export Purposes) scheme under which we export. • Capacity for investment and procuring external financing The focus going forward is on lean manufacturing and we have • Long standing relationships with world renowned EPC already commenced a study of our work cycle with the assistance contractors of a specialist, with a view to making process improvements. The Opportunities: introduction of a new state of the art six-colour printing machine • Investment opportunities in the region is slated to increase the number of impressions by a significant percentage in the coming year. The sector has also adopted an • Growing demand for alternative energy industry-specific Enterprise Resource Planning System during the year, Challenges: which will streamline vendor management to offer greater benefit to • Shift in Government policy towards Independent Power partners. Producers and off-take agreements As a heavily automated industry, printing is under pressure from rising • Renewal of licenses for two plants still under negotiation energy and fuel costs; despite the external pressures, we are poised • Impact of climate change on Hydro and Wind power to garner the benefits of increased capacity and output due to the efficiencies introduced by the new press and post-press machinery installed in 2012/13; while capitalising on our strengths shorter lead Printing & Packaging times, strong service ethic and the state of the art eco-friendly factory. The printing segment recorded an eventful year – with operations The new factory premises have a range of green features including being moved to a new LEED Gold certified green facility in rainwater harvesting, recycling of waste water, natural lighting and Mawaramandiya. With customers increasingly demanding energy efficient air conditioning; the LEEDS Gold certification obtained environmentally friendly printing, the carbon neutral green plant allows by the building is an international endorsement of its leadership in us to market ourselves internationally as the first in the region to energy and environmental design. achieve this status. The financial performance of the segment was impacted by internal Strengths: and external factors; the segment was not able to harness the full • Sri Lanka’s only green printing facility benefit of the year on year revenue growth of 19.5% to its profits • High capacity and efficiency due to modern technology. due to the increase in interest costs as a result of the debt funding • Management expertise obtained for its relocation. The packaging operation, which is a key supplier to the tea industry, was affected by the mixed fortunes of Opportunities: tea in the global market but we are happy to note that tea packaging • Projected economic growth in the country volumes were beginning to recover towards the latter part of the year. • Diversification into new printing products Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW We firmly believe that renewable energy power plants will have immense potential for the future and would continue LEADERSHIP REVIEW to seek new opportunities to expand in this direction. INPUTS VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT Þ Our brand behaviour and values Þ Talent enhancement Þ Customer satisfaction and loyalty Þ Our expertise Þ High service standards Þ Skilled and motivated employees GROUP PERFORMANCE Þ Partnerships and networks Þ Strategic management Þ Positive economic value Þ Infrastructure and specialised assets Þ Effective supply chain management Þ Community development Þ Technology Þ Quality assurance Þ Innovative products and services REVIEW Þ Information system Þ Health and safety standards Þ Responsible production Þ Financial resources Þ Setting industry standards Þ Innovation • Global trend shifting towards carbon-neutral, green printing A key factor driving the performance of the segment has been the options excellent relations maintained with employees and unions. In the GOVERNANCE coming year, the segment will give priority to maintaining positive Challenges: dialogue with employees and will enhance the technical and personal • Growing operational costs, especially energy and fuel development training made available to them. The production facility • High interest rates situated in a rural area has enabled us to recruit from in-and-around • Heightened competition from the region the locality. We have further entrenched ourselves with the local community by extending our assistance to public welfare projects in Garments the area, thereby empowering the rural economy. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The segment had an exceptional year with revenue growth of 17.5% The segment is faced with burgeoning fuel and energy costs, which and profit before tax growth of 12.3%, while the equivalent standard will have a direct impact on utility and transportation costs. Where hours have increased by 20% compared to the previous year. The ever possible, we are taking the initiative to reduce electricity usage company had a full order book throughout the year and enjoyed through adopting greener methods such as the installation of prismatic preferred vendor status with major customers. The devaluation of the skylights while continuous improvements will be made to the current rupee also created marginal benefits although foreign exchange cross production methods through work study and method study exercises. rate volatility during the latter part of the year had a negative impact on Despite such increased costs, we anticipate short-term business the segments’ results. INVESTOR INFORMATION growth mainly via productivity enhancements and modernisation. US customers showed greater interest during the year, while those in the United Kingdom and European Union continue to be affected Strengths: by dismal economic conditions. Customers are minimising sourcing • Preferred vendor status with key customers complexities by reducing their vendor bases. Therefore securing a • Specialisation in manufacturing garments for a niche market preferred vendor status is critical to maintaining a pipeline of orders. of the customer base. • Higher efficiency and productivity following factory The company began modernising the factory during the year, modernisation introducing earth-friendly concepts wherever possible. In the short SUPPLEMENTARY term, the segment will continue to improve its environmental impact by Opportunities: upgrading and developing the machinery to achieve greater efficiency. • Customers placing higher value on socially responsible and The segment incurred a capital expenditure of Rs. 94 million for the compliant vendors. INFORMATION year, the major portion of it being for upgrading of machinery in order • Infrastructure development and the creation of an investorto improve efficiency. friendly environment. page 78 | 79 SECTOR REVIEW: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS “In a positive development that holds much potential for the future, Elpitiya Plantations entered into a 50-50 joint venture with a Chinese partner during the year, to produce specialty tea targeting the Chinese market. This BOI approved venture is likely to bring substantial benefits in the future.” • Concentration by stakeholders on emerging markets a dip in global prices, increased competition from countries such as Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, and a decrease in demand due to Challenges: the global economic downturn affecting the automobile market. • Increased cost of production due to rising energy, fuel and labour costs In a positive development that holds much potential for the future, • Global economic slowdown Elpitiya Plantations entered into a 50-50 joint venture with a Chinese • Shortage of skilled and unskilled labour partner during the year, to produce speciality tea targeting the Chinese market. This BOI approved venture is likely to bring substantial benefits in the future. Plantations Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, our rubberwood furniture factory, has Elpitiya Plantations PLC (EP) has recorded its best performance in 15 failed to deliver the expected results mainly due to the global economic years posting an over 150% increase in profit before tax, mainly as a downturn. The company is considering alternative options available to result of the strong performances in the palm oil and tea segments. it such as timber, eco-tourism and hydropower, and speciality tea and Revenue increases were due to the contribution from higher tea rubber products for niche markets. prices, which grew by 23% and palm oil prices, which grew by 22%. The plantation segment has been delivering strongly on its Several factors contributed to the growth of the segment such as the sustainability strategy. While pursuing environmental sustainability, it depreciation of the rupee against the USD, increased demand from has also focused on improving the quality dimension of its products Russia, Iran, Libya and Turkey for tea, low crops in Kenya and North and therefore have obtained ISO 22000 certification for food safety India due to adverse weather conditions also pushed prices. Increase during the year. in local taxes on imported oil palm increased the domestic demand for the product. Carrying out sustainable agricultural practices and The impact of global warming is a looming threat to the plantation stringent cost control methods enabled the company to record a profit industry. Already, weather patterns have been adversely affected by from the tea segment. New Peacock estate in particular achieved a this phenomenon while increasing the threat created by pests and record tea yield for the year, resulting in an all time high profitability. diseases. Such events affect productivity in all forms of agriculture and The company has continuously invested in manpower training and impacts planting cycles. To address these environmental concerns, such training for estate workers has been one of the main contributory the estates have developed various systems to curtail wastage and factors towards the improved productivity and product quality. conserve rainwater, with the planting of shade trees and producing our own organic fertiliser to supplement artificial fertiliser. Palm oil continues to be a profit driver at field level and the cost of production of a kilogram of oil palm was well controlled while the The increasing cost of energy is another major factor that will affect profit margin increased by 38% due to its less labour intensive nature. every industry as alternative energy sources are limited and costly. Profits from rubber however have been far below expectation due to Most of our factories are geared to control energy use through energy Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW management systems that include the effective use of hydropower Þ Completed level 1 and level 2 certification towards ISO whenever available and the daily monitoring of the unit cost of energy. 14001:2004 for our estates During the past few years we have been able to harness the Þ Environmental awareness programmes conducted for estate hydropower potential of our estates and now have several renewable management staff and labour force energy projects in the pipeline. Dunsinane Cottage Mini hydropower Þ Secondary containment tanks and sediment tanks at Deviturai project, with a capacity of 900kW, is under construction and will be rubber factory to minimise waste]water effluents commissioned in June 2013, while two other projects, Upper Sheen Þ Solid waste segregation tank and waste water containment LEADERSHIP REVIEW mini hydropower with a capacity of 400 kW and Upper Dunsinane mini tank at Talgaswella Tea factory. hydro project designed with a capacity of 600 kW are in the planning Þ Distributed over 1000 biodegradable bags amongst estate stage and are slated for completion in 2013/14. employees for day to day use. Þ Tungsten bulbs replaced with CFL bulbs to reduce energy The plantations segment’s fortunes are linked to many external consumption variables that affect its stability. In 2013/14, all regional plantation Þ The use of fibre reinforced plastic lightweight withering fans companies will be faced with a new wage increase which will replacing the aluminium fans to save energy. substantially increase the cost of production. It is important that the The controlled use of trough withering fans during peak hours GROUP PERFORMANCE Þ industry negotiates a productivity-linked wage that is affordable so that it does not erode the competitiveness of Ceylon Tea. A more Þ Estate workers discouraged from bringing polythene into the stable collective bargaining mechanism must also be developed for fields REVIEW plantations to make them more sustainable. In this environment, we Þ Ensured upto 90% polythene-free operations urge the government to play a facilitating role by not imposing any Þ Compost bins placed on estates to prepare organic fertilizer legislation or taxes that will reduce the competitiveness of plantation producers. The future of the plantations industry appears very encouraging at this Management approach for environmental GOVERNANCE stage as demand for Ceylon Tea and palm oil is growing significantly. and social sustainability Sluggish rubber prices however are likely to continue for the short term The integrated sustainability strategy of the Group is implemented with declining demand from China, India and Europe. There is a new across the Strategic Investments sector. The management approach area of opportunity for the plantation sector to optimise their land base ensures that social and environmental sustainability can be by engaging in fruit and vegetable cultivation. However, the segment’s recapitulated through the different management systems, procedures future hinges upon the adoption of effective strategies to manage and general practices of the sector. spiralling costs and increase productivity, as well as garnering the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS understanding and the support of the Government and trade unions. The sector adheres to all specific rules and regulations and maintains the stipulated standards in the industries they operate in. Steps are Strengths: taken to manage the operations above the standard requirements. • Widely spread lands and crops in all three geographical elevations in the country All companies in the sector have environmental management • Well trained labour force, staff and executives with a good systems in place. Occupational health and safety hazard identification mix of both experienced and young energetic personnel inspections are carried out by the appointed OHS teams and • Diversification into successful forward integration projects 6S practices introduced within the Group are implemented and INVESTOR INFORMATION maintained across the board. Opportunities: Aitken Spence Power became Sri Lanka’s first power generation • Exploit the natural resources which have not yet been tapped company to obtain ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 for all • Plant larger extents of timber and fuelwood for future power plants in operation, thereby setting an example to the Group by • Expand the manufacture of speciality teas catering to the leading in safety procedures and environmental conservation practices international markets in traditionally polluting industries. Challenges: • Growing cost of production due to an uncontrollable labour Management Systems and Standards wage increase which is not correlated to productivity The Garments segment also has many systems and procedures in SUPPLEMENTARY • Vulnerability to adverse climate changes place to meet the requirements of the industry. The company has • The younger generation is moving away from the industry adhered to the rigid compliance requirements of the prestigious clients INFORMATION that it is serving and has maintained the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) certification since 2009. Accordingly page 80 | 81 SECTOR REVIEW: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS the company has many procedures in place to ensure social and of production. Through all these optimisation initiatives the segment environmental sustainability of their operations. The Environmental was able to reduce their annual energy cost by over 25%. Management System (EMS) is currently being documented and the company has appointed teams to manage and maintain necessary Each of the estates in the plantations segment has an environmental roles and responsibilities. management team. The segment engages in the production of renewable energy through mini hydropower projects, which won the The Matugama garment factory has an OHS team, 6S team, and category award for “Green Hydropower of RPC Sector” at the National an EMS team. The teams jointly discuss and institute the necessary Plantation Awards 2012 in recognition of outstanding performance by actions to maintain the systems. The Garments segment maintains industry stakeholders. Total production of hydro energy during the year documented policies which are rigidly complied with including those amounted to 31,596.46 GJ. To manage the wastewater generated, related to the environment, anti-discrimination, child labour, equal Deviturai rubber factory constructed a wastewater treatment plant, opportunities, health and safety, and recruitment to ensure social and and wastewater samples are tested routinely. The segment continues environmental sustainability and a metal-free policy and a needle to take meaningful decisions to preserve the environment and is policy help maintain the quality of products. In addition, the segment preparing the appropriate infrastructure at every estate to measure the also has laid down strict disciplinary procedures, emergency medical volume of wastewater in future. procedures and quality procedures which are meticulously followed. Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging took a bold step towards shifting The Plantations segment strives to implement food safety its operations to a more eco-friendly facility which is a LEED Gold management systems according to the ISO 22000/HACCP standard certified building structure of which the carbon emissions have been requirements and environmental management systems according to calculated and offset. The company hopes to continually improve their the ISO 14001 standard guidelines across their estate clusters. New energy efficiency and reduce emissions through process control and Peacock Estate, Dunsinane Estate, Talgaswella Estate, Nayapane behavioural changes in the staff. Estate and Deviturai Estate have obtained the certification for their food safety systems and the segment is currently in the process of As a new initiative we work closely with identified customers and obtaining the ISO 14001 certification for Talgaswella and Deviturai encourage them to convert their packaging requirements to completely estates. Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd, which manufactures ‘green’ material that is FSC (Forestry Stewardship Council) certified furniture for export, received the Forestry Stewardship Certificate (FSC) paper and board, and vegetable based ink. accreditation from the Control Union of Certifications of Netherlands. The Aitken Spence power management team has been recognised In addition to maintaining general industry standards, Aitken year on year for their 6S practices. During the last financial year, the Spence Printing & Packaging is ISO 9001:2008 certified for quality company decided to make the working environment polythene free management systems and is in the process of implementing ISO and took steps to provide paper bags to visitors and employees at 14001 environmental management system. The company has planned the entrance to the office so that they can discard the polythene. The and implemented efforts to ensure occupational health, safety and team at the Horana power plant designed an innovative system to welfare of all stakeholders and has a trained team that is overlooking clean soiled polythene lunch sheets so that it can be handed over for this area. A contingency plan for natural disasters, chemical spill recycling along with other polythene and plastic materials. Levels of prevention procedure and an emergency situation list are documented nitrogen oxide, and sulphur oxide and total particles per million have and maintained towards the same effort. been maintained below the stipulated maximum emission levels at all three thermal power plants. The Embilipitiya power plant maintains a herb garden which takes up 34 acres of the 44 acre property to Environment accommodate about 10,000 to 15,000 plants, medicinal herbs, The Matugama garment factory has an evaporative cooling system agricultural projects, animal husbandry and beekeeping projects. which has greatly improved working conditions and reduced energy consumption while contributing to the environmental friendly policies. Waste management procedures have been implemented by the The management has recently installed prismatic skylights, a fuel Matugama factory for many years and all recyclable material is sold to efficient generator and a capacitor bank to further reduce energy third party vendors while the remaining waste is reused or disposed consumption with a view of being more environmental friendly in the of responsibly. Lighting equipment is sent back to the original vendor production process. Process changes were introduced to improve for recycling and food waste is given to poultry farms as animal overall productivity and to reduce the consumption of energy per unit feed. During the year, the company’s waste management systems Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW We work closely with identified customers and encourage them to convert their packaging requirements to completely LEADERSHIP REVIEW ‘green’ material that is FSC (Forestry Stewardship Council) certified paper and board, and vegetable based ink. processed fabric waste, food waste, cardboard and paper, polythene Community Engagement waste, plastic cans, iron and scrap metal. Among the many activities encouraging employee volunteerism and GROUP PERFORMANCE At Aitken Spence Plantations, most factories have constructed increasing the opportunities to engage with community members, the waste oil/used oil containment bays inside their chemical/ oil stores Matugama garment factory conducted English classes for the children of factory employees, awareness programmes on environment and REVIEW to prevent soil contamination. The segment also launched many operations over the years to replace artificial fertilizer with organic sustainability for the general public and implemented a programme fertilizer to mitigate the negative impacts to the micro and macro called ‘Gedarata 6S’ for a group of employees in an effort to influence environments. As a result, several compost pits are maintained to productivity in their households. produce in-house compost to meet daily fertilizer requirements. The The efforts of the Embilipitiya power plant to provide its neighbourhood plantation segment grows leguminous cover crops to improve soil communities with access to fresh water were proven fruitful when a properties to control the growth of weeds, which would otherwise GOVERNANCE study conducted by an external research organisation found that many require the use of chemicals and weedicides. All employees are independent local industries have started business ventures in the required to return empty plastic bottles which contain the chemical/ area after being given better access to water. This is also proof of the fertilizers to collect new bottles. As a general practice, chemical stores effectiveness of the organisation’s practice of identifying the needs and are constructed with a secondary contaminations bay/tank to avoid the potential impacts of future activities prior to commencing projects, direct soil contamination. At all of the estates, workers are encouraged in order to generate meaningful value. to stop or minimise polythene consumption and are provided with The continuous social development strategies on plantations focused FINANCIAL STATEMENTS biodegradable bags for their daily requirements. on women and children, covering a whole array of services ranging Product Responsibility from interventions in medical care, health and nutrition, education, Product responsibility is of paramount importance to the garments sports, and recreation, to the improvement of quality of drinking segment and routine inspections are conducted internally and water, sanitation and infrastructure. The segment also encouraged externally as per international, national and industry norms where the workers to upgrade religious institutions within estates and facilitated segment has shown continual improvement on all aspects of product charitable organisations to build new housing on a few of our estates responsibility. in collaboration with the plantation company. An elders home to INVESTOR INFORMATION accommodate forty retired workers from our plantations is in the Product development in the plantation segment takes shape through pipeline, which will be the first in the plantation segment and will be the food safety management systems and other industry standards. funded by “Foundation Abbe’ Pierre” of France and Elpitiya Plantations The segment has identified the prime buyers of the Elpitiya Plantations PLC. teas and engages with those buyers, as well as those at the tea auctions, on a regular basis with a view to understand their needs The segment also employs 189 persons with disabilities to ensure they and expectations. The products are continuously improved through have a steady income. Total funds channelled towards these efforts innovations and quality upgrades. Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging amount to Rs. 110.6 million. maintains efforts to provide the best products and services to their SUPPLEMENTARY customers and has continuous quality improvement schemes in place. These efforts have been recognised year on year at many platforms, INFORMATION most notably at the Collate Sri Lanka Print Exhibition & Awards organised by the Sri Lanka Association of Printers and the Lanka Star Awards organised by the Sri Lanka Institute of Packaging. page 82 | 83 SECTOR REVIEW: STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS Þ SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIES The continuous social development strategies on plantations focused on women and children, covering a whole array of services ranging from interventions in medical care, health and nutrition, education, sports, and recreation Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging has carried out many social engagement INVESTOR INFORMATION activities to maintain a channel of communication with the local stakeholders. The company also volunteered to become one of the first SBUs in the ‘Empowering Sri Lanka First’ programme and is working to facilitate English language and IT education for approximately 60 less-privileged students in their community. Through this effort the Dhamma School adjacent to the printing facility will also receive support for the renovation of two classrooms which will be fully equipped to conduct the classes. The company facilitated expert training on new techniques and methods for English language SUPPLEMENTARY teaching for 4 aspiring young teachers from the area. The employees of Aitken Spence Printing have volunteered their time to manage the project. INFORMATION page 84 | 85 SERVICES SECTOR SERVICES Inward Money Transfer Elevator Agency Insurance Property Management Information Technology IN SRI LANKA THESE SECTORS HAVE PERFORMED ADMIRABLY OVER THE YEARS Contribution to Group 2012-13 2011-12 Revenue (Rs. mn) 537 482 Profit before tax (Rs. mn) 163 160 Total assets (Rs. mn) 3,020 2,704 Total liabilities (Rs. mn) 507 322 Employees 450 395 REVENUE 537mn PBT 163mn ASSETS 3bn EMPLOYEES 450 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 86 | 87 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW SECTOR REVIEW: SERVICES Sector profile: Activity & Market Position Over a century of successful partnership with the world renowned insurer of Lloyd’s of London. The largest money transfer service network with over 2,500 payout locations in Sri Lanka 1876 The Group was appointed as agents for Lloyds of London; position which the company holds to this Our marketing structure date by providing survey & claim settling agents for has been strengthened, with emphasis on reputed insurance companies. enhancing awareness and visibility 1973 Incorporated ‘Aitken Spence Exports Ltd’ To process and export essential oils which now exports dry rations & perishables to Maldives hotels & also The services sector comprises the operations of the insurance survey markets bottled water. and claim settling agency, insurance brokering, elevator agency, 1989 Aitken Spence acquires a majority stake in ‘Elevators inward money transfer business, property development and the (Pvt) Ltd, which provides marketing, installing & information technology services of the Group. maintaining services of OTIS lifts, escalators & other The combined operations of the sector contributed Rs 537.4 million equipment. to the revenue of the Group which is an 11.4% increase over the 1995 Construction and operation of “Aitken Spence Tower previous year. The sector’s combined profit before tax of Rs 162.8 at Vauxhall Street. million is an increase of 1.5% over the previous year. The sector contributes 3.3% to Group profit before tax. 2006 Entering into the financial services market by being the principal agent for Western Union Money Transfer Services in Sri Lanka; MMBL. Insurance Sector 2008 Aitken Spence Corporate office is relocated to Revenue from the insurance division grew 17.5 % on the back of ‘Aitken Spence Tower II, with the completion of the a strong performance by the brokering activity, a 106% increase in construction of a modern office complex. claims settling activity and a 37% increase in commission income. Revenue from surveys was 3% lower due to a 10% drop in the number of surveys; declines were also reported from insurance services and salvage operations. The segment’s net profit before tax was up 20.1% year on year. We experienced a decrease in surveys due to the World Food Programme (WFP) scaling down its imports but our strong relationship with the WFP enabled us to secure a pre-shipment inspection contract for export cargo. 1% 3% 7% REVENUE PROFIT BEFORE TAX CAPITAL EMPLOYED Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Stakeholder Engagement Key areas of interest for stakeholders Investors Board meetings Profitability Annual General Meetings Brand enhancement Investor meetings Good governance Information security Customer Media Innovation in products and services Direct contact Data security and privacy of information Contact centres Quality assurance LEADERSHIP REVIEW Sales teams Product and service responsibility Employees Performance appraisals Career progression Meetings Skills development Discussion forums Work – life balance Benefits Suppliers Service level agreements Continuous discussion and improvements on service standards and Direct contact requirements Social media Sustainable working relationship Continuous interaction through procurement Ethical conduct GROUP PERFORMANCE Community development Media Compliance with laws and regulations of the country and the Direct contact industry REVIEW Employment generation Government and Regulators Media Compliance with laws and regulations of the country and the Direct contact industry Employment generation Financial institutions Media Ethical conduct Direct contact Pollution prevention Economic development GOVERNANCE 2013 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 2012 2011 2011 INVESTOR INFORMATION 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Rs. Mn 0 50 100 150 200 Rs. Mn REVENUE for the year ended 31st March OPERATING PROFIT for the year ended 31st March Þ BROADEST PORTFOLIO OF SERVICES Aitken Spence is Sri Lanka’s largest SERVICE PROVIDER with a track record of superior performance and pioneering services in MONEY TRANSFER AND INSURANCE. OUR INSURANCE arm represents leading INSURERS and manages OUR INSURANCE operations in SRI LANKA. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 88 | 89 SECTOR REVIEW: SERVICES “The East and South East Asian markets along with Canada and the Middle East hold the greatest future potential for the sector and as such, we have implemented many initiatives within remittance originating countries, including the placement of our resources in selected corridors in the regions.” During the year, the sector consolidated its relationship with the • The competition from numerous individual surveying entities People’s Insurance of China and developed a new combined surveys who compete through price at the cost of quality and and claims settlement process in engagement with them. professionalism • Reduction of the inflow of foreign food aid from agencies The Aitken Spence advantage has always been its position as the such as WFP, in view of the completion of resettlement of only company offering the entire range of insurance related services, IDP’s including analysis, tallying, and hull and machinery surveys. Increased involvement in infrastructure projects, insurance inspections, and Elevators Segment capitalising on the growing opportunities in pre-insurance valuations It is encouraging that Sri Lanka’s post-war boom in property are slated to be the way forward. The segment’s existing skill and development continues unabated resulting in the demand for elevators resource base can be extended to offer services such as investigations and escalators increasing. However, the market is saturated with over on companies, deaths, thefts and medical claims, which have the twelve suppliers. In such a price sensitive market, OTIS has been able potential to be new sources of revenue and value addition in the future. to retain its position, due to our ability to provide reliable after sales and technical support for the customers who have placed orders Strengths: with us. During the year, we were able to secure several prestigious • Capability to offer the entire gamut of insurance related contracts, amongst which was the installation of ten escalators and services two elevators at the largest department store in Sri Lanka. • The backing of international partners such as Lloyd’s of London, with a relationship of over 150 years and the The segment’s revenue increased by 7.7% and net profit before tax People’s Insurance Company of China dropped marginally by 4.0% while maintenance revenues registered • Management expertise a 54% increase during the year, but were offset to a certain degree by a 47% decrease in repair revenues. The gross profit margin on Opportunities: installations has dropped to 10% from 35%. The operations in the • Business propositions arising from the opening of the new Maldives registered a 41% increase in revenue. international airport and the port at Hambantota. • Infrastructure development undertaken by the Government OTIS installations today span the entire country, and we anticipate • Increasing awareness that is among countries in the region sustained demand as more international brands and multinationals to have standardised inspection procedures consider investments in large scale projects in Sri Lanka. In order to cater to the service needs that would arise in future, the company is Challenges: seeking to establish regional hubs to enable efficient maintenance and • Envisaged new regulations in the Maldives to be after sales support. implemented by the Maldives Monetary Authority Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW OTIS installations today span the entire country, and we anticipate sustained demand as LEADERSHIP REVIEW more international brands and multinationals consider investments in large scale projects in Sri Lanka. INPUTS VALUE ADDING ACTIVITIES OUTPUT Þ Customer satisfaction & loyalty Þ Talent enhancement Þ Customer satisfaction & loyalty Þ Skilled & motivated employees Þ High service standards Þ Skilled & motivated employees GROUP PERFORMANCE Þ Positive economic value Þ Strategic management Þ Positive economic value Þ Reliable operational systems Þ Cultivating partnerships & networks Þ Reliable operational systems Þ Innovative products & services Þ Quality assurance Þ Innovative products & services REVIEW Þ Group synergies Þ Global reach to customers Þ Responsiveness In the Maldives, OTIS recorded an increase in sales; however our core registered a 16.6% growth year on year, led by an 7.4% increase in operations have been seriously affected by the imposition of Goods the number of transactions handled, due to competitive pricing and GOVERNANCE and Services Tax and Withholding tax during the year under review. focused marketing. An 8.5% increase in revenue per transaction was recorded, partly due to a rupee depreciation during the first half of the Strengths: year which was somewhat negated by the subsequent appreciation of • OTIS brand image the rupee in the latter half. • Installations across the country that are being efficiently The segment benefited from a 16.3% growth in inward remittances maintained and serviced to Sri Lanka which reached USD 6 Billion in 2012, with worker FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Advanced technology enabling a more compact elevator remittances contributing to the bulk of the total. While Sri Lanka system which offers architect s and designers greater witnessed increased labour migration under the higher paid flexibility in building designs professional and skilled category, the growth of inflows was also the Opportunities: result of the wider availability of formal remittance channels, including • Pace of post-war development in the country exchange house networks set up by the commercial banks. More migrant workers increased their remittances following fiscal incentives • The entry of top international hotel chains and property development companies to Sri Lanka such as a five-year tax exemption on investments made by them in capital goods to commence new businesses. INVESTOR INFORMATION • Capability to offer greener solutions with energy saving and eco friendly options While we acknowledge initiatives by the Central Bank and the Challenges: Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment to educate migrant workers on the dangers of using illegal channels of money transfer, we note • High-end product offered in a price-conscious market with concern the regularisation and regulation of illegal channels • Lack of skilled labour with the required knowledge in such as ‘hawala’ and ‘undial’ in key corridors such as Canada, UK construction and maintenance and Western Europe. These principal grey channels of money transfer • The volatility of the Rupee against major international match the official channels in volumes, and their regularisation currencies allows them to now use the local banking system for distribution of remittances. Our competitive space has also become more SUPPLEMENTARY Inward Money Transfer INFORMATION challenging, with many new players entering the market with more MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Limited (MMBL), the largest principal focused marketing overseas, especially by the local banks that also agent for Western Union in Sri Lanka, grew at a healthy pace during offer money transfer services. the year, recording a net profit before tax growth of 56.9%. Revenue page 90 | 91 SECTOR REVIEW: SERVICES “MMBL continuously monitors service levels and endcustomer service by carrying out random customer surveys to identify customer needs. In addition strict compliance standards are maintained with independent audits to ensure compliance of best practices and anti-money laundering initiatives.” During the year, we focused on expanding the MMBL retail network • Our principal Western Union Global network, being the which currently has over 2,500 payout locations, the largest money largest and the most recognised global network in the world. transfer service network in Sri Lanka. We also enhanced service and Opportunities: efficiency levels of the network by encouraging sub-representatives to convert their operations from conventional phone and fax transmission • Growing population of skilled migrant workers with higher earnings to the internet. Our marketing structure has been strengthened, with emphasis on enhancing awareness and visibility whilst our marketing • Offer of fiscal incentives for migrant workers to invest in investment locally has been targeted towards recipients of inward capital goods in Sri Lanka money transfers. • Emergence of new labour markets for Sri Lankan migrant workers The East and South East Asian markets along with Canada and the Challenges: Middle East hold the greatest future potential for the sector and as such, we have implemented many initiatives within remittance • Low entry barriers resulting in increased number of players originating countries, including the placement of our resources in in the market selected corridors in the regions. • Regularisation of certain informal channels in some countries where remittances originate In the short term, the company will utilise its resources to consolidate • Competition posed by established banks with wide networks its market leader position through focused sales and marketing of branches activities. In the medium term the company will strengthen its core product (Western Union) through value addition, towards reaching its Information Technology long term goal of becoming the preferred financial services company The Information technology segment which is in its infancy, has been in Sri Lanka. building up a customer base in its drive to penetrate the market. Negotiations are ongoing with several key clients and we are positive MMBL about the vast potential of this segment. Strengths: The strong product development expertise offered by the segment has • The largest and most wide spread retail network of over resulted in locally developed software that compares favourably with 2,500 distribution agents in Sri Lanka expensive internationally developed software with the marketability • Strategic presence and activities in selected market and acceptance of internally developed plantation sector ERP showing corridors positive results. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW As an Oracle Gold level partner, the segment has undertaken several Oracle ERP installations which will be rolled out during the coming year. Our appointment as an Oracle University Approved Education Reseller Partner and training centre is also gaining traction and we are in discussions to partner several organisations in Oracle training in 2013/14. Strengths: LEADERSHIP REVIEW • Goodwill created in the market as a result of effective delivery • Intellectual Property ownership for the ERP systems for Plantation Companies • Certified/ own resources which could be used to cater to a During the year, we were able diverse range of IT solutions to secure several prestigious contracts amongst which Opportunities: was installations at the GROUP PERFORMANCE largest department store in • Lack of a comprehensive ERP solution for the plantations Sri Lanka sector in the country REVIEW • Competitive advantage due to use of locally developed resources segment takes regular control measures to ensure that the current Challenges: procedures and processes are continued and sustained, while also • Aggressive pricing strategies of competitors ensuring occupational health and safety by carrying out routine training • Still perceived as a young company in the market programmes for maintenance staff and tenants. GOVERNANCE • Lack of trained /readily available resources in the industry Retirement Community Property Management Segment Aitken Spence has embarked on a pioneering effort in Sri Lanka The property segment, which owns and manages the Aitken Spence to build and manage a retirement community. The Company has Towers at Vauxhall street, recorded year on year increases of 9.8% in partnered with two respected American investors via a joint venture revenue and 13.5% in net profit before tax, as a result of an increase entity, which has purchased 30 acres of land in Negombo. A renowned in rental income from tenants. architect has been engaged as the design consultant for the project. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS It is envisaged to construct 140 luxury villas in a picturesque During the year, the segment invested Rs. 250 million in the environment catering to retirees who would expect an extremely high completion of the Tower II with the construction of a spacious level of service and comfort. contemporary lobby area and also installed two additional observation elevators, to ease congestion during peak hours. The company is of the view that the ageing populations in Sri Lanka and the Western nations create a growing market for such products The building currently enjoys 100% occupancy, with several group and services. Until now this segment has not been focused on in Sri companies sharing the space with other prestigious corporate clients. Lanka which the company considers a potential growth segment. The company is at present establishing the marketing and distribution INVESTOR INFORMATION The segment evaluated the rates prevalent in the rental market and in light of the state of the art facilities provided increased rates during channels in key targeted countries and will be embarking on a major the year to be in line with the market, which positively influenced our marketing campaign both in Sri Lanka and in key Western nations with revenue. a significant Sri Lankan migrant population. The segment is facing mounting pressure from external variables such as high costs of energy and maintenance. Therefore it is fortunate that Management approach for environmental the green features of the building and sustainability policies would and social sustainability have an overall cost benefit in the long-term. The integrated sustainability policy and its implementation framework SUPPLEMENTARY have been introduced across the sector, therefore the companies have Modern environmentally friendly design features have been Environmental Management Systems (EMSs), occupational health and incorporated into the building, including wet and dry garbage disposal, INFORMATION safety hazard identification and control measures, human rights focal rain water harvesting, CBar (lighting system) for efficient control of points and human resource partners in place to maintain the different lights within the entire building during day and night, energy efficient systems that ensure environmental and social sustainability. equipment for lighting and air conditioning, to mention a few. The page 92 | 93 SECTOR REVIEW: SERVICES “The Property Management segment completed our Head Office Aitken Spence Tower II at Vauxhall Street, with the construction of a contemporary new lobby and the addition of more passenger elevators. The company has also attracted several prestigious corporate clients to lease office space at Towers, thereby achieving 100% utilisation of the space.” Many of the companies within the sector have specific operational one person with vision impairment. Both companies have made a systems formulated under the guidance and standards of their concerted effort to render the working environment more accessible overseas principals; which includes OTIS procedures for the operation and comfortable for these employees. and maintenance of elevators. The car park was demarcated to allow pedestrians to walk freely, and more signage was included to inform drivers to maintain low speed Local Community Engagement limits. Three accidents were reported from the car park area during The diverse supply requirements of the sector make it difficult to the year and the company hopes to ensure there are zero accidents implement a blanket local purchasing policy; but wherever possible, by evaluating safety procedures in the building and its car parks, companies ensure supplies are purchased from local suppliers. The together with emergency evacuation procedures. A new action plan sector has several examples of working with local entrepreneurs, such to be followed, in the event of an emergency is being drafted for as extending assistance to MMBL’s network of Business Development implementation in 2013/2014. Officers (BDO) and their 2,500+ locations, which enable financial access to rural communities through an environmentally and socially Environment sustainable process. Many of these BDOs make the MMBL service available in their villages via rural banks, multipurpose cooperative Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., (ASPDL) maintains societies and certain Sanasa societies as well. Our money transfer a Building Management System (BMS) and continually takes effort service provides a safe and reliable option to local families as well as to improve the building conditions for its tenants, who include the small entrepreneurs, who are often at low income levels. Aitken Spence companies. The Aitken Spence Towers building design incorporates many green features which together with efficiency improvements and interventions by tenants have enabled significant Accessibility and Safety sustainability achievements. An audit was conducted in 2011 with a recognised organisation to identify how the Aitken Spence Tower I which was built in 1995, Performance Data for the Segment may become more accessible to differently abled persons and the Total energy consumption in the segment 9,221GJ organisation is currently in the process of implementing some of the Total GHG emissions 1,833.6 tonnes identified improvements. The facilities are already available in the Total water withdrawal in the segment 41,054 m3 Tower II which was completed in 2010. Total grey water reused 121.7 m3 Aitken Spence Property Developments Ltd., (ASPDL) employs one staff Total amount of paper and cardboard recycled from 15,397 kg member with physical disabilities and Elevators (Pvt) Limited employs Aitken Spence Towers Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW The company’s customer service ethos focuses on providing the right information to customers the first time, LEADERSHIP REVIEW and being proactive in the identification and resolution of technical problems and customer concerns. All waste water is passed through a grease filter before it is discharged reusing paper and recycling waste paper; reclaiming batteries for to the urban sewerage system. The segment is taking steps to safe disposal; repairing computers by upgrading RAM to improve GROUP PERFORMANCE increase the tree cover around the building by planting trees around performance; replacing the drive systems in elevators with energy the premises and in the atrium. efficient options and recycling of batteries. REVIEW Nine staff members were trained on ISO 14001 standard requirements MMBL launched a project in the previous financial year to reduce for the environmental management system of the building premises paper usage by about 80% through maintaining documents on digital and on how to prevent pollution in the Beira Lake. Another training formats. The first stage involved digitising front office operations programme was conducted for the externally sourced janitorial and and was completed successfully. The second stage integrates security staff members on the activities required to maintain the the solution with the existing oracle system which will involve an EMS as well as hazard spotting and control activities, as per the investment of around Rs. 2.5 to 3 million. The project is due for Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) procedures. completion in 2013/14. Efforts were also taken by the staff to GOVERNANCE reduce energy consumption within the office premises; while energy Chemicals used for janitorial purposes have been replaced with consumed at Vauxhall Street and Colpetty offices remained the biodegradable options while other waste streams are segregated for same, the Kurunegala office experienced an increased of about 25% proper disposal. The company is currently working on revising the in consumption due to the installation of 2 new lit sign boards for waste management procedure for the building in order to streamline branding activities carried out at the venue; which were essential due the environmental friendly disposal of all waste. to the high competition in the area. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To support the efforts of the EMS many of the companies occupying the building uses a “switching off policy” and make uses of natural Customer Engagement lighting during the day as much as possible. In order to reduce energy Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. developed a sales automation system to handle consumption and maintenance cost for the clients from the products customer inquiries and its sales procedure with less resources, whilst sold by Elevators (Pvt) Ltd, the company promotes OTIS Elevators with significantly improving response time. The company’s customer regenerative drives, compact machines and unlubricated models. The service ethos focuses on providing the right information to customers OTIS Gen 2 REGEN type elevator system is upto 50% more energy the first time, and being proactive in the identification and resolution of efficient than conventional systems, enabling developers and owners technical problems and customer concerns. INVESTOR INFORMATION to manage their building more economically. MMBL continuously monitors service levels and end-customer The company gives priority to educating employees on the efficient service by carrying out random customer surveys to identify customer use of fuel and lubricants for maintenance operations, and the proper needs. In addition strict compliance standards are maintained with disposal of toxic waste. A number of audits have been conducted by independent audits to ensure compliance of best practices and the team to identify energy and resource usage. It was also found anti-money laundering initiatives. Extending their services to the that the volume of oil and cotton used in maintenance operations communities further, the company took on the task of educating had reduced simply because the staff were educated on the need for prospective migrant workers and their beneficiaries (dependents) on reducing their harmful impact on the environment. Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. the importance of using legal channels to transfer foreign remittance. SUPPLEMENTARY has also implemented the 7R principles and a sustainability policy. While the financial literacy workshops conducted by MMBL staff The immediate effects of the principles include optimising natural members focus on the risks of using the many illegal and informal light; reducing the use of electricity by introducing T-5 type energy channels, they are also a source of attracting more customers. Training INFORMATION efficient fluorescent lamps powered by modern electronic ballast; programmes have been conducted at the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign page 94 | 95 SECTOR REVIEW: SERVICES Þ SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS The Aitken Spence Towers building design incorporates many green features which together with efficiency improvements and interventions by tenants have enabled significant sustainability achievements. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employment training centres for migrant workers as well as their families INVESTOR INFORMATION present so that the entire process of foreign remittance is not an alien concept to them. MMBL hopes to align the service with a mobile solution and is working with the principals to obtain the necessary approvals and arrangements. Across the sector, sustainability driven projects are evaluated by the senior management and expected outcomes have been successfully met in all projects. Þ SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 96 | 97 Financial Review Consolidated Group Performance The revenue increase in the Strategic Investments sector was mainly The financial year 2012/13 posed considerable challenges to the the result of increased prices of heavy furnace oil which is a pass business sector in Sri Lanka. A tight monetary policy was practiced through for the power generation segment and the 100 MW power by the Central Bank in order to contain inflation, and consequently plant in Embilipitiya recording a full year of operations whereas in interest rates moved up significantly increasing the borrowing the previous year the plant was non operational for four months for costs of corporates such as Aitken Spence. Rising operating costs technical reasons. The Tourism Sector achieved a commendable resulting from increased energy prices narrowed margins, while the growth in revenues owing to the increased tourist arrivals and the strengthening of the Rupee impacted export revenues and proceeds resulting occupancy increases. from sales denominated in foreign currency. Despite the growth in the number of tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka average occupancies in the star Group Profitability and Operating Costs class resorts remained flat mainly due to the majority of the visitors The Group reported a marginal growth in operating profit during the preferring to patronise inexpensive but unrated guest houses and financial year 2012/13. The consolidated profit from operations or smaller hotels. Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) was Rs. 5.5 billion (1.9% YoY Tourist arrivals from key western markets remained stagnant due to growth) and the consolidated net profit after tax was Rs. 4.3 billion the continuing recession in Europe and the price competition from (4.1% YoY decline) of which Rs. 3.3 billion was attributable to the popular East Asian tourist destinations. Weakened financial strength of equity holders. The profit attributable to the equity holders was a the state electricity monopoly adversely impacted independent power marginal 6.3% decline over the previous year. producers. In this challenging environment, the Aitken Spence Group The marginal decline in the profitability was due to the non-recurring performed creditably to achieve growth in a majority of the business capital gain the Group reported in the previous financial year. Without sectors it operates in while taking significant strides in several the distortion caused by this capital gain, the profit from operations overseas markets to develop new opportunities. grew by 14.4% and the profit attributable to the equity holders increased by 12.8% during the year. Due to the same reason the Group Revenue other operating incomes reported by the Group as well as all the The Group reported consolidated a revenue of Rs. 37.1 billion (net operating ratios also have shown declines from the previous financial of the share of revenues of equity-accounted investees) during the year although the Group has achieved a significant growth on its core financial year 2012/13 which was a growth of 19.7% from the operations previous year. Main contributions to the revenue came from the The Group’s operating profit margin decreased from 17.4% in the Strategic Investments and Tourism sectors with revenues of Rs. 16.8 previous financial year (unadjusted for the non-recurring capital gain) billion (23.4% YoY growth excluding equity-accounted investees) and to 14.8% during the financial year 2012/13. Rs. 14.1 billion (24.9% YoY growth) respectively. The Group revenue from domestic operations was Rs. 27.9. billion which was a 75.1% 14% share of the total revenue whilst the balance was contributed by overseas operations. 41% 27% Raw Materials and Consumables used 2013 Employee Benefits Expense Depreciation, Amortisation & Impairment of Goodwill 2012 Other Operating Expenses Direct 5% 13% Other Operating Expenses Indirect 2011 Analysis of Operating Expenses 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 for the year ended 31st March 2013 Rs. Mn REVENUE for the year ended 31st March The Group’s total operating costs amounted to Rs. 31.1 billion for the year, being 85.0% of the Group net revenue. This is in comparison to Rs. 26.2 billion recorded as Group operating cost in the previous Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW financial year, which amounted to 85.9% of net revenue. The increase Rs. 1.4 billion recording an increase of 86.1% in comparison with the in the total operating cost was Rs. 4.9 billion in the financial year under previous financial year. The total finance expense was also impacted LEADERSHIP REVIEW review, which was an increase of 18.6% compared with the previous due to the increase in borrowings in the Tourism sector particularly year. The increase in operating costs was primarily due to the 23.3% for the Maldives resorts and the Strategic Investments sector for the increase in raw materials and consumables used in operations which investments in the printing facility and for the investment in the power amounted to 41.5% of the total operating costs. The total expense segment. incurred for raw materials and consumables was Rs. 12.9 billion (Rs. 10.5 billion in the previous financial year). The higher cost of heavy The interest cover, which is an indication of the cash available to meet furnace oil used in thermal power generation was one of the main interest payment obligations of the Group was a very healthy 9.5 reasons for the increase in raw materials and consumables. times. Other direct operating expenses increased by 19.3% during the year. Sector Revenue and Profitability GROUP PERFORMANCE The total direct operating expenses amounted to Rs. 8.4 billion ( Rs. REVIEW 7.0 billion in the previous financial year). Depreciation and amortisation Performances of the four business Sectors of the Group are discussed expenses also increased by 24.7% during the financial year and the in detail under the Sector Review in the Management Discussion and expense amounted to Rs. 1.4 billion ( Rs. 1.1 billion in the previous Analysis. financial year). 3% 24% 62% Financing Costs and the Interest Cover GOVERNANCE The rise in interest rates during the financial year 2012/13 had a significant impact on both the finance income and expenses of the Tourism Group. During the year the Group maintained a net borrowing position Cargo Logistics 11% and therefore the total finance expense was more than the finance Strategic Investments Services income. The net financing expense of the Group amounted to Rs. 683.0 million during the financial year under review in comparison SECTOR OPERATING PROFIT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with Rs. 304.5 million in the previous financial year (124.3% increase for the year ended 31st March 2013 YoY). Tourism Sector During the financial year 2012/13 the Tourism sector of the Group 2013 reported a 24.9 % growth in revenue to Rs. 14.1 billion whilst recording a 31.0 % increase in profit from operations to Rs. 3.4 billion. 2012 The profitability was favourably impacted by increased occupancies, room rates and improved operational efficiencies as a result of INVESTOR INFORMATION 2011 innovative strategies implemented by the sector. 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 Rs. Mn INTEREST EXPENSE Cargo Logistics Sector for the year ended 31st March The Cargo Logistics sector reported a 1.4% growth in revenue to Rs. 5.7 billion while profit from operations decreased by 31.1% to Rs. The total finance income during the year was Rs. 760.9 million which 586.6 million during the financial year 2012/13. The decline in the was a 61.4% increase over the previous year (Rs. 471.4 million). profitability mirrored the slow down in the import export trade of the During the year the Group invested its surplus funds arising from country and due to the conclusion of the port management contract in SUPPLEMENTARY the mismatch in borrowing and investment timings in government the African continent. securities and bank deposits thereby benefitting from the rise in INFORMATION interest rates. However, the steep increase in lending rates during the year resulted in the Group’s average borrowing rates rising and, as a consequence, the total finance expense for the year amounted to page 98 | 99 Financial Review Strategic Investments Sector received from power sector companies of the Group. The deferred The Strategic Investments sector reported a 23.4 % increase in tax charge for the financial year was Rs. 60.9 million, against Rs. revenue and a 25.1% decline in profit from operations during the 93.9 million in the previous financial year. The deferred tax charged financial year under review. The revenue and the profit from operations for the year was the effect of accelerated depreciation allowances reported by the sector were Rs. 16.8 billion and Rs. 1.3 billion and substantial utilisation of tax losses during the financial year. The respectively. The decline in the sector profitability was due to the Group’s effective tax rate for the financial year was 14.9% compared capital gains recorded on the sale of shares in Colombo International to 14.4% in the previous year. Container Terminals Ltd the previous year. Net Profit and the Net Profit Margin Services Sector The consolidated net profit after tax for the financial year 2012/13 was The Services sector, which comprises of the Group’s service based Rs. 4.3 billion. This was a marginal dip of 4.1% in comparison with the operations, reported revenues of Rs. 537.4 million during the year previous financial year before adjusting for the non-recurring capital under review, which is an increase of 11.4% over the previous gain recorded by the Group in that year. The consolidated net profit financial year. The profit from operations of the sector decreased after tax shows a noteworthy 10.6% growth over the previous year marginally by 3.5% during the financial year 2012/13 to Rs. 148.5 when the non-recurring items are adjusted. million. The main contributor to the growth in net profit after tax was the Share of Profits from Equity-Accounted Investees Tourism sector with a 30.8% increase. The net profit figure reported by the Tourism sector was Rs. 2.9 billion. The Services sector achieved The share of profits from equity-accounted investees increased by a marginal growth of 4.4% with a net profit of Rs. 132.0 million 111.1% over the previous year to Rs. 181.5 million, mainly due to the while the Strategic Investments and Cargo Logistics sectors reported contribution made by Elpitiya Plantations PLC. High prices obtained for negative growths while reporting net profits of Rs. 780.2 million and tea and oil palm during the financial year resulted in the plantations Rs. 414.1 million respectively. sector reporting a much improved profitability. The Group’s net profit margin was 11.5% for the financial year Taxation 2012/13 in comparison with the 14.3% margin in the previous The Group’s provision for taxation for the financial year 2012/13 was financial year without adjusting for the non-recurring items (adjusted Rs. 747.2 million which was a marginal increase of 0.1% from the net profit margin for the financial year 2011/12 was 12.4%). previous year (2011/12 – Rs. 746.1 million). The income tax charge for the year was Rs. 645.3 million which is a 17.5% increase over the NON CONTROLLING INTEREST previous financial year. The Income tax of the Group increased mainly due to the increase in tax rates for Group Companies in Sri Lanka and (MINORITY INTEREST) the full years effect of the Business Profit tax in the Maldives. Business Profit Tax (BPT) introduced in July 2011 in the Republic of Maldives 2013 had its full effect during the current financial year which led to an increase of 61.1% in income tax charge for the year. 2012 The income tax liability arising from the Sri Lankan operations 2011 increased by 37.8% during the year mainly due to the increase in 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 the tax rate of small companies belonging to the Group. The above Rs. Mn NET PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD increase in income tax was to some extent mitigated by the tax for the year ended 31st March concessions granted to Companies within the Group which were expanding their business operations. The Group observed a significant The non controlling interest increased marginally to Rs. 987.2 million decline in taxes in the Cargo Logistics sector due to the expiration of (previous financial year Rs. 949.6 million) by 4.0%. The share of port management contracts in the African region. profits of the non controlling interest in the Tourism sector had a considerable increase which was off-set by the lower profitability of the The dividend tax for the financial year under review was Rs. 68.2 Strategic Investments sector resulting in a marginal net increase at a million which is a 26.6% decrease from the previous financial year. consolidated level. The decrease in dividend tax was a result of the reduction in dividends Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Profit Attributable to the Equity Holders Total Assets Turnover The profit attributable to the equity holders for the financial year The total asset turnover ratio of the Group was 0.69 times for the 2012/13 was Rs. 3.3 billion in comparison with the Rs. 3.5 billion financial year under review and was a marginal increase from the LEADERSHIP REVIEW reported for the previous financial year. It must be noted that this 6.3% previous financial year. 42.9% of the Group’s total assets are invested decline is due to the non-recurring capital gain the Group reported in in the Tourism sector while 41.3% is invested in the Strategic the previous financial year. After adjusting for nonrecurring items the Investments sector. 10.4% and 5.4% are invested in the Cargo profit attributable to the equity holders for 2012/13 is 12.8% higher Logistics and Services sectors respectively. than for the previous financial year. Capital Expenditure Total Assets and Net Assets per Share The Group invested a total of Rs. 2.7 billion in non-current assets GROUP PERFORMANCE The total assets of the Group were Rs. 56.2 billion at the reporting during the financial year under review which is a 42.5% decrease over date. This was an increase of 10.1% compared to the previous year. the previous financial year. The total value of the property, plant and Property, plant and equipment was the main component with a value equipment held by the Group was Rs. 24.0 billion while the total nonREVIEW of Rs. 24.0 billion (previous year Rs. 22.6 billion) comprising of 42.8% current assets amounted to Rs. 33.7 billion at the end of the financial of the total assets as at the end of the year. year. The substantial investments were in Tourism sector for Rs. 1.4 billion while the Strategic Investments sector attracted Rs. 771.2 The net assets per share of the Group was Rs. 69.10 at the end of the million mainly in the renewable energy projects and the new printing financial year 2012/13. This was a 11.5% increase over the net assets facility. Out of the total non current assets Rs. 16.4 billion was in the per share of Rs. 61.96 at the end of the previous financial year. The Tourism sector out of which Rs. 12.1 billion (74.2%) was categorised GOVERNANCE Price to Book Value (PBV) of the Group was 1.73 times compared to as property, plant and equipment while Rs. 10.7 billion was in the Price to Book Value ratio of 1.82 times at the end of the last financial Strategic Investments sector. Cargo Logistics and Services sectors had year. This decline to was due to proportional increase of the net assets noncurrent assets to the value of Rs. 3.6 billion and Rs. 2.6 billion. per share being higher than the proportional increase of the marker price per share. Return on Equity The Group recorded a return on equity of 12.3% for the financial FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Net Assets Per Share Price to Book Value year under review compared to 15.0% reported in the previous year. Rs. Times The return on equity reported for the financial year 2011/12 was 80 3.5 calculated by including the non-recurring capital gain recorded during 70 3.0 the year and upon adjustment amounts to 12.5%. 60 2.5 50 40 2.0 Shareholder Returns 1.5 30 Earnings per Share INVESTOR INFORMATION 1.0 20 The Group reported earnings per share of Rs. 8.05 for the financial 0.5 10 year under review. The earnings per share of Rs. 8.59 reported for 0 0.0 2011 2012 2013 NET ASSETS PER SHARE & PRICE TO BOOK VALUE 2013 as at 31st March 2012 Liquidity 2011 The liquidity position of the Group remained strong with the working SUPPLEMENTARY capital increasing to Rs. 6.8 billion at the end of the financial year 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 % under review from Rs. 4.0 billion in the previous financial year. The RETURN ON EQUITY INFORMATION current ratio improved to 1.44 from 1.27 in the previous year while the for the year ended 31st March quick asset ratio increased to 1.32 from 1.15 in the previous year. page 100 | 101 Financial Review the previous financial year was inclusive of the non-recurring capital Dividends per Share gain the Group recorded during the year. The earnings per share for The Board is recommending a first and final dividend payment of Rs 1.50 the financial year 2011/12 on recurring earnings was Rs. 7.14. The for the financial year, a 7.1% increase over the previous financial year. Group’s earnings per share growth on recurring earnings was 12.8% for the financial year 2012/13. Total Shareholder Returns The total shareholder returns was 7.5% for the financial year 2012/13 Market Price per Share and Market Capitalisation compared to a negative 29.7% in the previous year. During the same The market price of the company’s share was Rs. 119.60 at the end period, the All Share Price Index of the Colombo Stock Exchange of the financial year 2012/13, compared to Rs. 112.70 at the end of appreciated by 6.2%.The Group’s three year compounded total the previous financial year, an increase of 6.1%. The lowest price at shareholder return is 10.5%. which the share traded during the year under review was Rs 100.00 whilst the highest traded price was Rs 136.30. The total value of the shares traded during the year amounted to Rs 15.4 billion. The market Treasury Operations capitalisation of Aitken Spence PLC was Rs 48.6 billion at the end of Interest Rate and Cash Management the financial year which was 2.2% of the total market capitalisation of The weighted average yields for treasury bills of all three denominations gradually increased during the first few months of the year, peaking in September. The 12-month treasury bill weighted 2013 average yield was 11.32% at the beginning of the financial year; peaked at 13.30% and moved down ending the year at 11.35%. A 2012 similar trend was witnessed across 3-month and 6-month durations 2011 and the year end yields were 9.26% and 10.25% respectively. 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 The inflation as measured by the Colombo Consumer’s Price Index Rs. Mn MARKET CAPITALISATION decelerated as a result of the tight monetary policy maintained by as at 31st March the authorities and by the end of the financial year decreased to 7.5% on a year-on-year basis. With the inflation being maintained the Colombo Stock Exchange. at low levels the Central Bank effected a 25 basis point cut in policy rates in December 2012 and the Repurchase rate and the Reverse Price Earnings Ratio Repurchase rate were revised to 7.50% and 9.50% respectively. The The price earnings ratio of the company at the end of the financial year revision of policy rates were aimed at stimulating the economy which 2012/13 was 14.9 times compared to 13.1 times at the end of the showed signs of slowdown with the declines in both imports and previous financial year. The market price earnings ratio was 15.5 times exports during the year. Further cuts in policy rates were witnessed in at the end of the financial year and the company’s multiple was at a May 2013 with the rates being revised by 50 basis points. 5.2% discount to the market multiple. Despite the measures taken to stimulate the economy by making EPS Price Earnings borrowing costs more affordable the Average Weighted Prime Lending Times Rs. 10 30 Rate (AWPLR) continued to move northwards. The AWPLR was 9 12.65% at the beginning of the financial year and reached a high of 8 25 14.42% in March 2013. High borrowing costs made the investment 7 20 climate difficult for most companies. The Group treasury closely 6 monitors the funding costs across all the business sectors of Aitken 5 15 Spence and negotiates with lenders to ensure that the borrowing 4 3 10 terms are acceptable. The treasury also manages the liquidity of the 2 Group in order to ensure the efficient utilisation of monetary resources. 5 1 The liquidity management is facilitated through the internal matching 0 2011 2012 2013 0 of borrowing and lending positions of strategic business units of the EPS & PRICE EARNINGS RATIO Group. Excess funds are invested in highest yielding instruments and for the year ended 31st March Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW the maturities are managed to ensure that sufficient working capital is Group companies, mainly those operating in travel, shipping and cargo available for regular business activities. The treasury also makes use sectors, obtained competitive rates for their conversions by closely LEADERSHIP REVIEW of arbitrage opportunities available in the market, based on appropriate monitoring the market movements. The treasury assists the inward yield curve positioning combined with vigilant and relentless monitoring remittance business of the Group by negotiating for best rates to of money markets. During the financial year the Group’s funding costs convert inflows thereby enhancing the profitability of the operation. largely remained below AWPLR due to favourable borrowing terms and the prudent management of liquidity by the Group treasury. During the year the Central Bank issued a number of directives aimed at liberalising foreign exchange transactions including the permission The Group’s cash and short term deposits increased by 1.9% to Rs 2.2 granted for those companies with foreign exchange earnings to open billion in the financial year 2012/13, from Rs 2.1 billion in the previous Foreign Exchange Earners Accounts (FEEA). Pursuant to these directives GROUP PERFORMANCE financial year. Net finance expenses increased to Rs 683.0 million, from a number of foreign exchange generating companies in the Group have Rs 304.5 million in financial year 2011/12 as a result of the increase opened such accounts enabling them to receive and maintain balances in average borrowing costs and the increased utilisation of approved in foreign currency. REVIEW facilities. The treasury makes use of electronic banking facilities provided by Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards a number of international banks in its cash management process. Majority of the Group companies are linked to cash management Effective 1st January 2012 Sri Lanka converged and adopted platforms of major international banks thereby facilitating the monitoring International Financial Reporting Standards and the Institute of and funds transfer aspects of treasury operations. The Group works Chartered Accountants having authority under the Sri Lanka Accounting GOVERNANCE closely with many banks, both domestic and international, and has and Auditing Standards Act No 15 of 1995 issued and enacted a new obtained financing facilities on competitive terms. Aitken Spence PLC., volume of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards which are applicable for possessed clean borrowing facilities in excess of Rs. 4 billion at the end accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2012. The new of the financial year 2012/13 which could be drawn and utilised with Sri Lanka Accounting standards comprise of accounting standards short-notice to fund investments and working capital requirements. prefixed both SLFRS (corresponding to IFRS) and LKAS (Corresponding to IAS) and are commonly referred as SLFRS. During the financial year 2012/13, the Group concluded its negotiations FINANCIAL STATEMENTS with a major European development funding agency to obtain a foreign The Company and the Group successfully converged with the new currency denominated term loan which would be utilised to fund equity standards effective 1st April 2012 and this is the first set of financial investments of the holding company in various projects. It is expected statements prepared for the Group under the new Sri Lanka Accounting that the Group’s overall borrowing costs would be favourably impacted Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). by the utilisation of this facility in the coming financial year. The Company and the Group were required to apply these standards retrospectively, with all adjustments pertaining to converging with the Foreign Exchange Management new standards adjusted to the Statement of Changes in Equity. The The Rupee remained somewhat volatile during the first few months of INVESTOR INFORMATION Company and the Group have adopted all applicable standards. As the financial year 2012/13 but began to strengthen in December 2012. per the requirement of SLFRSs/LKASs three statements of Financial The appreciation continued up to the end of the financial year with the Position as at 1st April 2011, 31st March 2012 and 31st March 2013 US Dollar to Rupee exchange rate reaching 126.85 by end March. The have been reported in the financial statements of the Company and the strengthening of the Rupee which occurred despite the negative growth Group. in exports was primarily due to the increased inward remittances from expatriate workers, higher income generated by the tourism sector and Reconciliation is provided as note 50 which provides reconciliation and the issue of US Dollar bonds by both the government and the private the notes between the reported profits under the previous Sri Lanka sector. Accounting Standards and the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. The Aitken Spence Group is a net foreign exchange earner. The SUPPLEMENTARY treasury continued with its foreign exchange management activities of the Group during the year and ensured that strategic business units INFORMATION were kept abreast of the latest developments in foreign exchange markets. The treasury also ensured that foreign exchange generating page 102 | 103 Financial Review Statement of Value Added 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Total revenue 37,139,927 31,021,623 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 Purchase of goods and services (25,807,077) (21,575,034) (15,947,674) (15,700,541) (21,862,281) 11,332,850 9,446,589 9,196,137 8,468,429 7,445,537 Other operating and interest income 773,395 1,557,442 749,168 438,666 810,188 Share of profits of equity-accounted investees 181,501 85,983 95,304 19,102 (9,239) Total value added by the Group 12,287,746 11,090,014 10,040,609 8,926,197 8,246,486 Distributed as follows To governments (income tax and revenue tax) 10% 1,280,817 11% 1,224,609 8% 802,155 8% 739,885 8% 635,783 To employees (salaries and other costs) 33% 3,997,179 32% 3,580,485 30% 3,055,354 29% 2,624,483 27% 2,216,935 To lenders of capital (interest on loan capital and minority interest) 19% 2,314,839 15% 1,651,768 15% 1,552,704 20% 1,829,540 25% 2,062,444 To shareholders (dividends) 5% 608,994 5% 568,394 4% 405,996 3% 270,664 3% 257,131 Retained for reinvestments and future growth (depreciation and retained profits) 33% 4,085,917 37% 4,064,758 43% 4,224,400 40% 3,461,625 37% 3,074,193 100% 12,287,746 100% 11,090,014 100% 10,040,609 100% 8,926,197 100% 8,246,486 10% 33% To governments To employees To lenders of capital 33% To shareholders 5% Retained for reinvestments & future growth 19% Distribution of Wealth Created for the year ended 31st March 2013 Statement of Value Added As an exemplary corporate citizen, Aitken Spence Group is aware of the responsibility it holds towards its stakeholders. Thus, the Group is continously committed towards increasing the value generation through its activities and creating a positive impact on the Sri Lankan economy and the society. The consistent increase in wealth created by the Group over the years bears evidence of the strong commitment it has pledged. The value added statement indicates the value generated by the Group during the financial year and how it is appropriated. Through its operations during the year under review, the Aitken Spence Group created a total wealth of Rs. 12.3 billion, which is a 10.8 % increase over the previous year. Employees of the Group received 32.5% of the value created, whilst 10.4% was distributed to government authorities as taxes. Rise in interest rates during the year under review resulted in a sizeable increase in the portion distributed to lenders of capital, which amounted to 18.8% of the total. The shareholders of the Group was allotted 5.0% in the form of dividends of the total value created and 33.3% was retained by the Group for future investments and working capital requirements. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 People and GROUP OVERVIEW Culture Effectively and meaningfully managing the “People and Culture” aspect Sustainable Talent Management of our Group is a priority for Aitken Spence, and has been identified as The Group’s talent management strategy lays great emphasis on LEADERSHIP REVIEW a material issue in our overall strategy. The strength of Aitken Spence training the Group’s industry specialists and management categories lies in the skills and expertise of our 6,207 employees; we are aware through structured training as well as exposure to different training to ensure the sustainable growth of the Group, we must create the opportunities across businesses, in order to groom the next generation right culture through talented, creative, results oriented and engaged of leaders. The Group’s succession plan has identified successors for employees. Our strategy therefore has focused on facilitating the critical positions and performance management for this group includes unleashing of human potential by attracting the right talent, managing providing the relevant and required motivators, as well as providing performance and providing them with the right tools. periodic and continuous feedback on performance. GROUP PERFORMANCE We have achieved a good balance of the various parameters relating The Group has a resource base of emerging young high performers to our executives: 45% have served the Group for more than five to take over future leadership responsibilities and we recognise the years. The Group’s efforts to retain and motivate a strong pool of young importance of equipping them with globally competitive tools. As REVIEW executives have resulted in 18% of our managers being below 35 such, we have embarked on a project to send identified young leaders years. to internationally recognised institutions overseas to study novel 6% leadership and management styles. Towards this end, a group of high 23% potential employees across categories has been identified, and Group 18% Human resources has tied up foreign institutions which cater to the specific requirements of each high potential individual. GOVERNANCE 25 years and below 26 30 years 13% 31 35 years Occupational Health and Safety 36 40 years 21% The Group’s proactive approach to occupational health and 41 50 years 51 years and above safety (OHS) has consistently been proactive, and over and above 19% compliance. In businesses carrying high OHS-risk, formal systems AGE GROUP-WISE EMPLOYEE ANALYSIS as at 31st March 2013 are in place for continuous monitoring and improvement of existing FINANCIAL STATEMENTS practices. The current practices have enabled the Group to maintain a critical incident free working environment while no major lost workday The Group continously evaluates its human resources policies and incidents have been recorded for over five years. working environment as new generations of youth make their way onto the job market. The composition of our cadre has gradually shifted towards the younger generation – today, over one third of our Competency Development executives are under 35 years of age. Retaining them depends on The employee competency development strategy involves the provision our ability to provide an inspiring and rewarding environment that can of training opportunities designed to develop key competencies. The INVESTOR INFORMATION compete with their hunger for new experiences and their desire to required competencies are identified through a training needs analysis explore the world on their own terms. which compare desired competencies against current levels. The quantum of training and development programmes conducted The Group’s human resources strategy for employees of the Group saw a significant growth in 2012/13, pivots on seven parameters with 9350 employees trained through 396 training programmes. Þ Sustainable talent management The programmes covered technical areas and core competencies Þ Occupational health and safety in interpersonal skills and managerial skills. In order to build a sustainable training and development culture within the Group, special Þ Employee competency development SUPPLEMENTARY focus was also given to the creation of suitably skilled internal trainers. Þ Performance management INFORMATION Þ Compliance Þ Work life balance Þ Diversity, human rights and employee relations page 104 | 105 People and Culture 29% People Management structure 28% at Aitken Spence The Group has a well structured framework for the management and development of our people and culture. Aitken Spence Human Organisational Development Resources was set up with the mandate to effectively manage this 6% Managerial Development aspect by providing relevant and required motivators; periodic and Individual Development Technical continuous feedback on performance; development opportunities 37% based on training need analysis; and ensuring an organisational TYPES OF TRAINING for the year ended 31st March 2013 climate which promotes care, safety, stability and contentment. The Aitken Spence School of Management was established during Young Managers Total the year to extend a formal academic recognition to the structured 140 training provided in-house. In future, relevant training programmes 120 will be geared towards the awarding of certificates and diplomas 100 that are externally recognised. Majority of the faculty will be trained 80 resource personnel from Aitken Spence who have a wealth of industry experience. 60 40 4% 20 0 AM Mgr AGM DGM GM & 43% Above YOUNG MANAGERS as at 31st March 2013 53% Manager Executive For the Maldives segment a human resources committee was formed Non Executive during the year comprising of a human resources executive from each EMPLOYEES TRAINED CATEGORY-WISE Maldivian resort to encourage active participation, and speedy and for the year ended 31st March 2013 effective decision making at all resorts. This enabled the management to focus further on fine tuning policies related to human resources and increase human resources related activities as well as streamline human resources procedures throughout the Maldivian resorts. All the resorts have a staff village. The human resources executives are also responsible for overall staff welfare. A programme launched last year to develop the managers of the Maldives resorts continued this year, with intensive experiential content including managing productivity, developing subordinates, management and communication styles and team building exercises. The managerial level staff at in the Maldives resorts were also admitted to the management training programme (MTP) of Aitken Spence, which is considered to be the license to manage in the Group. The Group’s efforts at human resource management were recognised with a Silver Award at the HRM Awards 2012, organised by Human Resource Professionals (HRP). Aitken Spence was the only conglomerate to receive an award in this competition. We consider Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW this award a motivation to improve and continue the human resources Corporate Communication initiatives of the Group. Engagement with the internal and external stakeholders of Aitken LEADERSHIP REVIEW Spence is driven by the Corporate Communication unit, which operates Þ The Group’s efforts at human resource management were within Group human resources. Diverse mediums of communication in the form of articles, news releases, editorials, publications and other recognised with a Silver Award at the HRM Awards 2012, written communications are constantly developed to ensure that the organised by Human Resource Professionals (HRP). Aitken brands and image of the organisation are well managed. Digital and Spence was the only conglomerate to receive an award in social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube this competition. We consider this award a motivation to and blogs are utilised in a proactive manner to cultivate engagement improve and continue the Human Resources initiatives of with the public and update them on the activities of the Group. GROUP PERFORMANCE the Group. The Group’s quarterly newsletter, ‘Ace’, continues to be one of the most effective ways of providing employees and customers with REVIEW information of interest about overall Group events, awards, promotions etc. The Group’s newsletter in Sinhala, ‘Athwela’, is published on a monthly basis covering all newsworthy articles, and is circulated via email to all employees; printouts are made available on the Human resources notice boards for those who do not have email access. The ‘Knowledge Centre’ which functions as the internal group blog, GOVERNANCE provides employees an opportunity to share information and interact with one another. On the blog, employees can also access all company notices and email announcements circulated through the years. Strengths: Employee Satisfaction Surveys • Reputation as a preferred employer In order to obtain employee’s direct feedback on the issues that FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • A credible history of compliance and responsible practices affect them the most, human resources conducts annual employee • Leadership in key sectors of the economy satisfaction surveys with the results, concerns and feedback reported to the Board of Directors and Senior Management. Furthermore, Offering to employees: we also use Exit Interviews with employees leaving the services of • Cross-functional exposure to group businesses our organisation as a channel of obtaining feedback on company • Mentoring & coaching by foremost industry specialists practices, workplace satisfaction and any other relevant details. • Equal opportunity and above par benefits • Good governance and corporate responsibility Video of the Corporate Song INVESTOR INFORMATION This year, we introduced the new corporate song video which has Challenges: helped to enhance the corporate image and take forward the warm • Shortage of suitably skilled staff and friendly nature of the Aitken Spence employees. • Increasing migration overseas of professionals and skilled workers 6S and HR Competition • Attracting and adapting to the new age worker Since 2002, Aitken Spence human resources has been conducting an annual 6S Competition with the aim of maintaining and uplifting HR Benefits productivity standards. This year, in recognition of the role of good A committee was appointed to review the policy on insuring SUPPLEMENTARY human resources practices in increasing productivity, we included an employees, taking into consideration the increasing requirement for audit of human resources functions of each participating subsidiary better insurance schemes. Consequently, the Group doubled the sum into the competition. We hope this would further promote the insured on the health policy for managers and executives with less INFORMATION championing human resources practices within the Group. than 10 years of service. Different rates were identified for increment page 106 | 107 People and Culture for employees based on their categories and years of service while the mercantile level. During the year under review, Aitken Spence was policy on reimbursement for OPD treatment was also streamlined to represented at the annual mercantile sporting tournaments for Cricket ensure effective monitoring. (MCA E Division), Swimming and Volleyball. The Group also invested in the welfare of employees and their families, On the fitness front, the Group also organised “Burn”, a campaign with special emphasis on worker community in the plantation sector. focusing on weight and fat loss, with the participation of 100 The contribution towards recreation and health was quadrupled, employees. The programme, the first of its kind in the Group, spanned ensuring an organisational climate which promotes care, safety, a period of two months with weekly winners and overall winners being stability and contentment. Employees are encouraged to have a work identified. life balance. As part of our contribution, we have extended flexible working hours for those who work with overseas markets such as We recognise however that wellness goes beyond physical wellbeing employees in the BPO, travel and tourism sectors. Also among the and therefore organised several events that enabled employees, and initiatives for the year was the introduction of a metered three-wheeler their families to interact and socialise outside the daily work setting. service in May 2012, which has proven to be a safe, cost effective, Such programmes included the Memory Enhancement Programme convenient and reliable transport option for employees. conducted by Group Human resources, the Different Strokes Art Competition for the children of Aitken Spence employees, and the Christmas Carols 2012 which over 4000 employees and family Work Life Balance members attended. From Spence Beach Bash to Bowling Tournaments The Aitken Spence Human resources and Sports Club spearheads and a Sing-A-Long, the programme line up is tailored to cater to the many of the activities – from sports and entertainment to employee tastes and expectations of the diverse membership. volunteerism designed to improve the work-life balance of our employees. This year’s eventful calendar of employee engagement A new programme introduced during the year under review was activities included the following: the Spence Talent Show 2013, the first show of its nature at Aitken Spence. Organised with the aim of recognising the best vocalists Þ Different Strokes Children’s Art Competition (employees’ children) within the Group, the search attracted 89 soloists and 10 duets for the & Cookery Demonstration (for parents): competition from across the Group and was extremely well received Þ Vesak Lantern Competition & Ice Cream Dansela among the entire staff. Þ Chillax Evenings Another key initiative that began during the year and which will Þ Burn A fitness initiative continue on a monthly basis is “Chillax Evenings”, a relaxed gathering Þ Sing-A-Long 2012: hosted by subsidiaries at the Diamond Room at our Corporate Office. The evenings include light entertainment and refreshments together Þ Sport-o-Rama 2012 with a lucky draw and games has proven to be a popular mode for Þ Memory enhancement programme for employees’ children employees to enjoy the company of their colleagues and network Þ Spence Beach Bash with other SBU members. The Chillax Evenings was initiated by Aitken Þ Blood Donation Campaign Spence Human resources in response to a suggestion from a member Þ Christmas Party 2012 of the staff Þ Spence Bowling Tournament Þ Blood Donation Campaign Þ Spence Talent Show 2013 The growing incidence of illnesses related to the lack of fitness and bad food habits is a potential risk to employee health and well-being. The Aitken Spence Sports Club promoted physical well-being by providing employees access to a gymnasium, swimming pool, aerobics lessons and nutritional guidance. The Annual Sports Day of the Group ‘Sport-o-Rama’ provides a platform for the sports talent within the group to be recognised, and to gain an opportunity to perform at Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Governance & Leadership GOVERNANCE mEANS: The Board is the highest governing authority in the Group and has ultimate responsibility for corporate governance. It appreciates that strategy, risk, performance and sustainability are inseparable and the Board is responsible for approving the strategic direction of the Group, which integrates these elements. The Board is governed by a charter that sets out the framework of its accountability, responsibility and duty to the Company. The BOARD OF AITKEN SPENCE PLC in promoting and supporting the highest standards of business integrity, ethics and corporate governance, and in adopting the Code of Governance Principles, continued to conduct the business of the Group with prudence, transparency, integrity and accountability, and is pleased to deliver this integrated annual report. GOVERNANCE page 108 | 109 Governance Report Robust Corporate Governance is an integral component of the structures and processes of Aitken Spence in its continuous transformation as A vibrant, rapidly evolving and diversified conglomerate that it is today. We at Aitken Spence take pride in our long history of being one of the best performing companies in the South Asian region by doing the right things, the right way. 2013 has been yet another dynamic year with the Company striving The Board towards the formulation of an enhanced integrated report – an Board Balance and Independence approach led by our business activities and governed by our sound corporate governance principles and practices. The effective execution Our Board consists of a Chairman, Deputy Chairman & Managing of board decisions in accordance with the intentions of our stakeholders Director and eight other Directors, six of whom are Non-Executive – inclusive of the efforts of all who contribute towards the achievement Directors as outlined in table on page 112. of both internal and external stakeholder goals of the Company, – is Mr. G. M. Perera who was a member of the Board resigned with effect paramount in our commitment to achieve excellence. from 31/12/2012. This persistent commitment to being a Benchmark of Corporate Mr. C. R. De Silva P.C. was appointed to the Board as an Independent Citizenship is realised through the leadership and collaboration of Non-Executive Director on 08/04/2013. each and every individual across our group and its subsidiaries. We work collectively to conduct vigorous integration of plans and Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors actions, resulting in a process that continuously challenges the status quo and that ensures, high standards of decision making, implementation, monitoring and reviewing, with appropriate remedial 40% action and revision of decisions being applied where necessary – whilst simultaneously being dynamic and flexible with respect to the unpredictable micro and macroeconomic environment. In our quest Executive for growth and harnessing of opportunities and developing a presence 60% Non-Executive in key business areas across the globe via strategic synergies and partnerships, we strive to enhance long-term stakeholder value As denoted in their profiles (pages 130 to 134) the Board comprises whilst perpetuating the highest standards of integrity, accountability, of two Chartered Accountants and a former investment banker. These transparency and business ethics. Directors with their academic and/or entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen and broad practical wisdom, impart substantial PASSION for Excellence: Evolving, Outstanding value, knowledge and independent judgement towards decision Performance, Best Trusted, Value Creation & making and the execution of matters concerning finance and Focused investment. Our actions are harnessed and sustained to drive a culture of None of the Directors are related to each other and as such they are continuous improvement in sustainability and eco efficiency whilst able to express their views independently and objectively. upholding the highest standards of corporate governance principles and practices as adopted by the Company, and as exemplified in this All our Independent Non-Executive Directors are assigned the task of enhanced and integrated report. These principles and practices are acting as critical friends to the Board and are responsible for: drawn upon the jointly issued guidelines of the Institute of Chartered Þ bringing a wide range of skills with rich and versatile experience, Accountants of Sri Lanka, the Securities and Exchange Commission of including independent judgement on issues related to strategy, Sri Lanka, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and other financial and operational performance, key appointments, and Codes of Professional Institutes, Chambers of Commerce and Industry standards of business conduct, ethics and all matters pertaining to Associations. the Board; Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Þ offering constructive criticism of strategies brought before the Board Independence of Non-Executive Directors LEADERSHIP REVIEW Þ scrutinising and challenging performance across the Group’s Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe: The Board having considered the business sectors; circumstances and the criterion of independence in relation to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe, has construed him to be independent Þ assessing the risk and the integrity of financial information and as he refrains from any involvement in the day-to-day controls; and management of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Þ determining the Company’s policy for executive remuneration, and Mr. C. H. Gomez: The Board construed Mr. C. H. Gomez as the remuneration packages an Independent Director as he refrains from any involvement GROUP PERFORMANCE in the day-to-day management of the Company or any of its The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is subsidiaries and the fact that he resides overseas. satisfied that these do not conflict with their performance of duties at the optimal level as Directors of the Company, with sufficient time Mr. N. J. de Silva Deva Aditya: Although a Director of the REVIEW being allocated by each member to fulfilling the said duties. Relevant Company and a Director of Institutions that hold over 15% of the changes to the commitments of all the Directors are reported to the shares of the Company, is determined as an Independent Director Board as and when they occur. after taking into consideration all the relevant circumstances, including the fact that he resides overseas. Furthermore, neither Furthermore, each Non-Executive Director submits a signed the Institution in which he is a Director nor he directly or indirectly declaration of his independence/non-independence against specific get involved in the day to day management of either the Company GOVERNANCE criteria on a yearly basis. or its subsidiaries and as such is independent of management and free of business relationship. Where applicable, any conflicts/concerns made aware of by the Directors during the financial year that cannot be unanimously Mr. V. M. Fernando: Appointed to the Board as an Independent resolved are recorded in the Board minutes. Director. Mr. R. N. Asirwatham: Appointed to the Board as an Independent Board Meetings Director. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board Meetings were held five times during this financial year Mr C.R. De Silva P.C.: Appointed to the Board as an Independent and were presided over by the Chairman. The Board Meetings Director on the 8th of April 2013. are scheduled in advance enabling the Directors to plan their commitments facilitating attendance at the meetings. Any instances of non-attendance at the meetings were due to personal commitments relationships, associated markets and so forth are delved into an inor illness, and Directors were provided with briefing materials for depth manner when necessary. discussion on a later date with the Chairman or Managing Director. Minutes of the Board Meetings are accurately recorded and circulated Attendance at the 2012/2013 Board Meetings are indicated in the to the Directors for confirmation at the next meeting. When decisions INVESTOR INFORMATION Table on page 112. are taken via circular resolutions, all relevant information are sent with The Directors are provided with the agenda and Board papers in the circular resolution to enable the Directors to clearly comprehend advance giving them adequate time to review the Board papers and the purpose for which a resolution is being circulated, prior to call for any additional information and clarification. They are able to obtaining their consent. formulate independent views that enable their active and effective participation. The Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the formulation and implementation Matters pertaining to the Managing Director’s Report/concerns, of sound business strategies within the Group and has the powers SUPPLEMENTARY up-to-date financial accounts, respective operational updates, and and duties afforded within the milieu of relevant laws of the country, where applicable, reports from the Nomination Committee, Audit international laws, regulatory authorities, professional institutes and INFORMATION Committee, and Remuneration Committee are discussed. Additionally, trade associations. The Board is responsible for: further discussions pertaining to both commercial and non-commercial strategy, technology strategy, talent and succession planning, partner page 110 | 111 GOVERNANCE REPORT Name of Director Board Meeting Direct/Indirect Interest Involvement/ Interest Attendance in Shareholding in Supply Contract Chairman Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena 5/5 Indirect Yes Deputy Chairman and Managing Director Mr. J.M.S. Brito 5/5 Direct Yes Executive Directors Dr. R.M. Fernando 5/5 Yes Mr. G.M. Perera * 3/4 No Dr. M.P. Dissanayake 5/5 No Independent/Non-Executive Directors Mr. G. C. Wickremasinghe 3/5 Direct/ Indirect No Mr. C.H. Gomez 2/5 No Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya 3/5 Yes Mr. V.M. Fernando 3/5 Yes Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 5/5 Direct No Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. # Alternate Directors Mr. A.L. Gooneratne 2/5 (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) Dates of Meetings 08/05/2012 : 28/06/2012 : 03/08/2012 : 18/12/2012 : 21/02/2013 * (Resigned on 31/12/2012) # Appointed as a Director on 08/04/2013 Þ Ensuring that the Managing Director, Board of Management and Þ Introducing appropriate and effective systems to secure integrity the senior management teams demonstrate the right balance of of information, internal controls and risk management systems to independence, knowledge, skill, background and experience to encompass all aspects of the businesses. implement strategy and initiate fresh perspectives. Þ Evaluation of all new businesses and investment proposals in Þ Ensuring that those delegated with the authority to manage the depth prior to commitment, restructuring and re-engineering operations of the Company adhere to the policies and procedures existing businesses of the Group where necessary. of the Group. Þ Effective implementation of senior management succession The Chairman Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena strategy. One of the most successful and proficient business leaders in the Þ Ensuring that the Company’s values and principles are aligned with country, our Chairman is responsible for preserving order at Board the adoption of and compliance with appropriate and applicable Meetings and the good corporate governance of our Group whilst statutes, accounting and financial regulations, environmental and facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions and business ethical standards, and compliance with regulatory and stakeholder strategies. He is responsible for: requirements. Þ Ensuring that the Board adheres to procedures and the Þ Recommending the appointment or removal of the external relevant statutes whilst being in complete control of the affairs auditors subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual of the Company. General Meeting. Þ Ensuring that its obligations to the various stakeholders and Þ Appointing Directors to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination regulatory bodies are met. Committees, who possess the experience and expertise to add Þ Encouraging effective participation by both Executive and Nonvalue to the Committees to which they are appointed. Executive Directors on matters taken up for consideration,. Þ Self-evaluation of the Board is conducted on its own performance Þ Ensuring that all Directors are adequately briefed on issues and that of its Committees. arising at Board Meetings and that they effectively contribute Þ Reviewing and approving the operational and financial budgets, with their respective capabilities for the best benefit of the and monitoring the performance of the individual Strategic Company. Business Units of the Group, whilst seeking complete information Þ Ensuring that shareholders are given adequate opportunity to to form views, critique management and take strategic decisions. make observations, express their views and seek clarifications at meetings of shareholders. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW In addition, the Board of Directors, both individually and collectively, Deputy Chairman & Managing Director strive to comply with best practices on environmental, health, Mr. J.M.S. Brito LEADERSHIP REVIEW safety and ethical standards whilst ensuring that the interest of all A fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of stakeholder groups are considered when making strategic decisions. London & Wales with a Degree in Law and a Master’s Degree There is a clear distinction between the functions and responsibilities in Business Administration, our Deputy Chairman and Managing of the Chairman and the Managing Director. This separation of duties Director is responsible for: ensures a balance of power and authority within the organisation, so Þ Day-to-day management of Group business operations with that no one person has unfettered powers of decision-making and the support of our Executive Directors, Board of Management implementation. and our senior management team. Þ Revision and implementation of the Company’s strategies Board Effectiveness GROUP PERFORMANCE and policies. REVIEW Þ Maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman, and being a sounding board for the Chairman as and when Appraisal of the Group Performance necessary. The Board in consultation with the Managing Director reviews and approves the operational and financial budgets/targets in line with the short, medium and long-term objectives of the Group that should be met by the respective business units during the The Company Secretary GOVERNANCE Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty year. The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and The evaluation of performance is conducted by the Board is present at all Board Meetings. In addition, our Company annually, along with assessment of whether failure to meet such Secretary: set targets was reasonable under the given circumstances. Þ Assists the Chairman in ensuring that the Board Members have full and timely access to all relevant information/ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS documentation whilst making sure that appropriate facilities Performance Evaluation are available for the proper conduct of meetings and effective Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual decision-making. Directors takes place annually on a self-appraisal basis within the Þ Is accountable for guaranteeing that the correct Board terms of reference to its/their key responsibilities outlined on pages procedures are followed, and that the applicable rules and 111 to 112 and of the Nomination Committee (see page 116). The regulations are reviewed regularly and complied with. Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman and the Managing Þ Advises the Board on corporate governance matters and acts Director regarding the remuneration proposal including revision of INVESTOR INFORMATION as the interface between the management and regulatory salary packages to Executive Directors and the Senior Management, authorities as and when necessary. taking into consideration the internal and external socioeconomic factors. No Director is involved in determining his/her own Þ Manages the procedure whereby the Directors and the Board remuneration. can, as needed, obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense in discharging their duties. A portion of the remuneration is in the form of a ‘performance bonus’, which is based on the achievement of both individual and corporate goals and targets. Non-Executive Directors are remunerated as per the Articles of Association of the Company; the fees and reimbursable expenses are SUPPLEMENTARY payable taking into consideration the basis of services performed at the Board and Committee Meetings. INFORMATION page 112 | 113 GOVERNANCE REPORT Appointment of Directors Independent Advice Upon the appointment of a new Director to the Board, the Company The Board acknowledges that certain occasions may arise when informs the Colombo Stock Exchange with a brief resume of the one or more of the Directors feel it necessary to seek impartial Director, containing the nature of his/her expertise in relevant professional guidance at the Company’s expense. The agreed upon functional areas, other directorships held, memberships on Board formal procedure enabling such advice is managed by the Company Committees and the nature of the appointment. Secretary. Re-election of Directors Indemnification of Directors In accordance with the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the In accordance with the Company’s Articles of Association and the Articles of Association of the Company, the relevant Directors submit Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, Directors are granted an indemnity themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their on 27/06/2013. The Nomination Committee has declared to the Board office. For this purpose the Company maintains a Directors’ and that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for Officers’ liability insurance policy throughout the financial year. Neither re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2013 are effective and our indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that the affirms the Company’s continuous support of their re-election. Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently (or is liable for any act or omission in his capacity as a Director). The Articles of Association of the Company empowers the Board Committees Board of Directors to either fill a casual vacancy in the directorate In addition to Board meetings, individual Directors are members of the or to appoint additional Directors. Directors so appointed hold various sub committees of the Board; the Nomination Committee, the office until the next Annual General Meeting at which they are Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, each of which is eligible for election. attended by the respective Director after due preparation prior to such The Company’s Articles of Association provide for one third of the meetings. The Directors dedicate sufficient time before such meetings Directors for the time being, or if their number is not a multiple to review respective documentation relating to the meeting, and call of three the number nearest to one third (but not exceeding one for additional information for any further clarification, in addition to third) to retire from office by rotation. The offices of the Chairman familiarising themselves with the micro and macro economic factors, and the Managing Director, are not subject to retirement by legal risk and political changes in the global business environment. rotation. The committees are provided with all essential resources to empower The retiring Directors are selected on the basis of those who them to undertake their duties in an effective manner. The Company have been in office the longest since their last election. In the Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the recorded event that more than one Director is appointed on the same date, minutes of each committee meeting are circulated to all Directors on the retiring Director is determined either by agreement or by lot. completion. A retiring Director is eligible for re-election. In order to ensure that the Board comprises of members who add value to the Group, the Board evaluates the contribution made by each retiring Director before recommending such Director for re-election. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Name of Director Nomination Committee Remuneration Audit Committee Committee LEADERSHIP REVIEW Chairman Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena 1/1 Present by Invitation Deputy Chairman and Managing Director 4/4 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 1/1 Present by Invitation Present by Invitation Executive Directors Dr. R.M. Fernando Mr. G.M. Perera * Dr. M.P. Dissanayake Independent/Non-Executive Directors GROUP PERFORMANCE Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Chairman 1/1 1/1 4/4 Mr. C.H. Gomez 2/4 REVIEW Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya 3/4 Mr. V.M. Fernando 1/1 1/1 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1/1 1/1 Chairman 4/4 Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. # Alternate Directors Mr. A.L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya) GOVERNANCE Dates of Meetings 28/06/2012 23/06/2012 27/06/2012 22/11/2012 19/12/2012 05/02/2013 **Resigned on 21/02/2013 # Appointed as a Director on 08/04/2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 114 | 115 GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee REPORT Functions of the Committee Nomination Committee The Committee formally met once during the year under review, and all the members were in attendance. The Committee evaluates the performance of the existing Directors, the composition of the present Boards of Directors of Group Companies and their future requirements, the suitability of new appointments and the re-appointments of existing Directors to such Boards. The Committee also assesses the combined knowledge, skills Chairman: and experience of the Directors in order to ensure that they serve on the appropriate Boards in order to meet the strategic demands facing Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Independent Non-Executive Director) the Company. Secretary to Committee: Accordingly, the Committee having considered the areas of Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty qualifications, competencies, independence, conflicts of interest of the Directors in relation to the requirements of the Company, reviewed Members: and recommended changes considered necessary with respect to Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman of Aitken Spence the composition of the Boards of Group Companies. The Nomination PLC) Committee further evaluated the suitability of promotions of employees Mr. J.M.S. Brito (Deputy Chairman and Managing Director Aitken to higher levels of management and these recommendations were Spence PLC) made to the Board of Directors. Mr. V.M. Fernando (Independent Non-Executive Director) The decisions of the Nomination Committee were fair, free from any Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Independent Non-Executive Director) bias, and were not influenced by personal or business relationships. This has enabled the Committee to make sound and measured Key Objective: judgements in order to attract the best talent to the Group, and also To ensure that the Board is comprised of persons who individually retain the services of current employees, by giving them fair and equal and collectively possess a large reservoir of knowledge, opportunities. experience and entrepreneurial skills, there by enabling the Board to perform its responsibilities and duties effectively. Responsibilities: Þ Identifies and makes recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates for appointment and re-appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and G.C. Wickremasinghe the leadership requirements of the Group. Chairman Þ Regular review of the current Board with recommendations Nomination Committee made for the future in relation to the structure, size and composition of the Boards of Group Companies, considering Colombo the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and expertise, 14th May 2013 and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors. Þ Oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE REPORT Remuneration Committee REPORT The Directors comprising the above Committee are independent of Remuneration Committee management and are totally free from any business, personal or other LEADERSHIP REVIEW relationships that may interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. Function of the Committee The Group remuneration policy remained unchanged during the year under review and the Committee formally met once. Chairman: The Group policy on remuneration packages is to attract the best GROUP PERFORMANCE Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Independent Non-Executive Director) calibre of professional, skilled and managerial talent to the Group, to retain such employees within the Group, and to motivate and REVIEW Secretary to Committee: encourage them to perform at the optimum level. Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty The Group has a structured and professional methodology to evaluate Members: the performance of employees. The policy ensures that internal equity and fairness among employees are maintained and that a suitable Mr. V.M. Fernando (Independent Non-Executive Director) work environment and working conditions are provided. Further, there Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Independent Non-Executive Director) is no discrimination on account of gender, age, ethnicity or religion. GOVERNANCE On Invitation: The Remuneration Committee having considered the performance of Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman, Aitken Spence PLC) the Group and the Strategic Business Units and the contribution of the Mr. J.M.S. Brito (Deputy Chairman and Managing Director, Aitken employees to the Strategic Business Unit to which they are attached, Spence PLC) approved promotions and the revision of individual remuneration packages. These packages were based on the cost of living, inflation Key Objective: and comparative industry norms. No Director was involved in deciding FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accountable to the Board for the consideration and his/ her own remuneration. recommendation of policy on Executive remuneration packages The Remuneration Committee’s decisions were based on these for individual Directors and Senior Management. policies and practices, which ensured that sound and measured Responsibilities: judgements were adopted at all times. Þ Determining the policy of remuneration of the Directors and the management team. Þ Evaluating the performance of the Managing Director, INVESTOR INFORMATION Executive Directors, and the individual and collective performance of Directors and Senior Management of the Strategic Business Units. G.C. Wickremasinghe Þ Determination of overall individual packages, including Chairman compensation on termination of office. Remuneration Committee Þ Ensuring that duties are executed within the recognised Colombo principles of good governance. 14th May 2013 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 116 | 117 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee REPORT Meetings and Attendance Audit Committee The Audit Committee formally met four times during the year ended 31st March 2013 as per Table on page 115. Whenever the Audit Committee considered it necessary, the functional heads and the finance heads of the Strategic Business Units, whose audit reports were being reviewed and Chairman: discussed, were also invited to attend these meetings. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Independent Non-Executive Director) Secretary to Committee: The Audit Committee uses its extensive Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty experience, knowledge and specialised expertise to assist the Board of Directors to perform their Members: duty of ensuring that the Company’s internal Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Independent Non-Executive Director) controls and risk management systems are Mr. C.H. Gomez (Independent Non-Executive Director) adequate, and also that the conduct of business Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya/Mr. A. L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director for Mr. N. J. de Silva is in accordance with best practices. The Audit Deva Aditya) (Independent Non-Executive Director) Committee also provides the overall strategic By Invitation: direction and inputs to the activities of the Group Internal Audit Department using the expertise Mr. J.M.S Brito (Deputy Chairman and Managing Director Aitken Spence PLC) of the internal audit staff to carry out financial Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Chief Financial Officer) and operational audits, risk assessments and IT Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka (Chief Corporate Officer) security reviews in a more effective manner. Mr. C.R.F. de Costa (Chief Internal Auditor) Key Objective: The annual and quarterly financial statements To provide effective financial governance over the appropriateness of the Group’s that were prepared in strict compliance with the financial results as well as the performance of both internal and external audit functions Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the along with the management of the Company’s systems of internal control, business risks Sri Lanka Accounting Standards were reviewed and all pertinent compliance activities. and subsequently discussed with the Audit Committee prior to being approved by the Responsibilities: Board. Þ Reviews financial results, announcements and financial statements. Þ Monitors compliance with applicable statutory and listing requirements. The Audit Committee reviewed the Þ Assesses and reports to the Board on the quality and acceptability of the Group’s implementation of the new Sri Lanka accounting policies and practices, along with critical accounting policies and Accounting Standards, which converged, with practices. the International Financial Reporting Standards Þ Manages the relationship with the External Auditors. in the Group, and the resulting effect on the Þ Assesses correspondence from regulators regarding the Company’s financial Financial Statements for the year ended reporting. 31st March 2013 and the statement of financial Þ Evaluates the scope, extent and effectiveness of the execution of duties by the position as at 1st April 2011 as required by the Group’s internal audit department. Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards – first Þ Examines and provides recommendations to the Board on the nature and extent of time adoption. the significant risks the Group is willing to take in achieving strategic objectives. The Audit Committee reviewed and approved Þ Oversees the Group’s compliance process. the annual audit plan of the Group Internal Audit Þ Carries out an in-depth examination of specific areas of financial reporting, risks and Department, which was prepared after a careful internal controls as determined by the Committee. assessment of the business activities of the Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW SBU’s of the Group, and the various risks such entities are exposed to. The Audit Committee reviewed in detail, the financial and operational LEADERSHIP REVIEW audit reports and the risk reports issued by the Group Internal Audit Department and recommended necessary remedial action. The Group Internal Audit Department also updates the Audit Committee on the status of the follow-up action on previously reported audit findings on a regular basis through dashboards and scorecards. The Audit Committee ensures that the heads of the respective sectors undertake follow-up action in a timely manner. GROUP PERFORMANCE The Audit Committee reviews the skills and competencies of the internal audit staff and ensures that adequate resources are provided REVIEW to enable the Group Internal Audit Department to complete the fieldwork as per the annual audit plan. External Audit The Audit Committee met the External Auditors Messrs KPMG to plan, review and monitor the progress of the statutory audit, discuss GOVERNANCE in detail the audit findings and observations of the external auditors and, agreed on timelines to implement the audit recommendations. The Audit Committee also reviewed the fees proposed by the external auditors and made recommendations to the Board. The Audit Committee having evaluated the performance of the external auditors decided to recommend to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG, as the Auditors of the Company for the current year, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. INVESTOR INFORMATION R.N. Asirwatham Chairman Audit Committee Colombo 14th May 2013 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 118 | 119 GOVERNANCE REPORT Shareholder Engagement Review Effectiveness We are committed to maintaining effective two-way communication The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of with all investors. To this end, the Board conducts regular discussions the financial, operational and compliance controls, and internal control with Institutional Investors based on mutual understanding of systems, including risk management for the period and have taken objectives, particularly those relating to governance and strategy. appropriate remedial steps where necessary. Existing and prospective investors are able to make well-informed Code of Business Conduct and Ethics decisions in their dealings with the Company via the comprehensive The Company has developed and institutionalised a strong set of and balanced reports and financial statements published annually and corporate values and a Code of Conduct that is circulated to Directors on a quarterly basis. The Company further conducts meetings between and all employees. The Board ensures that Directors and employees major shareholders on an on-going basis, whilst at the same time strictly comply with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics at all answering queries from all shareholders and analysts, through the levels in the performance of their official duties, communications, Company Secretarial Division and/or Communications Team. role-modelling and in any other circumstances, so as to prevent the The principal communication with individual investors is via the tarnishing of the Company’s image in any manner. The violation of the Company website, the quarterly financial statements, corporate Code of Ethics is an offence that is subject to disciplinary action. disclosures, annual report, and through the Annual General Meeting at which they are encouraged to be present, actively participate Going Concern and vote. The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for The relevant Declaration regarding the Going Concern Statement is set shareholders to make any applicable comments or observations, seek out in the ‘Annual Report of the Directors’ on page 152 of this Annual clarifications, and cast their vote on relevant issues. Shareholders are Report. free to informally convene with our Directors after the conclusion of the meeting. Risk Management The comprehensive annual report equips both existing and potential An overview of the Group’s framework for identifying and managing stakeholders with up-to-date information and facilitates appropriate risk, both at an operational and strategic level, is set out on pages 126 decision-making. Additionally we encourage all investors/shareholders to 129. to carry out adequate analysis and obtain independent advice regarding their investment in the Company. Annual Report The Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Internal Controls and Risk Management Annual Report and confirm that the quarterly reports, annual financial statements and the annual review of operations of the Company and The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing sound its subsidiaries, that are incorporated in this Annual Report have been systems of internal control and risk management for the Group and prepared and presented in a reliable manner, based on a balanced for reviewing its effectiveness and integrity on a continuous basis. and comprehensive assessment of the financial performance of the The internal audit division assists the Board of Directors and the Audit Company and its subsidiaries. Committee in carrying out the above task. All financial statements are in accordance with the Companies Act Any internal control system has its inherent limitations which mean No. 07 of 2007, the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards that adverse effects can not be entirely eliminated. However the Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. We have systems are designed to manage risk and hence we have taken duly complied with all the requirements prescribed by the regulatory appropriate steps to minimise situations of misstatements or loss. We authorities including the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Registrar of have an internal audit division which monitors and review the internal Companies. Messers KPMG, Chartered Accountants have audited the controls for purposes of protecting stakeholder investments and consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of the assets. Company. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE LEADERSHIP REVIEW Listing Rules 1. Company A. Directors A.1 / 7.10.1 (a), 7.10.2 (a) and 7.10.3 (c-d) The Board The Board comprises of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman and Managing Director, and eight other Directors, six of whom are Non-Executive Directors who act as critical friends to the Board whilst collaborating with them in providing strategic direction. The Board considers the long-term interest of all stakeholders of the Group in their continuous efforts to ensure good governance and the effective functioning of the Company. GROUP PERFORMANCE The names and profiles of each of the Directors are on pages 130 to 134 of this Annual Report. None of the Directors are related to each other, enabling each of the Directors to express their views independently and objectively. Company Board meetings A.1.1 Complied Please refer Pages 111 to 112 REVIEW Responsibilities of the Board A.1.2 Complied Please refer Pages 111 to 112 and 150 Compliance with laws and access to A.1.3 Complied Please refer Pages 114 and 150 independent professional advice Company Secretary A.1.4 Complied Please refer Page 113 Independent judgment of the Directors A.1.5 Complied Please refer Pages 110 to 111 Dedicating adequate time and effort A.1.6 Complied Please refer Pages 111 and 114 GOVERNANCE Training for new and existing Directors A.1.7 Complied Any new director who is appointed to the Board is given if necessary appropriate training. The Board has recognised that there is a need for continuous training and development of skill for better performance of their duties. A.2. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear demarcation of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing Director. The functions performed by the Chairman FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and the Managing Director are distinct and separate, ensuring the balance of power and authority within the organisation, so that no person has unfettered powers of decision-making and implementation. (Please refer pages 112 to 113) Clear division of responsibilities of the A.2.1 Complied As mentioned above the Company has segregated the duties Chairman and the CEO between the Chairman and the Managing Director (pages 112 to 113). A.3 Chairman’s Role The Chairman is responsible for preserving order within the Board and good corporate governance of the Group whilst facilitating the effective discharge of Board functions and business strategies. INVESTOR INFORMATION Role of Chairman A.3.1 Complied Please refer Page 112 A.4 Financial Acumen Financial acumen A.4 Complied The Directors with their academic and/or entrepreneurial financial skills, business acumen and wide practical wisdom contribute substantial value, knowledge and independent judgment to decision making on matters concerning finance and investment, (see page 110) and Directors profiles on pages 130 to 134. A.5 Board Balance SUPPLEMENTARY Presence of Non-Executive Directors A.5.1 Complied Please refer Pages 110 to 112. 7.10.1 (a), 7.10.2(a) and INFORMATION 7.10.3 (a) page 120 | 121 GOVERNANCE REPORT Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Independence of Non-Executive Directors A.5.2 & 5.3 Complied Please refer Pages 110 to 112. 5.5 7.10.2 (a-b) and 7.10.3 (a-b) Annual Declaration of Non-Executive A.5.4 Complied Please refer Page 111. Directors 7.10.2 (b) Requirement to appoint a ‘Senior NonA.5.6 and A.5.7 Not This is not relevant to the Company as the Chairman and the Executive Director ‘ applicable Managing Director’s roles are segregated. Chairman conducting meetings with the A.5.8 Complied The Chairman meets with the Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors Directors as and when necessary. Recording of concerns in the Board A.5.9 Complied Please refer Page 111. minutes A.6 Supply of Information Obligation of the Management to provide A.6.1 Complied The Group has a state of the art management information appropriate and timely information system to process and monitor the performance of the Group. Appropriate and timely information is made available to the Board members who make further inquiries when necessary. Adequate time for circulation of respective A.6.2 Complied Please refer Pages 111 and 114. Board documents A.7 Appointments to the Board Nomination Committee and the A.7.1 and 7.2 Complied The names of the members of the Committee are on page 115 assessment of composition of the Board and on the inner back cover of the Annual Report. Disclosure to Shareholders A.7.3 Complied Please refer Page 114. A.8 Re-election Re-election of Directors A.8.1 and 8.2 Complied Please refer Pages 114 and 153. A.9 Appraisal of Board performance Appraisals of the Board and the sub A.9.1, A.9.2 and Complied Please refer Pages 113 and 117. committees A.9.3 A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors: Directors disclosures A.10.1 Complied The names of the Directors of the Board, their leadership 7.10.3 (c-d) expertise, skills and their profiles are disclosed on pages 130 to 134 of this report. Related party transaction of the Directors are indicated on note 46 of the financial statements. The number of board meetings attended by the Directors is given on page 112 of this report. Names of the Chairmen and the members of the Board Committees are provided on pages 112, 115 to 118 and in the inner back cover of the Annual Report. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE LEADERSHIP REVIEW Listing Rules A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive Setting of the annual targets and the A.11.1 and A.11.2 Complied Please refer Page 113 appraisal of the Managing Director B DIRECTORS REMUNERATION B.1/ 7.10.5 Remuneration Procedure Establishment of a remuneration B.1.1,B.1.2 and Complied Please refer Pages 115 and 117 committee and its composition B.1.3 7.10.5 (a) and GROUP PERFORMANCE 7.10.5 (b) REVIEW Determination of the remuneration of the B.1.4 Compiled Please refer Page 113 Non-Executive Directors Consultation with the Chairman and the B.1.5 Complied Please refer Page 113 Managing Director B.2 Level and Make up of Remuneration Level and makeup of the remuneration B.2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 Complied Please refer Page 117 GOVERNANCE of Directors and comparison of remuneration with other companies Performance based remuneration B.2.4 Complied Please refer Pages 113 and 117 Executive share options B.2.5 Not As at date, the Company has no share options made available to applicable the Directors, Executives or employees of the Company. Designing the remuneration. B.2.6 Complied The procedure followed in deciding the remuneration of FINANCIAL STATEMENTS employees is set out in the Remuneration Committee report that is given on page 117. Early Termination of Directors B.2.7 and B.2.8 Compiled Is determined by the Articles of Association of the Company. Remuneration of non-executive Directors B.2.9 Complied Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee and/or a reimbursement for their participation in Board and Committee meetings as set out under B.1.4. B.3 / 7.10.5 (C) DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION Disclosure of remuneration B.3.1 Complied The names of the members of the Remuneration Committee INVESTOR INFORMATION are indicated as per the table on page 117 and listed on the inner back cover. The report of the Committee is given on page 117 of this Annual Report. Please refer note 11 to the financial statements for the details of remuneration paid to the Directors and key management personnel. C. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS C.1 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Use of Proxy C.1.1 Complied We ensure that all proxy votes are counted and the quantum of SUPPLEMENTARY proxies lodged on each resolution is conveyed to the Chairman. Separate resolution for substantially C.1.2 Complied Separate resolutions are proposed at an Annual General Meeting INFORMATION separate issues on each substantially separate issue. page 122 | 123 GOVERNANCE REPORT Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE Listing Rules Chairmen of Board Committees to be C.1.3 Complied At the Annual General Meeting the respective Chairmen of the present Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are present to provide any clarification to shareholders as necessary. Adequate notice of Annual General C.1.4 and C.1.5 Complied The notice and the agenda for the Annual General Meeting Meeting and summary of Procedures together with the Annual Report of the Company containing the relevant documents are sent to the shareholders giving 15 working days’ notice prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting. C.2 MAJOR TRANSACTION Disclosures of Major transactions C.2.1 Complied There were no major transactions during the financial year that materially altered the Company’s net asset base or the consolidated Group net asset base. D. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT D.1 Financial Reporting Board responsibility to present the D.1.1 Complied Please refer Page 150. financial statements Annual Report of the Directors D.1.2 Complied The Directors have made the required declarations on pages 151 to 155 of this Annual Report. Statement by the Directors and the D.1.3 Complied The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities is on page 150 of the Auditors Annual Report. The Auditor’s Report on the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013 is presented on page 156 of this Annual Report. Management discussion and analysis D.1.4 Complied The management discussion and analysis is presented as the operational review of the company and its subsidiaries on pages 42 to 108 of this Annual Report. Declaration by the Board as to whether D.1.5 Complied The relevant declaration is presented in the Annual Report of the the business is a going concern. Directors on page 152 of this Annual Report. Requirement for an Extraordinary General D.1.6 Not This is not applicable to the Company however should the Meeting in a situation of serious loss of applicable situation arise an Extraordinary General Meeting would be called capital upon and the shareholders would be notified accordingly. D.2 Internal Control Directors to review internal Controls D.2.1 Complied Please refer Pages 118 to 120 and 150. Requirement to review the need for an D.2.2 Not The Group already has an Internal Audit Division, and as such this Internal Audit function applicable is not applicable. Please refer Pages 118 to 119. D.3 /7.10.6 Audit Committee Composition of the Audit Committee and D.3.1 and D.3.2/ Complied Please refer Pages 118 to 119. its Duties 7.10.6 (a) and 7.10.6 (b) Terms of Reference of the Audit D.3.3 Complied Please refer Pages 118 to 119. Committee Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Reference to SEC Compliance Details of Compliance & ICASL Code; CSE LEADERSHIP REVIEW Listing Rules Disclosures of the members of the Audit D.3.4 Complied The names of the members of the Audit Committee are indicated Committee 7.10.6(c) on page 118. The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audits and their effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the Internal Audit function. Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 118 to 119 of this Annual Report. D.4 Code Of Business Conduct and Ethics We are committed to carrying out all business activities to the highest standards of integrity, ethical values and professionalism, whilst following GROUP PERFORMANCE the laws of the country, international laws and compliance as per the stakeholders’ expectations. REVIEW Disclosure on a presence of code of D.4.1 Complied Please refer page 120. business conduct and ethics Affirmation of the code of conduct and D.4.2 Complied As per the Chairman’s statement on Page 32 of this Annual ethics Report, the Company affirms its adherence to good business conduct and ethics. D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures GOVERNANCE Disclosures of Corporate Governance D.5.1 Complied The Company aims to achieve consistent growth and value creation, improve stakeholder satisfaction and relationships in all the business activities whilst adhering to the highest standards of corporate governance as is evident in this report on pages 110 to 125. 2. SHAREHOLDERS E. INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS Shareholder voting E.1.1 Complied Please refer Page 120. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F. OTHER INVESTORS F.1 Investing and divesting decision Investing and divesting decision F.1 Complied Please refer Page 120. F.2 Shareholder Voting Individual shareholders voting F.2 Complied Please refer Page 120. INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 124 | 125 Risk Management Risk can be defined as the probability of or threat of damage, injury, and the failure to adopt such measures could result in financial losses, liability, loss, or any other negative occurrence that is caused by external lost opportunities and in extreme cases even corporate failure. Thus or internal vulnerabilities. In the past, the single key recognised risk was effective risk management is critical in achieving the Group’s strategic credit risk. However, today, the evolution and integration of financial objectives in a highly competitive and uncertain environment. markets and technology have resulted in new risks that could have a significant impact on businesses if not managed efficiently. Risk The Group recognises the importance of adopting a proactive approach Management, is the process of analysing exposure to risks by identifying when dealing with risk and has a comprehensive system of controls in vulnerabilities and their probability of outcome in order to determine place to manage risks. The Group is equipped with a Risk Unit which how to best handle such exposure. It also looks at implementing conducts regular reviews of the major risks that could affect its business various policies, procedures and practices that work to identify, analyse, and financial performance and creates and maintains awareness of evaluate, and monitor risks, followed by applications and solutions these risks within the Group. The mitigation strategies adopted by the to minimise the probability of occurrence and/ or the impact of the Group attempt to create a suitable balance between entrepreneurial identified risks. attitude and the level of risk associated with business opportunities. The Aitken Spence Group is involved in a diverse range of business The risks are identified, evaluated and mitigated through internal activities, spanning across several industries, market segments and processes and a combination of a ‘top-down’ (driven by the Board) geographical locations. Whilst this diversification provides a hedge and ‘bottom-up’ (originating from the operations) approaches. This has against the positive correlation of business and environmental risks, been made possible because the Group has clearly identified the role it also exposes the Group to a wider range of risks and opportunities. of the Board of Directors and their responsibilities in managing all risks With globalisation and technology bringing about astonishing changes in affecting the Group. In each area, the Board is supported by the Board international and domestic markets this becomes even more important of Management, the Audit Committee, and Managers with key functional responsibilities. Board of Directors Approves the risk governance frame work and high level risk parameters for individual SBU’s and the Group. Reviews reports from the Audit Committee on risk related matters. Management Board Audit Committee Designing, operating, monitoring risk management and control Reviews adequacy of the risk management framework. processes at SBU and Group level. Receives and reviews risk management reports submitted by the risk Ensuring that strategies adopted, by SBU’s are in line with the risk management unit. parameters of the Group, addresses stakeholder concerns and negate Receives and reviews reports from internal and external auditors. possible adverse actions of stakeholders. Risk Owners Group Integrated Group Internal Audit Department and Managers Treasury Sustainability Team The Internal Audit Department maintains strict independence in all the Evaluating the status of the Monitoring movements Aitken Spence Sustainability work it performs for the management of individual SBU’s. risks and effectiveness of in foreign exchange and Team is a group of The Department has 3 specialised sub-units covering key areas of the risk mitigation. interest rates with the cross functional and risk management process Day to day oversight of risks objective of timely hedging diverse executive level and risk mitigation actions. activities such as forwards representatives from all Improving risk mitigation and swaps that could Aitken Spence Subsidiaries. Finance and Risk Management Information Security strategies where possible. eliminate or minimise This Team spearheads Operational Audit financial losses. the implementation of the Aitken Spence Integrated Conducts audits to ensure Responsible for Responsible for reviewing Sustainability Policy compliance with the laid sectorwise financial, the adequacy of controls framework within their down internal control strategic and operational of both existing and new operations. Each SBU has a framework and reviews its risk assessments on a information systems, sustainability sub-committee adequacy. micro and macro level. IT infrastructure and led by these representatives information assets. who handle the different responsibilities of the implementation process. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Key Risks Identified and Faced by the Group Low Medium High Investment Risk Interest Rate Risk Competitive Risk Environmental Risk Foreign Exchange Risk Economic Risk Occupational health, safety and welfare Employee Risk Product and Service Safety Technology Risk LEADERSHIP REVIEW Legal Risk Operational Risk Reputation Risk Credit Risk Interest rate risk is defined as the probability of income losses that are home to business operations of the Group and are probable arising, owing to a change in domestic or foreign interest rates. The locations for new investment opportunities are also carried out. The Group is affected by this risk mainly through its borrowing costs. The Unit also carries out industry studies that include recent trends and Group’s Treasury Division monitors and forecasts market interest rates developments together with significant competitor activity on a regular and ensures that appropriate steps are taken to maximise returns on basis. Additionally, strong relationships are maintained with relevant GROUP PERFORMANCE financial investments and minimise the cost of borrowing. Hedging stakeholders, lobby groups and trade unions. mechanisms and efficient management of the Group’s cash flows Investment risk is the risk of losses resulting from a poor performing REVIEW as well as closely monitored foreign currency positions also help to minimise interest rate risk. investment and/ or uncertainties attached while making an investment. A stringent evaluation of risks associated with each new investment Foreign exchange risk is defined as the adverse impact of exchange is carried out by in-house expertise and external resources as and rate fluctuations on the Group’s cash flows, assets and liabilities, and when required. Envisaged bottlenecks of a project are identified at business activities such as purchasing of capital goods, raw materials the project planning stage, so as to eliminate or undertake mitigatory and services and the resultant conversion to rupees. The Group’s measures before venturing in to the detailed evaluation stage and GOVERNANCE Treasury Division monitors the effect of foreign currency movements the subsequent execution stage. When investing in new projects, on the Group’s businesses and takes steps to ensure that timely and preference is given to the formation of strategic alliances with appropriate hedging activities are taken to mitigate foreign exchange reputed partners for the creation of synergies. The Group ensures its risks. The Treasury also provides advice to SBU’s within the Group investments strictly consider and address potential adverse ethical, on strategies to minimise costs and maximise revenue in Sri Lankan social and environmental factors. Additionally, the Group continuously rupees, when dealing with foreign currencies. Derivatives, swaps and looks at diversifying its investment portfolio and adding value to its other forms of financial instruments are also used to mitigate this risk. existing portfolio by investing in research and development, improving FINANCIAL STATEMENTS existing processes and obtaining certifications that validate best Competitive risk can be defined as the probability of loss from a practices. decline in a company’s competitiveness due to both qualitative and quantitative factors. Competitor activity and performance is monitored Operations risk is the direct or indirect loss resulting from and compared in order to understand the Group’s current position and insufficient or failed internal processes, people, systems, or external formulate future strategies of the Group. events. A structured and uniform set of internal controls has been implemented and is being adhered to, throughout the Group. Periodic Credit risk is the probability of the loss of income owing to default and impromptu checks are carried out by the Group’s Internal Audit INVESTOR INFORMATION by the company’s debtors. The Group conducts an in-depth analysis Division to ensure compliance and the effectiveness of these controls. of debtors in each SBU on a regular basis. Debtor concentration and overdue debtors of each SBU is also monitored constantly so as to Reputation risk is the probability of a decline or loss of the Group’s minimise losses. The collection process and individual monitoring reputation. In order to maintain its reputation and preserve the also takes place at SBU level as part of their day to day operational confidence of its various stakeholders, the Group has in place activities. an effective compliance system which includes, a Corporate Communications Unit, with representation from all Strategic Business Economic risk is the risk of the possibility of an economic downturn Units of the Group. This ensures up to date accurate communication negatively impacting the Group’s investments and business with all stakeholders. The Group is also equipped with a Business SUPPLEMENTARY operations. The Risk Unit of the Group closely monitors domestic and Development Unit, through which all media communications are global economic activity that could have an impact on the Group’s channelled, ensuring consistency in communications. The Corporate INFORMATION businesses. Information on domestic economic performance and key Communications Unit also maintains the Group’s brand image, and economic indicators, is circulated to the Management on a quarterly monitors and helps subsidiaries to maintain graphical and visual basis. Periodic reviews of economic conditions in foreign countries standards of the brand and has also commenced initiatives to page 126 | 127 Risk Management assess specific aspects of behavioural values that contribute towards their functionality which could result in a loss / release of critical delivering the brand promise. The Group has its own code of ethics business data, security and identity management issues. which is made known to its staff via workshops on ethical behaviour, Þ Malware continues to increase in sophistication, and has more training programmes on company procedures, anti-corruption policies avenues for execution which could result in significant hardware etc., which are also mentioned in employee contract letters. Aitken failures and lost productivity. Spence also believes in reliability, trust and the quality of service in Þ The inadequate preparation for failures of systems links and all its interactions with customers. Each subsidiary has its own set improper capacity planning, which could result in adverse of customers and is equipped with a process of obtaining feedback operational impacts and a loss of business opportunities. from customers to assess their satisfaction levels and to generate continuous improvement. The Group actively involves itself in The Group is equipped with a dedicated IT Security Risk Unit, which community development and places importance on being a socially designs and implements strategies to mitigate risks faced by the responsible corporate citizen. It also adheres strictly to statutory Group. Strategies in place to mitigate identified risks are as follows: requirements and environmental regulations. Þ In line with the standard implementation of ISO 27001, the Legal risk is the probability of losses arising from the uncertainty of Corporate Information Security Policy Manual was updated to legal actions or losses arising from the misinterpretation of prevailing include; policies on social network use, policies on mobile device laws, regulations and contracts. The risk could also arise due to legal use, policies on capacity management, policies on unauthorised or regulatory incapacity despite having adequate documentation which and unlicensed software use, policies on malware identification, may result in the un-enforceability of contracts with counterparties. isolation, and remediation and policies on segregation of duties. The Group is equipped with a dedicated centralised in-house legal Þ A comprehensive network vulnerability assessment (external/ division that assists and advises the Group and its SBU’s on legal internal) was also conducted and its recommendations are being matters. External professional counsel is also used when required. implemented. Periodic reviews and audits are also carried out by the Internal Audit Þ Employee information security awareness workshops are being Division in collaboration with the Legal Division to ensure that all conducted periodically. business units conform to legal, regulatory and statutory requirements. Þ Frequent Information Technology General Control reviews are Additionally the Group’s Risk Unit regularly updates the Group’s Risk being conducted to ensure control compliance in segregation of Register which comprise of all acts, regulations and licenses the duties, access controls, IT policies, change management etc. Group needs to have in place and is used as a guideline in conducting operational risk assessments. The Aitken Spence Group recognises Þ A comprehensive security incident management framework is and accepts its responsibilities as a public quoted company, a being developed in line with the implementation of ISO 27001. tax-payer and an employer, thus ensuring that all statutory and legal Þ Systems failure events are treated as occasional. IT hardware/ requirements are met in all transactions. software capacity is monitored to ensure availability of sufficient Technological risk could be identified as the business risk associated computational resources. with the use, ownership, operation, involvement, influence and Product and service safety risk refers to possible adverse aspects adoption of Information Technology (IT) within an organisation. of the organisation’s products, services and activities involving health, Information Technology supports core business processes that safety, welfare, information, labelling, marketing and privacy that can a company uses to develop, deliver, and manage its products, directly affect the Group’s key stakeholders. services, and also greatly assists in ensuring smooth operations. By understanding the role that technology plays in supporting various Compliance with the laws and regulations of the country and industry business functions, the Management of Aitken Spence has taken a specific standards is a priority for the Group and there have been proactive approach and established a framework to better understand no incidents of non compliance with regulations and voluntary where relevant technology risks lie. Identified key risks for the codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, organisation and their related impacts are as follows. promotions and sponsorship. No complaints have been raised Þ Hacking carried out by internal/ external parties which could regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. cause brand damage and unauthorised access to confidential data, the rapid expansion of number of mobile devices, and All Strategic Business Units have in place, specialised management systems to address product and service responsibility concerns. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Continual capacity building on this topic is conducted either through Certificate training in First Aid conducted by the Group’s HR Division Group Human Resources or through external parties when necessary. and Fire Safety training conducted by the Group’s Security Division are examples of such capacity building programmes. The Group’s companies maintain 13 ISO 22000/HACCP certifications which include 8 certifications in the Hotels sector for the Heritance and In keeping with the first two principles of the United Nations Global Adaaran properties. The Plantations sector has already secured 5 ISO Compact (UNGC) on Human Rights, the Group is currently working 22000/ HACCP certifications and is in the process of implementing towards applying the essential action points of the Human Rights food safety systems within the rest of their operations. Additionally, Protection Framework developed by the Business Leaders’ Initiative for LEADERSHIP REVIEW Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Limited received the Forestry Human Rights and the UNGC. A gap analysis of the Group’s policies, Stewardship Certificate (FSC) assuring their clientele that the wood practices and procedures to implement a Human Rights Protection sourced for their products stem from managed forests. Framework was carried out with in house expertise. Representatives have been appointed across the Group and act as Human Rights All three power plants of the Group are, OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 and Focal Points. These representatives were briefed on the Framework, ISO 14001 certified, showing their commitment to provide an efficient and the systems and procedures the organisation currently has in service to the national grid. place with the aim of equipping them with the knowledge to handle any vulnerabilities within their operations. The Focal Points were also GROUP PERFORMANCE Aitken Spence Garments have maintained the Worldwide Responsible Accredited Productions Certification and have continual programmes informed to continually identify gap areas within the Group’s operations to motivate their staff and ensure the ethical production within the and bring them to the notice of the Sustainability Team so that REVIEW garment factory process. necessary corrective and/or preventive action can be taken. The Group follows, Quality Management Systems where applicable The Group also aims to have an Environmental and Social Governance and currently maintain 10 ISO 9001 certifications. Procedure which it hopes to incorporate into its Integrated Sustainability Policy. Employee risk can be defined as the risks arising from the inability to attract, motivate and retain skilled and experienced staff. The Environmental risk is the probability of the Group’s operations being GOVERNANCE recruitment of high calibre staff, effective induction to the Group’s affected owing to adverse environmental impacts caused through corporate culture, training and development with structured career human activity. The Group currently has in place 43 Environmental development plans, fostering a reward and recognition culture are the Management Systems(EMS’s), aligned to ISO 14001:2004 standard, norm in all Strategic Business Units of the Group. While recognising which attempt to scientifically mitigate/eliminate the adverse the importance of employee retention, the Group has implemented environmental impacts cause by the Group’s activities. Of these a system of internal transfers, job rotations and innovative reward EMSs 12 are already ISO 14001 certified. These EMS’s include systems. Succession planning for all departments and business programmes to manage activities, primarily in the areas of energy FINANCIAL STATEMENTS units are being formulated; the respective staff are being trained and management, renewable energy investment, waste management, groomed and a vibrant Management Training Programme (MTP) is water management and the protection of biodiversity and natural maintained for this purpose. Various employee engagement activities eco-systems. The Group also ensures that areas of high biodiversity are organised frequently so as to enhance employee motivation. are protected and preserved. The Group makes it a priority to ensure Emphasis is also given to maintaining a good working environment. that its products, services or activities have minimum impact on areas The Group has an open door policy where any employee can speak to of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. The Group shares its the Chief Human Resource Officer of the Group, Senior Management experiences and best practices and enables the sharing of knowledge or the employee’s Supervisors / Managers regarding their concerns. and skills through industry engagements such as the Sustainability INVESTOR INFORMATION Knowledge Hub of the Sri Lanka Network of United Nations Global Occupational health, safety and welfare, refers to concerns of Compact. This is a proactive step the Group has taken to contribute safety, health and welfare for all stakeholders within the Group’s towards environmental trusteeship both nationally and internationally. operational boundaries as well as resulting adverse physical and psychological effects. Core conventions of the International Labour Organisation, are ratified within the legal system of the country, and all Strategic Business Units of the Group abide by laws and regulations relevant to their scope of operations. Operational Audits are conducted on a frequent basis to analyse if such compliances are met. The Group also has in place an Integrated Sustainability Policy, which is supported SUPPLEMENTARY by an implementation framework which covers occupational health and safety. SBUs within the Group have identified Occupational Health INFORMATION and Safety Officers (OHS) and the Group is in the process of providing them the necessary capacity building to handle this responsibility. page 128 | 129 Board of Directors Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Mr. J.M.S. Brito Mr. Harry Jayawardena is one of Sri Lanka’s most successful Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of London) and MBA (London City businessmen and heads many successful enterprises in very diverse Business School) degrees and is a Fellow of both Institutes of Chartered fields of activity. He is the Founder Director and current Chairman/ Accountants of Sri Lanka and England and Wales. Together with this Managing Director of the Stassen Group of Companies – a diversified multi-disciplined knowledge, he also brings with him a wealth of 35 group in exports and import trade, and Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC. years of international experience working with a number of international He is also the Chairman of the Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC., organisations. Presently Mr. Brito is the Deputy Chairman and Managing Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd., Browns Beach Hotel, Balangoda Plantations Director of Aitken Spence PLC., the Chairman of DFCC Bank and DFCC PLC., and Madulsima Plantations PLC. He is a former Director of Vardhana Bank. He is a former Chairman of Sri Lankan Airlines, The Hatton National Bank PLC., the largest listed bank in Sri Lanka. Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and a former Director of Sri Lanka Mr. Jayawardena was the former Chairman of Ceylon Petroleum Insurance Corporation. Corporation and Sri Lankan Airlines. Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April Mr. Jayawardena is presently the Honorary Consul for Denmark and 2000; Managing Director in January 2002; and Deputy Chairman and on 9th February 2010, was knighted by Her Majesty the Queen of Managing Director in April 2003. Denmark with the prestigious honour of “Knight Cross of Dannebrog”. Mr. Jayawardena was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., on 1st April 2000 and has been Chairman of the Company since 25th April 2003. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Dr. R.M. Fernando Dr. P. Dissanayake Dr. Rohan Fernando who heads Plantations and Business Development Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake is the Chairman/CEO of Aitken Spence at Aitken Spence PLC., holds a PhD and a MBA from the University Maritime, Logistics & Cargo and Director Aitken Spence PLC. He was of Colombo and is also a Chartered Marketer and a Fellow of the appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in September 2009. GOVERNANCE Chartered Institute of Marketing, (CIM) UK. Dr. Dissanayake is a former Chairman/CEO of Sri Lanka Ports Authority He has extensive experience in the plantation industry both in the public and also a former Chairman of state owned Jaya Container Terminals and private sectors and played a key role in the plantations privatisation Ltd., and Sri Lanka Port Management Consultancy Services Ltd. programme. Dr. Dissanayake who serves on the UN/UNCTAD Panel as an expert He also leads the CSR and Sustainability Initiatives of the Group. He on Ports & Shipping is a Past Chairman of the Central Advisory was awarded the Brand Leadership Award at the Asia Brand Congress Council of Sri Lanka Transport Board and Past Co-Chairman of the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2008, held in Mumbai in September 2008. Transport Cluster of the National Council for Economic Development which is under the Presidential Secretariat. He is a member of the He is the Honorary President of CIM, Sri Lanka region and Chairman of Faculty Industry Consultative Board – Dept. of Transport & Logistics United Nations Global Compact Network, Ceylon. He also serves on the Management of the University of Moratuwa and Chairman of Ceylon Advisory Committee of the Sri Lanka Business at Biodiversity Platform Chamber of Commerce -Steering Committee on Ports, Shipping, of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Aviation and Logistics and Jt. Managing Director of CINEC Maritime and He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 2005. Management Campus. INVESTOR INFORMATION Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford Business Alumni is a Graduate of Harvard Business School Executive Education Programme on “Global Economy”. He is also a Past Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers and Past Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (Sri Lanka branch). He is a recipient of the Best Shipping Personality award conferred by the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers; Contribution to society Award by PIMA of the University of Sri Jayewardenapura and SUPPLEMENTARY Services Rendered to the Shipping Industry by Ceylon Association of Ships’ Agents. INFORMATION page 130 | 131 Board of Directors Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Mr. C.H. Gomez Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe started his career in 1954 on an Aitken Mr. Charles Gomez is a former Investment Banker with over 30 years Spence managed plantation. He has therefore had an unbroken of experience in the finance industry. He has worked for several major association of nearly 60 years with the Company. After over a decade financial institutions, and brings to the Company a wealth of experience as a professional planter he moved to the Company’s head office in in regard to international financial markets. Mr. Gomez is a partner of a 1965 to take over the Estate Agency Department. In the early 70’s, he financial services company based in Gibraltar and serves on Boards of also took charge of the Insurance division, including the Lloyd’s Agency foreign investment companies. Mr. Gomez was appointed to the Board and the Singapore Airlines Agency. When the Insurance industry was of Aitken Spence PLC., in May 2002. liberalised in the late 80’s, he played an active role in the formation of Union Assurance Ltd., and served a stint as its Chairman. Mr. Wickremasinghe was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in 1972 and was Chairman from 1996 to 1997. He has therefore been a Director of the Company continuously for a period of over 40 years. He has a wide and varied experience in many business sectors. Mr. Wickremasinghe has the distinction of being responsible for the concept and construction of the Group’s unique theme hotel The Heritance Tea Factory. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya Mr. V. M. Fernando Mr. Niranjan Deva Aditya, who was appointed to the board of Aitken Mr. Manilal Fernando who is an Attorney-at-Law started his practice in Spence PLC., in September 2006, is an aeronautical engineer, his home town in Kalutara in 1972 and was the Secretary of the Bar scientist and economist, is a Conservative Member of the European Association, Kalutara for many years. He was appointed to the Board of GOVERNANCE Parliament elected from the SE England. He is the Vice President of Aitken Spence PLC., in May, 2008. the Development Committee; ECR Co-ordinator and Conservative Spokesman for Overseas’ Development and Co-operation. He was He is the Chairman of Stallion Holdings, Dynamic AV Technologies, the Co Leader of the Parliamentary Delegation to the UN World Hyundai Lanka Limited and Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Summit and General Assembly 2006, Chairman Working Group A of He is also a Director of Sri Lankan Airlines Ltd, Ceylon Guardian Development Committee overseeing Asia, Central Asia and Far East; Investment Trust PLC, Ceylon Investment PLC and a Trustee of Joseph Co Co-ordinator Assembly of 79 Parliaments of the EU-ACP 2004 and Frazer Memorial Hospital. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the President EU India Chamber of Commerce from 2005. In 2012 He has since 1990 been a Vice President of the National Olympic he stood for and came runner up, beating the Liberal candidate into Committee of Sri Lanka. 3rd place to be the President (Speaker) to the European Parliament. He was the first Asian to be elected as a Conservative Member of British Parliament, first Asian MP to serve in the British Government as PPS in the Scottish Office and first Asian born MP to be elected to the European Parliament. He was nominated as a candidate to succeed Kofi Annan as Secretary General to the UN in 2006. He is a INVESTOR INFORMATION Hon. Ambassador without portfolio for Sri Lanka; the first Asian to be appointed as Her Majesty’s Deputy Lord Lieutenant for Greater London, representing The Queen on official occasions since 1985; awarded the honour “ViswaKirthi Sri Lanka Abhimani“ by the Buddhist Clergy for his Services to Sri Lanka and given the Knighthood with Merit of the Sacred Constantinian Military Order of St. George for his global work on poverty eradication. He is a Fellow of the Royal Society for Arts, Manufacture and Commerce (Est: 1765). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 132 | 133 Board of Directors Mr. R.N. Asirwatham Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. Mr. Rajan Asirwatham was the Senior Partner and Country Head Mr. Chitta Ranjan De Silva P.C. was a former Attorney General and of KPMG from 2001 to 2008. Further, he was the Chairman of the Solicitor General of Sri Lanka. He was the Chairman of the Lessons Steering Committee for the Sustainable Tourism Project funded by the Learnt and Reconciliation Commission. World Bank for the Ministry of Tourism and was also a member of the Presidential Commission on Taxation, appointed by His Excellency the He was called to the Bar in 1974. In 1975 he joined the Attorney President of Sri Lanka. As at present, Mr. Asirwatham, a fellow member General’s Department as a State Counsel and was appointed as a of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, is the Chairman Senior State Counsel in 1983 and Deputy Solicitor General in 1996. of the Financial Services Stability Committee of the Central Bank of He was called to the Inner Bar as President’s Counsel in 1997 in which Sri Lanka. He is also a member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce year he was appointed as an Additional Solicitor General of Advisory Council and a member of the council of the University of Sri Lanka. He was appointed as the Solicitor General in 1997. In 2007 Colombo. He also serves on the Boards of Vallibel One Limited, Ceylon he was appointed as the Attorney General of Sri Lanka and held this Tea Services PLC, Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC, Dial Tex Industries (Pvt) office until his retirement in 2009. Limited, Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Limited, CIC Holdings PLC, Rajawella He has been a member of the Official Delegations from Sri Lanka to the Holdings (Pvt) Limited, Mercantile Merchant Bank and Yaal Hotels (Pvt) Afro Asian Legal Consultative Committee held in Islamabad, UN Human Limited. Rights Council, UN Human Committee, UN Convention Against Torture Mr. Asirwatham was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in Committee, UN Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination September 2009. and the UN Human Rights Council sessions in Geneva. He was a lecturer and examiner at the Defence University and an examiner at the Sri Lanka Law College. He was a member of the Law Commission of Sri Lanka, the National Child Protection Authority, Drug Control Board and the Council of Legal Education Sri Lanka. Further, he was a Consultant to the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. He is a Director of Cargills Agricultural and Commercial Bank Ltd. He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 2013. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Board of GROUP OVERVIEW Management LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. J.M.S. Brito Dr. R.M. Fernando Mr. Rajan Brito has a LLB (University of London) and MBA Dr. Rohan Fernando who heads Plantations and Business (London City Business School) degrees and is a Fellow of Development at Aitken Spence PLC., holds a PhD and both Institutes of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and a MBA from the University of Colombo and is also a GOVERNANCE England and Wales. Together with this multi-disciplined Chartered Marketer and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of knowledge, he also brings with him a wealth of 35 years Marketing, (CIM) UK. of international experience working with a number of international organisations. Presently Mr. Brito is the Deputy He has extensive experience in the plantation industry both Chairman and Managing Director of Aitken Spence PLC., in the public and private sectors and played a key role in the the Chairman of DFCC Bank and DFCC Vardhana Bank. He plantations privatisation programme. is a former Chairman of Sri Lankan Airlines, The Employers’ He also leads the CSR and Sustainability Initiatives of the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Federation of Ceylon and a former Director of Sri Lanka Group. He was awarded the Brand Leadership Award at the Insurance Corporation. Asia Brand Congress 2008, held in Mumbai in September Mr. Brito was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., 2008. in April 2000; Managing Director in January 2002; and He is the Honorary President of CIM, Sri Lanka region and Deputy Chairman and Managing Director in April 2003. Chairman of United Nations Global Compact Network, Ceylon. He also serves on the Advisory Committee of the Sri Lanka Business at Biodiversity Platform of the Ceylon INVESTOR INFORMATION Chamber of Commerce. He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Spence PLC., in April 2005. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 134 | 135 Board of Management Dr. P. Dissanayake Mr. R.E.V. Casie Chetty Dr. Parakrama Dissanayake is the Chairman/CEO of Aitken Mr. Ranjan Casie Chetty is the Company Secretary of Aitken Spence Maritime, Logistics & Cargo and Director Aitken Spence PLC., and a Director of Aitken Spence Group Ltd., Spence PLC. He was appointed to the Board of Aitken Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., and various other Spence PLC., in September 2009. companies in the Aitken Spence Group. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, a Fellow of Dr. Dissanayake is a former Chairman/CEO of Sri Lanka Ports the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of UK Authority and also a former Chairman of state owned Jaya and a Fellow of the Certified Management Accountants of Sri Container Terminals Ltd., and Sri Lanka Port Management Lanka. He is also a Member of the Chartered Management Consultancy Services Ltd. Institute of UK and has been awarded the Joint Diploma in Dr. Dissanayake who serves on the UN/UNCTAD Panel as Management Accounting Services. He has over 40 years an expert on Ports & Shipping is a Past Chairman of the post qualifying experience. During this period he has held Central Advisory Council of Sri Lanka Transport Board and very senior and responsible positions in many reputable Past Co-Chairman of the Transport Cluster of the National private sector organisations. He has been actively involved Council for Economic Development which is under the in numerous committees of Professional Institutes and Presidential Secretariat. He is a member of the Faculty Chambers of Commerce. He served as a Member of the Industry Consultative Board – Dept. of Transport & Logistics Advisory Commission constituted under the Companies Act Management of the University of Moratuwa and Chairman No. 17 of 1982. He was a former Chairman of the Sri Lanka of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce -Steering Committee on Apparel Exporters Association. Ports, Shipping, Aviation and Logistics and Jt. Managing Director of CINEC Maritime and Management Campus. Dr. Dissanayake a University of Oxford Business Alumni is a Graduate of Harvard Business School Executive Education Programme on “Global Economy”. He is also a Past Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers and Past Chairman of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport (Sri Lanka branch). He is a recipient of the Best Shipping Personality award conferred by the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers; Contribution to society Award by PIMA of the University of Sri Jayewardenapura and Services Rendered to the Shipping Industry by Ceylon Association of Ships’ Agents. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. K.R.T. Peiris Ms. N. Sivapragasam Mr. Rohantha Peiris heads Freight Forwarding, Express Ms. Nilanthi Sivapragasam who is the Chief Financial and Airline division and he brings into the industry a depth Officer of the Group is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of knowledge and valuable expertise. He is responsible Accountants of Sri Lanka and a Fellow of the Chartered for operations in Bangladesh, India, Pakistan and the Institute of Management Accountants of UK. She is a Maldives. He was also a Director of the American Chamber member of the Statutory Accounting Standards and the GOVERNANCE of Commerce for two consecutive years and presently Statutory Auditing Standards Committees and serves on the represents the Company at all American Chamber of Committees of the Tax and Financial Reporting Faculties of Commerce activities. He held the position of Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. She is the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association for 3 years also a member of the Urgent Issues Task Force which was and now helps them in an advisory capacity. He is also a set up by the Council of the Institute to provide clarification Director of SLFFA Cargo Services Ltd. He is a Member of the and interpretation on the application of the Sri Lanka Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport – International Accounting Standards and is the Chairperson of the CFO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS and is also affiliated with most of the industry bodies. forum. Ms. Sivapragasam currently serves on the Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Monitoring Board which has been set up by an Act of Parliament and is a council member of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors and is also a Member of the Taxation Sub-Committee and Financial & Regulatory Reporting Steering Committee of the Ceylon INVESTOR INFORMATION Chamber of Commerce. She previously served on the Board of Governance of The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants – Sri Lanka Division. She completed her articles at Ernst & Young Colombo and has over 25 years of post qualifying experience in industry. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 136 | 137 Board of Management Mr. S.M. Hapugoda Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne Mr. S. Malin Hapugoda heads the Hotel Sector of the Ms. Nimmi Guneratne is the Managing Director of both Group. He is a professional hotelier counting many years of Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd., and Aitken Spence managerial experience at senior level within several hotel Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. She is also the General Manager companies and is an Honorary Member (Past President) of of the Lloyd’s Agency in Colombo and the Maldives, and the Tourist Hotels’ Association of Sri Lanka and a Member also the Chief Legal Officer of the Aitken Spence Group. She of the Tourism Cluster of the National Council for Economic is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute of UK, and Development (NCED). He is a Fellow of the Chartered a Chartered Insurance Practitioner and holds a Bachelor’s Institute of Management, UK. He is a graduate of the Sri Degree in Law and is also an Attorney-at-Law. She is a Lanka Institute of Tourism & Hotel Management (SLITHM) visiting lecturer and examiner in Insurance Law at the Sri and is a fellow and founder President of the Ceylon Hotel Lanka Law College, and is also a lecturer and examiner of School Graduates Association. He holds a diploma in the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. She is a Past President of hospitality, restaurant and institutional administration from the Sri Lanka Insurance Institute. the Rayerson Institute of Technology, Toronto, Canada. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. C.M.S. Jayawickrama Mr. R.G. Pandithakorralage Mr. Susith Jayawickrama, a fellow member of the Chartered Mr. Rohan Pandithakorralage is the Director/Chief Human Institute of Management Accountants UK, is the Deputy Resources Officer of Aitken Spence Group Ltd. At present he Managing Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Managements is a member of the Board of Governors of National Institute (Pvt) Ltd., the company managing all the Group Hotels in of Labour Studies (NILS), National Labour Advisory Council Sri Lanka and overseas. He serves on the Boards of all the (NLAC), the Board of Directors of CSR Sri Lanka and the GOVERNANCE hotel companies in the Group. He has extensive experience Council of the Employers Federation of Ceylon (EFC). at senior management positions in the Group’s hotel sector for almost two decades and has considerable exposure in He is a Business graduate of Victoria University of Australia the tourism industry in Sri Lanka and overseas. He is also the with an Executive training at NUS Business School in Vice President, Resort Hotels of the Tourist Hotels Association Singapore and has received extensive management training of Sri Lanka (THASL). at Nippon Keidanren International Cooperation Center (NICC) in Japan. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS He is a past president of the International Public Management Association for Human Resources (IPMA-HR) Sri Lanka Chapter and Executive Committee Member of the IPMA-HR Asia Network. He is a Founder/Fellow member and a past president of the Association of Human Resource Professionals in Sri Lanka (HRP).He was the Chairman of the Executive Committee of HRM Awards 2010. INVESTOR INFORMATION He was a visiting lecturer at the University of Colombo and University of Ruhuna. He won the Prestigious HR Leadership award at the Asia Pacific Congress (APHRM) 2007/08. He was recognised under the global HR excellence category, for the contribution made to HR for the economic development of the country. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 138 | 139 Board Stakeholder of Management Engagement and Materiality Study Mr. D.S. Mendis Mr. V.M. Gunatilleka Mr. Dinesh Mendis who heads the Financial Solutions Mr. Vipula Gunatilleka currently serves as the Group segment is additionally responsible for Aitken Spence Chief Corporate Officer/Director of Aitken Spence Group Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. He is also involved in new business Ltd., overlooking the BPO, information technology, risk initiatives of the Group. He holds a Bachelor of Science management, audit and compliance activities of Aitken Degree (Magna Cum Laude) in Business Administration Spence. specialising in Marketing and Economics from Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania, USA. During his final year he was He counts over 20 years experience holding senior chosen as the Outstanding Student in both Marketing and accounting positions in some of the blue chip companies in Economics of the University. He also obtained a Master’s Sri Lanka, Singapore and Australia. He started his accounting Degree in Business Administration from The University of career at KPMG in Colombo and then worked at Hayleys Texas, USA. He worked in the Logistics sector of the Group Group in Sri Lanka for few years before joining Electronic for 11 years from 1994 to 2005, the last five of which was Data Systems Group in Singapore where he worked as as a Subsidiary Director. During this period he also served the Finance Director. He also worked for the GE Group in two years in the Executive Committee of the Sri Lanka Australia as a Controller for the ANZ region. Freight Forwarders Association and as a Director of SLFFA Prior to joining Aitken Spence, he worked as the Group Chief Cargo Services Ltd. He also has international experience Financial Officer of Dialog Axiata PLC. Vipula was a key working in the retail industry in the USA. member of the senior management team responsible for restructuring the Dialog Group and implementing many key strategic initiatives to turn around the Dialog Group. He was also the Chief Financial Officer/Acting CEO of the national carrier Sri Lankan Airlines and played a pivotal role during the management transition of the National Carrier from Emirates to the Government of Sri Lanka in 2008. He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (FCA), Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of UK (FCMA) and Fellow Member of the Certified Public Accountant of Australia (FCPA), holds a MBA from the University of Colombo and a GE Trained Six Sigma. He has been a board member of CIMA Sri Lanka Board from 2010-2012 and currently serves as the Vice Chairman of CIMA Sri Lanka Board, Council Member of SLASSCOM and Board Member Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and Monitoring Board. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. P. Karunathilake Mr. L. Wickremarachchi Mr. Prasanna Karunathilake joined the then Printing Mr. Leel Wickremarachchi is the Deputy Chairman/Jt Department of Aitken Spence & Co. Ltd., as a trainee Managing Director of all power sector subsidiaries of Aitken production executive in 1980. Whilst at Aitken Spence he Spence PLC. Mr. Wickremarachchi has held senior positions pursued his higher studies in Printing, and obtained his both in public and private sector organisations. Immediately Diploma in Printing Technology and Management at the prior to joining Aitken Spence PLC., Mr. Wickremarachchi GOVERNANCE prestigious Sri Lanka Institute of Printing, and is today a worked as a Consultant in Liberia under a USAID funded fellow of the Institute. On completion of his Diploma, he project in the renewable energy sector. was promoted as Senior Executive and in the year 1988 as Production Manager. In 1993 he left the company, but He was the Director General of the Public Enterprises Reform continued to serve the industry in a Senior Managerial Commission (PERC) from 2004 to 2006. During his tenure capacity for a period of 17 years. During this time he at PERC he managed to resolve various post privatisation proceeded to the Netherlands where he underwent advanced disputes of privatised State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS training in Printing Technology & Didactics at the Netherlands and restructured a defunct SOE for recommencement of INGRIN Institute. operation as a Public Private Partnership entity. He also did a consultancy assignment for the Asian Development Bank Thereafter he migrated to the USA, and on his return in for evaluating the feasibility of establishing a Public Private 2010, rejoined the Company as the Managing Director of Infrastructure Financing Facility for the Government of Aitken Spence Printing (Pvt.) Ltd. In September 2012, he Pakistan. was promoted as a Director of the Aitken Spence Group. He is a Director of the INGRIN Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri He possesses an MSc in Engineering and an MBA. He had INVESTOR INFORMATION Lanka, and serves the Institute as a Lecturer as well. He is attended many Executive Development Programs including also a Lecturer of the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing. the programs conducted by the JFK School of Government of Harvard University, USA and the National University of He is currently serving the Export Development Board in the Singapore. capacity of adviser for the Printing and Packaging Industry in Sri Lanka, and is also an advisor on the Wages Board for the Printing Trade. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 140 | 141 Senior Management Team Tourism Names In Alphabetical Order Mr. A.A.H.M.M. Ali Mr. D.J. de Crusz Mr. C.L.B. Ekanayake Mr. S.T.B. Ellepola Mr. G.P.J. Goonewardene Mr. J.T.P. Gunawardana Mr. A.S. Hapugoda Mr. M.H. Jayah Mr. N.A.N. Jayasundera Mr. S.K.R.B. Jayaweera Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW LEADERSHIP REVIEW Mr. T.D.U.D. Peiris Mr. D.D. Perera GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. P.L. Perera Mr. S.A.P. Perera GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mr. R.S. Rajaratne Mr. N. Ratwatte INVESTOR INFORMATION Mr. H.P.N. Rodrigo Mr. B.H.R. Sariffodeen SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Mr. D.L. Warawita Mr. M.P. Wijesekera page 142 | 143 Senior Management Team Cargo Logistics Names In Alphabetical Order Mr. K.R. Aluwihare Mr. A.M.M. Amir Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony Mr. J.E. Brohier Mr. I.S. Cuttilan Mr. D.R.C. Hindurangala Mr. A. Jayasekera Mr. F.P. Paiva Mr. N.P. Wakwella Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Senior Management Team Strategic Investments Names In Alphabetical Order LEADERSHIP REVIEW Mr. C.R.F. de Costa Mr. J.S.A. Fernando GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW Mr. A.L.W. Goonewardena Ms. R.I.D. Katipearachchi GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mr. R.T.B. Navaratne Mr. V.S. Premawardhana INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 144 | 145 Senior Management Team Services Names In Alphabetical Order Mr. J.V.A. Corera Mr. C.C.S. Dissanayake Mr. A.E.A. Perera Mr. R.G. Salgado Mr. A.N. Seneviratne Ms. W.A.D.L. Silva Mr. K.A.K. Wanniarachchi Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 page 146 | 147 SUPPLEMENTARY INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE GROUP PERFORMANCE LEADERSHIP REVIEW GROUP OVERVIEW INFORMATION REVIEW Financial Information Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 AITKEN SPENCE PLC is with strong fundamentals. Our business portfolio is well positioned in highly attractive markets and geographies to capitaliSe on global trends. THE RIGHT FUNDAMENTALS mEANS: At Aitken Spence we strive to exceed the needs of our customers. We know we must demonstrate integrity in all our actions and the kind of leadership that makes us a role model in all we do. We value our people and treat them with fairness and we take responsibility for the quality of our work and the services and products we provide. We always ensure that our shareholder’s interests are at the forefront of what we do, and that giving them consistently improving investment returns remain a priority to us. page 148 | 149 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 requires the Directors of the adopted by the Group are disclosed and explained in the financial Company to be responsible for the preparation and presentation statements. of the financial statements and other statutory reports. The responsibilities of the Directors, in relation to the financial The Board of Directors confirm that the Company and the Group’s statements of Aitken Spence PLC and the Consolidated Financial Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as at 31st March Statements of the Group are set out in this report. 2013 and the Comprehensive Income Statements for the Company and the Group for the financial year ended 31st March 2013 reflect The Directors confirm that the financial statements and other a true and fair view of the Company and the Group respectively. statutory reports of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2013 incorporated in this report have been The Directors have provided the Auditors with every opportunity to prepared in accordance with the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, the carry out any reviews and tests that they consider appropriate and Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995 necessary to carry out their responsibilities. The responsibility of the and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Independent Auditors in relation to the financial statements is set out in the Independent Auditors Report. The Directors have taken appropriate steps to ensure that the Companies within the Group maintain adequate and accurate The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that all records which reflect the true financial position of each such payments due and payable to the employees, the regulatory and Company and hence the Group. The Directors have taken statutory authorities by the Company, its subsidiaries and joint appropriate and reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the ventures have been either duly paid or adequately provided for in the Company and the Group. The Directors have instituted appropriate financial statements. systems of internal control in order to minimise and detect fraud, errors and other irregularities. By Order of the Board, The Directors having considered the Group’s business plans, and a review of its current and future operations, are of the view that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation. The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in R.E.V. Casie Chetty preparing the financial statements. Company Secretary The financial statements presented in the Annual Report for the year Colombo ended 31st March 2013, have been prepared based on the new 20th May 2013 Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) which came into effect for the financial periods commencing after 1st January 2012. The comparative figures for the year ended 31st March 2012 were restated based on the new accounting standards. The Directors have selected the appropriate accounting policies and such policies Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Annual Report of the Board of Directors GROUP OVERVIEW The details set out herein provide the pertinent information required With Sri Lanka converging fully with the International Financial by the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Colombo Stock Exchange Reporting Standards (IFRS), the Institute of Chartered Accountants Listing Rules and the best accounting practices. The Board of of Sri Lanka has issued new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Directors of Aitken Spence PLC., has pleasure in presenting the (commonly known as SLFRSs/LKASs) which is applicable for Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year financial periods beginning on or after 1st January 2012. ended 31st March 2013 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 28th of May 2013. The financial statements prepared for 31st March 2013 are the first financial statements which are prepared in accordance with these LEADERSHIP REVIEW 1. Principal Activities Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). As required by the Aitken Spence PLC., is the holding Company that directly or standards, the Company and the Group have prepared their opening indirectly owns investments in companies which form the Aitken Statement of Financial Position (previously known as Balance Spence Group. In addition to the above, the Company provides Sheet) as at 1st April 2011 on the basis that these standards management and related services to the Group Companies. During were applicable retrospectively with all the applicable adjustments the year there were no significant changes in the principal activities directly recognised in the opening reserves. Accordingly the financial of the Company and the Group. statements for the period ended 31st March 2012 were restated to GROUP PERFORMANCE be in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. The activities of the Group are categorised into four main sectors namely Tourism, Cargo Logistics, Strategic Investments and 4. Synopsis of the Income Statement of the Company and REVIEW Services. Companies within each sector and their principal activities the Group are described on pages 245 to 250 of the Annual Report. 4.1. Group Revenue and Profits Revenue generated by the Company during the year amounted to 2. Review of Operations Rs.535.5 million. (2012 – Rs.448.4 million). The Group revenue was A review of operational and financial performance, the future plans Rs. 37,140 million (2012 – Rs.31,022 million) which is a growth of of the Company and the Group are described in greater detail in the 19.7% compared to the previous year. An analysis of Group revenue GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Message, Managing Director’s Review, Management based on business and geographical segments is disclosed in note 8 Discussion and Analysis, and the Financial Review of the Annual to the financial statements on pages 178 to 179. Report. These reports together with the audited financial statements of the Company and the Group reflect the respective state of affairs The profit after tax of the Group was Rs. 4,254 million (2012 of the Company and the Group. Rs. 4,437 million). The Group’s profit attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent company for the year was Rs.3,267 3. Convergence and adopting of Sri Lanka Accounting million (2012 Rs.3,488 million). The segmental profits are FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements on page 178. The Company and the Group prepared their annual financial statements upto 31st March 2012 in accordance with Sri Lanka 4.2. Donations Accounting Standards which were in effect applicable for the said During the year, donations amounting to Rs 860,000 /were made period. by the Company, while the donations made by the other Group entities during the year amounted to Rs.1,686,365/-. INVESTOR INFORMATION For the year ended 31st March Group Group 2013 2012 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 The net profit after providing for all expenses, known liabilities and depreciation on property, plant and equipment 5,001,262 5,183,354 Provision for taxation including deferred tax (747,176) (746,090) Net profit after tax 4,254,086 4,437,264 Other comprehensive income 263,698 1,134,397 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,517,784 5,571,661 Total comprehensive income attributable to the minority shareholders (1,041,635) (1,315,472) SUPPLEMENTARY Total comprehensive income attributable to equity shareholders 3,476,149 4,256.189 Transactions directly recognised in the equity statement (9,020) (10,616) INFORMATION Balance brought forward from the previous year 25,154,522 21,314,945 Amount available for appropriation 28,621,651 25,560,518 Final Dividend for 2011/2012 (2010/11) (568,394) (405,996) Balance attributable to equity holders of the Company at end of the period 28,053,257 25,154,522 page 150 | 151 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 4.3 Taxation 5.3. Property, Plant and Equipment A detailed statement of the income tax rates applicable to the The carrying value of property plant and equipment for the individual companies in the Group and a reconciliation of the Company and the Group as at 31st March 2013 amounted to Rs accounting profits with the taxable profits are given in note 14.6 to 141 million and Rs. 24,042 million respectively. the financial statements. The total expenditure on the acquisition of property, plant and It is the policy of the Group to provide for deferred taxation on all equipment during the year in respect of new assets by the known timing differences on the liability method. The deferred tax Company and the Group amounted to Rs.19 million and Rs.2,588 balances of the Group are given in notes 25 and 32 to the financial million respectively. statements. 5.4. Investment Property 4.4 Dividends The carrying value of land and building classified as investment The Directors recommended a dividend payment of Rs.1.50 property of the Company and the Group as at 31st March 2013 per share for the year, the total dividend is paid out of dividends amounted to Rs.3,456 million and Rs. 1,662 million respectively. received by the Company where 10% withholding tax on dividends has been deducted. The Directors are confident that the Company 5.5 Market Value of Freehold Properties would meet the solvency test requirement under Section 56 (2) of Land recognised as property, plant and equipment in the financial the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 immediately after the payment of statements in the Group are recorded at revalued amounts. the final dividend. Revaluation of these lands is performed with sufficient regularity so that the carrying value of the lands do not differ materially to its 5. Synopsis of the statement of financial position of the market value. Revaluation was performed by professionally qualified Company and the Group independent valuers having appropriate experience in valuing 5.1 Stated Capital and Reserves properties in the locality of the land being revalued. If the fair value As at 31st March 2013 the Company had issued 405,996,045 of land does not change other than by an insignificant amount at ordinary shares and the stated capital of the Company was Rs. each reporting date the Group revalues such land every five years. 2,135 million. The Company’s reserves as at 31st March 2013 were Rs.10,998 million whereas the total Group’s reserves as Details of the revalued land, revaluation surplus, and the original at 31st March 2013 were Rs.25,918 million (2012-Rs. 23,019 cost are given in note 17.3 to the financial statements. Group million). The movement in these reserves is shown in the Statement records all other assets at cost and check for any impairment of of Changes in Equity Group on page 160. these assets when Group identifies any trigger for impairment. 5.2 Debentures 5.6 Contingent Liabilities The value of the outstanding unsecured redeemable debentures as The details of contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 44 to the at 1st April 2012 was Rs. 384 million. financial statements on page 213. (i) Fixed rate debentures 6. Events occuring after the reporting date As at 1st April 2012 the value of the outstanding fixed rate No event of material significance that requires adjustments to the unsecured redeemable debentures was Rs. 120 million, which financial statements has arisen other than that disclosed in note 49 together with the annual interest was duly settled on 25th October to the financial statements on page 215. 2012. 7. Going Concern (ii) Floating rate debentures The Board of Directors is satisfied that the Company and the Group The value of the outstanding floating rate unsecured redeemable have adequate resources to continue their operations without debentures outstanding as at 1st April 2012 was Rs. 264 million. any disruption in the foreseeable future. The Company’s financial Interest applicable for the floating rate debenture was duly paid on statements are prepared on a going concern basis. 25th April 2012 and 25th October 2012. The Company redeemed the balance outstanding of this debenture on 25th of October 2012. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 8. Information on the Board of Directors and the Board 8.3 Recommendation for re-election Sub Committees Dr. M.P. Dissanayake retires by rotation in terms of Article 84 of 8.1 Board of Directors the Articles of Association of the Company and offers himself for The Board of Directors of the Company as at 31st March 2013 re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. comprised of: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena attained the age of 70 years on Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman 17th August 2012 and in accordance with Section 210(2) of the Mr. J.M.S. Brito D  eputy Chairman and Managing Director Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming LEADERSHIP REVIEW Dr. R.M. Fernando Annual General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has been Dr. M.P. Dissanayake received from a shareholder that the age limit of 70 years referred Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who has attained the age of Mr. C.H. Gomez 70 and that he be re-elected as a Director at the Annual General Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya Meeting. Mr. V.M. Fernando Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe attained the age of 70 years on 15th Mr. R.N. Asirwatham GROUP PERFORMANCE August 2003 and in accordance with Section 210(2) of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, vacates office at the forthcoming All the above Directors of the Company held office during the Annual General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has been REVIEW entire year. received from a shareholder that the age limit of 70 years referred Mr. A.L. Gooneratne was appointed as an Alternate Director to to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya with effect from 8th May 2012. Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 79 and that Mr. G.M. Perera who was a Board member resigned with effect he be re-elected as a Director at the Annual General Meeting. from 31st December 2012. Mr. R.N. Asirwatham attained the age of 70 years on 26th August Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. was appointed to the Board on 8th April GOVERNANCE 2012 and in accordance with Section 210(2) of the Companies 2013. Act No. 7 of 2007, he vacates office at the forthcoming Annual The profiles of the Directors are given on pages 130 to 134 of the General Meeting. A notice of a resolution has been received from Annual Report. a shareholder that the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210(1) of the said Companies Act shall not apply to Mr. R.N. 8.2 Board Sub Committees Asirwatham who has attained the age of 70 and that he be reThe following Directors of the Board serve as members of elected as a Director at the Annual General Meeting. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee. Mr. C.R. De Silva P.C. retires in terms of Article 90 of the Articles of Association of the Company and offers himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Audit Committee Mr. R.N. Asirwatham (Chairman) 8.4 Directors’ Shareholding and their Interests Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe The Directors’ shareholdings and their interests are provided in Mr. C.H. Gomez the Investor information on page 232 of the Annual Report. INVESTOR INFORMATION Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya / Mr. A.L. Gooneratne (Alternate Director to Mr. N.J. de S. Deva Aditya) 8.5 Interest Register Remuneration Committee An Interest Register is maintained by the Company as per the Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Mr. V.M. Fernando 8.6 Directors’ Remuneration Mr. R.N. Asirwatham The Directors’ remuneration and fees in respect of the Company Nomination Committee and the Group for the financial year ended 31st March 2013 are Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe (Chairman) disclosed on page 180 of the financial statements. Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Mr. J.M.S. Brito 8.7 Related Party Transactions Related party transactions of the Group are disclosed on pages Mr.V.M. Fernando 213 to 215 of the Annual Report. These interests have been duly Mr. R.N. Asirwatham declared at Directors meetings. page 152 | 153 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 8.8 Subsidiary Board of Directors Company and the Group are safeguarded and appropriate The names of Directors of the subsidiaries and joint venture systems are in place to minimise and detect fraud, errors and companies who held office as at 31st March 2013 and Directors other irregularities. The system ensures that the Group adopts who ceased to hold office during the accounting period are procedures which result in financial and operational effectiveness indicated on pages 245 to 250 of the Annual Report. and efficiency. 9. Human Resources The Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 150 and Our Human Resources strategies and practices have translated the Audit Committee Report set out on page 118 of this report into the creation of a dynamic and competent human resource provide further information in respect of the above. team with sound succession planning and a remarkably low attrition rate. Our employment strategies are reviewed 13. Statutory Payments periodically by the relevant committees and the Board of The Directors to the best of their knowledge and belief are Directors. The Human Resource Report is set out on pages 105 satisfied that all statutory financial obligations to the Government to 108 of the Annual Report. and to the employees have been either duly paid or adequately provided for in the financial statements. A confirmation of same 10. Governance is included in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on The Group has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes page 150 of this Annual Report. the national and international laws. The Group rigidly adheres to relevant national and international regulations of Professional 14. Corporate Sustainability Institutes and Associations, Industrial Associations, Chambers The Board of Directors guides and supports the Group’s of Commerce and Regulatory Bodies. The Group complies with sustainability strategy. It welcomes the implementation of the the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code structured and dynamic integrated sustainability framework. of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued jointly by the Awards and recognition received during the year are a testament Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Securities to our commitment as we continue to benchmark our practices and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. The Group applies very against global standards and best practices in a myriad of high standards to protect and nurture the environment in which aspects that affect or potentially affect delivery of growth. More it operates and ensures strict adherence to all environment laws details of the Group’s sustainability efforts are included in the and practices. Management Discussion and Analysis of this report and at www. aitkenspence.com/sustainability. The Company has no restrictions with regard to shareholders carrying out analysis or obtaining independent advice regarding 15. Shareholder Information their investment in the Company and has made all endeavours to There were 4,261 shareholders as at 31st March 2013. The ensure the equitable treatment of shareholders. The Company’s distribution schedule of the number of shareholders and their corporate governance practices are set out on pages 108 to 125 share holdings are detailed in pages 228 to 232 of the Annual of the Annual Report. Report. The names of the twenty largest shareholders, together with their shareholdings as at 31st March 2013 are given on 11. Risk Management page 231 of the annual report. The percentage of the shares The Directors have established and adhere to a comprehensive held by the public as at 31st March 2013 was 40.07%. risk management framework at both Strategic Business Units and Group levels to ensure the achievements of their corporate Information relating to earnings per share and the net assets per objectives. The categories of risks faced by the Group are share for the Company and Group, the dividend per share and identified, the significance they pose are evaluated and mitigating the market price per share are given on pages 228 to 232 of the strategies are adopted by the Group. The Board of Directors Annual Report. reviews the risk management process through the Audit Committee. The Risk Management Report of the Group is on 16. Auditors pages 126 to 129 of this report. The independent auditors’ report on the financial statements is given on page 156 of the Annual Report. The retiring auditors 12. Internal Controls Messrs KPMG have stated their willingness to continue in office The Board of Directors ensures that the Group has an effective and a resolution to re-appoint them as auditors and grant internal control system which ensures that the assets of the Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW authority to the Board to determine their remuneration will be services including tax advisory services was Rs.1,268,804/-. proposed at the Annual General Meeting. As far as the Directors are aware the auditors neither have any other relationship with the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, The fees payable to the Company auditors Messrs KPMG was Rs. joint ventures and equity accounted investees that would have an 860,000/-. impact on their independence. In addition to the above Rs. 806,070/was payable by the Company for permitted audit related and non audit related LEADERSHIP REVIEW services including tax advisory services. D.H.S Jayawardena Messrs KPMG the auditors of the Company are also the auditors Chairman of certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees of the Group. The list of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees audited by them are included on pages 245 to 250 of the Annual Report. J.M.S Brito GROUP PERFORMANCE Deputy Chairman and Managing Director The amount payable by the Group to Messrs KPMG as audit fees was Rs 9,870,123/while a further Rs. 5,376,697/was REVIEW payable for permitted audit and non audit related services including tax advisory services. In addition to the above R.E.V. Casie Chetty Rs.4,839,919/was payable to other auditors for carrying out Company Secretary audits in the subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates where Colombo the audits were conducted by them. The amount payable to 28th May 2013 such other auditors for permitted audit and non audit related GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 154 | 155 Independent Auditors’ Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF AITKEN SPENCE PLC We have obtained all the information and explanations which Report on the Financial Statements to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for We have audited the accompanying financial statements of the purposes of our audit. We therefore believe that our audit Aitken Spence PLC, (the “Company”), and the consolidated provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise the statement of financial position as at Opinion 31st March, 2013, and the statements of income, In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, the comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the Company maintained proper accounting records for the year year then ended, and notes comprising a summary of significant ended 31st March, 2013 and the financial statements give a true accounting policies and other explanatory information set out on and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at 31st pages 157 to 224 of the Annual Report. March, 2013 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements Standards. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. This responsibility includes: and fair view of the financial position of the Company and its designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls subsidiaries dealt with thereby as at 31st March, 2013, and of its relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended statements that are free from material misstatement, whether in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements reasonable in the circumstances. These financial statements also comply with the requirements of Section153 (2) to 153(7) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS material misstatement. Colombo An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 28th May, 2013 An audit also includes assessing the accounting policies used Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 INCOME STATEMENTS GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 9 37,139,927 31,021,623 535,500 448,428 Revenue tax (533,641) (478,519) (9,960) (8,516) Net revenue 36,606,286 30,543,104 525,540 439,912 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Other operating income 10 12,508 1,086,078 557,466 1,837,391 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (11,487) (5,875) Raw materials and consumables used (12,913,768) (10,475,739) Employee benefits expense (3,997,179) (3,580,485) (336,742) (275,385) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 11 (1,428,073) (1,145,483) (59,881) (51,396) Other operating expenses direct 12 (8,398,247) (7,042,263) GROUP PERFORMANCE Other operating expenses indirect (4,367,202) (3,977,480) (265,986) (234,669) REVIEW Profit from operations 5,502,838 5,401,857 420,397 1,715,853 Finance income 13 760,887 471,364 694,908 417,589 Finance expenses 13 (1,443,964) (775,850) (557,435) (361,300) Net finance income / (expense) (683,077) (304,486) 137,473 56,289 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 24 181,501 85,983 GOVERNANCE Profit before tax 11 5,001,262 5,183,354 557,870 1,772,142 Income tax expense 14 (747,176) (746,090) (11,482) (12,479) Profit for the year 4,254,086 4,437,264 546,388 1,759,663 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 3,266,838 3,487,669 546,388 1,759,663 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-controlling interests 987,248 949,595 Profit for the year 4,254,086 4,437,264 546,388 1,759,663 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 15 8.05 8.59 1.35 4.33 Dividends per share (Rs.) 16 1.50 1.40 1.50 1.40 The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. INVESTOR INFORMATION Figures in brackets indicate deductions. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 156 | 157 STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the year 4,254,086 4,437,264 546,388 1,759,663 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (51,107) 655,651 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 280,247 365,668 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 36,961 (65,063) 3,238 (3,063) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss (2,403) (1,014) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees 178,141 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 263,698 1,134,397 2,224 (3,063) Total comprehensive income for the year 4,517,784 5,571,661 548,612 1,756,600 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,476,149 4,256,189 548,612 1,756,600 Non-controlling interests 1,041,635 1,315,472 Total comprehensive income for the year 4,517,784 5,571,661 548,612 1,756,600 The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP COMPANY As at 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 17 24,041,780 22,585,836 18,546,977 141,046 159,426 158,245 Investment property 18 1,661,596 1,662,349 1,662,992 3,455,995 3,457,305 3,460,705 Intangible assets 19 654,056 643,600 139,112 76,037 48,537 50,884 Leasehold property 20 1,463,930 1,521,101 1,354,028 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Pre-paid operating leases 21 980,731 1,028,164 5,455 Finance lease receivables 22 2,325,091 2,512,923 2,286,621 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted 23 4,946,407 4,838,877 4,424,972 Investments in subsidiaries quoted 23 2,458,287 2,458,287 2,458,287 Investments in equity-accounted investees 24 1,931,205 1,770,117 1,472,162 165,000 165,000 165,000 Deferred tax assets 25 222,147 209,769 137,694 Other financial assets 26 462,117 392,737 483,620 232,403 159,348 160,939 33,742,653 32,326,596 26,088,661 11,475,175 11,286,780 10,879,032 Current Assets GROUP PERFORMANCE Inventories 27 1,824,723 1,783,317 1,607,724 2,484 1,651 1,755 Finance lease receivables 22 168,964 90,976 549,599 Trade and other receivables 28 9,972,627 8,947,611 4,182,377 3,315,508 3,614,452 2,531,381 Current tax receivable 180,918 158,172 122,298 168,596 140,483 109,659 REVIEW Deposits and prepayments 1,129,843 755,758 547,022 53,075 60,176 23,205 Other financial assets 26 6,764,163 4,596,615 5,369,121 3,227,060 2,469,924 2,714,592 Cash and short-term deposits 2,217,994 2,176,837 736,009 62,885 819,042 20,554 22,259,232 18,509,286 13,114,150 6,829,608 7,105,728 5,401,146 Assets classified as held for sale 29 149,125 149,125 181,489 57,237 57,237 70,837 Total Assets 56,151,010 50,985,007 39,384,300 18,362,020 18,449,745 16,351,015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity GOVERNANCE Stated capital 30 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 30 12,695,793 12,454,684 10,929,074 6,328,970 6,294,948 5,540,921 Retained earnings 13,222,324 10,564,698 8,250,731 4,669,527 4,723,331 4,126,754 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 28,053,257 25,154,522 21,314,945 13,133,637 13,153,419 11,802,815 Non-controlling interests 5,449,444 4,708,800 4,154,265 Total Equity 33,502,701 29,863,322 25,469,210 13,133,637 13,153,419 11,802,815 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 6,245,351 5,742,548 4,143,648 2,542,500 2,100,000 844,000 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax liabilities 32 504,743 429,238 256,001 Employee benefits 33 447,390 391,409 335,637 73,405 56,394 46,936 7,197,484 6,563,195 4,735,286 2,615,905 2,156,394 890,936 Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 1,370,093 2,135,469 1,718,328 157,500 544,000 568,000 Provisions 34 277,103 490,661 457,827 Trade and other payables 35 7,713,638 6,720,453 3,912,058 2,355,097 2,328,000 2,274,960 Current tax payable 501,238 286,567 179,647 Other financial liabilities 36 57,847 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 5,588,753 4,867,493 2,911,944 99,881 267,932 814,304 15,450,825 14,558,490 9,179,804 2,612,478 3,139,932 3,657,264 INVESTOR INFORMATION Total Equity and Liabilities 56,151,010 50,985,007 39,384,300 18,362,020 18,449,745 16,351,015 The above statement of financial position is to be read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements on page 164 to 224. I certify that the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013 are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ms. N. Sivapragasam Chief Financial Officer The Board of Directors is responsible for preparation and presentation of these financial statements. For and on behalf of the Board: SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Chairman Deputy Chairman and Managing Director 28th May 2013. Colombo, Sri Lanka page 158 | 159 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Group For the year ended 31st March 2013 Attributable to equity holders of the company Total NonTotal controlling equity Stated Revaluation Other Capital General Exchange Available Retained interests capital reserve reserves reserves fluctuation for sale earnings reserve reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 01st April 2011 2,135,140 4,864,773 127,521 5,570,692 314,919 51,169 8,250,731 21,314,945 4,154,265 25,469,210 Profit for the period 3,487,669 3,487,669 949,595 4,437,264 Other comprehensive income for the period 404,564 428,752 (64,796) 768,520 365,877 1,134,397 Total comprehensive income for the period 404,564 428,752 (64,796) 3,487,669 4,256,189 1,315,472 5,571,661 Share of net assets of equityaccounted investees (3,472) (3,472) (1,693) (5,165) Effect of acquisitions, disposals and change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries (7,144) (7,144) (15,701) (22,845) Transfer to general reserve 757,090 (757,090) Dividends for 2010/2011 (405,996) (405,996) (405,996) Dividends paid by subsidiary companies to minority shareholders (743,543) (743,543) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 757,090 (1,173,702) (416,612) (760,937) (1,177,549) Balance as at 31st March 2012 2,135,140 5,269,337 127,521 6,327,782 743,671 (13,627) 10,564,698 25,154,522 4,708,800 29,863,322 Profit for the period 3,266,838 3,266,838 987,248 4,254,086 Other comprehensive income for the period 208,757 (36,607) 37,161 209,311 54,387 263,698 Total comprehensive income for the period 208,757 (36,607) 37,161 3,266,838 3,476,149 1,041,635 4,517,784 Share of net assets of equityaccounted investees 419 419 187 606 Direct costs on share issues by subsidiary companies (8,231) (8,231) (2,859) (11,090) Effect of acquisitions, disposals and change in percentage holdings in subsidiaries (1,208) (1,208) 4,496 3,288 Transfer to general reserve 31,798 (31,798) Dividends for 2011/2012 (note 16) (568,394) (568,394) (568,394) Dividends paid by subsidiary companies to minority shareholders (302,815) (302,815) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 31,798 (609,212) (577,414) (300,991) (878,405) Balance as at 31st March 2013 2,135,140 5,478,094 127,521 6,359,580 707,064 23,534 13,222,324 28,053,257 5,449,444 33,502,701 The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP OVERVIEW Company For the year ended 31st March 2013 Stated Revaluation General Available for Retained Total capital reserve reserves sale reserve earnings Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at 01st April 2011 2,135,140 5,543,980 (3,059) 4,126,754 11,802,815 Profit for the period 1,759,663 1,759,663 Other comprehensive income for the period (3,063) (3,063) LEADERSHIP REVIEW Total comprehensive income for the period (3,063) 1,759,663 1,756,600 Transfer to general reserve 757,090 (757,090) Dividends for 2010/2011 (405,996) (405,996) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 757,090 (1,163,086) (405,996) Balance as at 31st March 2012 2,135,140 6,301,070 (6,122) 4,723,331 13,153,419 Profit for the period 546,388 546,388 GROUP PERFORMANCE Other comprehensive income for the period 2,224 2,224 Total comprehensive income for the period 2,224 546,388 548,612 REVIEW Transfer to general reserve 31,798 (31,798) Dividends for 2011/2012 (note 16) (568,394) (568,394) Total contributions and distributions, recognised directly in equity 31,798 (600,192) (568,394) Balance as at 31st March 2013 2,135,140 6,332,868 (3,898) 4,669,527 13,133,637 GOVERNANCE The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 160 | 161 CASH FLOW STATEMENTS GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 5,001,262 5,183,354 557,870 1,772,142 Adjustments for Depreciation and amortisation 1,349,568 1,145,483 59,881 51,396 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 78,505 Interest expense 1,327,591 639,299 553,206 356,338 Gain on disposal of property plant and equipment (28,737) (61,671) (8) (8,173) (Gain) / loss on disposal of group investments 6,523 (590,798) (590,798) Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified from equity (11,089) (995) (6,212) (995) Gain on retirement of assets held for sale (343) (12,781) Interest income (760,887) (471,364) (694,908) (417,589) Gain on bargain purchase (7,784) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) (181,501) (85,983) Provision for impairment / (write back) of trade and other receivables 47,554 17,054 (6) (14,611) Net foreign exchange (gain) / loss (31,036) (4,536) 4,772 (61,554) Provision for retirement benefit obligations 116,561 88,476 23,500 13,404 1,913,052 666,838 (59,775) (685,363) Operating profit before working capital changes 6,914,314 5,850,192 498,095 1,086,779 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (1,072,570) (4,782,287) 298,950 (1,068,460) (Increase)/decrease in inventories (41,406) (175,593) (833) 104 (Increase)/ decrease in deposits and prepayments (374,085) (208,736) 7,101 (36,971) Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 991,830 2,810,293 25,742 51,964 Increase/(decrease) in provisions (213,558) 32,834 (709,789) (2,323,489) 330,960 (1,053,363) Cash generated from operations 6,204,525 3,526,703 829,055 33,416 Interest paid (1,327,591) (639,299) (553,206) (356,338) Income tax paid (492,804) (585,821) (39,595) (43,302) Retirement benefit obligations paid (59,256) (43,837) (6,489) (3,946) (1,879,651) (1,268,957) (599,290) (403,586) Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 4,324,874 2,257,746 229,765 (370,170) Cash flows from investing activities Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees (4,595) (852,910) (107,530) (490,366) Effect of changes in percentage holding in subsidiaries and joint ventures (6,786) (58,984) Purchase of equity and debt securities (88,986) (176,097) (88,986) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (2,588,357) (3,587,332) (19,238) (34,093) Purchase of intangible assets (76,156) (21,969) (48,461) (13,295) Purchase of investment property (109) (109) Prepayemt of rentals of operating leases (1,022,800) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 83,295 144,987 15 8,840 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 73 Refund of pre-paid lease rentals 38,067 Receipts on finance lease receivables 92,314 620,150 Proceeds from sale of equity and debt securities 23,449 671,754 15,930 671,754 Proceeds / (purchase) of other financial assets and liabilities (net) (2,101,040) 747,678 (736,697) 225,153 Proceeds on retirement of assets held for sale 32,708 22,880 Dividends and dividend taxes paid by subsidiary companies to outside shareholders (302,815) (743,543) Dividends received from equity-accounted investees 25,615 Net cash generated from/(used in) investing activities (4,905,922) (4,246,467) (984,967) 390,764 (carried forward to next page) The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 (brought forward from previous page) Cash flows from financing activities Interest received from deposits 692,338 489,056 682,907 435,632 Proceeds from interest-bearing liabilities 3,366,073 3,246,944 600,000 1,800,000 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Repayment of interest-bearing liabilities (3,614,550) (1,763,371) (544,000) (568,000) Direct cost on share issue by a subsidiary company (11,090) Dividends paid (567,039) (404,920) (567,039) (404,920) Net cash generated from / (used in) financing activities (134,268) 1,567,709 171,868 1,262,712 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (715,316) (421,012) (583,334) 1,283,306 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year (2,655,443) (2,234,431) 546,338 (736,968) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (note B) (3,370,759) (2,655,443) (36,996) 546,338 GROUP PERFORMANCE A. Disposal of joint venture During the year the Group divested its investment in Business Travels Services LLC., a joint venture company. The fair value of assets and liabilities disposed of this divestment is as follows; REVIEW Rs.’000 Property, plant and equipment (1,196) Trade and other receivables (73,708) Deposits and prepayments (1,323) Employee benefits 1,453 Trade and other payables 68,251 GOVERNANCE Net assets disposed (6,523) Purchase consideration received on acquisition Net cash inflow on disposal B. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 2013 2012 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash at bank and in hand 1,204,674 647,880 62,885 19,042 Short term deposits 1,013,320 1,528,957 800,000 Short-term bank borrowings (5,588,753) (4,867,493) (99,881) (267,932) Cash and cash equivalents as previously reported (3,370,759) (2,690,656) (36,996) 551,110 Effect of exchange rate changes 35,213 (4,772) Cash and cash equivalents as restated (3,370,759) (2,655,443) (36,996) 546,338 The notes on pages 164 through 224 form an integral part of these financial statements. INVESTOR INFORMATION Figures in brackets indicate deductions. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 162 | 163 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Reporting Entity 2.2 Responsibility for financial statements Aitken Spence PLC., (the “Company”) is a public limited liability The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for the Company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed on the preparation and presentation of these financial statements Colombo Stock Exchange. The company’s registered office and the principal place of business is located at “Aitken Spence Tower II”, 2.3 Approval of financial statements by Directors 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02. The financial statements of the Group and the Company for the year The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at, and for ended 31st March 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of the year ended 31st March 2013 comprise the financial statements Directors on the 28th of May 2013. of Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in 2.4 Basis of measurement equity-accounted investees and jointly controlled entities. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost The principal activities of the Company and the other entities basis, except for measurement of the following material items in the consolidated with it are disclosed in pages 245 to 250 of this report. statement of financial position. Aitken Spence PLC does not have an identifiable parent. Land recognised under property, plant and equipment, financial assets and financial liabilities classified as fair value through profit or loss and available for sale assets are measured at fair value: 2 Basis of Preparation while retirement benefit obligations are measured at the present value of defined benefit obligations. 2.1 Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared 2.5 Functional currency in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (herein The financial statements are presented in Sri Lankan rupees, referred to as SLFRSs/LKASs) effective from 1st January 2012, laid which is the Group’s functional currency. All financial information down by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) presented in rupees has been rounded to the nearest thousand. and in compliance with the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of 1995. 2.6 Use of estimates and judgements Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2012 which The preparation of financial statements of the Group and the were prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Company in conformity with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Standards that existed immediately prior to 1st January 2012 (SLFRSs/LKASs) requires the management to make judgments, (SLASs), are available upon request from the Company’s registered estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies office located at “Aitken Spence Tower II”, 315 Vauxhall Street, and reported amounts of assets and liabilities and income and Colombo 02, or in the company website www.aitkenspence.com. expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to These are the Company’s and the Group’s first financial statements be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form prepared in accordance with SLFRSs/LKASs, with the application of the basis of making a judgment about the carrying values of assets SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Statement of the financial position as at 1st April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRSs/LKASs) and 31st March 2012, the statements Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing of Income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and the cash basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the flows for the year ended 31st March 2012, were retrospectively period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods prepared based on the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/ affected. LKASs) effective from 1 January 2012 as required by SLFRS 1 – First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs). Information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the An explanation of how the transition to SLFRSs/LKASs, has affected most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial the reported financial position, financial performance and the cash statements, is provided below: flow of the Group and the Company is provided in note 50. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Impairment that they do not intend either to liquidate or to cease operations of In assessing impairment, management estimates the recoverable any business unit of the Group. amount of each asset or cash-generating unit based on expected future cash flows and uses an appropriate interest rate to discount them. Management makes certain assumptions based on their 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies judgment in forecasting future operating results. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently for all periods presented in the financial statements Useful lives of depreciable assets of the Group and the Company and in preparing the opening LEADERSHIP REVIEW Management reviews its estimation of the useful lives of statement of financial position as at 1st April 2011 for the purposes depreciable assets at each reporting date based on the expected of the transition to SLFRSs/LKASs. utility of the assets. Uncertainties in these estimates relate to technical obsolescence that may change the useful life of certain The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group property, plant and equipment entities. Business combinations 3.1 Basis of consolidation Management uses valuation techniques in determining the fair GROUP PERFORMANCE values of the various elements of a business combination. The fair 3.1.1 Subsidiaries value of contingent consideration is dependent on the outcome of Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Existence of control is evident when the Company controls the composition REVIEW many variables that affect future profitability. of the Board of Directors, holds more than half of the issued shares Defined benefit obligation of the entity, controls more than half of the potential voting rights Management’s estimate of the defined benefit obligation is based of the entity, or when control is provided by virtue of contractual on a number of critical underlying assumptions such as standard arrangements. rates of inflation, mortality, discount rate and anticipation of future salary increases. Variation in these assumptions may significantly Entities that are subsidiaries of another entity which is a subsidiary GOVERNANCE impact the defined benefit obligation amount and the annual of the company are also treated as subsidiaries of the company. defined benefit expense. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, being Fair value of financial instruments the date on which the Group obtains control, and continues to be Management applies valuation techniques to determine the fair consolidated until the date when such control ceases. value of financial instruments where active market quotes are not available. This requires management to develop estimates and The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when FINANCIAL STATEMENTS assumptions based on market inputs, using observable data that necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group. market participants would use in pricing the instrument. Where Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary is such data is not observable, management uses its best estimate. allocated to the non-controlling interest even if doing so causes the Estimated fair values of financial instruments may vary from the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance. actual prices that would be achieved in an arm’s length transaction at the reporting date. 3.1.1.1 Business combinations and Goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Recognition of deferred tax assets method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control INVESTOR INFORMATION Management applies significant judgment on the extent to which is transferred to the Group. Control exists when the Company has deferred tax assets can be recognised based on an assessment of the power, directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating the probability of the Group’s future taxable income against which policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. the deferred tax assets can be utilised. In addition, significant judgment is required in assessing the impact of any legal or The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date, as the fair economic limits or uncertainties in various future tax jurisdictions. value of the consideration transferred and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets 2.7 Going concern acquired and liabilities assumed measured at the acquisition date. SUPPLEMENTARY The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, and being satisfied that it has the After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any INFORMATION resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future confirm accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the page 164 | 165 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating in the Group’s share of net assets of the equity-accounted investees units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective arising since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the equityof whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to accounted investees is included in the carrying amount of the those units. investment. Dividends declared by the equity-accounted investees are recognised against the equity value of the Group’s investment. After initial recognition goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. The income statement reflects the Group’s share of the results of operations of the equity accounted investees. When there has The goodwill arising on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures been a change recognised directly in the equity of the entity, the is presented as an intangible asset. Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in If the Group’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised gains and losses liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity acquired exceed the resulting from transactions between the Group and the equitycost of the acquisition of the entity, the surplus, which is a gain on accounted investees are eliminated to the extent of the interest in bargain purchase is recognised immediately in the consolidated the equity-accounted investees. income statement The Group’s share of profit or loss of equity accounted investees is Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and shown on the face of the income statement and represents profits part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill or loss after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying the equity-accounted investees. amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on The financial statements of the equity accounted investees are disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. When is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies in of and the portion of the cash generating unit retained. line with those of the Group. After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an 3.1.1.2 Non-controlling interest impairment loss on its investment in its equity accounted investee. The proportion of the profits or losses after taxation applicable to The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any outside shareholders of subsidiary companies is included under objective evidence that the investment in the equity accounted the heading “Non – controlling interest “in the Consolidated Income investee is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the Statement. amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable The interest of the minority shareholders in the net assets employed amount of the equity-accounted investees and its carrying value of these companies are reflected under the heading “Non – and recognises the amount in ‘share of losses of an equity controlling interest” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial accounted investee’ in the income statement. Position. Upon loss of significant influence over the equity accounted Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as investee, the Group measures and recognises any retained transactions with the equity holders in their capacity as owners and investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result of such transactions. amount of the equity accounted investee upon loss of significant Adjustments to non-controlling interest arising from transactions influence and the fair value of the retaining investment and that do not involve the loss of control are based on a proportionate proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. amount of the net assets of the subsidiary. 3.1.3 Interest in joint ventures 3.1.2 Equity accounted investees (investments in associates) Entities in which the Group has joint control over the financial and Equity accounted investees are those entities in which the Group operating policies are termed joint ventures. The Group’s interests in has significant influence, but does not have control, over the such jointly controlled entities are accounted for on a proportionate financial and operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to consolidation basis. The Group combines its proportionate share exist when the Group holds between 20% 50% of the voting rights of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint of another entity. venture with similar items, line by line, in its consolidated financial statements. The financial statements of the joint venture are The Group’s investments in its equity accounted investees are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Adjustments accounted for using the equity method are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group Under the equity method Investments in equity-accounted investees are recognised initially at cost. The carrying amount of the The joint venture is proportionately consolidated until the date on investment is adjusted at each reporting date to recognise changes which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Upon loss of joint control, the Group measures and recognises its Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis in the remaining investment at its fair value. The difference between the income statement. carrying amount of the investment upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal 3.2.2 Foreign operations is recognised in profit or loss. When the remaining investment Subsidiaries incorporated outside Sri Lanka are treated as foreign constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as an investment operations. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including in an equity accounted investee. goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing on the reporting LEADERSHIP REVIEW 3.1.4 Reporting date date. Income and expenses of the foreign entities are translated All the Group’s subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and equityat exchange rate approximating to the actual rate at the time of accounted investees have the same reporting period as the parent the transaction. For practical purposes this is presumed to be the company. average rate during each month. Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in 3.1.5 Intra-group transactions the foreign currency translation reserve in equity. When a foreign Pricing policies of all intra-group sales are identical to those operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or adopted for normal trading transactions, which are at market prices. joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the translation reserve GROUP PERFORMANCE related to that foreign operation is reclassified to profit or loss as 3.1.6 Transactions eliminated on consolidation part of the gain or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised gains REVIEW subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the relevant proportion and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial interest, and in any other partial disposal of foreign operation, the statements. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity relevant proportion is reclassified to profit or loss. accounted investees are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no 3.3 Financial instruments GOVERNANCE evidence of impairment. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of 3.2 Foreign currencies the instrument. 3.2.1 Foreign currency transactions The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective is dependent on their purpose and characteristics and the functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates at the date management’s intention in acquiring them. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of the transaction. All monetary assets and liabilities denominated Financial instruments are initially measured at fair value. in foreign currency at the reporting date are translated at the rate Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition prevailing on the reporting date. The foreign currency gain or loss or issue of financial assets or financial liabilities other than on monetary items is the difference between the amortised cost financial instruments recognised as fair value through profit and in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted loss, are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial for effective interest and payments during the period, and the instruments. Transaction cost, which is insignificant is expensed amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate immediately to the income statement. at the end of the reporting period. INVESTOR INFORMATION Non-monetary assets and liabilities which are carried in terms 3.3.1 Non-derivative financial assets of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the 3.3.1.1. Initial recognition and measurement exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets and Financial assets are classified as financial assets at fair value liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity value are translated to reporting currency using the exchange rate investments and available-for-sale financial assets. that was prevailing on the date the fair value was determined. The Group initially recognises loans and receivables and deposits on Foreign currency differences arising on re-translation are the date that they are originated. All other financial assets (including SUPPLEMENTARY recognised in profit or loss, except for differences arising on the assets designated at fair value through profit or loss) are recognised re-translation of available for sale equity investments, a financial initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the INFORMATION liability designated a hedge of the net investment in a foreign contractual provisions of the instrument. The Group determines the operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, which are recognised in classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. other comprehensive income. page 166 | 167 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss intended to be held for an indefinite period of time and which A financial asset is recognised at fair value through profit or loss, may be sold or redeemed in response to needs for liquidity or in if it is classified as held for trading or is designated as such upon response to changes in the market conditions. initial recognition. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of trading in the near term. Interest income on available-for-sale debt securities calculated Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at using the effective interest method and dividend income on fair value, and changes therein, are recognised in profit or loss. available for sale quoted and unquoted equity investments are recognised in the income statement. Attributable transaction costs of fair value through profit or loss financial assets are recognised in profit or loss when incurred. 3.3.1.2 Impairment of financial assets A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is The Company has categorised its portfolio of investments treasury assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is bills and treasury bonds as financial assets at fair value through objective evidence that is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if, profit or loss. The Group has not designated any equity instruments there is objective evidence as a result of one or more events that in this category has occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and the estimated future cash flows of the Loans and receivables investment have been affected. Loans and receivables are financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and Receivables Such assets are recognised initially at fair value plus any directly The objective evidence of impairment could include significant attributable transaction costs, if the transaction cost is significant. financial difficulty of the issuer or counter party, breach of contract Subsequent to initial recognition loans and receivables are such as default in interest or principal payments, or it becomes measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial (EIR) less any impairment losses. reorganisation Held-to-maturity financial assets The Group considers impairment of trade receivables at both a If the Group has the positive intent and ability to hold debt securities specific significant individual debtor level and collectively. Any Group until maturity, then such financial assets are classified as held-to company which has any individually significant debtors assesses –maturity. Held-to-maturity financial assets are recognised initially them for specific impairment. All individually insignificant debtors at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. if the that are not specifically impaired are then collectively assessed transaction cost is significant. Subsequent to initial recognition heldfor any impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified to-maturity financial assets are measured at amortised cost using by grouping together assets with similar risk characteristics. In the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. assessing collective impairment the Group uses historical trends of the probability of default, the timing of recoveries and the amount During the Financial year the Group has not designated any financial of loss incurred and adjusted for the management’s judgment. The assets as held-to-maturity investments. carrying amount of the trade receivables is reduced through the use of the bad debt provision account and the amount of the loss Available-for-sale financial assets is recognised in the profit or loss. If there is no realistic prospect of Available for sale financial assets are non derivative financial assets future recovery of a debt, the amount is written off. that are designated as available for sale or are not classified in any of the previous categories. The Group investments in equity An impairment loss in respect of other financial assets measured at securities and certain debt securities are classified as available amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying for sale financial assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, they amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows are measured at fair value and any changes therein, other than discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial impairment losses and foreign currency differences on available asset. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment for sale debt instruments, are recognised in other comprehensive loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed income and presented in the fair value reserve in equity. When an through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of investment is derecognised the gain or loss accumulated in equity is the financial asset at the date the impairment is reversed, does reclassified to profit or loss. not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not been recognised. The Group designates listed and unlisted equity investments that are not held for trading purposes as available for sale financial instruments. Debt securities in this category are those which are Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Available for sale. The Group classifies its non-derivative financial liabilities into For equity instruments classified as available for sale financial following categories: assets a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost is considered to be objective evidence of Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss impairment. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated Impairment losses of an available-for-sale security investment upon initial recognition at fair value through profit loss. are recognised by transferring the cumulative loss that has been LEADERSHIP REVIEW recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss as a Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the reclassification adjustment. The cumulative loss that is reclassified income statement. from other comprehensive income to profit or loss is the difference The Group has not designated any financial liabilities upon initial between the acquisition cost, net of any principal repayment and recognition at fair value through profit or loss. amortisation, and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in profit or loss. Changes in impairment Other financial Liabilities provisions attributable to time value are reflected as a component of All financial liabilities other than those at fair value through profit interest income. and loss are classified as other financial liabilities If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of an impaired availableAll other financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value GROUP PERFORMANCE for-sale debt security increases and the increase can be objectively REVIEW plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognition these financial liabilities are measured at amortised recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed, with cost using the effective interest rate method. The financial liabilities the amount of the reversal recognised in profit or loss. However, any include trade and other payables, bank overdrafts, loans and subsequent recovery in the fair value of an impaired available-forborrowings, financial guarantee contracts. sale equity security is recognised in other comprehensive income. 3.3.2.2 Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities GOVERNANCE 3.3.1.3 Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual The Group derecognises a financial asset when obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. The right to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or the entity has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from 3.3.3 Offsetting of financial instruments the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial pass-through arrangement: and either position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle The entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities of the asset, or simultaneously. The entity has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control 3.3.4 Derivative financial instruments of the asset. The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks, On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps carrying amount of the asset or the carrying amount allocated to the INVESTOR INFORMATION and cross currency swaps. portion of the asset transferred and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and any cumulative gain or loss that had Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the been recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently profit or loss. remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. 3.3.2 Non derivative financial liabilities 3.3.5 Share capital 3.3.2.1 Initial recognition and measurement Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs direly The Group initially recognises debt securities issued and attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a SUPPLEMENTARY subordinated liabilities on the date that they are originated. All deduction from equity. other financial liabilities (including liabilities designated at fair value INFORMATION through profit or loss) are recognised initially on the trade date at which the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. page 168 | 169 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4. Property, plant and equipment probable that the future economic benefits embodied in the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured 3.4.1 Recognition and measurement reliably. The carrying amount of the parts that are replaced are Property, plant and equipment other than land, are measured at derecognised from the cost of the asset. The cost of day-to-day cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit losses. or loss as incurred. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable costs of bringing 3.4.4 Depreciation the asset to working condition for its intended use. The cost of Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a straight and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of an working condition for its intended use, and borrowing costs if the item of property, plant and equipment. Depreciation of an asset recognition criteria are met. This also includes cost of dismantling begins when it is available for use and ceases at the earlier of and removing the items and restoring them in the site on which they the date that the asset is classified as held for sale or on the date are located. that the asset is disposed. Leased assets are depreciated over All items of property, plant and equipment are recognised initially at the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is cost. reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. The Group recognises land owned by it in the statement of financial position at their re-valued amount. Revaluations are performed with The estimated useful lives are as follows: sufficient regularity such that the carrying amount does not differ Leased Assets Over the periods of the lease materially from that which would be determined using fair values Buildings 20 50 years at the end of each reporting period. If the fair values of land does Plant and Machinery 10 20 years not change other than by an insignificant amount at each reporting Equipment 04 05 years period the Group will revalue such land every 5 years. Power Generation Plants 10 20 years Motor Vehicles 04 10 years Any revaluation increase arising on the revaluation of such land is Furniture and Fittings 10 years recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in Computer Equipment 3-5 years equity, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease Crockery, Cutlery and Glassware 3-5 years for the same asset previously recognised in the income statement, Speed Boats 5 years in which case the increase is credited to the income statement to Soft Furnishing 5-10 years the extent of the decrease previously expensed. A decrease in the carrying amount arising on a revaluation of land is recognised in Power generation plants of some of the group companies in the the income statement to the extent that it exceeds the balance, if renewable energy segment that are not depreciated as above are any, held in the properties revaluation reserve relating to a previous depreciated on the unit of production basis. revaluation of the same land. The cost of replacement of components of assets recognised in the Upon disposal, any related revaluation reserve is transferred from carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is depreciated the revaluation reserve to retained earnings and is not taken into over the balance useful life of the asset. account in arriving at the gain or loss on disposal. The details of The cost of major planned overhauls capitalised are depreciated revaluation of land are disclosed in note 17.3.1 to the financial over the period until the next planned maintenance. statements. 3.4.2 Significant components of property plant and equipment 3.5 Investment properties When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have 3.5.1 Recognition and measurement different useful lives than the underlying asset, they are identified Investment property is land and buildings that are held to earn and accounted separately as major components of property, plant rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for and equipment and depreciated separately based on their useful sale in the ordinary course of business, for use in the production life. or supply of goods and services or for administrative purposes. Investment property is measured at cost at initial recognition and 3.4.3 Subsequent cost subsequently at cost less aggregate depreciation. However, if The Group recognises in the carrying amount of property, plant there is impairment in value, other than of a temporary nature, the and equipment the cost of replacing a part of an item, when it is carrying amount is reduced to recognise the decline. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Upon transition to SLFRSs/LKASs the Group elected to measure At the inception or on reassessment of the arrangement, the Group land classified under investment property at fair value on 1st of April separates payments and other consideration required by such an 2011 and use this fair value as deemed cost on this date. arrangement into those in respect of the lease and those for other elements, on the basis of their relative fair values. In respect of 3.5.2 Depreciation a finance lease, If the Group concludes that it is impracticable to No depreciation is provided on land treated as investment property. separate the payments reliably, then an asset and a liability are recognised at an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying Depreciation of other investment property of the Group is provided asset. Subsequently as payments are made the liability is reduced LEADERSHIP REVIEW for on a consistent basis, over the period appropriate to the and imputed finance cost on the liability is recognised using the estimated useful lives of the assets on a straight-line method. Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Leased Assets Over the periods of the lease 3.7 Intangible assets Buildings Over 20 50 years In the consolidated financial statements, properties which are 3.7.1 Initial Recognition and measurement occupied by companies within the Group for the production or The Group recognises intangible assets if it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset GROUP PERFORMANCE supply of goods and services or for administrative purposes is treated as property, plant and equipment, while these properties are will flow to the entity and the cost of the asset can be measured treated as investment property in the financial statements of the reliably REVIEW company owning the asset. Separately acquired intangible assets are measured on initial recognition at cost. The cost of such separately acquired intangible 3.6 Leases assets include the purchase price, import duties, non refundable purchase taxes and any directly attributable cost of preparing the 3.6.1 Finance leases asset for its intended use. Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the GOVERNANCE risks and rewards of ownership are classified as leased assets The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is under property, plant and equipment and are stated at an amount the fair value of the asset at the date of acquisition. equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum lease payments. Leased assets are depreciated over the remaining The cost of an internally generated intangible assets arising from lease period or the useful life of the asset, whichever is shorter. development phase of an internal project which is capitalised includes all directly attributable costs necessary to create, produce, 3.6.2 Operating leases and prepare the asset to be capable of operating in the manner FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the intended by the Management. Expenditure incurred during the risks and rewards of ownership over the assets are classified as research phase of an internal project is recognised in the income operating leases. Lease payments under operating leases are statement recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straightline basis over the term of the lease or any other basis more 3.7.2 Subsequent costs representative of the time pattern of the benefits derived from the Subsequent expenditure on intangible assets is capitalised only lease. when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. 3.6.3 Leasehold property INVESTOR INFORMATION The initial cost of acquiring leasehold property is treated as an 3.7.3 Subsequent measurement operating lease and is amortised over the period of the lease in After initial recognition an intangible asset is stated at its costs less accordance with the pattern of benefits expected to be derived from any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment the lease. The carrying amount of leasehold property is tested for losses. impairment annually. The useful economic life of an intangible asset is assessed to be 3.6.4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease either finite or indefinite. At the inception of an arrangement, the Group determines whether Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful SUPPLEMENTARY such an arrangement is a lease or contains a lease. This will be economic life of the asset. The amortisation period and the apparent if the following two criteria are met: amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life INFORMATION the fulfillment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting date. Changes in specific asset or assets; and the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of the arrangement contains a right to use the asset(s). future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by page 170 | 171 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and 3.9 Non-current assets held for sale are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the through a disposal rather than through continuing use are classified income statement as held for sale. Immediately before classification as held for sale, Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but these assets (or components of a disposal group) are re-measured are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cashin accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed the assets (or disposal group) are measured at the lower of their annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite loss on the above assets is first allocated to goodwill and then to is made on a prospective basis. the remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax 3.7.4 Intangible assets recognised by the Group. assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which 3.7.4.1 Computer software are continued to be measured in accordance with the Group’s All computer software cost incurred and licensed for use by the accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial classification as Group, which does not form an integral part of related hardware, held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses on re-measurement which can be clearly identified and reliably measured with the are recognised in the profit or loss. Gains are not recognised in probability of leading to future economic benefits, are capitalised excess of any cumulative impairment loss. under intangible assets 3.10 Impairment – Non-financial assets The Group amortises the computer software over period of 3 to 5 years. The carrying amounts of the Group’s non financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets are reviewed at each 3.7.4.2 Website Costs reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of Costs incurred on development of websites are capitalised as impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amounts intangible assets when the entity is satisfied that the web site will of such assets are estimated. generate probable economic benefits in the future. The recoverable amount of goodwill is estimated at each reporting The Group amortises the website costs over a period of 3 to 5 date, or as and when an indication of impairment is identified. years. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an 3.7.4.3 Goodwill asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Goodwill that arises upon the acquisition of subsidiaries is included A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable asset group in intangible assets. The policy on measurement of goodwill at initial that generates cash flows that are largely independent from other recognition is given in note 3.1.1. assets. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. 3.7.5 Subsequent measurement Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses. on acquisition of subsidiaries are allocated first to reduce the In respect of equity accounted investees, the carrying amount carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit, and then to of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment, reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (or group and an impairment loss on such an investment is allocated to the of units) on a pro rata basis. carrying amount of the equity accounted investee. 3.10.1 Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is 3.8 Inventories the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and and selling expenses. The cost of inventories is based on a weighted the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit. average cost. The cost includes expenditure incurred in acquiring 3.10.2 Reversal of impairment the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect condition. In the case of manufactured inventories, cost includes an of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are appropriate share of factory overheads based on normal operating assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss capacity. has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the The Group contributes a sum not less than 12% of the gross recoverable amount. emoluments of employees as provident fund benefits and 3% as trust fund benefits, respectively. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 3.12.3 Short-term employee benefits have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is losses are recognised in the income statement. provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid LEADERSHIP REVIEW under short-term cash bonus if the Company has a present legal or 3.11 Liabilities and provisions constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service rendered by the employee, and the obligation can be measured Liabilities classified as current liabilities on the statement of reliably. financial position are those which fall due for payment on demand of the creditor or within one year of the reporting date. Non-current liabilities are those balances that become repayable after one year 3.13 Provisions from the reporting date. A provision is recognised if, as a result of past events, the Group GROUP PERFORMANCE has an obligation legal or constructive that can be estimated All known liabilities have been accounted for in preparing the reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will financial statements. be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash REVIEW 3.12 Employee benefits flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of 3.12.1 Defined benefit plan retiring gratuity the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The A defined benefit plan is a post employment benefit plan other unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost. than a defined contribution plan. The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit plans is GOVERNANCE 3.13.1 Provision for major overhauls the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting Provision is made on a monthly basis for major overhaul costs date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually using based on the estimated overhauls to be carried out within the the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined estimated interval between two major overhauls. The cost of the benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future actual overhaul carried out is set off against the provision. The cash flows using interest rates that are denominated in the currency adequacy of the provision balance is reviewed at a consistent in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms of maturity frequency, and any under / over provision which arises due to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS approximating to the terms of the liability. a change in estimate and the timing of the major overhauls, is adjusted in the income statement for the period in which such Provision has been made in the financial statements for retiring under / over provision is identified. gratuities from the first year of service for all employees. However, according to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 3.14 Revenue 1983, the liability for payment to an employee arises only after the Group revenue represents sales to customers outside the Group completion of 5 years continued service. and excludes value added tax and intra-group sales. INVESTOR INFORMATION The liability is not externally funded. 3.14.1 Revenue recognition The Group recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the defined benefit plans in the income statement economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being 3.12.2 Defined contribution plan received. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration A defined contribution plan is a post employment benefit plan received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity terms of payment. and will have no legal or constructive obligations to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to a defined contribution The Group also assesses its revenue arrangements against specific plan are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees. page 172 | 173 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.14.2 Sale of goods financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised on accrual basis net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest income when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods is included in finance income in the income statement. have been transferred to the buyer. 3.14.4.2 Dividends 3.14.3 Rendering of services Dividend is recognised when the right to receive such is established, Revenue from rendering of services is recognised by reference which is generally when the dividend is declared. to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period 3.14.4.3 Rental income Rental income arising from renting of property, plant and equipment 3.14.3.1 Hotel operation and investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis In respect of the Group’s hotel operations, apartment revenue is over the rent period. recognised on the rooms occupied on a daily basis, and food and beverage sales are accounted for at the time of sale. 3.15 Expenditure 3.14.3.2 Loyalty points programme of Hotel Companies All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in ‘Diamond points” a loyalty programme, allows customers to maintaining the capital assets in a state of efficiency has been accumulate points when they patronise the Group hotels which charged to revenue in arriving at the profit for the year. could be redeemed for future hotel accommodation, subject to a minimum number of points being obtained. Consideration received 3.16 Finance Income /(Expenses) on hotel rooms occupied is allocated between the current sales Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, other and the points issued, with the consideration allocated to the points than the income from investments categorised under availableequal to their fair value. Fair value of the points is determined by for-sale financial assets, which income is recognised in the other applying a statistical analysis. The fair value of the points issued is comprehensive income statement. Gains on the disposal of deferred and recognised as revenue when the points are redeemed. interest generating investments whether classified under fair value The Group has not included extensive disclosure regarding the through profit or loss on under available-for-sale financial assets is loyalty programme as the amounts are not significant. recognised under finance income 3.14.3.3 Lease income Interest income is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using Minimum lease payments receivable under a finance lease are the effective interest method apportioned between the finance income and the reduction of the outstanding receivable. The finance income is allocated to each Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings and period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic leases, and impairment losses recognised on financial assets. rate of interest on the remaining balance of the financial asset. Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are recognised 3.14.3.4 Installation of elevators in profit or loss using the effective interest method. However, Revenue on installation of elevators is recognised in the income borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, statement by reference to the stage of completion of the transaction construction or production of a qualifying asset that takes a at the reporting date. Stage of completion is measured by reference substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale, to cost incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated total cost are capitalised as part of the asset. Borrowing costs capitalised are for each installation. disclosed in note 13 to the financial statements. 3.14.3.5 Commission income When the Group acts in the capacity of an agent rather than the 3.17 Government grants and subsidies. principal in a transaction, the revenue recognition is the net amount Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable of commission earned by the Group. assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. 3.14.4 Use by others of entity assets 3.14.4.1 Interest income When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost and income on a systematic basis over the periods that the costs, which interest bearing financial assets classified as available-for-sale the it is intended to compensate, are expensed. interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest Grants and subsidies which intend to compensate an expense or rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated loss already incurred or received for the purpose of immediate future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial support with no future related costs, are recognised in Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW the income statement in the period in which the grant becomes or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination receivable. and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly Grants and subsidies related to assets are immediately recognised controlled entities to the extent that they probably will not reverse in in the statement of financial position as deferred income, and the foreseeable future. recognised in the income statement on a systematic and rational basis over the useful life of the asset. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on LEADERSHIP REVIEW When the Group receives non-monetary grants, the asset and the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the the grant are recorded gross at nominal amounts and recognised reporting date. to the profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the underlying asset. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments that future taxable profits will be available against which they can or related institutions with an interest rate below the applicable be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date market rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the GROUP PERFORMANCE government grant. related tax benefit will be realised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by individual 3.18 Income tax expense REVIEW companies within the Group are disclosed separately as assets and Income tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax. The liabilities in the Group statement of financial position and are not income tax expense is recognised in profit or loss except to offset against each other. the extent that it relates to the items recognised directly in the statement of other comprehensive income or statement of changes 3.18.3 Economic service charge in equity, in which case it is recognised directly in the respective As per the provisions of the Economic Service Charge Act No 13 statements. of 2006, economic service charge is payable on the liable turnover GOVERNANCE at specified rates. Economic service charge is deductible from the 3.18.1 Current Tax income tax liability. Any unclaimed liability can be carried forward The current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income and set off against the income tax payable as per the relevant for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at provisions in the Act. the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. 3.19 Operating Segments FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.18.1.1 Companies incorporated in Sri Lanka An operating segment is a distinguishable component of the Group Provision for current tax for companies incorporated in Sri Lanka that engages in business activities from which it earn revenues and has been computed in accordance with the Inland Revenue Act No. incurs expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to 10 of 2006 and its amendments thereto. transactions with Group’s other segments. 3.18.1.2 Companies incorporated outside Sri Lanka The operations of the Group are categorised under four segments Provision for current tax for companies incorporated outside Sri based on the nature of the products or services provided by each Lanka have been computed in accordance to the relevant tax segment and the risks and rewards associated with the economic INVESTOR INFORMATION statutes as disclosed in note 14.3 to the financial statements. environment in which these segments operate. The performance of the Group is evaluated based on the performance of these four main Taxation for the current and previous periods to the extent unpaid segments by the Group’s Managing Director (chief operating decision is recognised as a liability in the financial statements. When the maker). The internal management reports prepared on these segments amount of taxation already paid in respect of current and prior are reviewed by the Group’s Managing Director on a monthly basis. periods exceeds the amount due for those periods, the excess is Details of the Group companies operating under each segment and the recognised as an asset in the financial statements. products and services offered under each segment are provided under Group Companies in pages 245 to 250. 3.18.2 Deferred taxation SUPPLEMENTARY Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 3.20 Movement of reserves INFORMATION reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Movements of reserves are disclosed in the statement of changes Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences arising in equity. on initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets page 174 | 175 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.21 Cash flow transition to SLFRS (i.e. 1st April 2011) at their fair values and use The cash flow statement is reported based on the “indirect method”. the fair values as their deemed cost at that date Investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and equity 3.22 Commitments and contingencies accounted investees Contingencies are possible assets or obligations that arise from The Group elected to account for its investments in subsidiaries, a past event and would be confirmed only on the occurrence or jointly controlled entities and equity accounted investees at cost non-occurrence of uncertain future events, which are beyond the as recognised previously as per the previous Sri Lanka accounting Group’s control. standards. Commitments and Contingent liabilities are disclosed in Note 41 Borrowing Cost and 44 to the financial statements. The Group opted to apply transition provisions set out in LKAS 23 – Borrowing Costs and capitalise the borrowing costs that are directly attributable to construction of qualifying assets after the transition 3.23 Related Party transactions date of 1st April 2011. Disclosure has been made in respect of the transactions in which one party has the ability to control or exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policies and decisions of the other, 5 Events occurring after the reporting date irrespective of whether a price is being charged. All material events after the reporting date have been considered, disclosed and adjusted where applicable. 3.24 Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for 6 New accounting Standards issued but not effective its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or as at the reporting date loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has issued the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during following standards which become effective for annual periods the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss beginning after the current financial year. Accordingly these attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average standards have not been applied in preparing theses financial number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive statements. The Group expects that these standards when applied potential ordinary shares. will have substantial impact to the financial performance, financial position and disclosures. The Group will be adopting these standards when they become effective. 4 First Time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs) SLFRS 9 – Financial Instruments These financial statements, for the year ended 31 March 2013, SLFRS 10 –Consolidated Financial Statements are the first the Group has prepared in accordance with SLFRSs/ SLFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements LKASs. For periods up to and including the year ended 31 March SLFRS 12 – Disclosure of Interest in other entities 2012, the Group prepared its financial statements in accordance SLFRS 13 – Fair value measurement with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards that existed immediately prior to 1st January 2012 (SLASs) Accordingly, the Group has prepared financial statements which comply with SLFRSs/LKASs 7 Determination of fair values applicable for periods ending on or after 31 March 2013, together A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures with the comparative period data as at and for the year ended 31 require the determination of fair values, for both financial and non March 2012, as described in the significant accounting policies. financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been determined In preparing these financial statements, the Group’s opening for measurement and disclosure purposes based on the following statement of financial position was prepared as at 1st April 2011 methods. Where applicable further information about the the date of transition to SLFRSs/LKASs for the Group. assumptions made in determining fair values is disclosed in the Optional exemptions as permitted in the SLFRS – 1 First Time notes specific to that asset or liability Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) Deemed Cost 7.1 Property, plant and equipment acquired in business The Group elected to measure some items of Property Plant and combinations equipment and all items of investment property at the date of The fair value of Property, plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is the estimated amount for which Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW a property could be exchanged on the date of acquisition between a 7.5 Financial instruments other than equity securities willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction. The carried at fair value through profit or loss and fair value of items of plant, equipment fixtures and fittings is based available-for-sale investments on market prices for similar items when available and depreciated Fair value of these financial instruments is estimated by discounting replacement cost when appropriate. the difference between contractual instrument price and the current instrument price for the residual maturity of the contract based on 7.2 Property, plant and equipment owned by the Group quoted price, or obtained from brokers if not quoted, using a credit adjusted risk free interest rate. LEADERSHIP REVIEW External, independent qualified valuers having appropriate experience in valuing properties in locations of properties being valued, values the land owned by the Group based on the market 7.6 Defined benefit plan – retirement benefit obligations values. This is the estimated amount for which land could be The define benefit plan is valued by a professionally qualified exchanged on the date of the valuation between a willing buyer and external actuary using the project unit credit method using the a willing seller in an arms length transaction. standard rate of inflation, discount rate and anticipation of future salary increases. GROUP PERFORMANCE 7.3 Investment property Investment property is valued for disclosure purpose by the directors 7.7 Contingent consideration based on the market value, being the estimated amount for which The fair value of contingent consideration arising in a business REVIEW the property could be exchanged on the reporting date between a combination is calculated based on the expected payment amount willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction. and their associated probabilities discounted to present value when appropriate. 7.4 Equity securities The fair value of the equity securities is determined by reference GOVERNANCE to their quoted share price at the reporting date if quoted; or if unquoted either using discounted cash flow analysis using expected future cash flows and a market related discounted rate, or based on the net assets of the investee company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 176 | 177 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 Operating segments 8.1 Business segments 8.1.1 Business segment analysis of group revenue and profit Tourism sector Cargo logistics sector Strategic investments Services sector Total 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Total revenue generated 15,503,153 12,678,164 6,351,822 6,150,753 18,286,145 14,789,607 734,952 663,884 40,876,072 34,282,408 Inter segmental revenue 24,254 46,409 399,065 353,426 189,267 155,885 178,168 164,363 790,754 720,083 Intra-segmental revenue 1,415,907 1,369,767 209,501 134,665 188,463 53,067 19,412 17,106 1,833,283 1,574,605 Total revenue with equity-accounted investees 14,062,992 11,261,988 5,743,256 5,662,662 17,908,415 14,580,655 537,372 482,415 38,252,035 31,987,720 Share of equity-accounted investees’ revenue (1,112,108) (966,097) (1,112,108) (966,097) Revenue from external customers 14,062,992 11,261,988 5,743,256 5,662,662 16,796,307 13,614,558 537,372 482,415 37,139,927 31,021,623 Profit from operations 3,443,263 2,627,960 586,596 851,827 1,324,489 1,768,144 148,490 153,926 5,502,838 5,401,857 Finance income 278,440 217,368 52,198 40,826 412,051 203,543 18,198 9,627 760,887 471,364 Finance expenses (347,490) (271,492) (82,466) (53,226) (1,010,095) (447,929) (3,913) (3,203) (1,443,964) (775,850) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 70,442 48,183 111,059 37,800 181,501 85,983 Profit before tax 3,444,655 2,622,019 556,328 839,427 837,504 1,561,558 162,775 160,350 5,001,262 5,183,354 Income tax expense (516,847) (383,680) (142,230) (248,703) (57,346) (79,864) (30,753) (33,843) (747,176) (746,090) Profit for the year 2,927,808 2,238,339 414,098 590,724 780,158 1,481,694 132,022 126,507 4,254,086 4,437,264 Non cash expenses 66,458 17,398 39,750 40,506 78,910 27,253 7,921 10,417 193,039 95,574 Depreciation and amortisation 775,994 519,452 162,745 137,468 339,592 421,359 71,237 67,204 1,349,568 1,145,483 Impairment 29,736 48,769 78,505 There were no impairment losses recognised directly to the equity, or any reversals of impairment losses recognised in profit or directly in the equity during the year. Rs. 14.9 billion of revenue, which amounts to 40% of the Group’s total revenue for the year, is attributable to one customer (state owned enterprise) recorded under strategic investment sector. 8.1.2 Business segment analysis of group assets and liabilities Tourism sector Cargo logistics sector Strategic investments Services sector Total 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Segment assets 22,522,866 19,790,499 5,746,893 5,168,609 22,265,161 20,838,548 3,020,419 2,703,999 53,555,339 48,501,655 Investments in equity-accounted investees 1,306,279 1,230,636 624,926 539,481 1,931,205 1,770,117 Goodwill on consolidation 515,341 564,110 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 Total assets 23,829,145 21,021,135 5,746,893 5,168,609 22,890,087 21,378,029 3,020,419 2,703,999 56,151,010 50,985,007 Segment liabilities 7,440,288 7,108,682 2,063,977 1,715,981 12,605,121 11,966,568 506,566 321,867 22,615,952 21,113,098 Eliminations / adjustments 32,357 8,587 Total liabilities 7,440,288 7,108,682 2,063,977 1,715,981 12,605,121 11,966,568 506,566 321,867 22,648,309 21,121,685 Additions to non current assets 1,413,330 2,433,976 209,928 282,515 771,180 1,801,860 270,076 113,859 2,664,513 4,632,210 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 8.2 Geographical information Geographical analysis of the Group’s revenue and non current assets is stated based on the country where the sale occurred or the service was rendered. 8.2.1 Geographical information revenue total revenue generated Revenue from external customers 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 30,835,950 25,135,108 27,910,056 22,655,733 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Maldives 9,749,291 7,812,500 8,942,208 7,034,382 Other countries 290,831 1,334,800 287,663 1,331,508 40,876,072 34,282,408 37,139,927 31,021,623 8.2.2 Geographical information non current assets Non current assets 2012/2013 2011/2012 GROUP PERFORMANCE Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sri Lanka 23,193,215 21,650,219 REVIEW Maldives 7,818,153 8,053,896 Other countries 284,739 288,254 31,296,107 29,992,369 Investments in equity-accounted investees 1,931,205 1,770,117 Goodwill on consolidation 515,341 564,110 33,742,653 32,326,596 9 Revenue GOVERNANCE Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rendering of services 34,821,773 28,900,881 490,048 402,085 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sale of goods 1,814,497 1,610,742 Lease interest income 503,657 510,000 Royalty income 45,452 46,343 37,139,927 31,021,623 535,500 448,428 10 Other operating income Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 INVESTOR INFORMATION Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Dividends from group subsidiaries and joint ventures 548,066 1,162,823 Dividends on available-for-sale financial assets 6,870 8,145 100 263 Gain / (loss) on disposal subsidiaries (6,523) 590,798 590,798 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets re-classified from equity 11,089 995 6,212 995 Gain on retirement of assets held for sale 343 12,781 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 28,737 61,671 8 8,173 Compensation received 13,500 Government grants 634 Gain on bargain purchase 7,784 Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) (45,990) 392,368 (4,772) 61,554 SUPPLEMENTARY Sundry income 17,691 10,474 7,852 4 INFORMATION 12,508 1,086,078 557,466 1,837,391 page 178 | 179 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost of inventories and services 25,831,349 21,571,130 316,445 265,184 Directors’ remuneration and fees 315,467 222,722 67,443 37,571 Auditors’ remuneration KPMG 9,870 8,890 860 750 Other auditors 4,840 6,039 Fees paid to Auditors for non-audit services KPMG 5,377 3,977 806 286 Other auditors 1,269 4,937 50 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property 1,255,293 1,087,002 38,920 35,754 Amortisation of intangible assets and operating leases 94,275 58,481 20,961 15,642 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 78,505 Operating lease payments 324,389 282,772 Provision for impairment / (write back) of trade & other receivables 47,554 17,054 (6) (14,611) Legal Expenses 11,308 7,196 433 71 Defined contribution plan cost EPF & ETF 280,271 228,718 33,206 27,820 Defined benefit plan cost Retirement benefits 116,561 88,476 23,500 13,404 12 Other operating expenses-direct Direct operating expenses as disclosed in the income statement refers to the cost of services other than staff costs which are directly related to revenue. Since most of the companies in the Group operate in service industries, other direct operating expenses represents a substantial portion of the total operating costs. 13 Finance income and finance expenses Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Finance income Interest income on financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 153,914 184,797 153,914 184,797 Interest income on loans and receivables 550,425 286,567 529,181 220,979 Dividend income on preference shares 11,813 11,813 Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss 56,548 760,887 471,364 694,908 417,589 Finance expenses Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (1,327,591) (639,299) (553,206) (356,338) Net change in fair value of financial assets classified as fair value through profit or loss (62,874) Other finance charges (116,373) (73,677) (4,229) (4,962) (1,443,964) (775,850) (557,435) (361,300) Borrowing costs capitalised by the Group on qualifying assets during the financial year amounted to Rs. 10.2 million (2011/2012 Rs. 45.1 million). (Company-nil) Borrowing costs capitalisation rate is 14.06%. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 14 Income tax expense T he income tax provision of Aitken Spence PLC., its subsidiaries, joint venture companies and equity-accounted investees which are resident in Sri Lanka have been calculated on their adjusted profits at 28% in terms of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. The tax status of companies in the Group which are; – Enjoying income tax exemptions/concessionary tax rates are given in note 14.1 – Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 14.2 – Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka are given in note 14.3 14.1 Companies exempt from income tax /liable to tax at concessionary rates LEADERSHIP REVIEW Companies exempt from tax Company Statute Period Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2012/2013 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2014/2015 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years from 1st Year of Profit Ace Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years from 1st Year of Profit Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 3 Years Ending 2012/2013 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 10 Years Ending 2012/2013 GROUP PERFORMANCE Logilink (Pvt) Ltd Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 5 Years Ending 2014/2015 Aitken Spence Hotels (International) (Pvt) Ltd Section 13(b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite REVIEW Companies liable to tax at concessionary rates Company Tax Rate and Statute Period Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Hethersett Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Kandalama Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite GOVERNANCE MPS Hotels Ltd 12% under Section 46 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Ending 2014/2015 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd 12% under Section 52 and 56 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Ending 2014/2015 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd 2% of Turnover under Section 17 of BOI Law No. 4 of 1978 15 Years Ending 2018/2019 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC 12% under Section 46 of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Indefinite Elpitiya Plantations PLC Agricultural Profits Liable for Tax at 10% under Section 48A of Inland Indefinite FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 In addition, the following income tax exemptions and concessions are available for companies operating in the Group in terms of Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto; Profits and income earned in foreign currency (other than any commission, discount or similar receipt) from services rendered in or outside Sri Lanka to a party outside Sri Lanka is exempt from income tax in terms of section 13 (ddd) of the above Act. Profits and income from transhipment agency fees are liable for income tax at 15%. Profits and income from any undertaking for the operation and maintenance of facilities for storage, development of software and educational services carried out in Sri Lanka are liable for income tax at 10%. INVESTOR INFORMATION A maximum of 25% qualifying payment deduction for expansions under section 34 of the above Act., for investments not less than Rs. 50 million in fixed assets made by any undertaking on investments specified in section 16C or section 17A. 14.2 Companies Incorporated in Sri Lanka and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Countries Operated Tax Status Port Management Container Service (Pvt) Ltd South Africa Business profits of the company are liable for income tax at 28% in South Africa and exempt from income tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Asia (Pvt) Ltd Oman Business profits of the company are liable for income tax at 12% in Oman and exempt from income tax in Sri Lanka, under Section 13 (b) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 180 | 181 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14.3 Companies Incorporated and operating outside Sri Lanka Company Country Tax Status Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable for income tax at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable for income tax at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Crest Star Ltd Hong Kong Nil Crest Star (BVI) Ltd British Virgin Islands Nil ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable for income tax at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable for income tax at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd Republic of Maldives Liable for income tax at 15% as per Maldives Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd India Liable for income tax at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) Pvt Ltd India Liable for income tax at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law P.R.Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd India Liable for income tax at 30.9% as per Indian Tax Law Ace Bangladesh Ltd Bangladesh Liable for income tax at 37.5% as per as per Bangladesh Tax Law Profits and income derived from the provision of services by non-resident companies operating in the Republic of Maldives is subject to withholding tax of 10%. 14.4 T he companies in the Group have brought forward losses amounting to Rs. 2,459 million (2011/12 – Rs. 2,311 million) which are available to be set off against the future tax profits of those companies. Deferred tax assets not accounted on these losses amounts to Rs. 79 million (2011/12 Rs. 70 million). Aitken Spence PLC has a brought forward tax loss of Rs. 151 million (2011/12 Rs. 167 million) which is available to be set off against the future tax profits of the company. Deferred tax asset not accounted on these losses amounts to Rs. 42 million (2011/12 Rs. 47 million). 14.5 Income tax expense Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Tax on current year profits (note 14.6) 645,335 549,081 12,879 7,609 Deferred tax expense / (income) (note 14.7) 60,939 93,946 Tax on dividends paid by subsidiaries 68,200 92,977 Under / (over) provision in respect of previous years (27,298) 10,086 (1,397) 4,870 747,176 746,090 11,482 12,479 14.6 Reconciliation of the accounting profit and tax on current year Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit before tax 5,001,262 5,183,354 557,870 1,772,142 Consolidation adjustments 55,292 18,349 Profit after adjustments 5,056,554 5,201,703 557,870 1,772,142 Income not liable for income tax (1,678,328) (2,390,815) (564,251) (1,162,822) Effect of revenue tax at source 540,383 350,063 Accounting (gain) / losses adjusted for tax purposes (6) (14,611) (6) (14,611) Adjusted profit / (loss) 3,918,603 3,146,340 (6,387) 594,709 Non taxable receipts / gains (49,922) (94,000) (25,859) (663,701) Aggregate disallowed expenses 1,765,975 1,478,210 200,566 209,797 Capital allowances (1,314,798) (994,310) (57,080) (43,010) Aggregate allowable deductions (554,780) (744,010) (69,546) (61,285) Utilisation of tax losses (118,929) (187,261) (15,576) (13,452) Qualifying payment deductions (84,486) Current year tax losses not utilised 438,594 603,954 Taxable income 4,000,257 3,208,923 26,118 23,058 Income tax charged at; Standard rate of 28% 186,935 105,205 8,000 7,250 Concessionary rate of 10%, 12% or 15% 76,195 85,667 Other rates 675 600 Varying rates on off shore profits 381,530 357,609 4,879 359 645,335 549,081 12,879 7,609 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 14.7 Deferred tax expense / (income) Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Origination / (reversal) of temporary differences 61,782 127,900 Change in unrecognised other temporary differences (15) 49,204 Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses (828) (83,158) 60,939 93,946 LEADERSHIP REVIEW 15 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations. Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 GROUP PERFORMANCE Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (Rs.) 3,266,837,835 3,487,669,031 546,388,451 1,759,663,350 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 Earnings per share (Rs.) 8.05 8.59 1.35 4.33 REVIEW As there were no share options outstanding at year end, diluted earnings per share is equal to the basic earnings per share for the year. 16 Dividends 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Final ordinary dividend recommended Rs.1.50 per share (2011/12 Rs.1.40 per share) 608,994 568,394 GOVERNANCE 608,994 568,394 The Directors have recommended a final dividend payment of Rs. 1.50 per share for the year ended 31st March 2013 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 27th June 2013. The entire dividend for the year will be paid out of dividends received by the company. In compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 10 Events after the reporting period, the final dividend recommended is not recognised as a liability in the financial statements as at 31st March 2013. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 182 | 183 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Property, plant and equipments 17.1 Group Freehold Freehold Plant Motor Leasehold Furniture Capital Total Land buildings machinery vehicles motor and work-inand vehicles fittings progress equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation Balance as at 01.04.2011 6,282,867 10,828,850 5,543,499 1,223,502 4,909 1,264,916 632,405 25,780,948 Surplus on revaluation 365,668 365,668 Companies acquired during the year 369,665 188,829 96,476 9,327 13,347 31,368 709,012 Exchange difference 1,892 889,107 180,658 17,948 41,569 2,126 1,133,300 Additions 82,131 130,415 886,696 124,116 1,666 31,789 2,330,519 3,587,332 Transfers 398,362 163,049 4,256 23,649 (596,134) (6,818) Disposals / write-off (72,727) (83,211) (49,532) (5,301) (5,198) (100) (216,069) Balance as at 31.03.2012 7,102,223 12,362,836 6,787,167 1,329,617 14,621 1,388,093 2,368,816 31,353,373 Surplus on revaluation 280,247 280,247 Companies disposed during the year (5,834) (5,834) Exchange difference (5,921) (48,911) (10,442) (1,132) (2,500) (6,323) (75,229) Additions 110,820 590,627 981,393 158,173 9,660 115,655 622,029 2,588,357 Transfers 927,206 1,205,344 693 (2,172,686) (39,443) Disposals / write-off (9,652) (175,312) (45,106) (2,147) (11,998) (3,013) (247,228) Balance as at 31.03.2013 7,487,369 13,822,106 8,782,316 1,441,552 22,134 1,489,943 808,823 33,854,243 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Balance as at 01.04.2011 2,686,426 3,317,295 542,847 2,803 683,376 1,224 7,233,971 Companies acquired during the year 35,205 66,968 5,605 7,530 25,125 140,433 Exchange difference 272,062 130,874 12,597 30,922 446,455 Charge for the year 248,717 608,309 137,067 4,286 87,871 1,086,250 Transfers 2,609 (8,727) (20) (680) (6,818) Disposals / write-off (2,213) (77,192) (43,393) (4,621) (5,335) (132,754) Balance as at 31.03.2012 3,242,806 4,037,527 654,703 9,998 821,279 1,224 8,767,537 Companies disposed during the year (4,638) (4,638) Exchange difference (19,047) (7,941) (2,430) (2,103) (31,521) Charge for the year 383,580 614,982 145,748 4,487 105,743 1,254,540 Impairment for the year 29,736 29,736 Transfers 7 (10,955) 428 (10,520) Disposals / write-off (7,683) (145,655) (32,227) (1,241) (5,865) (192,671) Balance as at 31.03.2013 3,599,663 4,483,320 765,794 13,244 919,482 30,960 9,812,463 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 7,487,369 10,222,443 4,298,996 675,758 8,890 570,461 777,863 24,041,780 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2012 7,102,223 9,120,030 2,749,640 674,914 4,623 566,814 2,367,592 22,585,836 Carrying amount as at 01.04.2011 6,282,867 8,142,424 2,226,204 680,655 2,106 581,540 631,181 18,546,977 The value of property, plant and equipment pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs. 5,519 million (2011/2012Rs. 9,919 million). Capital work-in-progress represents the amount of expenditure recognised under property plant and equipment during the construction of a capital asset. The exchange difference has arisen as a result of the translation of property, plant and equipment of foreign operations which are accounted for in foreign currencies and translated to the reporting currency at the closing date. In compliance with the accounting policy, the Group revalues land owned by the Group companies by independent professional valuers at least once in every five years. Details of the revalued land are given in the note 17.3.1 to the financial statements. There were no tax implications or tax liabilities arising due to the revaluation of land. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2013 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 901 million that is still in use. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 17.2 Company Plant Motor Furniture Total machinery vehicles and and fittings equipment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation Balance as at 01.04.2011 109,361 94,033 81,213 284,607 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Additions 8,459 18,803 6,831 34,093 Disposals (2,259) (2,160) (2) (4,421) Balance as at 31.03.2012 115,561 110,676 88,042 314,279 Additions 11,310 4,480 3,448 19,238 Disposals (1,477) (4) (1,481) Balance as at 31.03.2013 125,394 115,156 91,486 332,036 Accumulated depreciation / impairment GROUP PERFORMANCE Balance as at 01.04.2011 82,850 25,312 18,200 126,362 Charge for the year 10,725 14,032 7,488 32,245 Disposals (2,092) (1,635) (27) (3,754) REVIEW Balance as at 31.03.2012 91,483 37,709 25,661 154,853 Charge for the year 11,034 18,596 7,980 37,610 Disposals (1,471) (2) (1,473) Balance as at 31.03.2013 101,046 56,305 33,639 190,990 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 24,348 58,851 57,847 141,046 GOVERNANCE Carrying amount as at 31.03.2012 24,078 72,967 62,381 159,426 Carrying amount as at 01.04.2011 26,511 68,721 63,013 158,245 There were no property plant and equipment pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from banks. Property plant and equipment as at 31st March 2013 includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 101 million that is still in use. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 184 | 185 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17.3 Freehold land 17.3.1 Land carried at revalued amount Company Location Last Extent Carrying Revaluation Carrying revaluation amount surplus amount date as at at cost 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence PLC. a 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2009 1A1R0P 900,000 898,843 1,157 Aitken Spence PLC. a 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 31.03.2009 1 A 0 R 20.40 P 223,650 218,659 4,991 Aitken Spence PLC. a 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 31.03.2009 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 188,000 145,039 42,961 Aitken Spence PLC. a Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 499,200 498,246 954 Aitken Spence PLC. a 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 10.92 P 12,700 12,700 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 775/5, Negombo Road, Wattala 31.03.2009 22 A 0 R 24.88 P 1,240,700 1,145,309 95,391 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd.a 385, Colombo Road, Welisara 31.03.2009 8 A 3 R 12.23 P 424,000 337,327 86,673 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. a Hittetiya Matara 31.03.2009 0 A 0 R 5.68 P 284 84 200 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. b “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, 15.06.2010 10 A 2 R 39.25 P 509,039 470,001 39,038 Ahungalla Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. b Meeraladuwa Island, Ahungalla 15.06.2010 26 A 2 R 10.40 P 423,525 333,093 90,432 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd.a * 222, Agalawatte Road, Matugama 31.03.2009 2A3R0P 8,800 6,220 2,580 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC.b “Heritance Ahungalla”, Galle Road, 31.03.2012 11 A 3 R 34.02 P 565,000 547,559 17,441 Ahungalla Aitken Spence Property Developments Ltd. a “Creamland Farm”, Mawaramandiya. 31.03.2009 3 A 0 R 25.08 P 30,300 5,872 24,428 Clark Spence and Co., Ltd. a 24-24/1, Church Street, Galle 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 27.90 P 67,900 67,865 35 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. b 418, Parallel Road, Kudawaskaduwa, 20.10.2012 5 A 1R 37.90 P 280,500 260,727 19,773 Kalutara Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. b 49, Sea Beach Road, Kalutara 20.10.2012 0 A 1R 30.32 P 21,000 19,520 1,480 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. b Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 5 A 3 R 6.80 P 194,500 183,420 11,080 Kandalama Hotels Ltd. b Kandalama, Dambulla 31.03.2009 169 A 2 R 22.00 P 9,000 1,616 7,384 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. b Ayurvedic village Moragalla, Beruwala 31.03.2009 0 A 0 R 19.30 P 4,425 362 4,063 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. c Cochin Kerala 31.03.2012 16 A 3 R 24.00 P 202,348 58,208 144,140 Vauxhall Investments Ltd. a 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 31.03.2009 0 A 1 R 21.08 P 76,287 54,448 21,839 Vauxhall Property Developments Ltd. a 305, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 31.03.2009 0 A 2 R 37.50 P 529,000 514,269 14,731 6,410,158 5,779,387 630,771 * Denotes the land owned by joint venture companies. The extent of the Land is the total owned by the company while the carrying value is the Group’s share recognised in the consolidated financial statements. The above land have been revalued by independent, qualified valuers on the basis of current market value. a Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. Arthur Perera, A.M.I.V. (Sri Lanka) b Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. K.C.B Condegama, A.I.V (Sri Lanka) c Valuation of the land was carried out by Mr. T.T. Kripananda Singh, B.S.C.(Engg.) Civil, MICA, FIE, FIV, C.(Engg.) of N. Raj Kumar and Associates, India. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 17.3.2 Land carried at cost / fair value Company Location Acquisition Extent Carrying date amount as at 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. 80, Negombo Road, Wattala 29.09.2009 2 A 2 R 17.03 P 369,562 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. “Ahungalla Resorts”, Galle Road, Ahungalla 20.04.2011 2 A 1 R 08.00 P 59,002 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 27.08.2010 1 A 3 R 23.20 P 51,978 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 20.10.2011 0 A 1 R 33.50 P 9,174 Aitken Spence Resorts Ltd. Kudawaskaduwa, Kalutara 24.04.2012 0 A 0 R 10.00 P 4,801 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd. * Uluambalama Kadirana, Negombo 23.05.2012 30 A 0 R 00 P 89,274 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, Kaludewala, Matale 11.05.2009 2 A 0 R 23.32 P 3,183 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. 263, 1st lane, Gangabada Road, Kaludewala, Matale 02.11.2010 1 A 0 R 1.31 P 7,350 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College * Millennium Drive, IT Park, Malabe 27.10.2011 7 A 1 R 26.72 P 155,100 Colombo International Nautical & Engineering College * Mirishena, Ethnamadala, Kalutara North 27.10.2011 1 A 1 R 6.00 P 4,120 309/4 a, Negombo Road, Welisara GROUP PERFORMANCE Logilink (Pvt) Ltd. 16.07.2010 2 A 1 R 9.50 P 82,491 M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. 200/21, Peradeniya Road, Kandy 01.04.2011 3 A 1 R 8.00 P 241,176 1,077,211 REVIEW * Denotes the land owned by joint venture companies. The extent of the Land is the total owned by the company while the carrying value is the Group’s share recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 17.3.3 Total carrying amount of land Land carried at revalued amount 6,410,158 Land carried at cost 1,077,211 7,487,369 GOVERNANCE 18 Investment property 18.1 Movement during the year Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or revaluation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance at the beginning of the period 1,663,350 1,663,241 3,509,088 3,508,979 Additions 109 109 Balance at the end of the period 1,663,350 1,663,350 3,509,088 3,509,088 Accumulated depreciation / impairment Balance at the beginning of the period 1,001 249 51,783 48,274 Charge for the year 753 752 1,310 3,509 Balance at the end of the period 1,754 1,001 53,093 51,783 INVESTOR INFORMATION Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,661,596 1,662,349 3,455,995 3,457,305 18.2 Details of land under investment property Location Extent Carrying value of Number of investment property buildings Group Company Rs.’000 Rs.’000 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 1A1R0P 900,000 2 316, K. Cyril C. Perera Mw., Colombo 13 1 A 0 R 20.37 P 223,650 3 170, Sri Wickrema Mw., Colombo 15 3 A 3 R 31.00 P 195,473 8 SUPPLEMENTARY Moragalla, Beruwala 10 A 1 R 23.97 P 552,076 9 290/1, Inner Harbour Road, Trincomalee 0 A 1 R 10.92 P 12,700 1 INFORMATION Irakkakandi Village, VC road, Nilaweli 113 A 1 R 1.00 P 1,644,096 1,572,096 4 3/2, Seewali lane, Kudaedanda, Wattala 0 A 0 R 36.10 P 17,500 1,661,596 3,455,995 page 186 | 187 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Properties which are occupied by the companies within the Group for the production or supply of goods and services or for administration purposes are treated as property plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements while these properties are treated as investment property in the relevant company’s statement of financial position. 18.3 Market value Investment properties in the Group are accounted for on the cost model. The open market value of the above property based on the Directors valuation as at 31st March 2013 for the Group was Rs. 3,021 million (2011/2012 Rs. 3,035 million), and for the company was Rs. 4,681 million (2011/2012 Rs. 4,760 million). 18.4 Income earned from investment property Total rent income earned by the company from the investment property during the year was Rs. 15.7 million (2011/2012 Rs. 15.7 million) (Group-nil). There were no direct operating expenses arising on any of the above investment properties. There were no restrictions on the realisability of any investment property or on the remittance of income or proceeds of disposal. 19 Intangible assets 19.1 Group Goodwill Software Other Total intangibles Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance as at 01.04.2011 68,822 162,915 231,737 Companies acquired during the year 5,728 5,728 Additions 495,287 21,969 517,256 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 6,818 6,818 Balance as at 31.03.2012 564,109 197,430 761,539 Exchange difference (1,004) (1,004) Additions 74,460 1,696 76,156 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 39,443 39,443 Disposals (217) (217) Balance as at 31.03.2013 564,109 310,112 1,696 875,917 Accumulated amortisation / impairment Balance as at 01.04.2011 92,625 92,625 Charge for the year 18,496 18,496 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 6,818 6,818 Balance as at 31.03.2012 117,939 117,939 Exchange difference (1,081) (1,081) Charge for the year 45,569 290 45,859 Impairment during the year 48,769 48,769 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 10,520 10,520 Disposals (145) (145) Balance as at 31.03.2013 48,769 172,802 290 221,861 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2013 515,340 137,310 1,406 654,056 Carrying amount as at 31.03.2012 564,109 79,491 643,600 Carrying amount as at 01.04.2011 68,822 70,290 139,112 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Group as security for facilities obtained from the banks. Intangible assets as at 31st March 2013 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 77 million that is still in use. The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering five year periods. The key assumptions used are given below; Business growth – B ased on the long term average growth rate for each business unit. The weighted average growth rate used is consistent with the forecast included in industry reports. Inflation – Based on current inflation rate. Discount rate – Risk free rate adjusted for the specific risk relating to the industry. Margin – B ased on past performance and budgeted expectations. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 19.2 Company Software 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost or valuation Balance at the beginning of the period 109,920 96,625 Additions 48,461 13,295 Balance at the end of the period 158,381 109,920 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Accumulated amortisation / impairment Balance at the beginning of the period 61,383 45,741 Charge for the year 20,961 15,642 Balance at the end of the period 82,344 61,383 Carrying amount as at 31st March 76,037 48,537 There were no intangible assets pledged by the Company as security for facilities obtained from the banks. Intangible assets as at 31st March 2013 includes fully amortised assets having a gross carrying amount of Rs. 37 million that is still in use. GROUP PERFORMANCE 20 Leasehold properties Group REVIEW 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the period 1,789,901 1,546,442 Exchange difference (13,441) 243,459 Balance at the end of the period 1,776,460 1,789,901 Accumulated amortisation GOVERNANCE Balance at the beginning of the period 268,800 192,414 Exchange difference (2,998) 36,492 Amortisation during the year 46,728 39,894 Balance at the end of the period 312,530 268,800 Carrying amount as at 31st March 1,463,930 1,521,101 The acquisition cost of the leasehold rights of the Island of Vadoo in the Republic of Maldives is recognised under leasehold properties. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Pre-paid operating leases Group 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,028,164 5,455 Additions during the period 1,022,800 Less: Amortisation for the period (1,688) (91) Adjustments for exchange difference (7,678) INVESTOR INFORMATION Refund of overpayment of pre-paid rentals (38,067) Balance at the end of the period 980,731 1,028,164 Prepaid lease rentals for the Island of Meedhupparu, Hudhuranfushi and Rannalhi in the Republic of Maldives and properties at Biyagama and Katunayake are recognised under pre-paid operating leases. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 188 | 189 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Finance lease receivables Upon recognition of the power plant owned by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., under IFRIC 4 the arrangement was accounted as a finance lease where Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd is treated as the lessor. The non escalable capacity charge of the income is recognised as the capital and interest recovery of the lease. 22.1 Movement during the year Group 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 2,603,899 2,836,220 Less: Settlements during the period (92,314) (620,150) Adjustments for exchange difference (17,530) 387,829 Balance at the end of the period 2,494,055 2,603,899 Current portion of finance lease receivables 168,964 90,976 Non current portion of finance lease receivables 2,325,091 2,512,923 22.2 Ageing of gross finance lease receivables and present value of lease receivables 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Gross Unearned Present Gross Unearned Present Gross Unearned Present investment income value investment income value investment income value Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Not Later than one year 637,027 468,063 168,964 586,859 495,883 90,976 1,046,496 496,897 549,599 One to five years 2,762,406 437,315 2,325,091 3,425,151 912,228 2,512,923 3,493,621 1,207,000 2,286,621 Over five years 3,399,433 905,378 2,494,055 4,012,010 1,408,111 2,603,899 4,540,117 1,703,897 2,836,220 23 Investments 23.1 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted Number of Company Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 a) Ordinary Shares Subsidiary companies Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 990,000 100.00 100.00 245,173 245,173 231,547 Ace Container Repair (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 2,250,000 100.00 100.00 22,500 22,500 22,500 Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 1,550,002 100.00 100.00 15,500 15,500 15,500 Ace Containers (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 4,010,000 100.00 100.00 40,100 40,100 40,100 Ace Distriparks (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 8,900,000 100.00 100.00 89,000 89,000 89,000 Ace Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 1,400,000 100.00 100.00 14,000 14,000 14,000 Ace Freight Management (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 5,222,500 100.00 100.00 36,307 36,307 36,307 Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 100 Ace Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 100 Ace Windpower (Pvt) Ltd 13,250,000 100.00 100.00 132,500 119,250 Aitken Spence Apparels (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 15,000 Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 820 820 820 Aitken Spence Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 52,500 100.00 100.00 514 514 514 Aitken Spence Group Ltd. (b) (c) (d) 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 100 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Pvt) Ltd. 4,020,000 100.00 100.00 40,200 40,200 40,200 Aitken Spence Insurance (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 100 100 100 Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 150,000 100.00 100.00 1,500 1,500 1,500 Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd. (d) 140,000 100.00 100.00 1,400 1,400 1,400 Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 100,000 100,000 47,600 Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. (d) 2,038,072 100.00 100.00 132,717 132,717 132,717 Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 1,577,506 100.00 100.00 13,888 13,888 1,888 a,b,c,d refer note 46 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Number of Company Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Branford Hydropower (Pvt) Ltd. 16,400,100 100.00 100.00 223,000 223,000 210,000 Logilink (Pvt) Limited. (d) 30,000,000 100.00 100.00 222,690 222,690 222,690 Royal Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 50,000 100.00 100.00 500 500 500 Spence International (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 1,500,000 100.00 100.00 15,000 15,000 15,000 Spence Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 25,000 100.00 100.00 650 650 650 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Triton (Pvt) Ltd. 10,000 100.00 100.00 50 50 50 Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 10,000,000 100.00 100.00 50,000 50,000 50,000 Vauxhall Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 1,320,000 100.00 100.00 13,200 13,200 13,200 Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. 11,270,000 100.00 100.00 153,401 153,401 153,401 Aitken Spence Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (d) 46,000 92.00 92.00 1,825 1,825 1,825 Aitken Spence Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd. (b) 74,865,000 90.00 99.96 748,650 748,650 748,650 Western Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 80 80.00 80.00 200,000 200,000 Aitken Spence Moscow (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 37,500 75.00 75.00 375 375 375 Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 124,033,413 74.00 74.00 1,404,415 1,404,415 1,404,415 GROUP PERFORMANCE Elevators (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 133,500 66.75 66.75 7,302 7,302 7,269 Ace Alliance Power Ltd. (a) 6,400 64.00 64.00 96 96 REVIEW Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. 20,046,998 51.00 51.00 200,470 200,470 200,470 Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd. 21,523,362 51.00 51.00 215,234 215,234 215,234 Alliance Spence Power Ltd. (a) 5,100 51.00 51.00 80 Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* 10,001 50.00 100.00 263 263 263 Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd. (b)* 4,924,500 49.00 86.99 49,245 49,245 49,245 Aitken Spence Hotels International (Pvt) Ltd. * 10,323,225 49.00 86.99 99,000 99,000 99,000 Kandalama Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. * 6,000,000 37.00 82.99 182,050 182,050 182,050 GOVERNANCE Aitken Spence Corporate Finance (Pvt) Ltd. 2 100.00 100.00 Ace International (Pvt) Ltd. 2,800 Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c)* 100.00 Aitken Spence Resources (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Aitken Spence Shipping Services Ltd. (d)* 100.00 A E Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. * 100.00 Clark Spence & Company (Pvt) Ltd. (d) * 100.00 Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. (d)* 100.00 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd.* 86.99 Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 86.99 Ahungalla Resorts Ltd. * 74.49 Aitken Spence Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 Crest Star (BVI) Ltd. (a)* 74.49 Crest Star Ltd. * 74.49 Golden Sun Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 INVESTOR INFORMATION M.P.S. Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (c)* 74.49 Neptune Ayurvedic Village (Pvt) Ltd. * 74.49 PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd. * 73.57 Heritance (Pvt) Ltd. * 73.00 Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd. * 72.99 Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. * 70.77 Hethersett Hotels Ltd. * 65.22 Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a)* 44.69 SUPPLEMENTARY Joint ventures Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (c) 1,704,000 50.00 50.00 60,876 60,876 60,876 INFORMATION Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 998,750 50.00 50.00 26,257 26,257 26,257 Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (b) 9,420,000 50.00 50.00 94,200 a,b,c,d refer note 46 page 190 | 191 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Number of Company Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 MMBL Money Transfer (Pvt) Ltd. (a) 750,000 50.00 50.00 35,566 35,566 35,566 Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* 60.00 Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. (d) * 60.00 Delta Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. * 51.00 Ace Travels & Conventions (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 50.00 Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services (Pvt) Ltd. (c) * 50.00 Clark Spence Garments Ltd. * 50.00 Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* 50.00 Ace Bangladesh Ltd. (a) * 49.00 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd. (a) (d)* 40.00 4,905,914 4,798,384 4,390,779 b) Preference Shares Aitken Spence Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (c) 500,000 100.00 100.00 5,000 5,000 5,000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) 16,500,000 100.00 100.00 165,000 165,000 165,000 Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd. 4,000,000 72.70 72.70 40,000 40,000 40,000 210,000 210,000 210,000 Provision for impairment of investments (169,507) (169,507) (175,807) Carrying amount as at 31st March 4,946,407 4,838,877 4,424,972 23.2 Investment in subsidiaries quoted Number of Company Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares holding holding % % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. (a) (Ordinary Shares) 239,472,667 71.20 74.49 2,458,287 2,458,287 2,458,287 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2,458,287 2,458,287 2,458,287 Market value as at 31st March 17,720,977 16,763,087 21,839,907 The value of shares pledged by the Group as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.223 million. * Investments are held by one of the following companies Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC., Aitken Spence Hotels Ltd., Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence (Garments) Ltd., Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Triton Ltd., Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd., Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Maritime Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotels (International) Ltd., Crest Star (BVI) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Clark Spence & Company Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Management (Pvt) Ltd., Vauxhall Property Developments (Pvt) Ltd., or Port Management Container Services (Pvt) Ltd. J etan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd., Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd., ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd., and Spence Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in the Republic of Maldives, Crest star (BVI) Ltd. is incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, Crest star Ltd. is incorporated in Hongkong, Ace Bangladesh Ltd., Ace Alliance Power Ltd., and Alliance Spence Power Ltd., are incorporated in Bangladesh, PR Holiday Homes (Pvt) Ltd., Aitken Spence Hotel Services (Pvt) Ltd. and Aitken Spence Hotel Management (South India) (Pvt) Ltd. are incorporated in India, while all other companies are incorporated in Sri Lanka. a,b,c,d refer note 46 24 Investments in equity-accounted investees 24.1 Investment in equity-accounted investees unquoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 No. of Holding 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) (Ordinary shares) 8,300,000 38.97 165,000 165,000 165,000 8,300,000 38.97 165,000 165,000 165,000 (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC (a) (b)) M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 36,114 Carrying amount as at 31st March 165,000 165,000 201,114 165,000 165,000 165,000 Share of movement in equity value 459,926 374,481 353,096 Equity value of investments 624,926 539,481 554,210 165,000 165,000 165,000 a,b,c,d refer note 46 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 24.2 Investment in equity-accounted investees quoted Group Company No. of Holding 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 No. of Holding 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares shares % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (Ordinary shares) 48,627,103 27.96 928,077 923,482 841,101 (consolidated with LEADERSHIP REVIEW Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) Carrying amount as at 31st March 928,077 923,482 841,101 Share of movement in equity value 378,202 307,154 76,851 Equity value of Investments 1,306,279 1,230,636 917,952 Market value of quoted investments as at 31st March 836,386 706,415 941,796 Net book valueGROUP PERFORMANCE Equity value unquoted 624,926 539,481 554,210 unquoted 165,000 165,000 165,000 Net book value REVIEW Equity value quoted 1,306,279 1,230,636 917,952 quoted Net book value as at Equity value as at 31st March 1,931,205 1,770,117 1,472,162 31st March 165,000 165,000 165,000 24.3 Summarised financial information of equity-accounted investees 31.03.2013 GOVERNANCE Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Revenue Profit (net of tax) Dividends Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC.) 1,682,439 1,057,513 624,926 1,112,108 111,059 25,615 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) 1,316,430 10,151 1,306,279 70,442 2,998,869 1,067,664 1,931,205 1,112,108 181,501 25,615 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.03.2012 Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Revenue Profit (net of tax) Dividends Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC. (a) (b)) 1,696,371 1,156,890 539,481 966,097 37,800 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) 1,285,903 55,267 1,230,636 48,183 2,982,274 1,212,157 1,770,117 966,097 85,983 INVESTOR INFORMATION 01.04.2011 Total assets Total liabilities Net assets Revenue Profit (net of tax) Dividends Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC (b) (consolidated with Elpitiya Plantations PLC.) 1,646,770 1,138,446 508,324 1,017,340 93,643 34,066 Browns Beach Hotels PLC. (a) (consolidated with Negombo Beach Hotels (Pvt) Ltd.) 932,024 14,072 917,952 108,446 (4,628) M.P.S. Hotels Ltd. 56,117 10,231 45,886 35,597 6,289 2,634,911 1,162,749 1,472,162 1,161,383 95,304 34,066 a,b refer note 46 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 192 | 193 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 Deferred tax assets 25.1 Movement in deferred tax assets Group 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 209,769 137,694 Exchange gain / (loss) (3,061) 705 Reversal of temporary differences transferred from/ (to) income statement 15,439 71,370 Balance at the end of the year 222,147 209,769 25.2 Composition of deferred tax assets Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets attributable to; Defined benefit obligations 48,284 37,075 Tax losses carried forward 273,612 257,760 Other items 23,935 20,563 Property, plant and equipment (123,684) (105,629) Net deferred tax assets 222,147 209,769 25.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at Recognised Exchange As at Recognised Exchange As at 31st March in income gain / 31st March in income gain / 1st April 2013 statement (loss) 2012 statement (loss) 2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations 48,284 11,209 37,075 (3,880) 40,955 Tax losses carried forward 273,612 15,852 257,760 44,892 212,868 Other items 23,935 6,433 (3,061) 20,563 (3,991) 705 23,849 Companies acquired / (transferred) during the year (5,011) 5,011 345,831 33,494 (3,061) 315,398 32,010 705 282,683 Deferred tax liability Property, plant and equipment (123,684) (18,055) (105,629) 39,360 (144,989) (123,684) (18,055) (105,629) 39,360 (144,989) Net deferred tax assets 222,147 15,439 (3,061) 209,769 71,370 705 137,694 26 Other financial assets Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Other non-current financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 26.1 462,117 392,737 483,620 232,403 159,348 160,939 462,117 392,737 483,620 232,403 159,348 160,939 Other current financial assets Bank deposits 26.3 5,369,255 4,012,030 2,498,994 2,119,069 2,124,041 150,000 Government securities 26.4 1,096,713 343,043 2,560,280 1,096,713 343,043 2,560,280 Quoted equity securities 26.2 281,898 241,542 304,820 3,300 2,840 4,312 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 26.1 15,450 7,978 Forward foreign exchange contracts 26.5 847 5,027 6,764,163 4,596,615 5,369,121 3,227,060 2,469,924 2,714,592 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 26.1 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities Group Company No. of 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 No. of 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Secured Redeemable Debentures) 206,735 130,700 55,700 206,735 130,700 55,700 Sumiko Lanka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. (Preference shares) 75,000 75,000 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 3,000,000 30,000 25,000 25,000 3,000,000 30,000 25,000 25,000 Palm Village Hotels Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 907,837 4,410 10,070 10,070 934,707 1,766 3,533 3,533 Business Process Outsourcing LLC. (Ordinary shares) 7,500 8,640 8,640 8,640 7,500 8,640 8,640 8,640 Poovar Island Resorts (Ordinary shares) 988,764 126,650 126,650 126,650 Barefoot Resorts and Leisure (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 25,000 86,590 86,590 86,590 Cargo Village Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 38,571 357 357 357 Ingrin Institute of Printing & Graphics Sri Lanka Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 10,000 100 100 100 GROUP PERFORMANCE Skynet Worldwide Express Management Company Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 1,000 99 99 99 Colombo International Nautical and Engineering REVIEW College (Pvt) Ltd. (Ordinary shares) 90,450 463,581 388,206 478,656 247,141 167,873 167,873 Adjustment for fair value of investments 13,986 4,531 4,964 (6,760) (8,525) (6,934) Carrying amount as at 31st March 477,567 392,737 483,620 240,381 159,348 160,939 Current unquoted debt and equity securities (15,450) (7,978) Non current unquoted debt and equity securities 462,117 392,737 483,620 232,403 159,348 160,939 GOVERNANCE 26.2 Quoted equity securities Group Company No. of 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 No. of 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 shares shares Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank (Ordinary shares) 24,770 399 399 399 24,770 399 399 399 Overseas Realty (Ceylon) PLC. (Ordinary shares) 3,750 37 37 37 3,750 37 37 37 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Colombo Dockyard PLC. (Ordinary shares) 13,543 123 123 123 Hatton National Bank PLC. (Ordinary shares) 191,400 4,060 4,060 4,060 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. (Ordinary shares) 1,500,000 256,817 256,817 256,817 261,436 261,436 261,436 436 436 436 Adjustment for fair value of investments 20,462 (19,894) 43,384 2,864 2,404 3,876 Carrying amount as at 31st March 281,898 241,542 304,820 3,300 2,840 4,312 26.3 Bank deposits Bank deposits include fixed deposits, call deposits and bank reverse repos which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate. These financial assets INVESTOR INFORMATION are expected to be recovered through contractual cash flows. 26.4 Government securities Government Securities represents the financial assets (treasury bills and treasury bonds) measured at fair value through profit or loss which are held for trading purposes. 26.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reflect the positive change in fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts to convert US Dollars amounting to 1,875,000/as at 31st March 2013, and 3,813,500/as at 31st March 2011. There was a negative change in the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts to convert US Dollars 3,955,000/as at 31st March 2012 due to the movement of SUPPLEMENTARY exchange rates. INFORMATION page 194 | 195 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 Inventories Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Raw materials 1,269,765 1,414,101 1,333,840 Work-in-progress and finished goods 77,314 81,714 79,244 Consumables 477,644 287,502 194,640 2,484 1,651 1,755 1,824,723 1,783,317 1,607,724 2,484 1,651 1,755 Value of inventories pledged as security for facilities obtained by the Group from banks, amounted to Rs. 72 million as at 31st March 2013. (2011/2012-Rs. 900 million) (Company-nil) 28 Trade and other receivables Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables 7,829,687 7,438,967 3,466,261 Other receivables 2,182,759 1,597,535 776,892 526,283 611,879 272,611 Amounts due from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,754,980 2,981,362 2,248,879 Amounts due from equity-accounted investees 12,288 6,100 23,326 10,591 3,983 8,143 Provision for impairment of trade and other receivables (83,636) (114,055) (103,307) (15,094) 9,941,098 8,928,547 4,163,172 3,291,854 3,597,224 2,514,539 Loans to employees 31,529 19,064 19,205 23,654 17,228 16,842 9,972,627 8,947,611 4,182,377 3,315,508 3,614,452 2,531,381 The movement of loans above Rs. 20,000/given to executive staff is as follows: Loan to company officers summary 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance as at the beginning of the year 17,228 16,842 Loans granted during the year 11,850 7,400 29,078 24,242 Recoveries during the year (5,424) (7,014) Balance at the end of the year 23,654 17,228 No loans have been given to the Directors of the company. 29 Assets classified as held for sale Consequent to the decision made by the Group to divest from the ship owning business in 2007/08 and the sale of ships by the Group’s ship owning companies, the Group recognised the fair values of the investments in Ceyaki Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. & Ceyspence (Pvt) Ltd. under assets held for sale. The liquidation of these companies are not yet concluded. Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Share of net assets of equity-accounted investees classified as held for sale 141,446 141,446 141,446 57,237 57,237 57,237 Net current assets of group companies classified as held for sale 7,679 7,679 40,043 13,600 149,125 149,125 181,489 57,237 57,237 70,837 There were no discontinued operations recognised in the income statement during the period. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 30 Stated capital and reserves 30.1 Stated capital 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Stated capital as at 31st March 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 No. of shares No. of shares No. of shares LEADERSHIP REVIEW Opening balance 405,996,045 405,996,045 27,066,403 Issue of shares on subdivision 378,929,642 Closing balance 405,996,045 405,996,045 405,996,045 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per individual present at meetings of the shareholders or one vote per share in the case of a poll. 30.2 Reserves Revaluation reserve GROUP PERFORMANCE Revaluation reserve relates to the amount by which the Group has revalued its property, plant and equipment. There were no restrictions on distribution of these balances to the shareholders. General reserve REVIEW General reserve reflects the amount the Group has reserved over the years from its earnings. Exchange fluctuation reserve Exchange fluctuation reserve comprises of all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of foreign subsidiaries in the Group and the portion of exchange gain or loss arising from the translation of the hedge instrument in relation to cash flow hedges. Other capital reserves This represents the portion of share premium of subsidiaries attributable to the Group. GOVERNANCE Available-for-sale reserve This represents the cumulative net change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets until the investments are derecognised or impaired. 31 Interest-bearing liabilities 31.1 Movement of interest-bearing liabilities Group as at 31st March 2013 Bank / financial institute Balance Impact of New loans Capital Balance Total FINANCIAL STATEMENTS as at exchange obtained repayment as at interest paid 31.03.2013 rate during the 01.04.2012 2012/2013 fluctuation year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 2,244,562 (13,364) 103,083 (2,230,579) 4,385,422 266,451 DFCC Bank. 1,992,142 (629) 144,524 (145,852) 1,994,099 225,324 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 782,546 4,016 624,044 (378,243) 532,729 80,912 HSBC. 2,569,339 (3,241) 2,491,003 (370,705) 452,282 48,992 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 22,587 (916) (98,530) 122,033 2,723 INVESTOR INFORMATION National Savings Bank. (100,000) 100,000 12,005 Union Assurance PLC. (100,000) 100,000 13,401 Employees’ Trust Fund. (100,000) 100,000 12,005 Indian Bank. (80,000) 80,000 10,302 Bank of Ceylon. (6,050) 6,050 128 Eagle Income Fund. (2,400) 2,400 288 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 1,050 39 (391) 1,402 Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon. (800) 800 96 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund. (800) 800 96 Sampath Bank PLC. 3,218 3,417 (199) SUPPLEMENTARY 7,615,444 (14,095) 3,366,071 (3,614,549) 7,878,017 672,723 Current portion of Interest -bearing liabilities (1,370,093) (2,135,469) INFORMATION Non Current Interest -bearing liabilities 6,245,351 5,742,548 page 196 | 197 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group as at 31st March 2012 Bank / financial institute Balance Impact of Companies New loans Capital Balance as at Total as at exchange acquired obtained repayment 01.04.2011 interest paid 31.03.2012 rate during the 2011/2012 fluctuation year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 4,385,422 368,636 1,346,400 (681,329) 3,351,715 208,741 DFCC Bank. 1,994,099 28,849 1,768,894 (71,128) 267,484 90,084 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 532,729 26,775 2,408 59,240 (463,137) 907,443 41,868 HSBC. 452,282 73,552 70,844 (130,029) 437,915 17,925 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 122,033 32,250 (115,065) 204,848 5,812 National Savings Bank. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 15,728 Union Assurance PLC. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 22,396 Employees’ Trust Fund. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 16,617 Indian Bank. 80,000 (60,000) 140,000 15,916 Bank of Ceylon. 6,050 (14,067) 20,117 915 Eagle Income Fund. 2,400 (1,800) 4,200 377 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 1,402 1,565 (163) Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon. 800 (600) 1,400 126 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund. 800 (600) 1,400 126 Federal Bank Ltd. (454) 454 7,878,017 530,062 2,408 3,246,943 (1,763,372) 5,861,976 436,631 Current portion of Interest -bearing liabilities (2,135,469) (1,718,328) Non Current Interest -bearing liabilities 5,742,548 4,143,648 Company as at 31st March 2013 Bank / financial institute Balance as at New loans Capital repayment Balance as at Total interest 31.03.2013 obtained during 01.04.2012 paid 2012/2013 the year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank. 1,300,000 1,300,000 168,244 Hatton National Bank PLC. 700,000 700,000 89,437 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 700,000 600,000 (160,000) 260,000 73,198 National Savings Bank. (100,000) 100,000 12,005 Union Assurance PLC. (100,000) 100,000 13,401 Employees’ Trust Fund. (100,000) 100,000 12,005 Indian Bank. (80,000) 80,000 10,302 Eagle Income Fund. (2,400) 2,400 288 Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon. (800) 800 96 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund. (800) 800 96 2,700,000 600,000 (544,000) 2,644,000 379,073 Current portion of Interest -bearing liabilities (157,500) (544,000) Non Current Interest -bearing liabilities 2,542,500 2,100,000 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Company as at 31st March 2012 Bank / financial institute Balance as at New loans Capital repayment Balance as at Total interest 31.03.2012 obtained during 01.04.2011 paid 2011/2012 the year Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 DFCC Bank. 1,300,000 1,200,000 100,000 75,170 Hatton National Bank PLC. 700,000 600,000 100,000 55,295 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 260,000 (280,000) 540,000 41,868 National Savings Bank. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 15,728 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Union Assurance PLC. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 22,396 Employees’ Trust Fund. 100,000 (75,000) 175,000 16,617 Indian Bank. 80,000 (60,000) 140,000 15,916 Eagle Income Fund. 2,400 (1,800) 4,200 377 Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon. 800 (600) 1,400 126 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund. 800 (600) 1,400 126 2,644,000 1,800,000 (568,000) 1,412,000 243,619 Current portion of Interest -bearing liabilities (544,000) (568,000) GROUP PERFORMANCE Non Current Interest -bearing liabilities 2,100,000 844,000 REVIEW 31.2 Analysed by capital repayment Group as at 31st March 2013 Bank / financial institute Payable in Payable Payable Payable within Payable after Total less than 3 within 3 to 12 within 1 2 2 5 years 5 years months months years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 123,471 422,910 548,999 966,508 182,674 2,244,563 GOVERNANCE Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 4,629 21,387 36,015 427,030 293,485 782,545 DFCC Bank. 23,369 181,465 336,003 1,239,740 211,565 1,992,143 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 22,587 22,586 HSBC. 142,242 426,725 558,392 1,179,952 262,028 2,569,339 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 101 306 643 1,050 Sampath Bank. 225 676 2,317 3,218 316,624 1,053,469 1,482,369 3,813,230 949,752 7,615,444 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company as at 31st March 2013 Bank / financial institute Payable in Payable Payable Payable within Payable after Total less than 3 within 3 to 12 within 1 2 2 5 years 5 years months months years Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 52,500 122,500 525,000 700,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 7,500 17,500 390,000 285,000 700,000 DFCC Bank. 97,500 227,500 975,000 1,300,000 INVESTOR INFORMATION 157,500 367,500 1,890,000 285,000 2,700,000 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 198 | 199 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.3 Analysed by Interest Rate As at Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 Total Net book Total Net book Total Net book Total Net book borrowing value of borrowing value of borrowing value of borrowing value of collateral collateral collateral collateral pledged pledged pledged pledged Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Term loans linked to AWPLR DFCC Bank. 1,700,325 556,055 1,622,231 489,522 1,300,000 1,300,000 Hatton National Bank PLC. 1,182,476 659,150 1,295,979 671,807 700,000 700,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 782,546 289,981 532,729 286,194 700,000 260,000 3,665,347 1,505,186 3,450,939 1,447,523 2,700,000 2,260,000 Term loans linked to LIBOR HSBC. 2,569,227 2,511,780 452,131 754,850 Hatton National Bank PLC. 359,559 214,004 2,265,455 2,160,040 DFCC Bank. 208,009 187,000 217,345 187,000 Nations Trust Bank PLC. 22,586 60,161 122,033 337,139 3,159,381 2,972,945 3,056,964 3,439,029 Term loans linked to AWDR Hatton National Bank PLC. 694,848 831,000 823,988 831,000 DFCC Bank. 70,000 120,000 120,000 120,000 Bank of Ceylon. 6,050 764,848 951,000 950,038 951,000 Debentures linked to treasury bills Union Assurance PLC. 100,000 20,000 National Savings Bank. 100,000 100,000 Employees’ Trust Fund. 100,000 100,000 Indian Bank 80,000 40,000 Eagle Income Fund. 2,400 2,400 Incorporated Trustees of the Church of England in Ceylon 800 800 International Water Management Institute Pension Fund 800 800 384,000 264,000 Fixed rate debentures and term loans Union Assurance PLC. 80,000 Indian Bank. 40,000 DFCC Bank. 13,809 116,600 34,524 122,200 Hatton National Bank PLC. 7,681 Sampath Bank PLC. 3,218 Premier Leasing & Finance Ltd. 1,049 1,402 Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. 111 150 25,868 116,600 36,076 122,200 120,000 Total interest bearing loans and borrowings 7,615,444 5,545,731 7,878,017 5,959,752 2,700,000 2,644,000 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 31.4 Analysed by currency equivalent in rupees As at Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs. Equivalent Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 % Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States Dollars 3,159,382 41 3,492,293 Sri Lankan Rupees 4,456,062 59 4,385,724 100 2,700,000 2,644,000 7,615,444 100 7,878,017 100 2,700,000 2,644,000 LEADERSHIP REVIEW 32 Deferred tax liabilities 32.1 Movement in deferred tax liabilities Group 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 429,238 256,001 Companies acquired during the year 7,921 GROUP PERFORMANCE Exchange gain / (loss) (873) Origination of temporary differences transferred to / (from) income statement 76,378 165,316 Balance at the end of the year 504,743 429,238 32.2 Composition of deferred tax liabilities REVIEW Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to ; GOVERNANCE Property, plant and equipment 517,652 444,069 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 32,356 8,588 Deferred interest expense 300 877 Companies acquired during the year 7,921 Defined benefit obligations (21,593) (22,940) Tax losses carried forward (23,972) (9,277) Net deferred tax liabilities 504,743 429,238 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 32.3 Movement in tax effect of temporary differences Group As at Recognised Exchange As at Recognised Subsidiaries As at 31st March in income gain / (loss) 31st March in income acquired 1st April 2013 statement 2012 statement 2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Deferred tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 517,652 74,456 (873) 444,069 177,953 266,116 Undistributed profits of consolidated entities 32,356 23,768 8,588 (3,909) 12,497 Deferred interest expense 300 (577) 877 (824) 1,701 INVESTOR INFORMATION Companies acquired/ (transferred) during the year (7,921) 7,921 7,921 550,308 89,726 (873) 461,455 173,220 7,921 280,314 Deferred tax assets Defined benefit obligations (21,593) 1,347 (22,940) (8,674) (14,266) Tax losses carried forward (23,972) (14,695) (9,277) 770 (10,047) (45,565) (13,348) (32,217) (7,904) (24,313) Net deferred tax liabilities 504,743 76,378 (873) 429,238 165,316 7,921 256,001 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 200 | 201 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 Employee benefits 33.1 Retirement benefits obligations Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Present value of unfunded obligations 447,390 391,409 335,637 73,405 56,394 46,936 Total present value of the obligation 447,390 391,409 335,637 73,405 56,394 46,936 33.2 Movement in present value of the defined benefit obligations Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the period 391,409 335,637 56,394 46,936 Benefits paid by the plan (59,256) (43,837) (6,489) (3,946) Current service cost 42,337 36,105 6,975 5,166 Interest cost 46,320 39,563 6,767 5,632 Actuarial (gains) / losses 27,904 12,808 9,758 2,606 Exchange difference 129 112 Defined benefit obligations of companies acquired during the year 11,021 Defined benefit obligations of companies disposed during the year (1,453) Defined benefit obligations at the end of the period 447,390 391,409 73,405 56,394 33.3 Expenses recognised in profit or loss Group Company 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Current service cost 42,337 36,105 6,975 5,166 Interest cost 46,320 39,563 6,767 5,632 Actuarial (gains) / losses 27,904 12,808 9,758 2,606 116,561 88,476 23,500 13,404 The provision for retirement benefits obligations for the year is based on the actuarial valuation carried out by professionally qualified actuaries, Messrs. Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., as at 31st March 2013. The actuarial present value of the promised retirement benefits as at 31st March 2013 amounted to Rs. 447,389,831/(Company Rs. 73,405,447/-) The liability is not externally funded. The principal actuarial assumptions used in determining the cost are given below; Discount rate 12%. Salary increments will range between 7% and 11% p.a. Retirement age of 55 years. The company will continue in business as a going concern Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on published statistics and mortality tables. 34 Provisions GROUP 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Balance at the beginning of the period 490,661 457,827 Additional provision for the year 1,158,767 593,267 Amounts used during the year (1,372,325) (560,433) Balance at the end of the period 277,103 490,661 A Provision is made on a monthly basis for major overhaul costs of power plant in Embilipitiya based on the estimated overhauls to be carried out within the interval between two major overhauls. The cost of the actual overhaul carried out is set off against this provision. Estimated time between two major overhauls is 18 months. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 35 Trade and other payables Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade payables 3,017,937 2,462,172 1,289,858 Other payables 4,686,132 4,234,739 2,618,142 257,813 355,612 330,633 Amounts due to subsidiaries and joint ventures 2,091,253 1,967,010 1,940,706 Amounts due to equity-accounted investees 136 14,088 482 24 726 45 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Unclaimed dividends 6,007 4,652 3,576 6,007 4,652 3,576 Deferred grants 3,426 4,802 7,713,638 6,720,453 3,912,058 2,355,097 2,328,000 2,274,960 35.1 Deferred grants Group 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 GROUP PERFORMANCE Balance as at the beginning of the year 4,802 Companies acquired during the year 4,802 Grants received for the year 1,099 REVIEW Amortised during the year (2,475) Balance as at the end of the year 3,426 4,802 Government grants have been received for the purchase of certain items of property, plant and equipment. There are no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached to these grants. 36 Other financial liabilities GOVERNANCE Group 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Forward foreign exchange contracts (refer note 26.5) 57,847 57,847 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 202 | 203 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Financial instruments 37.1 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments 37.1.1 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Group Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 28 9,357,076 615,551 9,972,627 9,972,627 Deposits and prepayments 84,128 1,045,715 1,129,843 1,129,843 Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 206,736 270,831 477,567 477,567 Quoted equity shares 281,898 281,898 281,898 Other bank deposits 5,369,255 5,369,255 5,369,255 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,096,713 Forward foreign exchange contracts 847 847 847 Cash and short-term deposits 2,217,994 2,217,994 2,217,994 1,097,560 17,235,189 552,729 1,661,266 20,546,744 20,546,744 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 7,615,444 7,615,444 7,615,444 Trade and other payables 35 5,921,637 1,792,001 7,713,638 7,713,638 Other financial liabilities 36 F orward foreign exchange contracts Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 5,588,753 5,588,753 5,588,753 19,125,834 1,792,001 20,917,835 20,917,835 Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2012 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 28 8,633,295 314,316 8,947,611 8,947,611 Deposits and prepayments 77,531 678,227 755,758 755,758 Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 130,700 262,037 392,737 392,737 Quoted equity shares 241,542 241,542 241,542 Other bank deposits 4,012,030 4,012,030 4,012,030 Government securities 343,043 343,043 343,043 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash and short-term deposits 800,000 1,376,837 2,176,837 2,176,837 1,143,043 14,230,393 503,579 992,543 16,869,558 16,869,558 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 7,878,017 7,878,017 7,878,017 Trade and other payables 35 5,216,077 1,504,376 6,720,453 6,720,453 Other financial liabilities 36 Forward foreign exchange contracts 57,847 57,847 57,847 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 4,867,493 4,867,493 4,867,493 57,847 17,961,587 1,504,376 19,523,810 19,523,810 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 37.1.1 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Group Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 01st April 2011 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 28 3,937,246 245,131 4,182,377 4,182,377 Deposits and prepayments 74,144 472,878 547,022 547,022 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 55,700 427,920 483,620 483,620 Quoted equity shares 304,820 304,820 304,820 Other bank deposits 2,498,994 2,498,994 2,498,994 Government securities 2,560,280 2,560,280 2,560,280 Forward foreign exchange contracts 5,027 5,027 5,027 Cash and short-term deposits 736,009 736,009 736,009 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2,565,307 7,302,093 732,740 718,009 11,318,149 11,318,149 Financial liabilities REVIEW Interest-bearing liabilities 31 5,861,976 5,861,976 5,861,976 Trade and other payables 35 2,765,376 1,146,682 3,912,058 3,912,058 Other financial liabilities 36 Forward foreign exchange contracts Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 2,911,944 2,911,944 2,911,944 11,539,296 1,146,682 12,685,978 12,685,978 GOVERNANCE 37.1.2 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Company Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Financial assets FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Trade and other receivables 28 3,272,756 42,752 3,315,508 3,315,508 Deposits and prepayments 704 52,371 53,075 53,075 Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities & equity securities 206,736 33,645 240,381 240,381 Quoted equity shares 3,300 3,300 3,300 Other bank deposits 2,119,069 2,119,069 2,119,069 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,096,713 Cash and short-term deposits 62,885 62,885 62,885 INVESTOR INFORMATION 1,096,713 5,662,150 36,945 95,123 6,890,931 6,890,931 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 2,700,000 2,700,000 2,700,000 Trade and other payables 35 2,159,294 195,803 2,355,097 2,355,097 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 99,881 99,881 99,881 4,959,175 195,803 5,154,978 5,154,978 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 204 | 205 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37.1.2 Carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments Company Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2012 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 28 3,593,952 20,500 3,614,452 3,614,452 Deposits and prepayments 204 59,972 60,176 60,176 Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 130,700 28,648 159,348 159,348 Quoted equity shares 2,840 2,840 2,840 Other bank deposits 2,124,041 2,124,041 2,124,041 Government securities 343,043 343,043 343,043 Cash and short-term deposits 800,000 19,042 819,042 819,042 1,143,043 5,867,939 31,488 80,472 7,122,942 7,122,942 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 2,644,000 2,644,000 2,644,000 Trade and other payables 35 2,123,196 204,804 2,328,000 2,328,000 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 267,932 267,932 267,932 5,035,128 204,804 5,239,932 5,239,932 Trading at Loans and Available for Other Non financial Total Fair value fair value * receivables sale financial instruments carrying liabilities amount Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 01st April 2011 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 28 2,449,505 81,876 2,531,381 2,531,381 Deposits and prepayments 198 23,007 23,205 23,205 Other financial assets 26 Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 55,700 105,239 160,939 160,939 Quoted equity shares 4,312 4,312 4,312 Other bank deposits 150,000 150,000 150,000 Government securities 2,560,280 2,560,280 2,560,280 Cash and short-term deposits 20,554 20,554 20,554 2,560,280 2,675,957 109,551 104,883 5,450,671 5,450,671 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 31 1,412,000 1,412,000 1,412,000 Trade and other payables 33 1,980,339 294,621 2,274,960 2,274,960 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 814,304 814,304 814,304 4,206,643 294,621 4,501,264 4,501,264 37.1.3 The Group and the Company does not have any financial instruments designated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition as at 31st March 2013. Total value of financial assets pledged as securities for facilities obtained from banks amounted to Rs.37.8 million (2011/2012 Rs.7.9 million) company Nil. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 37.2 Fair value hierarchy The Group and the Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation techniques: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based observable market data As at 31 March 2013, the Group held the following financial instruments measured at fair value. Group LEADERSHIP REVIEW Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 270,831 270,831 Quoted equity shares 281,898 281,898 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 Forward foreign exchange contracts 847 847 Total assets 1,378,611 847 270,831 1,650,289 GROUP PERFORMANCE Other financial liabilities Forward contracts REVIEW Total liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2012 Other financial assets GOVERNANCE Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 262,037 262,037 Quoted equity shares 241,542 241,542 Government securities 343,043 343,043 Forward foreign exchange contracts Cash and short-term deposits 800,000 800,000 Total assets 1,384,585 262,037 1,646,622 Other financial liabilities Forward contracts 57,847 57,847 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total liabilities 57,847 57,847 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 01st April 2011 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 427,920 427,920 Quoted equity shares 304,820 304,820 INVESTOR INFORMATION Government securities 2,560,280 2,560,280 Forward foreign exchange contracts 5,027 5,027 Total assets 2,865,100 5,027 427,920 3,298,047 Other financial liabilities Forward contracts Total liabilities SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 206 | 207 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2013 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 33,645 33,645 Quoted equity shares 3,300 3,300 Government securities 1,096,713 1,096,713 1,100,013 33,645 1,133,658 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 31st March 2012 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 28,648 28,648 Quoted equity shares 2,840 2,840 Government securities 343,043 343,043 Cash and short-term deposits 800,000 800,000 1,145,883 28,648 1,174,531 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 As at 01st April 2011 Other financial assets Unquoted debt securities and equity securities 105,239 105,239 Quoted equity shares 4,312 4,312 Government securities 2,560,280 2,560,280 2,564,592 105,239 2,669,831 38 Financial risk management objectives and policies. The Group’s risk management structures, processes and procedures are explained in the risk report on page 126 to 129 of the annual report. The objective of the financial risk management strategy of the Group is to minimise the impact of risks that arise due to the use of financial instruments. The risks that are unmanaged can potentially result in the Group being unable to achieve its budgeted profits in a given financial year. Hence, importance is given by the Group to manage financial risks. To achieve this objective the Group has established a number of policies and guidelines that are followed across all business sectors. Such policies and guidelines are subject to periodic review in order to maintain their relevance in the evolving financial markets in which the Group operates. In this part of the report we would be covering the financial impact that would arise from market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, the most important elements of the financial risk that the Group is subjected to. 38.1 Market risk management Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate due to the changes in market factors such as exchange rates and interest rates. Such risks could affect Group’s income and expenses and could have a potentially adverse impact on the profits attributable to the shareholders. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable limits while optimising returns. Currency risk Aitken Spence is a diversified group with operations and transactions across many business sectors and geographies. The Group has investments abroad and has raised debt funding from foreign sources. Its markets are diverse and spread across the globe. The diversity of our operations exposes the Group to currency risk since it transacts in many foreign currencies other than the functional currency in which we report. The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases, investments and borrowings. The Group has significant investments in the Republic of Maldives whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. The main foreign currencies in which the Group transacts are the USD and the Euro while its exposures to other foreign currencies are not material. The Group’s total USD denominated borrowings amounts to Rs. 3.2 billion. Most of the USD denominated loans have been taken by SBUs with foreign currency income which acts as a natural hedge against translational losses. The conscious matching of foreign currency denominated borrowings against foreign currency income had enabled the group to manage the currency risk without entering into elaborate hedging mechanisms. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW The Group treasury monitors the fluctuations in foreign currencies and advises SBU’s with appropriate strategies to minimise risks. Short term forward contracts are often used by SBU’s with foreign exchange denominated income to maximise returns on conversions. Similar strategies are adopted by Group companies having foreign currency denominated outflows such as payments to overseas suppliers and importation of machinery and equipment. Foreign currency sensitivity An estimation of the approximate impact of the currency risk with respect to financial instruments with a 5% change in US Dollar exchange rate is given below. In calculation of this risk it is assumed that all other variable factors are held constant. The calculation of sensitivity has been performed only on the assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency of the Company and the Group as at 31st March 2013. Group LEADERSHIP REVIEW As at 31st March 2013 Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity Rs.’000 Rs.’000 LKR depreciates against USD by 5% (60,252) 202,849 LKR appreciates against USD by 5% 67,243 (202,849) The effect on equity arises from the investments made by the Group in the Republic of Maldives. We have not accounted for the sensitivity arising in any of the other investments as the Groups exposure to them immaterial. Company GROUP PERFORMANCE As at 31st March 2013 Effect on profit before tax Rs.’000 LKR depreciates against USD by 5% 21,665 REVIEW LKR appreciates against USD by 5% (21,665) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. Interest rate risk arises on interest bearing financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial position. The interest rate risk of the Company and the Group arises from financial instruments which are exposed to variable or fixed rate interest rates. Variable interest rates expose the Company and the Group to cash flow risks due to the impact on the quantum of interest payable. Financial instruments with fixed interest rates are subject to GOVERNANCE variations in fair values due to market interest rate movements. The Group manages the interest rate risk by entering into interest rate swaps where appropriate especially in respect of debt instruments with variable rates. The Group treasury closely monitors market interest rate movements and implements appropriate investment strategies in order to minimise the interest rate risks associated with financial instruments with fixed rates. For example, in an environment where the market rates are on an upward trend, the majority of portfolio investments would be made on short tenures to minimise the negative movements in fair values of investments. Interest rate sensitivity At the reporting date the interest rate sensitivity profile of the Group’s interest bearing financial instruments were as follows: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impact on profit and loss Financial assets Rupee financial liabilities USD financial liabilities Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Decrease of 100 basis points in Rupee interest rate 5,473 44,561 Increase of 100 basis points in Rupee interest rate (5,411) (44,561) Decrease of 10 basis points in USD interest rate 3,159 Increase of 10 basis points in USD interest rate (3,159) At the reporting date the interest rate sensitivity profile of the Company’s interest bearing financial instruments were as follows: INVESTOR INFORMATION Impact on profit and loss Financial assets Rupee financial liabilities USD financial liabilities Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Decrease of 100 basis points in Rupee interest rate 5,473 27,000 Increase of 100 basis points in Rupee interest rate (5,411) (27,000) Equity price risk. The Group has adopted that its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted investees are recorded at cost as per LKAS-27Consolidated and Separate financial statements and therefore it is scoped out from LKAS 39 – Financial instruments: recognition and measurement. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 208 | 209 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All the investments made by the Group that are classified as a financial asset are categorised as available for sale asset. At the reporting date the value of these investments are as follows : Quoted equity instruments – Rs. 282 million Unquoted equity instruments – Rs. 271 million We have not carried out the sensitivity analysis for the above as the Group’s exposure to the such is not material. 38.2 Liquidity management The liquidity risk of the Group arises from having insufficient cash resources to meet its obligations as they arise. Insufficient liquidity resources could have an adverse impact on the Group’s operations while impairing investor, customer and supplier confidence thereby weakening its competitive position, The Group had adopted a number of strategies in order to ensure that sufficient cash resources are available to meet both operational and investment liquidity needs whilst meeting its debt servicing obligations. The Group closely monitors cash inflows and outflows both at consolidated and sector levels to ensure matching of cashflows wherever possible. The maturity profile of the Group’s investments is structured in a manner so that they meet expected cash outflows. The investment strategy is conservative and subject to rigorous evaluations to ensure that there is no capital erosion. The Group has sufficient approved banking facilities in reserve and had over Rs 4 billion undrawn facilities as at the end of the financial year, which could be utilised at a short notice. The Group evaluates its funding requirements at frequent intervals and access debt and capital markets at appropriate times. The Group has implemented a strategic working capital management plan across all sectors whereby the receivables are closely monitored and debtors’ period is minimised. Careful vendor evaluations and procurement strategies ensure that correct prices are paid for inputs and maximum credit periods are negotiated to optimise the working capital cycle. The Group ensures its liquidity is maintained by investing in short, medium and long term financial instruments to support operational and other funding requirements. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Group As at 31 st March 2013 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total capital months months years commitment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interest bearing liabilities 316,624 1,053,469 1,482,369 3,813,230 949,752 7,615,444 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 5,588,753 5,588,753 Trade payables 1,798,281 710,453 509,338 3,018,072 Other Payables 612,203 1,403,623 887,739 2,903,565 7,999,237 2,403,700 2,405,546 1,482,369 3,813,230 949,752 19,125,834 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. Company As at 31 st March 2013 On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years More than 5 Total capital months months years commitment Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interest bearing liabilities 157,500 367,500 1,890,000 285,000 2,700,000 Bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 99,881 99,881 Other Payables 2,091,277 18,017 50,000 2,159,294 2,191,158 18,017 207,500 367,500 1,890,000 285,000 4,959,175 38.3 Credit risk management Credit risk refers to the risk carried by the Group owing to a counter party defaulting on its contractual obligations in relation to a financial instrument or customer contract. The total carrying amount of the credit risk pertaining to the Group as at 31st March 2013 is the summation of balances under the following categories of financial assets. The maximum credit risk of the Group and the Company is limited to the carrying value of these financial assets as 31 st March 2013. As at 31 st March 2013 Group Company 31.03.2013 31.03.2013 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Trade receivables and other receivables 9,357,076 3,272,756 Deposits and prepayments 84,128 704 Other financial assets 7,226,280 3,459,463 Cash and Short term deposits 2,217,994 62,885 The credit risk arising from the deposits made in financial institutions are managed by the Group Treasury in accordance with the policy directions provided by the Board of Directors. The Group Treasury advises the SBU’s regarding the investment opportunities available and guidance is provided in order to minimise the risk of default. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Aitken Spence transacts only with a limited number of institutions all of which have stable credit ratings. The Group’s exposure and credit ratings of counterparties are continuously monitored and a diversified investment portfolio is maintained to minimise the unsystematic risk. Trade Receivables and other receivables Trade receivables consist of recoverables from a large number of customers spread across diverse industries, segments and geographical areas. The majority of the Group’s trade receivables are due for settlement within 90 days comprising of 81.4% of total receivables as at the end of the financial year. The credit policy for each segment of business varies due to the diversity of operations in the Group. The credit policies that best suit their respective business environment are developed for each sector and the responsibility for this rests with the sector financial controllers and the senior management teams. The Group as a policy does not offer credit to individuals unless collateral is obtained in the form of bank guarantees or advances to cover the receivable. LEADERSHIP REVIEW Credit policies of SBUs are prepared subsequent to analysing the credit profile of a customer. In this regard factors such as the credit history, legal status, market share, geographical locations of operations, and industry information are considered. Reference from bankers or credit information databases are obtained when it is considered necessary. Each SBU’s has identified credit limits for each of its customers and if the customer does not meet the criteria or the stipulated benchmark on a transaction, then the business is carried out with such customers only up to the value of the collaterals or advances obtained. The total collateral received on trade receivables are Rs. 268 million. Apart from the state owned enterprise who is the largest customer of the Strategic Investments sector, the Group does not have a significant credit risk exposure to any other single counterparty. Concentration of credit risk of the state owned enterprise is 63.2% of total trade receivables of the Group as at 31st March 2013. Recoverability of the outstanding receivables from the state owned enterprise is guaranteed through the Implementation Agreement entered into with the Government of GROUP PERFORMANCE Sri Lanka by the respective SBU’s and hence the Group does not consider the outstanding debt to pose any credit risk. As at 31 st REVIEW March 2013 Rs.’000 Less than 30 days 2,987,548 More than 30 days but less than 60 days 1,795,903 More than 60 days but less than 90 days 1,589,424 More than 90 days but less than 180 days 1,139,594 More than 180 days but less than 365 days 268,770 GOVERNANCE More than 365 days 48,448 Total gross trade receivables 7,829,687 Impairment provision for trade receivables (45,377) Total net trade receivables 7,784,310 39 Capital management The capital management strategy adopted by Aitken Spence group is aimed at maintaining sufficient and adequate levels of working capital for day to day operations and long term capital for investment and growth. A suitably structured capital base is essential in order to maintain investor confidence in the company, and ensures that it FINANCIAL STATEMENTS achieves sustained long term growth while maintaining the capability to withstand fluctuating economic fortunes. The capital of the Group consists of equity and debt. The components of the equity capital are the stated capital, retained earnings and reserves while the debt capital consist of long and short term debt sourced from financial institutions and capital markets. 39.1 Strategy The capital management strategy of the company is based on four key dimensions, namely, preserving, optimising, raising and investing of capital. Due consideration is given to each of these dimensions to ensure that the Group can meet the challenges of the highly competitive and rapidly evolving business environment. Preservation of capital takes a high priority in the capital management strategy since its erosion can endanger the company’s very existence. We ensure that there is sound cash flow planning and that the cash requirements for both short and long terms are identified while continuing to efficiently manage our receivables. Investments are made according to the risk – return parameters established by the Board and we ensure that no undue risks that could endanger the capital base are taken. Operating costs INVESTOR INFORMATION are managed in order to ensure the maintenance of margins within budgeted limits. Optimising capital is a vital aspect of our strategy for the simple reason that capital is scarce. Efficient allocation of capital is ensured through stringent evaluation of potential investment opportunities. Ranking of projects by net present values and ensuring that internal rate of return hurdles are surpassed are some of the practices that we adopt in order to optimise capital. We strive to achieve greater operational efficiencies that would result in minimising the capital tied up in the operating cycle. The debt to equity ratio [defined as the ratio between non-current interest bearing borrowings to the total equity and minority interest] is closely monitored to ensure the efficient use of equity capital. The Group also ensures that asset performance is maximised. Diversified business sectors of Aitken Spence group have embarked on a long term strategy of growth. A vital factor that can have a dampening effect on growth is the lack of capital for investments. In order to ensure that the Group has sufficient reserves of capital we are constantly on the lookout for cost effective methods of raising new capital. Our sources for raising capital are both domestic and foreign. The Group access debt and equity capital markets at appropriate times to maintain the debt to SUPPLEMENTARY equity ratio and the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) at an acceptable level. The Group makes capital investment decisions only after making thorough evaluations. Our project investments are supported by financial modelling, in-depth sensitivity INFORMATION analysis and thorough due diligence. Scenario analysis also compliments our decision making process. Portfolio investments are mainly concentrated on gilt-edge securities such as treasury bonds and bills while deposits are placed in institutions with a high credit rating. In order to minimise the risk of default exposure to a single institution is avoided. We ensure that cash does not idle. page 210 | 211 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ESSENTIALS OF THE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Preservation Optimisation Raising Investing Sound cashflow planning Improving operational efficiencies Assessment of requirements for capital Financial modelling and sensitivity analysis Efficient and effective management Ranking of projects Sourcing capital from lowest cost sources Due diligence of receivables with least stringent covenants. Cost Management IRR hurdle rates Monitoring of WACC to ascertain the cost of Exposure limits funding. Risk identification and mitigation. Benchmarking of asset performance Gilt-edge securities preferred. 39.2 Methodology The Groups’ capital management policy had been set by the Board and the Group treasury plays a key role in implementation. The Group treasury functions as a financial intermediary within the Group and carries out the allocation of capital between Strategic Business Units (SBU) in order to optimise the utilisation. This ensures that the WACC of the Group is minimised whilst ensuring that adequate working capital is available across all the sectors. Capital preservation is ensured by the risk management practices that the Group has adopted. The Group treasury ensures that investments are made according to the risk and diversification parameters sanctioned by the Board. Raising of capital is carried out both at the SBU and Group levels. Subsequent to the identification of a need discussions are held with potential providers of capital where the Group treasury plays an active role in ensuring that the cost of capital is minimised and that the covenants associated with funding arrangements are acceptable to the Group. In project investments financial modelling, sensitivity analysis and calculation of internal rate of return are carried out either by the Group’s Corporate Finance division or the SBU which is promoting the project with the help of the former. Once the Board approves a project in principle, a financial and a legal due diligence is conducted before making the investment to ensure that the envisaged returns would in-fact materialise in the future. The Group has implemented policies with regard to management of receivables that are followed by financial controllers of business sectors. Innovative cost management strategies are being implemented as an on-going practice across all sectors which ensures that the risk of a business reporting a loss is minimised and the capital invested in the business is preserved. 40 Joint ventures The Group’s interest in joint ventures and their principal activities are described in note 23.1 and pages 245 to 250 respectively. Included in the consolidated financial statements are the following items that represent the Group’s interest in the assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses of the joint ventures. 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Income 4,158,054 3,448,173 2,858,405 Expenses 3,713,864 3,084,770 2,631,343 Current assets 1,478,389 1,297,850 1,041,646 Non-current assets 661,036 457,059 214,268 Current liabilities 1,511,049 1,392,251 958,122 Non-current liabilities 130,134 81,929 50,683 41 Contracts for capital expenditure The following commitments for capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March have not been provided for in the financial statements. 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Approximate amount approved but not contracted for 1,773,260 4,441,473 3,846,024 Approximate amount contracted for but not incurred 823,310 191,790 168,521 2,596,570 4,633,263 4,014,545 42 Lease commitments Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases of the Group are as follows; 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Lease rentals payable within one year 321,707 324,101 279,955 Lease rentals payable between one and five years 1,609,245 1,620,817 1,068,968 Lease rentals payable after five years 6,189,725 6,556,367 962,159 8,120,677 8,501,285 2,311,082 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 42.1 Details of leases under operating lease Company Location of the leased properties Unexpired lease periods Kandalama Hotels Ltd. Dambulla 29 years Hethersett Hotels Ltd. Nuwara Eliya 81 years Jetan Travel Services Company (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 28 years Cowrie Investments (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 35 years ADS Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 13 years Unique Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Republic of Maldives 32 years LEADERSHIP REVIEW Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Biyagama 74 years Ace Container Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Katunayake 74 years 43 Cessation of Power purchase agreements of Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. The Power Purchase Agreements signed between The Ceylon Electricity Board and Ace Power Generation Matara (Pvt) Ltd and Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd expired on 26th March 2012 and 19th December 2012 respectively. The Companies are in the process of negotiating extensions for the said power purchase agreements for a further period. The Directors of the respective companies on assessment of the circumstances are confident that the outcome will be positive, and hence the going concern assumption is adopted in presenting the financial statements of the respective Companies. 44 Contingent liabilities GROUP PERFORMANCE The contingent liabilities as at 31.03.2013 on guarantees given by Aitken Spence PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 1,741 million. Of this sum Rs. 1,503 million REVIEW and Rs. 238 million relates to facilities obtained by subsidiaries and joint ventures respectively and none to equity-accounted investees. Liabilities as at 31.03.2013 on guarantees given by subsidiaries to third parties amounted to Rs. 4,935 million. None of the above guarantees were in relation to facilities obtained by companies other than companies within the Group. There were no guarantees given in relation to facilities obtained by Aitken Spence PLC. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary company currently supplies power to the Ceylon Electricity Board based on a generation license validly obtained on 14th January 2004 for which payment has been received regularly. However, the Sri Lanka Electricity Act No.20 of 2009, states that for a company to be eligible to obtain a power generation license for power generation capacity of over and above 25MW, the company must be incorporated under the Companies Act No.7 of 2007, in which the government, a public corporation, a company in which the government holds more than fifty per centum of the shares or a subsidiary of such a company, holds such number GOVERNANCE of shares as may be determined by the Secretary to the Treasury with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance. However such determination has not been made by the Secretary to the Treasury to-date. Based on the legal opinion obtained by the company we are of the view that the above provision of the Act will not have a material impact on the financial position of the subsidiary and/or the Group. Further, in the absence of the determination by the Secretary to the Treasury, Aitken Spence PLC is unable to determine the financial effect on the dilution, if any, of its holding in the shares of Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. 45 Directors’ fees The Directors of the Company have received fees amounting to Rs. 122,400 /from subsidiaries for the year ended 31st March 2013. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 46 Related party transactions Aitken Spence Group carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka Accounting StandardLKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures, which are transacted at normal business terms. The pricing policy applicable to such transactions are comparable with those that would have been charged from unrelated companies. Mr. D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC, Aitken Spence Hotel Management Asia (Pvt) Ltd., Ace Power Horana (Pvt) Ltd., and Ace Power Matara (Pvt) Ltd., which are Subsidiaries of the Group. He is also the Chairman of Browns Beach Hotels PLC, an associate company and the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of companies indicated by “*” in the list of companies disclosed under note 46.4. Mr. J.M.S. Brito, Deputy Chairman /Managing Director of the company is also the Chairman or a Director of the subsidiaries, joint ventures and equity-accounted INVESTOR INFORMATION investees that are indicated by “a” in notes 23 and 24 to the financial statements. Mr. J.M.S Brito is also the Chairman of DFCC Bank PLC, and DFCC Vardhana Bank PLC. Dr. R.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “b” in note 23 and 24 to the financial statements. Mr. G.M. Perera a Director of the company till 31.12.2012 was also the Managing Director or a Director till 31.12.2012 of the companies marked by “c” in note 23 and 24 to the financial statements. He is also a Director of Rainforest Ecolodge (Pvt) Ltd. Dr. P. Dissanayake a Director of the company is also the Chairman, Managing Director or a Director of the companies marked by “d” in note 23 and 24 to the financial statements. Mr.C. H. Gomez a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. Mr. N. J. de S Deva Aditya a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC SUPPLEMENTARY and Melstacorp Ltd. INFORMATION Mr. V.M. Fernando a Director of the company is also the Chairman of Shipping and Cargo Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., which is a joint venture company of the Group. He is also the Chairman or a Director of Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Stallion Plantations (Pvt) Ltd. and Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. and he is also the vice president of National Olympic Committee (NOC). page 212 | 213 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mr. R.N. Asirwatham a Director of the company is also a Director of Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. He is also a Director of CIC Holdings PLC, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Dialtex Industries Ltd., Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC and Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC. Transactions and outstanding balances between the companies within the group and related parties are given in note no. 46.1 46.6. Details of significant related party disclosures are given below. Transactions with Transactions with Aitken Spence PLC Group companies 2012/2013 2011/2012 2012/2013 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 46.1 Transactions with subsidiary companies listed in note 23 Income from services rendered 464,264 390,020 N/A N/A Rent income received 15,735 15,735 N/A N/A Allocation of common personnel and administration expenses 57,729 42,112 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 70,289 29,652 N/A N/A Interest income received 162,161 140,321 N/A N/A Interest paid 145,295 264,157 N/A N/A 46.2 Transactions with equity-accounted investees listed in note 24 Sale of goods and services 4,066 4,260 14,172 7,068 Purchase of goods and services 1,126 615 4,574 14,014 46.3 Transactions with joint venture companies listed in note 23 Sale of goods and services 50,339 54,148 N/A N/A Purchase of goods and services 789 2,658 N/A N/A Interest paid 66,348 46.4 Transactions with other related companies Sale of goods and services 233,003 270,443 Purchase of goods and services 168,110 120,225 675,502 675,755 Loans obtained 1,800,000 144,524 3,100,895 Repayment of loans and debentures 145,852 752,457 Short/ long term facilities as at 31st March 1,300,000 2,000,000 2,198,599 8,193,231 Transactions with Ambewela Livestock Company Ltd.*, Ambewela Products (Pvt) Ltd.*, Bell Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.*, Ceylon Agro Industries Ltd., Ceylon Garden Coir (Pvt) Ltd.*, CIC Holdings PLC, Continental Insurance Lanka Ltd.*, Dankotuwa Porcelain PLC, Dialtex Industries Ltd., Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC*, Dynamic AV Technologies (Pvt) Ltd., Hyundai Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Indo Lanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Bell (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Dairies (Pvt) Ltd.*, Lanka Milk Foods (CWE) PLC*, Melstacorp Ltd.*, Mercantile Merchant Bank Ltd., Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Ltd.*, National Olympic Committee (NOC), Pattipola Livestock Company Ltd.*, Pelwatte Sugar Industries PLC*, Periceyl (Pvt) Ltd.*, Rajawella (Holdings) Pvt Ltd., Renuka Hotels (Pvt) Ltd., Royal Ceramics PLC, Stallion Plantations (Pvt) Ltd., Stassen Exports (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Foods (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen International (Pvt) Ltd.*, Stassen Natural Foods (Pvt) Ltd.* and Texpo Industries (Pvt) Ltd* are reflected under transactions with other related companies, above. Balances with Aitken Spence PLC Balances with Group companies 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 46.5 Amounts due from related parties Fully owned subsidiaries 1,645,313 1,139,269 1,008,612 N/A N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 1,070,194 1,812,181 1,189,208 N/A N/A N/A Joint ventures 39,473 29,912 51,059 N/A N/A N/A Amount due from subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,754,980 2,981,362 2,248,879 N/A N/A N/A Equity-accounted investees 10,591 3,983 8,143 12,288 6,100 23,326 Other related companies 10,747 6,831 7,136 46.6 Amounts due to related parties Fully owned subsidiaries 718,241 618,192 764,960 N/A N/A N/A Partly owned subsidiaries 88,535 108,240 622,175 N/A N/A N/A Joint ventures 1,284,477 1,240,578 553,571 N/A N/A N/A Amount due to subsidiaries & joint ventures 2,091,253 1,967,010 1,940,706 N/A N/A N/A Equity-accounted investees 24 726 45 136 14,088 482 Other related companies 1,300,000 2,000,000 200,556 1,996,327 6,754,080 3,988,882 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 46.7 Transactions with key management personnel Aitken Spence PLC., considers its Board of Directors as the key management personnel of the company. The Board of Directors, Vice Presidents and Assistant Vice Presidents of subsidiary companies are considered as key management personnel of group companies. There were no loans given to DIrectors of the company during the financial year. Compensation paid to / on behalf of key management personnel of the Company is as follows. COMPANY GROUP Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Short term employee benefits 67,443 422,149 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Post employment benefits 18,191 No post-employment benefits were paid to key management personnel of Aitken Spence PLC during the financial year. The Company/Group did not have any material transactions with its key management personnel or their close family members during the year. 47 Foreign currency translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were; 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 GROUP PERFORMANCE Rs.’000 Rs.’000 United States Dollar 126.89 127.85 British Pound 192.04 204.88 REVIEW Euro 162.14 171.18 Oman Rial 329.49 332.96 South African Rand 13.69 16.63 Indian Rupee 2.33 2.50 Maldivian Rufiyaa 8.24 8.30 Bangladesh Taka 1.62 1.56 48 Number of employees GOVERNANCE The number of employees of the Group at the end of the year was 6,207 (2012 5,791) The number of employees of the Company at the end of the year was 201 (2012 192). 49 Events occurring after the reporting date The Board of Directors of the Company resolved to recommend a first and final ordinary dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share for the year 2012/2013 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting. Details of the dividend is disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements. There were no other material events that occurred after the reporting date that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 214 | 215 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50 Reconciliations on transition to new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) 50.1 Reconciliation of Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31st March 2012. As stated in note 2.1, these are Group’s / Company’s first financial statements prepared in accordance with new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, prefixed both SLFRS and LKAS, promulgated by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The accounting policies set in note 3 have been applied in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2013, the comparative information presented for the year ended 31st March 2012 and preparation of an opening statements of financial position as at 01st April 2011. In preparing its opening SLFRS statement of financial position, the Group / Company has adjusted amounts reported previously in financial statements prepared in accordance with previous SLASs. An explanation of how the transition from previous SLASs has affected the Group’s / Company’s financial position and financial performance is set out in the following tables and notes. As per SLAS Effect of transition As per SLFRS/LKAS to SLFRS/LKAS Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 50.7.1 30,670,417 351,206 31,021,623 Revenue tax (478,519) (478,519) Net revenue 30,191,898 351,206 30,543,104 Other operating income 50.7.2 698,246 387,832 1,086,078 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (5,875) (5,875) Raw materials and consumables used 50.7.3 (9,856,597) (619,142) (10,475,739) Employee benefits expense (3,580,485) (3,580,485) Depreciation and amortisation expense 50.7.4 (1,777,449) 631,966 (1,145,483) Other operating expenses-direct 50.7.5 (6,076,253) (966,010) (7,042,263) Other operating expenses-indirect 50.7.6 (3,989,102) 11,622 (3,977,480) Profit from operations 5,604,383 (202,526) 5,401,857 Finance income 50.7.7 489,056 (17,692) 471,364 Finance expenses 50.7.8 (693,975) (81,875) (775,850) Net finance expense (204,919) (99,567) (304,486) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 50.7.9 63,993 21,990 85,983 Profit before tax 5,463,457 (280,103) 5,183,354 Income tax expenses 50.7.10 (752,900) 6,810 (746,090) Profit for the year 4,710,557 (273,293) 4,437,264 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 3,709,162 (221,493) 3,487,669 Non-controlling interests 1,001,395 (51,800) 949,595 Profit for the year 4,710,557 (273,293) 4,437,264 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 9.14 (0.55) 8.59 50.2 Reconciliation of Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March 2012 As per SLAS Effect of transition As per SLFRS/LKAS to SLFRS/LKAS Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the period 4,437,264 4,437,264 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 655,651 655,651 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 365,668 365,668 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (65,063) (65,063) Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees 178,141 178,141 Other comprehensive income for the year net of tax 1,134,397 1,134,397 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,571,661 5,571,661 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 4,256,189 4,256,189 Non-controlling interests 1,315,472 1,315,472 Total comprehensive income for the year 5,571,661 5,571,661 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 50.3 Reconciliation of equity Group Reconciliation of equity as at 31 March 2012 Reconciliation of equity as at 1 April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRS / LKAS) As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS / As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS / transition to LKAS transition to LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ASSETS Non-current assets LEADERSHIP REVIEW Property, plant and equipment 50.7.11 27,893,497 (5,307,661) 22,585,836 23,925,653 (5,378,676) 18,546,977 Investment property 50.7.12 102,156 1,560,193 1,662,349 102,799 1,560,193 1,662,992 Intangible assets 50.7.13 528,857 114,743 643,600 134,026 5,086 139,112 Leasehold properties 1,521,101 1,521,101 1,354,028 1,354,028 Pre-paid operating Leases 1,028,164 1,028,164 5,455 5,455 Finance lease receivables 50.7.14 2,512,923 2,512,923 2,286,621 2,286,621 Investments in equity-accounted investees 50.7.16 1,470,157 299,960 1,770,117 1,335,002 137,160 1,472,162 Deferred tax assets 50.7.10 210,468 (699) 209,769 138,314 (620) 137,694 GROUP PERFORMANCE Other financial assets 50.7.17 383,495 9,242 392,737 473,945 9,675 483,620 33,137,895 (811,299) 32,326,596 27,469,222 (1,380,561) 26,088,661 Current assets REVIEW Inventories 50.7.18 1,788,467 (5,150) 1,783,317 1,607,724 1,607,724 Finance lease receivables 50.7.14 90,976 90,976 549,599 549,599 Trade and other receivables 50.7.19 8,959,927 (12,316) 8,947,611 4,171,699 10,678 4,182,377 Current tax receivable 158,172 158,172 122,298 122,298 Deposits and prepayments 755,758 755,758 547,022 547,022 Other financial assets 50.7.17 6,133,621 (1,537,006) 4,596,615 5,309,362 59,759 5,369,121 Cash and short-term deposits 50.7.20 647,880 1,528,957 2,176,837 736,009 736,009 GOVERNANCE 18,443,825 65,461 18,509,286 12,494,114 620,036 13,114,150 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 181,489 181,489 Total Assets 51,730,845 (745,838) 50,985,007 40,144,825 (760,525) 39,384,300 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 12,557,127 (102,443) 12,454,684 11,071,652 (142,578) 10,929,074 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retained earnings 10,855,377 (290,679) 10,564,698 8,309,395 (58,664) 8,250,731 25,547,644 (393,122) 25,154,522 21,516,187 (201,242) 21,314,945 Non-controlling interests 5,700,409 (991,609) 4,708,800 5,129,687 (975,422) 4,154,265 Total Equity 50.7.21 31,248,053 (1,384,731) 29,863,322 26,645,874 (1,176,664) 25,469,210 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 5,742,548 5,742,548 4,143,648 4,143,648 Deferred tax liabilities 50.7.10 444,582 (15,344) 429,238 267,078 (11,077) 256,001 Employee benefits 387,984 3,425 391,409 335,637 335,637 INVESTOR INFORMATION 6,575,114 (11,919) 6,563,195 4,746,363 (11,077) 4,735,286 Current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 2,135,469 2,135,469 1,718,328 1,718,328 Provisions 50.7.22 490,661 490,661 457,827 457,827 Trade and other payables 50.7.23 6,618,149 102,304 6,720,453 3,942,669 (30,611) 3,912,058 Current tax payable 286,567 286,567 179,647 179,647 Other financial liabilities 50.7.24 57,847 57,847 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 4,867,493 4,867,493 2,911,944 2,911,944 13,907,678 650,812 14,558,490 8,752,588 427,216 9,179,804 SUPPLEMENTARY Total Equity and Liabilities 51,730,845 (745,838) 50,985,007 40,144,825 (760,525) 39,384,300 Net Assets per share (Rs.) 62.93 (0.97) 61.96 53.00 (0.50) 52.50 INFORMATION page 216 | 217 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50.4 Reconciliation of Company Income Statement for the year ended 31st March 2012 As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS/LKAS transition to SLFRS/LKAS Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Revenue 448,428 448,428 Revenue tax (8,516) (8,516) Net revenue 439,912 439,912 Other operating income 1,837,391 1,837,391 Employee benefits expense (275,385) (275,385) Depreciation and amortisation expense (51,396) (51,396) Other operating expenses-indirect (234,669) (234,669) Profit from operations 1,715,853 1,715,853 Finance income 50.7.7 423,819 (6,230) 417,589 Finance expenses (361,300) (361,300) Net finance expense 62,519 (6,230) 56,289 Profit before tax 1,778,372 (6,230) 1,772,142 Income tax expenses (12,479) (12,479) Profit for the period 1,765,893 (6,230) 1,759,663 Earnings per share Basic/Diluted (Rs.) 4.35 (0.02) 4.33 50.5 Reconciliation of Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March 2012 As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS/LKAS transition to SLFRS/LKAS Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Profit for the period 1,759,663 1,759,663 Other comprehensive income Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (3,063) (3,063) Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (3,063) (3,063) Total comprehensive income for the period 1,756,600 1,756,600 Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 50.6 Reconciliation of equity Company Reconciliation of equity as at 31 March 2012 Reconciliation of equity as at 1 April 2011 (date of transition to SLFRS / LKAS) As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS / As per SLAS Effect of As per SLFRS / transition to LKAS transition to LKAS SLFRS/LKAS SLFRS/LKAS Notes Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 ASSETS LEADERSHIP REVIEW Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 50.7.11 207,963 (48,537) 159,426 209,129 (50,884) 158,245 Investment property 50.7.12 672,488 2,784,817 3,457,305 675,888 2,784,817 3,460,705 Intangible assets 50.7.13 48,537 48,537 50,884 50,884 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures unquoted 50.7.15 4,888,877 (50,000) 4,838,877 4,599,972 (175,000) 4,424,972 Investments in subsidiaries quoted 2,458,287 2,458,287 2,458,287 2,458,287 Investments in equity-accounted investees 165,000 165,000 165,000 165,000 Other financial assets 50.7.17 167,873 (8,525) 159,348 167,873 (6,934) 160,939 GROUP PERFORMANCE 8,560,488 2,726,292 11,286,780 8,276,149 2,602,883 10,879,032 Current assets REVIEW Inventories 1,651 1,651 1,755 1,755 Trade and other receivables 50.7.19 3,356,764 257,688 3,614,452 2,285,506 245,875 2,531,381 Current tax receivable 140,483 140,483 109,659 109,659 Deposits and prepayments 60,176 60,176 23,205 23,205 Other financial assets 50.7.17 3,275,568 (805,644) 2,469,924 2,700,721 13,871 2,714,592 Cash and short-term deposits 50.7.20 19,042 800,000 819,042 20,554 20,554 6,853,684 252,044 7,105,728 5,141,400 259,746 5,401,146 GOVERNANCE Assets classified as held for sale 57,237 57,237 70,837 70,837 Total Assets 15,471,409 2,978,336 18,449,745 13,488,386 2,862,629 16,351,015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 Reserves 6,494,816 (199,868) 6,294,948 5,737,726 (196,805) 5,540,921 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Retained earnings 1,670,127 3,053,204 4,723,331 1,067,320 3,059,434 4,126,754 Total Equity 50.7.21 10,300,083 2,853,336 13,153,419 8,940,186 2,862,629 11,802,815 Non-current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 2,100,000 2,100,000 844,000 844,000 Employee benefits 56,394 56,394 46,936 46,936 2,156,394 2,156,394 890,936 890,936 Current liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 544,000 544,000 568,000 568,000 INVESTOR INFORMATION Trade and other payables 50.7.23 2,203,000 125,000 2,328,000 2,274,960 2,274,960 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 267,932 267,932 814,304 814,304 3,014,932 125,000 3,139,932 3,657,264 3,657,264 Total Equity and Liabilities 15,471,409 2,978,336 18,449,745 13,488,386 2,862,629 16,351,015 Net Assets per share (Rs.) 25.37 7.03 32.40 22.02 7.05 29.07 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 218 | 219 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50.7 Notes to the reconciliations 50.7.1 Revenue Group 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Adjustment arising from recognition of revenue on gross basis * 960,970 Decrease in revenue in Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd resulting from application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. (620,154) Revision of revenue recognition of elevator and escalator installation. 10,390 351,206 * In instances when it was identified that the Group entities act as the principal rather than an agent upon reassessment of the substance of the transaction the revenue on these transactions was re-measured on Gross basis. 50.7.2 Other operating income The movement in the other operating income represents the exchange gain on application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. 50.7.3 Raw materials and consumables used The movement in the Raw material and consumables represents the provision made for the major overhaul of the power plant in Embilipitiya and the other adjustments on application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. 50.7.4 Depreciation and amortisation expense Group 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Adjustment in depreciation due to recognition of components in Property, plant & equipment. (29,995) Difference in depreciation due to restatement of assets at their fair value under the deemed cost exception given for the first time adoption of SLFRSs 42,226 On application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. 593,602 Reversal of goodwill impairment recognised due to re-assessment of goodwill. 26,133 631,966 50.7.5 Other operating expenses-direct Group 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Impact to the direct expenses on recognition of revenue on gross basis (960,970) Impact to the direct expenses on change in revenue recognition of installation of elevators (5,040) (966,010) 50.7.6 Other operating expenses-indirect Group 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Impairment of trade debtors on application of SLFRS/LKAS. (8,272) Reversal of provision for fall in value of investments recognised under previous standards. 19,894 11,622 50.7.7 Finance income Group Company 2011/2012 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Fair valuing of government securities & other financial instruments classified as fair value through profit & loss on application of SLFRS 32 & 39 (17,692) (18,043) Dividend income on preference shares 11,813 (17,692) (6,230) Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 50.7.8 Finance expenses Group 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Recognition of forward foreign exchange contracts classified as fair value through profit or loss on application of SLFRS 32 and 39 (62,874) Interest adjustment due to acquisition of asset on deferred payment terms (19,001) (81,875) LEADERSHIP REVIEW 50.7.9 Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) This represents the Group’s share of the adjustments to the profits of the equity accounted investees in the plantation sector on adoption of the SLFRSs / LKASs. Profits of this company was adjusted for the following Re-assessment of the estimated useful life of the assets (property, plant and equipment) which were previously carried at zero written down value. Change in valuation basis of the produce from biological assets from since realised price to lower of cost of production or market value. Re-measurement of the consumable biological assets (timber stocks) on fair value basis 50.7.10 Income tax expenses /Deferred taxation The deferred tax impact arising from the timing difference with the adoption of SLFRS/LKAS. GROUP PERFORMANCE 50.7.11 Property, plant & equipment Group Company REVIEW 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Derecognition of the power plant of Ace Power Embilipitiya resulting from the application of IFRIC 4. (4,224,372) (4,231,668) Reclassification of computer software as intangible assets. (79,491) (70,290) (48,537) (50,884) Difference in depreciation due to the recognition of components. (104,600) (74,111) Restatement of assets at their fair value under the deemed cost exemption available in SLFRS 1 (838,168) (941,084) Adjustment due to acquisition of land on deferred terms reassessment (61,030) (61,523) GOVERNANCE (5,307,661) (5,378,676) (48,537) (50,884) 50.7.12 Investment property This represents the adjustment due to the re-measurement of investment property at its fair value as its deemed cost on the date of transition, 1st April 2011. 50.7.13 Intangible assets Group Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Reclassification of computer software as intangible assets. 79,491 70,290 48,537 50,884 Re-assessment of goodwill * 35,252 (65,204) 114,743 5,086 48,537 50,884 * Upon the application of the acquisition method for business combinations the Group re-assessed the goodwill on consolidation previously recognised and adjustments were made for the following : G  roup re-measured the fair values of the assets and liabilities of the acquirees on the date of acquisition of subsidiaries and the goodwill was recalculated based on the difference between the fair value of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquiree taking in to account the acquiree’s adjustments on transition to SLFRS/LKAS INVESTOR INFORMATION -G  oodwill previously recognised on part acquisition s of subsidiaries which were acquisitions of non-controlling interest that were treated as transactions with the equity holders and were recognised against the equity of the company -C  ontingent consideration of previous acquisitions were measured at their fair values on the date of acquisition and treated as part of the consideration transferred on the acquisition 50.7.14 Finance lease receivables These represents the current and non current portion of lease receivables of Ace Power Embilipitiya resulting from the application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 220 | 221 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50.7.15 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Preference share being categorised as a long term loan on application of LKAS 32 & 39 (175,000) (175,000) Contingent consideration recognised 125,000 (50,000) (175,000) 50.7.16 Investments in equity-accounted investees Group 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Group's share of the movement in equity value of Aitken Spence Plantation Management PLC (see note 50.7.9) 159,149 137,160 Group's share of the movement in equity value of Browns Beach Hotels PLC due to the revaluation of land 140,811 299,960 137,160 50.7.17 Other financial assets Re-measurement of other financial assets were as follows: Group Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Other non-current financial assets Fair valuing of unquoted investments designated as available-for-sale 9,242 9,675 (8,525) (6,934) 9,242 9,675 (8,525) (6,934) Other current financial assets Government securities & short term deposits measured at fair value on application of LKAS 32 & 39 financial instruments (8,048) 9,995 (8,048) 9,995 Fair valuing of quoted investments designated as available-for-sale 44,737 2,404 3,876 Forward contracts designated as fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) according to LKAS 32 & 39. 5,027 Reclassification of short term deposits to cash & cash equivalents (1,528,958) (800,000) (1,537,006) 59,759 (805,644) 13,871 50.7.18 Inventories This represents the change in inventories due to the revision of revenue recognition of installation of elevators 50.7.19 Trade and other receivables Group Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Impact of impairing trade & other receivable on application of LKAS 32 & 39 (12,726) 10,378 Preference share being categorised as a long term loan on application of LKAS 32 & 39 175,000 175,000 Interest on preference share being categorised as a long term loan on application of LKAS 32 & 39 82,688 70,875 Others 410 300 (12,316) 10,678 257,688 245,875 50.7.20 Cash and short-term deposits The movement represents the reclassification of short term deposits to cash & cash equivalents Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW 50.7.21 Equity reconciliation Group 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Revaluation Available Retained NonRevaluation Available Retained Nonreserve for sale earnings controlling reserve for sale earnings controlling reserve Interests reserve Interests Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Reported as per previous SLAS 5,358,153 10,855,377 5,700,409 5,058,520 8,309,395 5,129,687 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Transitional adjustments Fair valuing of unquoted and quoted investments designated as available-for-sale (13,627) 19,894 2,975 51,169 2,898 Restatement of assets at their fair value under the deemed cost (88,816) 1,745,441 (7,989) (193,747) 1,767,940 Financial instruments measured at fair value on application of LKAS 32 & 39 financial instruments (65,895) 15,022 345 Adjustment resulting from application of IFRIC 4, Determining whether an Arrangement contains a GROUP PERFORMANCE Lease, by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. (2,027,799) (996,195) (1,858,517) (949,843) Difference in depreciation due to the recognition of components. (56,082) (18,030) (56,082) (18,030) REVIEW Adjustment due to acquisition of land on deferred terms (41,197) (23,037) Adjustments from equity-accounted investees 159,150 35,880 137,160 On reassessment of Goodwill (49,592) (65,204) Other adjustments 13,878 (11,372) 15,800 (12,997) The deferred tax impact arising from the timing difference with the adoption of SLFRS/LKAS. 11,521 3,122 8,253 2,204 GOVERNANCE (88,816) (13,627) (290,679) (991,609) (193,747) 51,169 (58,664) (975,422) Revised as per LKAS/SLFRS 5,269,337 (13,627) 10,564,698 4,708,800 4,864,773 51,169 8,250,731 4,154,265 Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Revaluation Available Retained Revaluation Available Retained reserve for sale earnings reserve for sale earnings reserve reserve Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reported as per previous SLAS 193,746 1,670,127 193,746 1,067,320 Transitional adjustments Fair valuing of unquoted and quoted investments designated as available-for-sale (6,122) (3,059) Restatement of assets at their fair value under the deemed cost (193,746) 2,978,564 (193,746) 2,978,564 Financial instruments measured at fair value on application of LKAS 32 & 39 financial instruments (8,048) 9,995 Accrual of interest on the preference shares 82,688 70,875 (193,746) (6,122) 3,053,204 (193,746) (3,059) 3,059,434 INVESTOR INFORMATION Revised as per LKAS/SLFRS (6,122) 4,723,331 (3,059) 4,126,754 50.7.22 Provisions This represents the constructive obligation that arises for the major overhauls of the power plant owned by Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 222 | 223 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 50.7.23 Trade and other payables Group Company 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Interest adjustment arising on assets purchased on deferred terms (19,835) (38,486) Contingent consideration recognised as disclosed in note 50.7.13 125,000 125,000 Other adjustments (2,861) 7,875 102,304 (30,611) 125,000 50.7.24 Other financial liabilities This represents the forward contracts designated as fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) in accordance to LKAS 32 & 39. 50.7.25 Cash flow statements Adjustments to the cash flow statements due to the transition to SLFRS/ LKAS from LKAS. Group Company 2011/2012 2011/2012 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Cash flow from operating activities Net profit before taxation (280,103) (6,230) Adjustments for Depreciation and amortisation (631,967) Interest expense 19,001 Interest income 17,692 6,230 Share of equity-accounted investees' profit after tax (21,990) Provision of bad and doubtful debts 8,272 Provision for fall in value of investments (19,894) (628,886) 6,230 Operating profit before working capital changes (908,989) (Increase)/decrease in inventories 5,150 (Increase)/decrease in trade & other receivables 14,723 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 135,889 125,000 Increase/(decrease) in provisions 32,834 188,596 125,000 Cash generated from / (used in) operations (720,393) 125,000 Interest paid (19,001) Net cash flow from operating activities (739,394) 125,000 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries & joint ventures (125,000) (125,000) Effect of changes in percentage holding in subsidiaries (17,110) Purchase of property, plant and equipment 608,277 13,295 Purchase of intangible assets (21,969) (13,295) Receipts of finance lease receivables 620,150 Proceeds / (purchase) of other financial assets & liabilities (net) 62,874 Net cash flow from investing activities 1,127,222 (125,000) Effect of exchange rate changes (387,828) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Ten Year Summary GROUP OVERVIEW Year ended 31st March ** 2013 ** 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Operating Results Revenue 37,139,927 31,021,623 25,143,811 24,168,970 29,307,818 27,515,960 19,765,632 13,593,263 10,063,989 9,157,160 Profit before taxation 5,001,262 5,183,354 3,815,555 3,353,169 3,396,916 3,064,792 2,582,088 1,910,115 1,721,123 1,883,501 Taxation 747,176 746,090 387,335 366,193 328,385 235,110 298,018 197,623 162,599 184,005 Profit after taxation 4,254,086 4,437,264 3,428,220 2,986,976 3,068,531 2,829,682 2,284,070 1,712,492 1,558,524 1,699,496 Profit attributable to LEADERSHIP REVIEW Aitken Spence PLC 3,266,838 3,487,669 2,535,956 2,059,636 2,040,010 1,841,150 1,459,774 1,213,661 1,116,776 1,275,523 Equity and Liabilities Stated capital 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,135,140 2,134,326 2,130,837 Reserves 12,695,793 12,454,684 11,071,652 9,317,199 7,227,545 3,505,284 2,673,510 2,370,383 2,306,075 2,038,132 Retained earnings 13,222,324 10,564,698 8,309,395 7,442,131 7,715,269 6,263,600 5,122,472 4,022,929 3,126,517 2,405,847 Non-controlling interest 5,449,444 4,708,800 5,129,687 4,566,388 4,553,439 3,881,704 3,193,710 2,679,745 1,774,362 1,765,622 Non-current liabilities 7,197,484 6,563,195 4,746,363 5,730,436 6,677,114 6,903,834 6,832,112 5,815,540 4,476,808 2,504,832 Current liabilities 15,450,825 14,558,490 8,752,588 8,352,184 8,072,337 8,495,631 6,393,881 6,182,957 3,288,637 3,432,392 GROUP PERFORMANCE 56,151,010 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 14,277,662 Assets REVIEW Property, plant and equipment 24,041,780 22,585,836 23,925,653 23,328,896 22,635,636 16,982,305 16,770,495 15,450,267 11,005,913 8,576,500 Investment property 1,661,596 1,662,349 102,799 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 28,936 Intangible assets 654,056 643,600 134,026 154,185 109,164 122,520 159,407 191,811 170,058 92,017 Leasehold property 1,463,930 1,521,101 1,354,028 1,462,903 1,499,514 1,351,259 Pre-paid operating leases 980,731 1,028,164 5,455 5,546 5,637 5,728 Non current finance lease receivables 2,325,091 2,512,923 GOVERNANCE Investments in equity accounted investees 1,931,205 1,770,117 1,335,002 767,498 752,636 764,489 697,111 690,374 672,513 541,726 Deferred tax assets 222,147 209,769 138,314 56,823 74,008 39,342 Other financial assets 462,117 392,737 473,945 483,580 404,946 263,576 170,098 213,234 529,963 608,413 Current assets 22,259,232 18,509,286 12,494,114 11,093,448 10,721,243 11,465,087 8,524,778 6,632,072 4,699,342 4,459,006 Assets classified as held for sale 149,125 149,125 181,489 161,663 149,124 161,951 56,151,010 50,985,007 40,144,825 37,543,478 36,380,844 31,185,193 26,350,825 23,206,694 17,106,725 14,277,662 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Share Information Earnings per share (Rs.) 8.05 8.59 6.25 * 5.07 * 5.02 * 4.53 * 3.60 * 2.99 * 2.75 * 3.16 Market value per share (Rs.) post share sub division 119.60 112.70 162.30 Market value per share (Rs.) pre share sub division 1,373.75 315.00 430.00 380.00 339.00 380.00 263.50 Market capitalisation on 31st March (Rs.mn) 48,557 45,756 65,893 37,182 8,526 11,639 10,285 9,176 10,282 7,113 Price earnings ratio 14.86 13.12 25.97 18.05 4.18 6.32 7.05 7.56 9.20 5.56 Net assets per share (Rs.) 69.10 61.96 53.00 * 46.54 * 42.06 * 29.32 * 24.46 * 21.01 * 18.64 * 16.24 INVESTOR INFORMATION Employees Information No. of employees 6,207 5,791 5,328 5,042 5,045 5,090 4,199 4,209 4,209 4,112 Value added per employee (Rs.'000) 1,980 1,915 1,884 1,770 1,635 1,503 1,467 1,038 857 897 Ratios and Statistics Ordinary dividend (Rs.'000) 608,994 568,394 405,996 270,664 257,131 189,465 175,931 175,931 162,341 161,969 Dividend per share (Rs.) 1.50 1.40 1.00 * 0.67 * 0.63 * 0.47 * 0.43 * 0.43 * 0.40 * 0.40 Dividend cover (times covered) 5.36 6.14 6.25 7.61 7.93 9.72 8.30 6.90 6.88 7.88 SUPPLEMENTARY Dividend payout ratio 0.19 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.15 0.13 Current ratio (times covered) 1.44 1.27 1.43 1.33 1.33 1.35 1.33 1.07 1.43 1.30 Debt equity ratio 0.19 0.19 0.16 0.22 0.29 0.41 0.49 0.48 0.45 0.27 ROE (%) 12.28 15.01 12.55 11.45 14.08 16.86 15.82 15.08 15.79 22.60 INFORMATION Interest cover ratio 9.50 23.08 23.48 6.44 6.54 5.78 4.93 6.38 9.66 12.12 Note: * The above figures are restated taking into consideration the sub division of shares in October 2010. ** The information for 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 are stated based on the financial statements prepared under SLFRS/LKAS while the information for all other years are based on the financial statements prepared under SLASs. page 224 | 225 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Statements IN USD CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT IN USD For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 USD.’000 USD.’000 Revenue 292,694 242,641 Revenue tax (4,206) (3,743) Net revenue 288,488 238,898 Other operating income 99 8,495 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress (91) (46) Raw materials and consumables used (101,771) (81,938) Employee benefits expense (31,501) (28,005) Depreciation, amortisation and impairment (11,254) (8,960) Other operating expenses direct (66,185) (55,082) Other operating expenses indirect (34,417) (31,111) Profit from operations 43,368 42,251 Finance income 5,996 3,687 Finance expenses (11,380) (6,068) Net finance expense (5,384) (2,381) Share of profit of equity-accounted investees (net of tax) 1,430 673 Profit before tax 39,414 40,543 Income tax expense (5,888) (5,836) Profit for the year 33,526 34,707 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 25,746 27,280 Non-controlling interests 7,780 7,427 Profit for the year 33,526 34,707 Earnings per Share Basic/Diluted USD cents = 6.34 6.72 Exchange rate USD = 126.89 127.85 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME IN USD For the year ended 31st March 2013 2012 USD.’000 USD.’000 Profit for the year 33,526 34,707 Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (403) 5,128 Revaluation of property, plant and equipment 2,209 2,860 Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 291 (509) Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets reclassified to profit or loss (19) Income tax on other comprehensive income Share of other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees 1,393 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 2,078 8,872 Total comprehensive income for the year 35,604 43,579 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 27,395 33,290 Non-controlling interests 8,209 10,289 Total comprehensive income for the year 35,604 43,579 Exchange rate USD = 126.89 127.85 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION IN USD For the year ended 31st March 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 USD.’000 USD.’000 USD.’000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 189,469 176,659 167,907 Investment property 13,095 13,002 15,055 Intangible assets 5,155 5,034 1,259 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Leasehold properties 11,537 11,898 12,258 Pre-paid operating leases 7,729 8,042 49 Finance lease receivables 18,324 19,655 20,701 Investments in equity-accounted investees 15,220 13,845 13,328 Deferred tax assets 1,751 1,641 1,247 Other financial assets 3,642 3,072 4,378 265,922 252,848 236,182 Current Assets GROUP PERFORMANCE Inventories 14,380 13,949 14,555 Finance lease receivables 1,332 712 4,976 Trade and other receivables 78,593 69,985 37,863 REVIEW Current tax receivable 1,426 1,237 1,107 Deposits and prepayments 8,904 5,911 4,952 Other financial assets 53,307 35,953 48,607 Cash and short-term deposits 17,480 17,026 6,663 175,422 144,773 118,723 Assets classified as held for sale 1,175 1,166 1,643 Total Assets 442,519 398,787 356,548 GOVERNANCE EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Stated capital 16,827 16,700 19,330 Reserves 100,053 97,416 98,941 Retained earnings 104,203 82,634 74,694 221,083 196,750 192,965 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-controlling interests 42,946 36,831 37,609 Total Equity 264,029 233,581 230,574 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 49,219 44,916 37,513 Deferred tax liabilities 3,978 3,357 2,318 Employee benefits 3,526 3,061 3,039 56,723 51,334 42,870 Current Liabilities INVESTOR INFORMATION Interest-bearing liabilities 10,797 16,703 15,556 Provisions 2,184 3,838 4,145 Trade and other payables 60,792 52,566 35,415 Current tax payable 3,950 2,241 1,626 Other financial liabilities 452 Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings 44,044 38,072 26,362 121,767 113,872 83,104 Total Equity and Liabilities 442,519 398,787 356,548 Exchange rate USD = 126.89 127.85 110.46 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 226 | 227 Investor Information Stock Exchange Listing Aitken Spence PLC is a public quoted company, the issued ordinary shares of which are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Stock exchange code for Aitken Spence PLC share is “SPEN”. Market Sector : Diversified Holdings Ordinary Shares Share Trading Information 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Number of transactions 3,256 6,772 16,124 No. of shares traded during the year 137,137,807 100,909,029 63,532,950 Value of shares traded during the year (Rs. Million) 15,429 12,144 19,529 Percentage of total value transacted 8.13 2.77 2.57 Market Value 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Highest (Rs.) 136.30 169.50 200.10 Lowest (Rs.) 100.00 100.00 159.00 Closing (Rs.) 119.60 112.70 162.30 The market value of the ordinary share as at 23rd May 2013 was Rs. 138.10. Thousands Highest (Rs.) Lowest (Rs.) Closing (Rs.) 150,000 Rs. 250 120,000 200 90,000 150 60,000 100 30,000 50 0 2011 2012 2013 0 2011 2012 2013 NO. OF SHARES TRADED MARKET VALUE PER SHARE for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March Index Share Level ASI SPSL20 Diversified holdings sector Share Price Price Rs. 8,000 140 7,000 120 6,000 100 5,000 80 4,000 60 3,000 40 2,000 20 1,000 0 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 SHARE PRICES VS INDICES 2012/13 12 Month Trend Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Market Capitalisation 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Market capitalisation on 31st March (Rs. Million) 48,557 45,756 65,893 Percentage of total market capitalisation 2.20 2.27 2.72 2013 LEADERSHIP REVIEW 2012 2011 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 70,000 Rs. Mn MARKET CAPITALISATION as at 31st March Earnings GROUP PERFORMANCE 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Earnings per share (Rs.) Basic/Diluted 8.05 8.59 6.25 REVIEW Price earnings ratio (P/E) 14.86 13.12 25.97 2013 2013 GOVERNANCE 2012 2012 2011 2011 0 1.00 2.00 3.00 4.00 5.00 6.00 7.00 8.00 9.00 10.00 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Rs. Times EARNINGS PER SHARE PRICE EARNINGS RATIO for the year ended 31st March as at 31st March FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Net Assets per share 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 The Group (Rs.) 69.10 61.96 52.50 The Company (Rs.) 32.35 32.40 29.07 INVESTOR INFORMATION SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 228 | 229 Investor Information Dividends An ordinary dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share (2011/2012 – Rs. 1.40 per share) has been recommended to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. History of dividend per share and dividend cover for the past 10 years Dividend Per Share Dividend Cover Year Dividend per share Dividend cover Rs. Times (Rs.) (Times) 1.6 7 1.4 2003/04* 0.40 7.88 6 1.2 2004/05* 0.40 6.88 5 1.0 2005/06* 0.43 6.90 4 0.8 2006/07* 0.43 8.30 3 0.6 2007/08* 0.47 9.72 2 0.4 2008/09* 0.63 7.93 0.2 1 2009/10* 0.67 7.61 0.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2010/11 1.00 6.25 DIVIDEND PER SHARE & DIVIDEND COVER 2011/12 1.40 6.14 for the year ended 31st March 2012/13 1.50 5.36 * The Above figures are restated taking into consideration the subdivision of shares. Analysis of Shareholder Base Distribution of shares as at 31.03.2013 Range of shareholding 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 No. of shareholders No. of shares % No. of shareholders No. of shares % 1 1,000 2,573 849,788 0.21 2,755 956,184 0.24 1,001 10,000 1,244 4,237,855 1.04 1,397 4,724,408 1.16 10,001 100,000 346 10,451,988 2.57 350 10,332,137 2.54 100,001 1,000,000 69 20,304,372 5.00 72 20,410,435 5.03 1,000,001 above 29 370,152,042 91.17 32 369,572,881 91.03 Total 4,261 405,996,045 100.00 4,606 405,996,045 100.00 There were 4,261 voting registered shareholders as at 31st March 2013 (31st March 2012 4,606). Individuals / Institutions Institutions Individuals 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 Percentage holding No. of Shares % No. of Shares % 100 90 Institutions 368,041,727 90.65 367,415,231 90.50 80 Individuals 37,954,318 9.35 38,580,814 9.50 70 60 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 50 40 30 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 INDIVIDUALS & INSTITUTIONS as at 31st March Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Percentage Nationals Non-Nationals GROUP OVERVIEW holding Nationals / Non-Nationals 70 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 60 No. of shares % No. of shares % 50 Nationals 221,941,146 54.67 220,627,110 54.34 40 Non-Nationals 184,054,899 45.33 185,368,935 45.66 30 405,996,045 100.00 405,996,045 100.00 20 LEADERSHIP REVIEW As per the rule No 7.6 (iv) of Colombo Stock Exchange, percentage of public 10 holding as at 31st March 2013 was 40.07%. 0 2011 2012 2013 NATIONALS & NON-NATIONALS as at 31st March Twenty largest shareholders as at 31st March 2013 Name No. of Shares % GROUP PERFORMANCE 1 Melstacorp Limited 161,629,983 39.81 2 Rubicond Enterprises Limited 65,990,145 16.25 3 HSBC International Nominees Limited-BPSS Lux-Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller Companies Fund 32,875,300 8.10 4 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd-BPSS LDNAberdeen Asia Pacific Fund 17,192,300 4.24 REVIEW 5 HSBC International Nominees Ltd-BPSS Lux-Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 11,840,000 2.92 6 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 1.80 7 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd-SSBT-National Westminster Bank PLC As Depository of 7,232,455 1.78 First State Asia Pacific Fund A Sub Fund of First State Investments ICVC GOVERNANCE 8 Placidrange Holdings Limited 5,521,500 1.36 9 Employees Provident Fund 4,561,063 1.12 10 HSBC Intl Nominees Ltd-BP2S London-Aberdeen New Dawn Investment Trust XCC6 4,503,555 1.11 11 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd-BP2S Luxembourg-Aberdeen Global Frontier Markets Equity Fund 4,480,000 1.10 12 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd-BPSS LDN-Aberdeen Investment Fund ICVC Aberdeen Emerging Markets Fund 4,342,500 1.07 13 Milford Exports (Ceylon) (Pvt) Limited 4,321,500 1.06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Mellon Bank N.A.-Florida Retirement System 4,246,152 1.05 15 Stassen Exports Limited 3,244,500 0.80 16 Ms. A.T. Wickremasinghe 3,211,975 0.79 17 HSBC Intl Nom Ltd-BPSS Lux-Aberdeen Global-Emerging Markets Equity Fund 3,168,000 0.78 18 Ms. K. Fernando 3,135,070 0.77 19 Mr. G. Wickremasinghe 3,019,090 0.74 20 Pictet & Cie 2,790,900 0.69 INVESTOR INFORMATION Total 354,614,228 87.34 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 230 | 231 Investor Information Shareholding of Directors Shareholding of Directors together with their spouses in Aitken Spence PLC 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 Mr. J.M.S. Brito 294,495 294,495 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 7,308,240 7,308,240 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 7,603,735 7,603,735 Indirect holding by Directors 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe Manohari Enterprises Ltd 298,830 298,830 Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena Stassen Exports Ltd 3,244,500 3,244,500 Milford Exports (Ceylon) Ltd 4,321,500 4,321,500 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC 186,500 Periceyl (Pvt) Limited 21,200 21,200 8,072,530 7,864,830 Shareholding in Group companies 31st March 2013 31st March 2012 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC Mr. J.M.S. Brito 106,596 106,596 Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 2,852,241 2,852,241 Mr. R.N. Asirwatham 1,000 1,000 Hethersett Hotel Ltd Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe 1,041,500 1,041,500 ASI Share Price Index level Rs 9,000 250 8,000 7,000 200 6,000 150 5,000 4,000 100 3,000 2,000 50 1,000 0 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 SHARE PRICES VS INDICES 10 Year trend Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Awards and Certifications Certifications (Obtained and Maintained) GROUP OVERVIEW ISO 14001:2004 Certification Certifications sustained Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Earl’s Regency Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. LEADERSHIP REVIEW Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Heritance Ahungalla Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. Heritance Kandalama Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Bandarawela Hotel Heritance Tea Factory New certifications Aitken Spence Travels Ltd. ISO 22000/ HACCP: 2005 Certification GROUP PERFORMANCE Certifications sustained Deviturai Tea Factory Heritance Tea Factory Adaaran Select Meedhupparu REVIEW Dunsinane Tea Factory Nayapana Tea Factory Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi Earl’s Regency New Peacock Tea Factory Adaaran Prestige Vadoo Heritance Ahungalla Talgaswella Tea Factory Heritance Kandalama Adaaran Club Rannalhi Hygienically Certified Establishment (HCE): SGS Certifications sustained GOVERNANCE Bandarawela Hotel ISO 9001:2008 Certification Certifications sustained Ace Aviation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Aitken Spence Shipping Ltd. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ace Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ace International Express (Pvt) Ltd. Aitken Spence Cargo (Pvt) Ltd. Ltd. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. Aitken Spence Travels Ltd. ISO 50001: 2011 Certification Certifications sustained Heritance Ahungalla New certifications INVESTOR INFORMATION Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara Heritance Kandalama Heritance Tea Factory OHSAS 18001: 2007 Certification Certifications sustained Ace Power Generation Matara Ltd. Ace Power Generation Horana (Pvt) Ltd. Ace Power Embilipitiya (Pvt) Ltd. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 232 | 233 Awards and Certifications EarthCheck Silver Certificate Certifications sustained Bandarawela Hotel Heritance Ahungalla Heritance Tea Factory Earl’s Regency Heritance Kandalama EarthCheck Bronze Certificate Certifications sustained Hotel Hilltop Forestry Stewardship Certificate (FSC) Certifications sustained Elpitiya Lifestyle Solutions (Pvt) Ltd Greening SL Hotels Certificate Ministry of Tourism, Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority & Ministry of Environment & Natural Resources Certifications sustained Bandarawela Hotel Heritance Ahungalla Heritance Tea Factory Earl’s Regency Heritance Kandalama Hotel Hilltop Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) Certification Certifications sustained Aitken Spence Garments (Mathugama and Koggala factories) Carbon Neutral Certification New certifications Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging Aitken Spence Travels Ltd. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 National and International Awards Received As at 31st March 2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Aitken Spence PLC • Awarded Best Corporate Citizen of Sri Lanka 2012 by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce at the Best Corporate Citizen Awards 2012 • Ranked among the Ten Best Corporate Citizens of Sri Lanka which is conducted by the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce for the 7th consecutive year. LEADERSHIP REVIEW • Sector Award for Economic Contribution and Governance at the Best Corporate Citizen Award 2012 • Sector Award for Environment at the Best Corporate Citizen Award 2012 • Category Award for Financial Performance at the Best Corporate Citizen Award 2012 Hotels • Gold Award presented to Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC in the Hospitality Sector category at the Institute of Chartered Accountants Annual Report Awards 2012. GROUP PERFORMANCE • Overall Silver Award, Hospitality Category Gold Award, Large Sector Gold Award and the Runners Up in the Capacity Builder Category awarded to Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC at the National Business Excellence Awards (NBEA) presented by the National Chamber of REVIEW Commerce of Sri Lanka. • Medium Scale category award presented to Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC at the ACCA Sustainability Reporting Awards. Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara • Recognised as the most energy efﬁcient hotel in Sri Lanka by winning the “Silver Flame Award” at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efﬁciency Awards 2012 GOVERNANCE • Recognised as the “Best Ayurveda Resort” at the 4th FIT Health and Wellness Awards held at ITB 2013 in Berlin. Heritance Ahungalla • Awarded a “merit certiﬁcate in the large scale hotel sector category” at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efﬁciency Awards 2012 • Gold award at the National Green Awards 2012 organised by The Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka in recognition of the 7R practices of the hotel. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Heritance Kandalama • Adjudged as a ﬁnalists in the Most Inspiring Responsible Tourism Operator category at the Wild Asia’s Responsible Tourism Award 2012. • Winner of the “A” level in the service sector category at the National Productivity Awards 2012 organised by the National Productivity Secretariat of Sri Lanka. Heritance Tea Factory INVESTOR INFORMATION • Awarded a “merit certiﬁcate in the large scale hotel sector category” at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efﬁciency Awards 2012 • Adjudged the winner in the category of General Countryside at the “Sustainable Development in Tourism” Awards 2012 organised by the SKAL International, Spain. • Adjudged as a ﬁnalists in the Most Inspiring Responsible Tourism Operator category at the Wild Asia’s Responsible Tourism Award 2012. • Awarded the Best Green Hotel and Energy Conservation Champion Awards at the EU-SWITCH Asia Greening Hotels Awards – 2012. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 234 | 235 Awards and Certifications The Sands Kalutara • FIT Premium Quality Certificate for Ayurveda and Yoga awarded by FIT Reisen, Germany Bandarawela Hotel • Winner of the “D” level in the service sector category at the National Productivity Awards 2012 organised by the National Productivity Secretariat of Sri Lanka. • Awarded the merit certificate in the small scale hotel sector category at the Sri Lanka National Energy Efficiency Awards 2012 Adaaran Select Meedhupparu • Winner of the Best Hotel Partner category and the Best Hotel Partner of TEZ TOUR in the TEZ WORLDBERRY Award for three consecutive years – 2010, 2011, 2012 • GMR Awards 2012 ( MATAO) for the Leading Hotel Website Hotel Atithi • Gold, Silver and Bronze medals in the Regional Food Category at the AAHAR International Food and Hospitality Fair 2012 Cargo Logistics • Global Commerce Excellence Award presented to TNT Express by Airport & Aviation Services Ltd (AASL), BOI SL, SLPA, Shippers Academy Colombo in association with Central Bank of Sri Lanka in recognition of supporting the Sri Lanka economy during the period 19852009. Plantations • Category award for “Generation Hydro Power of RPC Sector” at the National Plantations Awards ceremony 2012 of Ministry of Plantations Printing • 3 Distinction and 4 Merit awards at the Sri Lanka Print Exhibition & Awards Night “Collate 2012” organised by the Sri Lanka Institute of Printers • 1 Gold award, 6 Silver awards and 3 Bronze award won at the Lanka Star Awards 2012 organised by the Sri Lanka Institute of Packaging Travels • Aitken Spence Travels won the Best Tour Operator Emerging Market and Best Conference Organiser awards at the Sri Lanka Tourism Awards 2012 • Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd. was awarded the Top Travel Agent Merit Award for 2011/2012 for the support extended to Cathay Paciﬁc Airlines • Aitken Spence Travels (Pvt) Ltd was awarded The Top Agents Merit Award for 2011/2012 by Singapore Airlines Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 UN GLOBAL COMPACT GROUP OVERVIEW The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary strategic policy initiative launched by the UN in order to encourage businesses to align their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anticorruption. Aitken Spence PLC has been a signatory of the Global Compact since 28th May 2002 and a member of the UNGC Network Sri Lanka’s Board and the steering committee. The UNGC Local Network’s role is to root the Global Compact within Sri Lanka and to facilitate the progress of companies engaged in the Global Compact with respect to implementation of the ten principles, create opportunities for multi-stakeholder engagement, collective action and to LEADERSHIP REVIEW deepen the learning experience of all participants through their own activities and promote action in support of broader UN goals. Note: Integrated Policy of Aitken Spence PLC: http://www.aitkenspence.com/pdf/as_integrated_sustainability_policy_english.pdf UNGC Principle Relevant GRI General Practices at Aitken Spence Indicators Disclosed Human Rights GROUP PERFORMANCE Businesses should support LA7, LA8, The Integrated Sustainability Policy of Aitken Spence PLC formalises the general practice of the and respect the protection of LA14, HR3, Company to support and protect internationally proclaimed human rights by including a written REVIEW internationally proclaimed human HR4, HR8, PR8 clause (Clause P); rights Building capacity on ‘Human Rights at the Workplace’ (a structured training programme for the Group’s sustainability subcommittee members.) Assessment of the Aitken Spence PLC policies, procedures and general practices against the essential, expected and exemplary action points of the Human Rights Protection Framework as subscribed by the Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights. Businesses should make sure that HR3, HR4, HR8 Open door policy for grievance handling where all employees are encouraged to go to the GOVERNANCE they are not complicit in human rights abuses highest authority figure for any complaints Human Rights Focal Points have been appointed across the Group SBUs and provided with training on the Human Rights Protection Framework and existing systems within Aitken Spence that support the framework. Planned activities for 2013/14 include engaging with all SBU Focal Points to identify and work on improving the implementation and maintenance of the Human Rights Protection Framework. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the LA5, HR3 Sri Lanka has become signatory to and ratified the core conventions of the International Labour freedom of association and the Organisation which are in the areas of Freedom of Association, Forced Labour, Discrimination effective recognition of the right to and Child Labour. The Group rigidly complies with the labour laws of Sri Lanka and the ILO collective bargaining conventions with respect to employment of persons. Businesses should uphold the HR3 The Group offers equal opportunities to existing and potential employees irrespective of elimination of all forms of forced or gender, race, or religion. All eligible persons are given the opportunity to secure employment compulsory labour and thereafter continue in an appropriate career path. The Recruitment Policy of the company INVESTOR INFORMATION Businesses should uphold the HR3 ensures that discrimination is discouraged and no persons below the legal minimum age effective abolition of child labour are offered employment. The common practice of the Company is to match the skill sets of Businesses should uphold the LA14, HR3, employees to the job description rather than allocating specific quotas to different groups. elimination of discrimination HR4, HR8 General practices of Aitken Spence PLC have been reviewed against the Human Rights in respect of employment and Framework as explained above. occupation An assessment has also been conducted of the Company’s Group-wide practices in line with the Women’s Empowerment Principles and action points which can be implemented have been identified. Further discussions are still in place to implement the principles within the Group strategies. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 236 | 237 UN GLOBAL COMPACT UNGC Principle Relevant GRI General Practices at Aitken Spence Indicators Disclosed Environment Businesses should support (EN18 Partially The Board of Directors to the best of its ability has applied very high standards to protect and a precautionary approach to reported) nurture the environment. Environmental Management Systems (EMSs) aim to identify activities environmental challenges and aspects that have significant impacts on the environment proactively and manage them through programmes that are formulated through a scientific approach. Implementation of Environmental Management Systems in line with the ISO 14001 standard is considered an essential action point for the sustainable development of the Company. Aitken Spence Group currently has 43 EMSs, 12 of which are certified and more EMSs to be certified in the foreseeable future. Continuous awareness building for sustainability subcommittees as well as all Aitken Spence staff members is conducted. Selected representatives from across the Group were trained as Internal EMS Auditors and the Group now has a network of 41 trained internal EMS auditors. Commemorating ‘World Days’ such as the World Environment Day gives the organisation an opportunity to increase awareness among a larger audience. The 2011 World Environment Day was marked with an email awareness campaign to all executive staff and a training programme conducted for Aitken Spence Travels staff on the ‘Forest Diversity of Sri Lanka’ marking the year of forests declared by the UNEP. Prior to the World Water Day an email quiz Businesses should undertake EN3, EN5, EN6, was carried out asking simple questions related to water scarcity where the winners were initiatives to promote greater EN8, EN11, sponsored free waterless car washes (based on nanotechnology.) In 2012, Group Sustainability environmental responsibility EN12, EN23, Division conducted a forum to inspire its top management and sustainability team to explore EN28 opportunities in a Green Economy. The event “Going Green: Opportunities for Aitken Spence” (EN4, EN10, was held on the 6th of June, based on the 2012 theme declared by United Nations Environment EN16, EN18 Program (UNEP) for the World Environment Day ‘Green Economy: Does it include you?’ The Partially keynote speech for the seminar was addressed by the World Bank Country Director for Sri Lanka reported) Ms. Diarietou Gaye, who delivered a talk on an apt topic at hand; “Towards a Green Economy: Role of the Corporate Sector”. Participating in public forums and sharing our experiences is another method used to influence a larger audience to be more environmental conscious. The ‘Sustainability Knowledge Hub’ organised by the UNGC Network Sri Lanka is another significant contribution of Aitken Spence Businesses should encourage EN5, EN6 PLC to the business community. the development and diffusion of (EN10, EN18 environmental friendly technologies Energy efficiency improvement programmes and energy management efforts across the Group Partially are discussed in detail in other sections of this report (See GRI Index). reported) In the aim of monitoring our carbon emissions more efficiently we have started to maintain an emission inventory. Anti Corruption Businesses should work against SO2, SO3 Company Code of Ethics has stringent instructions on anti-corruption. corruption in all its forms, including The Internal Audit Department of the Company audits all units periodically to make sure that extortion and bribery adequate internal control systems are in place to prevent and detect fraud. All employees including new recruits are required to know the stipulated procedures and carry out their business activities in accordance with them. Even at our estates all executive staff receives training and awareness at Group learning programmes. Company procedures on anti-corruption and ethical behaviour are mentioned in all appointment letters. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GRI Index GROUP OVERVIEW Fully disclosed Partially disclosed Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the Managing Chairman’s Statement Organisational 6.2 1.1 28-41 Director and Chairman Group Managing Director’s Report governance 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Group Managing Director’s Report Organisational 6.2 1.2 34-41 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Stakeholder Engagement governance 18-27 Management Discussion and Analysis 42-108 Risk Management 126-129 Standard Disclosures Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organisation Corporate Information Inner back cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or Management Discussion and Analysis 2.1 42-108 service Group Companies 244-250 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2.3 Operational structure of the Management Discussion and Analysis Organisational 6.2 2.5/2.6 42-108 organisation Structure & Capability governance Group Companies 2.4 Location of the organisations Corporate Information Inner REVIEW headquarters back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the Management Discussion and Analysis 2.7 42-108 organisation operates Our Network 16-17 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Information 2.5 Inner back cover 2.7 Markets served Management Discussion and Analysis 2.3/2.7 42-108 GOVERNANCE Financial Statements 157-227 2.8 Scale of the organisation Management Discussion and Analysis 27 42-108 Financial Statements 157-227 2.9 Significant changes during the Chairman’s Statement 28-41 reporting period Group Managing Director’s Report 42-108 Management Discussion and Analysis 151-155 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 2.10 Awards received in the period Awards & Certifications 232-236 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standard Disclosures Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013 3.1 3.2 Date of the most recent previous 31st March 2012 3.1 report 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.1 3.4 Contact point for further information Corporate information Inner back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content An Introduction to the Contents of this Report 3.2 1 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Study 18-27 INVESTOR INFORMATION 3.6 Boundary of the report An Introduction to the Contents of this Report 3.2/ 3.3 1 3.7 Limitation on the scope of the An Introduction to the Contents of this Report 3.2/ 3.4 1 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis of reporting on joint ventures Financial Statements 3.2 157-227 and other operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques Management Discussion and Analysis 42-108 3.10 Effects of any re-statements Financial Statements 157-227 3.11 Significant changes from previous An Introduction to the Contents of this Report 3.2 1 reporting periods Management Discussion and Analysis 42-108 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 238 | 239 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses Standard Disclosures Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the Chairman’s Statement Organisational 6.2 28-33 organisation Governance & Leadership governance 108-125 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the Governance & Leadership Organisational 6.2 108-125 highest governance body is also an governance executive member 4.3 The Board composition Governance & Leadership Organisational 6.2 108-125 governance 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Stakeholder Engagement Organisational 6.2 18-27 and employees to provide governance recommendations 4.5 Linkages between compensation for Remuneration Committee Report Organisational 6.2 117 members of the highest governance Governance & Leadership governance 108-125 body, senior managers and executives and the organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Governance & Leadership Organisational 6.2 108-125 governance body to ensure conflicts governance of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the Governance & Leadership Organisational 6.2 108-125 qualifications and expertise of the governance members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy 4.8 Internally developed statements of About Aitken Spence PLC Organisational 6.2 10-11 mission or values, codes of conduct Governance & Leadership governance 108-125 and principles Risk Management 126-129 Management Discussion and Analysis 42-108 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Risk Management Organisational 6.2 Q 1.1 126-129 body for overseeing the organisation’s Governance & Leadership governance Q 1.1a 108-125 identification and management of Q2.1 economic, environmental and social Q2.2 performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Governance & Leadership Organisational 6.2 108-125 governance body’s own performance governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Risk Management Organisational 6.2 126-129 precautionary approach or principle is governance addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, Risk Management Organisational 6.2 126-129 environmental and social charters, Management Discussion and Analysis governance 42-108 principles or other initiatives to UN Global Compact 237-238 which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships of ‘Aitken Spence PLC’ aitkenspence.com/sustainability Organisational 6.2 in associations (such as industry governance associations) and/ or national/ international advocacy organisations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder Engagement Organisational 6.2 5.1 18-27 by the organisation governance 4.15 Basis of identification and selection of Stakeholder Engagement Organisational 6.2 5.2 18-27 stakeholder governance 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Organisational 6.2 5.3 18-27 engagement governance 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Engagement Organisational 6.2 5.4 18-27 through stakeholder engagement governance Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and Financial Review Community 6.8 ECON1 98-104 distributed involvement and development 6.8.3 LEADERSHIP REVIEW Community 6.8.7 involvement 6.8.9 Wealth and income creation Social investment EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined Financial Statements ECON2 157-227 benefit plan obligations EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Management Discussion and Analysis Promoting social 6.6.6 ECON4 42-108 spending on locally-based suppliers responsibility in the value chain 6.8 GROUP PERFORMANCE Community involvement and 6.8.5 development Employment creation 6.8.7 REVIEW and skills development Wealth and income creation EC 8 Development and impact of Management Discussion and Analysis Economic, social and 6.3.9 ECON5 42-108 infrastructure investments and cultural rights services provided primarily for public Community 6.8 benefit through commercial, in-kind involvement and or pro bono engagement development 6.8.3 Community 6.8.4 GOVERNANCE involvement 6.8.5 Education and culture* Employment creation 6.8.6 and skills development Technology 6.8.7 development and 6.8.9 access* Wealth and income creation Social investment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Performance Indicators Environmental Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Management Discussion & Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT3 Q12.2 42-108 energy source Sustainable resource 6.5.4 Q12.3 use EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Management Discussion & Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT5 42-108 efficiency improvements Sustainable resource 6.5.4 use EN6 Initiatives to provide energy – efficient Management Discussion & Analysis ENVT6 Q3.2 42-108 or renewable energy based products Q3.2a and services and the reduction in INVESTOR INFORMATION energy consumption as a result of these initiatives EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source Management Discussion and Analysis ENVT8 42-108 EN 11 Location and size of land owned, Management Discussion and Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT11 42-108 leased managed in, or adjacent to, Protection of the 6.5.6 protected areas and areas of high environment & biodiversity value outside protected biodiversity, and areas restoration of natural EN 12 Description of significant impacts Management Discussion and Analysis habitat ENVT12 42-108 of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas SUPPLEMENTARY and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas INFORMATION page 240 | 241 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses EN 23 Total number and volume of Nil The Environment 6.5 ENVT18 significant spills Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Nil The Environment 6.5 ENVT22 Q5.1 and total number of non – monetary sanctions for non – compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Management Discussion & Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT4 Q12.2 42-108 primary source Sustainable resource 6.5.4 use EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Management Discussion and Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT10 42-108 recycled and reused Sustainable resource 6.5.4 use EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Management Discussion and Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT13 Q7.2 42-108 gas emissions by weight Climate change 6.5.5 Q7.4 mitigation action Q8.2a EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Management Discussion & Analysis The Environment 6.5 ENVT14 Q3.3 42-108 emissions and reductions achieved Climate change 6.5.5 mitigation action Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Group Highlights Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL1 12-13 employment contract and region Employment 6.4.3 and employment relationships LA3 Benefits provided for full time Bonus/ Salary increments on performance basis Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL3 employees Festival advance Employment 6.4.3 Medical benefits and employment Retirement benefits obligations relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection LA5 Minimum notice periods 01 month Labour Practices 6.4 Employment 6.4.3 and employment relationships 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.5 Social dialogue LA8 Education, training, counselling, Awareness session on HIV/AIDS as a workplace Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL6 prevention and risk-control programs issue in the Group’s Orientation Programme for Health and safety at 6.4.6 in place to assist workforce members, new recruits. work 6.8 their families or community members Community regarding serious diseases involvement and 6.8.3 development 6.8.4 Community 6.8.8 involvement Education and culture Health LA11 Programmes for skills management Management Discussion and Analysis Labour Practices 6.4 SOCL8 42-108 and lifelong learning Human development 6.4.7 and training in the workplace 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 100% of the executive cadre Labour Practices 6.4 1 regular performance and career Human development 6.4.7 development reviews and training in the workplace LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to 1:1 Discrimination and 6.3.7 LEADERSHIP REVIEW women by employee category vulnerable groups Fundamental 6.3.10 principles and rights at work 6.4 Labour Practices 6.4.3 Employment and employment 6.4.4 relationships Conditions of work and social protection GROUP PERFORMANCE Society Performance Indicators SO2 Percentage and total number of Risk Management Fair Operating 6.6 126-129 business units analysed for risks Practices 6.6.3 REVIEW related to corruption Anti-corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Risk Management 126-129 organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Nil Fair Operating 6.6 and total number of non-monetary Practices 6.6.7 sanctions for non-compliance with Respect for property 6.8.7* laws and regulations rights Wealth and income GOVERNANCE creation Human Rights Performance Indicators HR3 Total hours of employee training on Management Discussion and Analysis Human Rights 6.3 42-108 policies and procedures concerning UN Global Compact Avoidance of 6.3.5 237-238 aspects of human rights that are complicity relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of Nil Human Rights 6.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS discrimination and actions taken Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Discrimination and 6.3.7 vulnerable groups Fundamental 6.3.10 principles and rights at work 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships HR8 Percentage of security personnel Customised training on human rights for the Group Human Rights 6.3 trained in the organisation’s policies Security Division and externally sourced security Avoidance of 6.3.5 INVESTOR INFORMATION or procedures concerning aspects of personnel at Aitken Spence towers was conducted complicity 6.4.3 human rights with a refresher course planned to increase Employment awareness and educate new staff members. A goal and employment 6.6.6 we have for the foreseeable future is to extend this relationships programme to security personnel at other Aitken Promoting social Spence premises. responsibility in the value chain SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION page 242 | 243 GRI Index Disclosure Type Section in Annual Report Level ISO 26000 core ISO NGRS CDP** Page social responsibility 26000 Indicator Number subjects, themes Clauses Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR5 Practices related to customer Management Discussion and Analysis Consumer Issues 6.7 SOCL16 42-108 satisfaction, including results of Protecting consumers’ 6.7.4 surveys measuring customer health & safety satisfaction Sustainable 6.7.5 consumption 6.7.6 Consumer service, support and complaint 6.7.8 and dispute resolution 6.7.9 Access to essential services* Education and awareness PR7 Total number of incidents of Nil Consumer Issues 6.7 SOCL18 non-compliance with regulations Fair marketing, 6.7.3 and voluntary codes concerning factual and unbiased marketing communications, information and fair including advertising, promotion, and contractual practices 6.7.6 sponsorship Consumer service, support and complaint 6.7.9 and dispute resolution Education and awareness PR8 Total number of substantiated Nil Consumer Issues 6.7 complaints regarding breaches Consumer data 6.7.7 of customer privacy and losses of protection and privacy customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Nil Consumer Issues 6.7 SOCL19 for non-compliance with laws and Consumer service, 6.7.6 regulations concerning the provision support and complaint and use of products and services and dispute resolution* * Indirectly relevant ** CDP Questions from the Investor CDP and CDP Supply Chain 2011 programmes that respond to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines Profile Disclosures and Performance Indicators Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP companies & directorate GROUP OVERVIEW CARGO STRATEGIC TOURISM SERVICES LOGISTICS INVESTMENTS LEADERSHIP REVIEW • Hotels • Maritime Services • Power Generation • Inward Money Transfer • Inbound & Outbound Travel • Integrated Logistics • Printing & Packaging • Information Technology • Airline GSA • Freight Forwarding • Garment Manufacture • Elevator Agency • Courier Services • Plantation • Insurance • Property Management GROUP PERFORMANCE TOURISM SECTOR INBOUND TRAVEL Þ Aitken Spence Moscow (Private) Limited ** Directors: REVIEW Former Passenger Sales Agents for Aeroflot. G.M. Perera (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. Þ Aitken Spence Travels (Private) Limited ** 31.12.2012), Directors: Leading destination management company in Sri R. Subramaniam (Resigned w.e.f. 21.01.2013), Dr. J.W.A. Perera (Managing Director), Lanka. A joint venture with TUI one of the largest N.A.N. Jayasundera, G.M. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), tourism companies in the world. S.T.B. Ellepola, R. Subramaniam (Resigned w.e.f. 21.01.2013), P.L. Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). Directors: S.T.B. Ellepola (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). GOVERNANCE J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), HOTELS G.M. Perera (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. Þ Aitken Spence Overseas Travel Services 31.12.2012), (Private) Limited ** Þ A.D.S. Resorts Private Limited ** N.A.N. Jayasundera (Managing Director) (Appointed Was an IATA-accredited travel agent and general Owns and operates Adaaran Select Hudhuranfushi w.e.f. 01.01.2013), sales agent for Tradewinds and Rail Europe. Organises Maldives. R. Subramaniam (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), outbound tours and holiday packages, the company did D.C. Schelp, Directors: not carryout operations during the year. P.A. Mitchell (Appointed w.e.f. 03.05.2012). S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUTBOUND TRAVEL R. Subramaniam (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. M. Mahdy. 21.01.2013), Þ Aitken Spence Aviation (Private) Limited G.M. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), Þ Ahungalla Resorts Limited ** N.A.N. Jayasundera, General Sales Agents for Singapore Airlines and Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. S.T.B. Ellepola (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013), Singapore Airlines Cargo. Directors: H.P.N. Rodrigo (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Þ Royal Spence Aviation (Private) Limited C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.K.R.B. Jayaweera (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Former General Sales Agents for Kingfisher Airlines. G.M. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012). Directors: Þ Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC ** INVESTOR INFORMATION Þ Ace Aviation Services Maldives Private Limited ** G.M. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), The holding company of the group’s hotel interests. R. Subramaniam (Resigned w.e.f. 21.01.2013), General Sales Agent for Sri Lankan Airlines in the Owns and operates the Heritance Ahungalla Hotel. N.A.N. Jayasundera, Maldives. Directors: S.T.B. Ellepola (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena (Chairman), S.T.B. Ellepola (Chairman), CONVENTION SERVICES J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), M. Firaq, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, N.A.N. Jayasundera, Þ Ace Travels & Conventions (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, H.P.N. Rodrigo, Professional conference exhibition & event organiser. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, D.L. Warawita. Also offers destination management services. G.P.J. Goonewardena, R.N. Asirwatham, SUPPLEMENTARY C.H. Gomez, N.J. de Silva Deva Aditya. INFORMATION ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. page 244 | 245 GROUP companies & directorate Þ Aitken Spence Hotel Managements Þ Cowrie Investment Private Limited ** Þ M.P.S. Hotels (Private) Limited ** (Private) Limited ** Owns and operates Adaaran Select Meedhupparu Owns and operates Hotel Hilltop Kandy. Manages resorts in Sri Lanka. Island Resort Maldives. Directors: Directors: Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), J.M.S. Brito (Chairman/Managing Director), S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. I.M. Didi, M. Salih, ÞN  eptune Ayurvedic Village (Private) Limited ** Þ Aitken Spence Hotel Managements C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Leases company owned land and buildings to Aitken (South India) Private Limited Spence Hotels Limited. Manages resorts in India. Directors: Þ Crest Star (B.V.I.) Limited Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, S.M. Hapugoda, The holding company and managing agents of Jetan C.M.S. Jayawickrama, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Travel Services Company Private Limited. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. C.L.B. Ekanayake. Directors: J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Þ Nilaveli Holidays (Private) Limited ** Þ Aitken Spence Hotel Managements S.M. Hapugoda, To operate a future hotel project. Asia (Private) Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Directors: Manages resorts in India, Oman and in the Maldives. S.M. Hapugoda, Þ Crest Star Limited Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Dr. R.M. Fernando, S.M. Hapugoda, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Þ Nilaveli Resorts (Private) Limited ** G.P.J. Goonewardena. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. To operate a future hotel project. Directors: Þ Aitken Spence Hotel Services Private Limited Þ Golden Sun Resorts (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, Former local marketing company of Indian hotels in Owns and operates the resort ‘The Sands’. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, India. Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Directors: S.M. Hapugoda, R.S. Rajaratne, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Þ PR Holiday Homes Private Limited M.P. Wijesekara. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Owns Heritance Cochin India which is currently under construction. Þ Aitken Spence Hotels International Þ Heritance (Private) Limited ** Directors: (Private) Limited ** Owns a land for a proposed hotel project. S.M. Hapugoda, Owns resorts in the Maldives and provides international Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, marketing services to overseas resorts. S.M. Hapugoda, C.L.B. Ekanayake (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2012), Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama, K. Khadar, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, R.E.V. Casie Chetty. M. Narayanan. S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama. Þ Hethersett Hotels Limited ** Þ Triton (Private) Limited Owns and operates Heritance Tea Factory. The holding company of Aitken Spence Aviation Þ Aitken Spence Hotels Limited ** (Private) Limited. Directors: Owns and operates Heritance Ayurveda Maha Gedara. S.M. Hapugoda, Directors: Holding Company of Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, and Heritance (Private) Limited. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: C.M.S. Jayawickrama. S.M. Hapugoda, Þ Jetan Travel Services Company C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Private Limited ** Þ Unique Resorts Private Limited ** N. Ratwatte. Owns and operates Adaaran Club Rannalhi Maldives. Owns and operates Adaaran Prestige Vaadhoo Resort Directors: Maldives. Þ Aitken Spence Resorts (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Directors: To operate a future hotel project. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda (Managing Director), Directors: H. Mohamed, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, S.M. Hapugoda, M. Mahdy. M.S. Hassan, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, T.D.U.D. Peiris. R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Þ Kandalama Hotels (Private) Limited ** Owns and operates Heritance Kandalama. Þ Aitken Spence Resources (Private) Limited ** Directors: Human resource management foreign employment & S.M. Hapugoda, recruitment company. C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty. S.M. Hapugoda, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, G.P.J. Goonewardena. ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 GROUP OVERVIEW CARGO LOGISTICS SECTOR FREIGHT FORWARDING INTEGRATED LOGISTICS MARITIME TRANSPORT Þ Ace Aviation Services (Private) Limited Þ Ace Containers (Private) Limited ** Þ Aitken Spence Maritime Limited ** Operates as General Sales Agents for airline cargo. Operates an inland container depot and a freight Holding company of Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Directors: station. Limited and Port Management Container Services Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: (Private) Limited. K.R.T. Peiris, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: LEADERSHIP REVIEW J.E. Brohier. N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), Dr. P. Dissanayake, A.M.M. Amir, I.S. Cuttilan, Þ Ace Bangladesh Limited I.S. Cuttilan (Appointed w.e.f. 01.09.2012), D.R.C. Hindurangala. Provides international freight forwarding services in A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 01.09. 2012). Bangladesh. Þ Aitken Spence Shipping Limited ** Þ Ace Container Repair (Private) Limited ** Liner cruise and tramp agency representation NVOCC Directors: A. Mannan (Chairman), Undertakes container repairs and garments on hanger and an international freight forwarder. R. Rahman (Managing Director), conversion. Directors: J.M.S. Brito, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), GROUP PERFORMANCE Ms. F.R. Ahmed, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), N.D.F. Perera (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. K.R.T. Peiris, N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), 31.12.2012), A. Rahman. A.M.M. Amir, A. Jayasekera, A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). I.S. Cuttilan, REVIEW Þ Ace Cargo (Private) Limited Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, Provides international freight forwarding services. Þ Ace Container Terminals (Private) Limited ** K.R. Aluwihare. Directors: Provides container storage, customs, brokerage and warehousing services. Þ Aitken Spence Shipping Services Limited ** Dr. P. Dissanayake (Chairman), K.R.T. Peiris, Directors: Shipping agent. J.E. Brohier. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: A.M.M. Amir, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Þ Ace International Express (Private) Limited GOVERNANCE N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), I.S. Cuttilan, Provides international air express, domestic delivery A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f 03.08.2012). and international mailing. Þ Ace Distriparks (Private) Limited ** Þ Clark Spence & Company (Private) Limited ** Directors: K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), Provides total logistics support and warehousing with Shipping and bunkering agents in the ports of Colombo, Dr. P. Dissanayake, multi country cargo consolidation. Galle and Trincomalee and an international freight J.E. Brohier. Directors: forwarder. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: Þ Aitken Spence Cargo (Private) Limited A.M.M. Amir, Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), FINANCIAL STATEMENTS International freight forwarding & general sales agents N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), I.S. Cuttilan, for airline cargo. A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). R.E.V. Casie Chetty. Directors: Þ Ace Freight Management (Private) Limited Þ C olombo International Nautical Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Undertakes clearing, forwarding and operates an inland & Engineering College (Pvt) Ltd K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), J.E. Brohier. container depot. Sri Lanka’s largest private maritime and higher Directors: education campus. Þ Spence International (Private) Limited Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Directors: Regional operating headquarters to manage operation N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), H.K. Jayanetti, overseas. A.M.M. Amir (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013), Capt. P.A.P. Peiris, INVESTOR INFORMATION A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). Dr. P. Dissanayake, Directors: J.M.S. Brito, K.R.T. Peiris, Þ Logilink (Private) Limited ** C.L. Wikramanayake, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Acts as a container freight station and deal in the E.P. Komrowski, J.E. Brohier. deconsolidation of imports and storing, distribution and Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Þ Spence Maldives Private Limited consolidation of exports. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, R.G. Pandithakorralage, Provides air express & freight forwarding services in Directors: Capt. H.N.C. Peiris (Appointed w.e.f. 02.04.2012), the Maldives. Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), S.A.R.S. Karunanayake (Appointed w.e.f. 02.04.2012), K.R.T. Peiris, Directors: Capt. I.I. Dobrev (Appointed w.e.f. 02.04.2012). N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), K.R.T. Peiris (Managing Director), A.M.M. Amir (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013), SUPPLEMENTARY Dr. P. Dissanayake (Appointed w.e.f.16.11.2012), A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). M. Firaq, J.E. Brohier, INFORMATION A. Ghiyas (Appointed w.e.f. 16.11.2012). page 246 | 247 GROUP companies & directorate Þ Delta Shipping (Private) Limited ** Þ Shipping & Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Þ Tandem Global Logistics Colombo (Private) Provide international freight forwarding services. Liner agency representation. Limited Directors: Directors: Directors: M. Shabir (Managing Director), V.M. Fernando (Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake, K.R.T. Peiris, J.M.S. Brito (Managing Director), Ms. T.D.M.N. Anthony, J.E. Brohier. Dr. P. Dissanayake, I.S. Cuttilan. K.M.A.T.B. Tittawella, Þ Hapag-Lloyd Lanka (Private) Limited ** I.S. Cuttilan, Liner agency representation. K.M. Fernando. Þ Vauxhall Cargo Logistics (Private) Limited ** Directors: Holding company of certain maritime transport sector Þ Spence Logistics (Private) Limited ** companies. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Dr. P. Dissanayake, NVOCC freight forwarding operator. Directors: M.E.G. Elizalde, Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake, A.M. Thakkar, Dr. P. Dissanayake, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, K.R. Aluwihare. N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), R.E.V. Casie Chetty. A.M.M. Amir (Resigned w.e.f. 13.07.2012) (Appointed Þ Port Management Container w.e.f. 10.01.2013), Services (Private) Limited ** I.S. Cuttilan (Appointed w.e.f. 13.07.2012), Operating & productivity enhancement management A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). in ports. Þ SpenceMac Bangladesh (Private) Limited Directors: Dr. P. Dissanayake (Managing Director), Handles shipping operations in Bangladesh. I.S. Cuttilan, Directors: D.R.C. Hindurangala. Dr. P. Dissanayake, M. Rashid, C.M.L. Kamal. STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS SECTOR MANUFACTURING SECTOR APPAREL SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE PRINTING & PACKAGING Þ Aitken Spence (Garments) Limited Þ Ace Power Embilipitiya (Private) Limited Þ Ace Exports (Private) Limited ** Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, Owns and operates a 100MW power plant in Provides printing & packaging services to the export boys’, ladies’ & girls’ shirts and blouses to prestigious Embilipitiya to supply power to the national grid. market. departmental stores and apparel importers in USA and Directors: Directors: EU. J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, 01.05.2013), D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). R.G. Pandithakorralage, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2013), J.S.A. Fernando. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Þ Ace Printing & Packaging (Private) Limited ** M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), Provides printing & packaging services to the local Þ Aitken Spence Apparels (Private) Limited Ms. M. Spoelgen, market. Manufacturer and exporter of high quality men’s, Ms. A.M. Fernando. Directors: boys’ ladies & girls’ shirts and blouses to prestigious departmental stores and apparel importers in USA and Þ Ace Power Generation Horana (Private) Limited P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, EU. Owns a 24MW power plant in Horana. D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). Directors: Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2013), Þ Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, (Private) Limited ** J.S.A. Fernando. J.M.S. Brito (Alternate Director to Deshamanya D.H.S. Provides printing & packaging services to the local Jayawardena), market. Þ Clark Spence Garments Limited Ms. N. Sivapragasam, The company is under liquidation. R. Gupta, Directors: A. Malla, P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, 01.05.2013), D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). J.S.A. Fernando, M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), R.G. Pandithakorralage. G.P.B.N. Gunerathne (Alternate Director to Dr. R.M. Fernando) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2013), M. Vuksanovic, B.E. Mamat (Appointed w.e.f. 30.08.2012) (Resigned w.e.f. 05.02.2013), D. Sinnadurai (Appointed w.e.f. 05.02.2013). ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Þ Ace Power Generation Matara (Private) Limited Þ Ace Alliance Power Limited Þ Branford Hydropower (Private) Limited GROUP OVERVIEW Owns a 24MW power plant in Matara. Proposed for constructing, commissioning and Owns a 2.5MW hydro power plant in Matale to supply Directors: operating a thermal power plant in Bangladesh. electricity to the national grid. L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 01.03.2013), Directors: Directors: Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena, J.M.S. Brito, D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), J.M.S. Brito (Alternate Director to Deshamanya D.H.S. D.V.H. De Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), Jayawardena), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, S.A.W. Manawadu, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R. Gupta, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), A. Malla, M.T. Rahman, G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). D.V.H. de Mel (Managing Director) (Resigned w.e.f. S.A.J. Rizvi, LEADERSHIP REVIEW 01.05.2013), S.Y.H. Rizvi, Þ Western Power Company (Private) Limited M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), S.N.H. Rizvi. Proposed for constructing, commissioning and G.P.B.N. Gunerathne (Alternate Director to operating a 10MW Waste to Energy Power Project in Dr. R.M. Fernando) (Resigned w.e.f. 28.02.2013), Þ Alliance Spence Power Limited Meethotumulla, to supply electricity to the national grid M. Vuksanovic, Proposed for constructing, commissioning and by conversion of municipal solid waste. B.E. Mamat (Appointed w.e.f. 30.08.2012) (Resigned operating a thermal power plant in Bangladesh. Directors: w.e.f. 05.02.2013), Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), D. Sinnadurai (Appointed w.e.f. 05.02.2013). J.M.S. Brito, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), D.V.H. De Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Þ Ace Wind Power (Private) Limited GROUP PERFORMANCE M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), P. Benihin, Owns and operates a 3MW wind power plant in G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), S.R.S.L. Karunanayake. Ambewela to supply electricity to the national grid. M.T. Rahman, Directors: REVIEW S.A.J. Rizvi, D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), S.Y.H. Rizvi, L. Wickremarachchi (Appointed w.e.f. 04.04.2013), S.N.H. Rizvi, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, Q. Khuda. M.S. Mohideen (Resigned w.e.f. 31.03.2013), G.P.B.N. Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013). SERVICES SECTOR PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT Þ Vauxhall Property Developments Directors: GOVERNANCE (Private) Limited ** Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Þ Aitken Spence Developments (Private) Limited ** A.N. Seneviratne, Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; Property development company. “Aitken Spence Tower I”. R.G. Pandithakorralage. Directors: Directors: ELEVATOR AGENCY Dr. P. Dissanayake (Deputy Chairman), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A.M.M. Amir, R.G. Pandithakorralage. Þ E levators (Private) Limited ** N.D.F. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), Exclusive agents and distributors in Sri Lanka and in A. Jayasekera (Appointed w.e.f. 10.01.2013). INSURANCE SURVEY & CLAIM SETTLING the Maldives for marketing, installing, commissioning AGENCY Þ Aitken Spence Property Developments and maintaining OTIS elevators, escalators and other (Private) Limited ** Þ Aitken Spence Insurance (Private) Limited ** equipment’s the world leader in elevators, escalators, moving walkways and dumb waiters. Owns and operates the multi-storied office complex; Survey and claim settling agents for several reputed “Aitken Spence Tower II” which serves as the Group’s insurance companies and organisations worldwide Directors: corporate office at Vauxhall Street in Colombo. including Lloyd’s CESAM PICC and Tokio Marine & J.M.S. Brito (Chairman), Fire Insurance Company Limited Oriental Insurance R.E.V. Casie Chetty, Directors: R.G. Salgado, INVESTOR INFORMATION Dr. R.M. Fernando, Company of India. Superintendents for UN World Food Programme in Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Ms. T.L. Cordes-Frei. Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R.G. Salgado. Directors: FINANCIAL SERVICES Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne (Managing Director), Þ Vauxhall Investments (Private) Limited A.N. Seneviratne, Þ Aitken Spence Technologies (Pvt) Ltd ** Owns buildings and land in Bloemendhal street. R.G. Pandithakorralage (Appointed w.e.f. 21.03.2012). Provision of IT enabled services. Directors: INSURANCE BROKERING Directors: D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), Dr. R.M. Fernando, P. Karunatilake (Managing Director), Þ Aitken Spence Insurance Brokers D.S. Mendis, Ms. N. Sivapragasam. (Private) Limited ** Ms. N. Sivapragasam, R G Pandithakorralage (Appointed w.e.f. 15.08.2012), SUPPLEMENTARY Placement of life insurance & general insurance business with insurance companies in Sri Lanka. V.M. Gunatilleka (Appointed w.e.f. 15.08.2012). INFORMATION page 248 | 249 GROUP companies & directorate Þ MMBL Money Transfer (Private) Limited ** Þ Aitken Spence Corporate Finance Þ Aitken Spence Group Limited ** Principal agent for Western Union money transfer (Private) Limited ** Overall management of the Aitken Spence Group of services in Sri Lanka. Provider of financial services and secretaries to the companies. Directors: companies of the group. Directors: M.D.D. Peiris (Chairman), Directors: Dr. R.M. Fernando, D.S. Mendis (Managing Director), Ms. N. Sivapragasam (Managing Director), R.E.V. Casie Chetty, J.M.S. Brito, R.E.V. Casie Chetty, K.R.T. Peiris, Ms. Y.N. Perera, Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Ms. N. Sivapragasam, K. Balasundaram, R.G. Pandithakorralage, G.M. Perera (Resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012), Ms. N. Sivapragasam, V.M. Gunatilleka. D.V.H. de Mel (Resigned w.e.f. 01.05.2013), J.V.A. Corera. Dr. P. Dissanayake, Þ Aitken Spence Exports (Private) Limited ** S.M. Hapugoda, Þ Aitken Spence C & T Investments (Private) Bottles and markets “Hethersett bottle water”. Ms. N.W. de A. Guneratne, Limited ** C.M.S. Jayawickrama, Directors: Proposed to construct and operate a luxury retirement R.G. Pandithakorralage, S.M. Hapugoda, home complex in Negombo D.S. Mendis, C.M.S. Jayawickrama, V.M. Gunatilleka, Directors: R.E.V. Casie Chetty, P. Karunatilake (Appointed w.e.f. 01.09.2012). J.M.S. Brito, C.D.D Perera (Appointed w.e.f. 18.09. 2012). Dr. R.M. Fernando, D.S. Mendis (Appointed w.e.f. 10.05.2012), A.Y. Atapattu, S. Chandramohan (Appointed w.e.f. 10.05.2012), S.G. Atapattu (Appointed w.e.f. 10.05.2012). EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES PLANTATIONS HOTELS Þ Aitken Spence Plantation Managements PLC ** Þ Browns Beach Hotels PLC ** Managing agents for Elpitiya Plantations PLC. Owns the property of Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited. Þ Elpitiya Plantations PLC Owns 15 tea and rubber estates in the Pundaluoya, Þ Negombo Beach Resorts (Private) Limited ** Pussellawa and Galle regions with a total land extent of Proposed for constructing, owning and operating a 8851 hectares. beach resort in Negombo. ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Glossary of Terms GROUP OVERVIEW Assets Held for Sale Compound Shareholder Return Earnings per Share (EPS) The carrying amount of the asset value which Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the time Net profit for the period attributable to ordinary will be recovered through a sale transaction length of three years. shareholders divided by the weighted average rather than through continuing use. number of ordinary shares in issue during the Contract period. Assets Turnover An agreement between two or more parties Total turnover divided by average total assets. that has clear economic consequences that EBIT Margin (Operating Profit Margin) the parties have little, if any discretion to avoid Earnings before interest and tax divided by LEADERSHIP REVIEW Available-for-Sale usually because the agreement is enforceable revenue. Any non-derivative financial assets designated by law. on initial recognition as available for sale or Effective Rate of Dividend any other instruments that are not classified Credit Risk Rate of dividend per share paid on the number as loans and receivables, held-to-maturity Risk that the counterparty to a transaction of shares ranking for dividend at the time of investments or financial assets at fair value fails to meet its contractual obligations each payment. through profit or loss. in accordance to the agreed terms and conditions. Effective Rate of Interest GROUP PERFORMANCE AWDR Total long-term and short-term interest divided The Average Weighted Deposit Rate is Current Ratio by average long-term and short-term liabilities calculated by the Central Bank monthly and Current assets divided by current liabilities. at the beginning and end of the year. REVIEW half yearly based on the weighted average of all outstanding interest bearing deposits Debenture Equity Instruments of commercial banks and the corresponding A long-term debt instrument issued by a A contract that evidences a residual interest interest rates. corporate. in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. AWPLR Debt/Equity Ratio The Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate Non-current interest bearing borrowing divided Fair Value GOVERNANCE is calculated by the Central Bank weekly, by the total equity and minority interest. It The amount at which an asset is exchanged or monthly and half yearly based on commercial shows the extent to which the firm is financed a liability settled, between knowledgeable and bank’s lending rates offered to their prime by debt. willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. customers. Derivatives Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVPL) Capital Expenditure Financial contracts whose values are derived Financial instruments that are held for trading The total of additions to property, plant and from the values of underlying assets. and are designated as at fair value through FINANCIAL STATEMENTS equipment and the purchase of outside profit and loss. investments. Dividend Cover Net profit attributable to the ordinary Financial Asset Capital Reserves shareholders divided by the total dividend. Any asset that is cash or an equity instrument Reserves identified for specific purposes and of another entity or a contractual right to considered not available for distribution. Dividend – Payout Ratio receive cash or another financial asset Dividends per share divided by earnings from another entity or a contractual right to Carrying Amount per share. This indicates the percentage of exchange financial instruments with another The amount at which an asset is recognised in the Company’s earning that is paid out to entity under conditions that are potentially INVESTOR INFORMATION the statement of financial position. shareholders in cash. favourable. Collateral Dividend Yield Financial Instruments Monetary or non monetary asset pledged or Dividend per share divided by the market value Any contract that gives rise to a financial received as security in lieu of a loan or credit of a share. assets of one entity and financial liability or terms obtained or provided. equity instrument of another entity. Dividends per Share (DPS) Collective Impairment provision Dividends paid and proposed, divided by the Financial Leverage Impairment provision is measured on a number of issued shares, which ranked for Total average assets divided by total average collective basis for homogeneous groups of those dividends. equity. SUPPLEMENTARY debtors that are not considered individually INFORMATION significant. ** The companies financial statements are audited by KPMG. page 250 | 251 Glossary of Terms Financial Liability Investment Property Quick Asset Ratio A contractual obligation to deliver cash or Investments in land and buildings that are held Total current assets less inventories divided by another financial asset to another entity or to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or total current liabilities. exchange financial instruments with another for both. entity under conditions that are potentially Related Parties unfavourable. LIBOR Parties who could control or significantly The London Inter Bank Offer Rate is an interest influence the financial and operating decisions Forward Exchange Contract rate at which banks can borrow funds, in of the business. Agreement between two parties to exchange marketable size, from other banks in the one currency for another at a future date at a London interbank market. Return on Equity rate agreed upon today. Profit after tax and minority interest divided Liquidity Risk by average equity less minority interest at the Goodwill on Consolidation The risk that an entity will encounter difficulty beginning and end of the year. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the in meeting obligations associated with financial fair value of the share of net assets acquired liabilities. Revaluation Surplus when purchasing an interest in a company. Surplus amount due to revaluing assets in Loans and receivables accordance with its fair value. Gross Treasury Bill Rate A financial asset with fixed and determinable Weighted average treasury bill rate gross of payments that are not quoted in an active Revenue Reserves withholding tax published by Central Bank of market and do not qualify as trading assets. Reserves set aside for future distributions and Sri Lanka at the auction immediately preceding investments. an interest determination date. Market Capitalisation The number of ordinary shares in issue Total Equity Guarantees multiplied by the market price per share. Total of share capital, reserves, retained A contractual obligation made by a third party earnings and minority interest. (Guarantor), who is not a party to a contract Market Risk between two others, that the guarantor Possibility of loss arising from changes in the Total Shareholder Return (TSR) will be liable if the guarantee fails to fulfill value of a financial instrument as a result of Change in market price of the share between the contractual obligations under that said changes in market variables such as interest end and beginning of the financial year, plus contract. rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and dividend for the year, divided by the market other asset prices. price of the share at the beginning of the Held-to-Maturity financial year. A financial asset with fixed and determinable Minority Interest payments and fixed maturity, other than loan Part of the net results of operations and of net Treasury Bill and receivables, for which there is a positive assets of a subsidiary attributable to interest Short term debt instrument of 3,6 or 12 intention and ability to hold to maturity. which are not owned, directly or indirectly months issued by the Government of Sri through subsidiaries, by the parent. Lanka. Impairment Occurs when recoverable amount of an asset Net Assets per Share Treasury Bond is less than its carrying amount. Total assets less total liabilities including Medium to long term debt instrument of 2 minority interest divided by the number of to 20 years issued by the Government of Sri Intangible Assets shares in issue as at 31st March. Lanka which carries a coupon (interest) paid An identifiable non-monetary asset without on semiannual basis. physical substance held for use in the Net Profit Margin production or supply of goods or services for Net profit for the period divided by the revenue. Unquoted Shares rental to others or for administrative purposes. Shares which are not listed in the Stock Price Earnings Ratio (PER) Exchange. Interest Cover Market value per share divided by the earnings Operating profit before interest divided by the per share. Yield to Maturity net interest. The discount rate that equals present value Price to Book Value Ratio (PBV) of all expected interest payment and the Interest Rate Swap Market price per share divided by net assets repayment of principal. An arrangement whereby two parties swap per share. interest rate commitments with each other to reduce interest rate risks on fixed or floating rate loans. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Notes page 252 | 253 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Sixty First Annual General Meeting of Aitken Spence PLC will be held at the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07, at 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, June 27, 2013, for the following purposes :• To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Board of Directors together with the Financial Statements of the Company and the Report of the Auditors thereon for the year ended 31st March 2013. • To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. • To re-elect Dr. M.P. Dissanayake who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To re-elect Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. G.C. Wickremasinghe who has attained the age of 79 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To re-elect Deshamanya D.H.S Jayawardena who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Deshamanya D.H.S. Jayawardena who has attained the age of 70 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To re-elect Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who is over 70 years, as a Director by passing the following resolution: “That the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. R.N. Asirwatham who has attained the age of 70 and that he be re-elected a Director of the Company” • To elect Mr. C.R. De Silva, P.C. who retires in terms of Article 90 of the Articles of Association, as a Director. • To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. • To re-appoint the retiring Auditors, Messrs. KPMG and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. • To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. BY ORDER OF THE BOARD R.E.V. Casie Chetty F.C.A, F.C.M.A, M.C.M.I. J Dip. M.A. Company Secretary Colombo 28th May, 2013 Notes : 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead and a Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. The completed Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office No. 315, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, not less than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting. 3. It is proposed to post the dividend warrants on 8th July 2013 provided the dividend recommended is approved. In accordance with the rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, the shares of the Company will be quoted exdividend with effect from 28th June 2013. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 FORM OF PROXY I/We ................................................................................................................................................................................................. of ............................................................................................................................................................... being a member/members of Aitken Spence PLC hereby appoint .......................................................... of .................................................................. (whom failing) Don Harold Stassen Jayawardena of Colombo (whom failing) Joseph Michael Suresh Brito of Colombo (whom failing) Rohan Marshall Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Mahinda Parakrama Dissanayake of Colombo (whom failing) Gaurin Chandraka Wickremasinghe of Colombo (whom failing) Charles Humbert Gomez of Gibraltar (whom failing) Niranjan Joseph de Silva Deva Aditya of United Kingdom (whom failing) Vernon Manilal Fernando of Colombo (whom failing) Rajanayagam Nalliah Asirwatham of Colombo (whom failing) Chittha Ranjan De Silva of Colombo as my/our Proxy to represent me/us, to speak and to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 27th day of June 2013, and at any adjournment thereof and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. Signed this .......................................... day of June Two Thousand Thirteen. ....................................................... Signature Note : Instructions as to completion are noted on the reverse hereof. page 254 | 255 INSTRUCTIONS AS TO COMPLETION Kindly perfect the form of proxy by filling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and filling in the date of signature. If the proxy form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of attorney should also accompany the proxy form for registration, if such power of attorney has not already been registered with the Company. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal (if required), which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. The completed form of proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No. 315 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, before 10.00 a.m. on June 25, 2013, being 48 hours before commencement of the meeting. Aitken Spence PLC | Annual Report 2012-2013 Corporate Information Name Audit Committee Aitken Spence PLC R.N. Asirwatham – Chairman G.C. Wickremasinghe Legal Form C.H. Gomez A Public quoted Company with limited liability, N.J. de S. Deva Aditya incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1952 Remuneration Committee Company Registration Number G.C. Wickremasinghe –Chairman PQ 120 V.M. Fernando R.N. Asirwatham Registered Office No.315 Vauxhall Street Nomination Committee Colombo 2 G.C. Wickremasinghe Chairman Sri Lanka D.H.S. Jayawardena J.M.S. Brito Directors V.M. Fernando D.H.S. Jayawardena Chairman R.N. Asirwatham J.M.S. Brito LLB, FCA, MBA Deputy Chairman and Managing Director R.M Fernando Ph.D., MBA, FCIM (UK) Company Secretary G.M. Perera (resigned w.e.f. 31.12.2012) R.E.V. Casie Chetty FCA, FCMA, M.C.M.I., J.Dip.M.A. M.P. Dissanayake MBA, Ph.D., Postgraduate.Dip Marketing FCIM, FICS, FCILT (UK), (GLE) Harvard Business School Auditors G.C. Wickremasinghe KPMG C.H. Gomez Chartered Accountants N.J. de S. Deva Aditya DL, FRSA, MEP V.M. Fernando Attorney-at-Law Contact Details R.N. Asirwatham FCA No.315 Vauxhall Street C.R. De Silva, P.C. (appointed w.e.f. 08.04.2013) Colombo 2 Sri Lanka Alternate Director T: (94 11) 2308308 A.L. Gooneratne FCA F: (94 11) 2445406 (Alternate Director to N.J. de S. Deva Aditya) www.aitkenspence.com Designed & produced by Photography by Taproban Street, Dimitri Crusz and Wildlight Private Limited Digital plates & printing by Aitken Spence Printing & Packaging (Pvt) Ltd www.aitkenspence.com
