Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO ..........................................................3 Social Sustainability ...............................................................6 Environmental Sustainability ...............................................15 Economic Sustainability .......................................................18 2 M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO It is important for GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute, while avoiding becoming a barrier, to Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. sustainable social, environmental and economic As a given we act in accordance with the principles development. We continue to support the UN Global we advise clients to apply. We believe that the Compact using the UN Guiding Principles on Business and internationally agreed principles for sustainable Human Rights (UNGPs) to provide for a consistent and development add needed quality to the field of CSR. transparent framework for managing adverse CSR impacts. The Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to We acknowledge the importance of the UN Global Compact address impacts in areas essential to sustainable in mainstreaming the concept and of the UNGPs in social, environmental and economic development. establishing the minimum required practice of CSR. Also it enables cost-efficient approaches to best manage such impacts. We intend to maintain our To put the principles into practice, we rely on the leadership position in the field ensuring that fulfilling enthusiasm, creativity and inspiration of our employees and our purpose is also profitable for our business relationships in inspiring businesses to adopt profitable, yet solid, sustainability strategies. We look forward to It is my pleasure to present our third Corporate Social continuing our work with CSR in 2013, and aim to improve Responsibility (CSR) report, providing samples of internal our performance in areas of key importance to the future of and external efforts during 2012. GLOBAL CSR was our planet. established as a consultancy in 1996. As one of the first professional advisors on CSR worldwide we continue to optimise the social, environmental and economic impacts of our business. The report describes our top priorities for Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO action and provides information on our performance in 2012; a snapshot. Also our objectives for the future are described. 3 A BOUT GLOBAL CSR O UR W ORK GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing in Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with the triple bottom Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in line and internationally recognised principles. We named creating sustainable solutions for private companies, public this the Principles-Based Approach to CSR. authorities and organisations in a range of countries and With more than 17 years of experience in CSR and an industries. Since 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out extensive network of partners, we are able to provide the assignments in all parts of the world. most qualified, up-to-date and experienced consultancy – anywhere in the world. GLOBAL CSR advisers are recognised as leading experts on the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Our goal is to continue develop innovative models to Human Rights (UNGPs) and the International Bill of Human address sustainability, enable differentiation and costRights as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social efficiency, and thereby increase the value of the activity for sustainability. CEO, Sune Skadegaard Thorsen is an active our clients. member of several international professional bodies GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of developing the field of CSR. CSR implementation from pre-assessment, impact Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer assessments (identification), risk & opportunity analyses, advice that leads to long term sustainable solutions for our vision statements, strategies, policies (policy commitment), customers and we only support CSR activities, which over training to project design, action planning and genuinely contribute to sustainable development. implementation (prevention & mitigation) and accounting (tracking performance and communicating). In addition, our team has vast experience in evaluating both corporate and public programmes. 4 GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: Solid understanding of business realities in most sectors and for all sizes businesses allows us to best address the needs  Promoting work for sustainable development based on and wishes of our clients. the Triple Bottom Line: social, environmental and economic sustainability. O UR V ISION  Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and organisations in developing and implementing CSR and We envision a world of diverse social, environmental and thereby creating shared value. economic abundance and sustainability; in which all human  Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering beings enjoy the full realisation of their human rights. A innovative, cost-effective and simple solutions, which world where businesses live by principles essential for create value for corporations. becoming key players in the co-creation of a brighter future for our planet, humanity – and not least for doing business. O UR M ISSION GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive social development, being recognised as the preferred partner in advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations on how to make international principles of corporate social responsibility operational and profitable. 5 S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY UN Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human GLOBAL CSR has since the appointment of the UN Special Rights (UNGPs) from June 2011 the world’s businesses got Representative on business and human rights, Prof. John an authoritative globally agreed reference point for Ruggie, supported his work. We are impressed with the thoroughness and diligence of the work and enjoy their respecting human rights, including the core labour rights. ingenuity of the principles when applying them in practice. In 2008 the unanimously adopted policy framework based on The UNGPs describe what should be expected from any the three pillars; the state’s duty to protect human rights; business in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts corporations responsibility to respect human rights; and access on human rights, i.e. the rights also referenced in the first 6 to remedy, created an unprecedented basis for advancing social principles of the UN Global Compact. sustainability. In June 2011 the UNGPs were unanimously endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council. This Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates how GLOBAL CSR daily assists businesses and governments understand and implement the UNGPs. In 2012 we developed GLOBAL CSR implements the UNGPs, thus ensuring respect tools which companies can utilize in order to incorporate the for human rights in the organisation. We hope to inspire UNGPs in a consistent and cost efficient manner. other businesses which are about to do the very same. In addition we have developed the basis for enabling business apply the UNGPs in their relationships; primarily vis á vis the In addition we will outline where we work beyond supply chain and in relation to investments. compliance contributing in fulfilling specific human rights The globally endorsed UNGPs represent a needed paradigm shift in CSR and provide for the minimum standard that any principles. business in the world need to apply. The major challenge for global implementation is capacity development; understanding the UNGPs and understanding human rights. It is a key feature of our business strategy to provide for such capacity development. 6 CSR C OMPLIANCE implementing the UNGPs. We have embedded a commitment to respect all human rights throughout the organisation. We have identified potential and actual The basic human rights principles are essential for the adverse impacts and are taking action to prevent and dignity, well-being and development of all people. The mitigate such adverse impacts; also ensuring access to dignity, well-being and development of people are also remedy where we do not manage to prevent. essential for conducting and expanding business. Ensuring respect for human rights is good for business. Respecting human rights for a business is now defined by having in This COP serves to communicate about this ongoing work. place the management system outlined by the UNGPs; i.e. knowing your potential and actual adverse impacts and Policy commitment showing what you are doing to address such impacts. In all our activities we identify potential and actual adverse impacts on all human rights included in the International Bill All companies no matter where they operate will have both of Human Rights. In addition we continuously seek to potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. All influence our relationships, primarily our clients, to respect companies also have experiences managing such impacts; human rights as well. e.g. in our efforts on creating safe and healthy working conditions. We are now expected to identify potential and actual impacts and what we do to manage such impacts in relation to all human rights; not only the right to a safe and healthy working environment. GLOBAL CSR is committed to respect and also support human rights, which form the heart of social sustainability. Respecting human rights is today defined as having a system in place as outlined in the UNGPs. GLOBAL CSR is 7 Strategically we focus our efforts on fulfilling the right to Seeing as human rights make up the core of our business, education. Front-end knowledge characterizes our business the strategic focus of the company is closely aligned with proposition and the competences of our staff; thus we promoting human rights, thus our most valuable concluded that we can contribute best to fulfilling the contribution is this promotion and sharing of knowledge; i.e. objective of social sustainability by focussing our proactive fulfilling the right to education. engagement on the ‘right to education’. Due diligence process Our commitment to human rights is evident throughout the organisation. We specialized in business and human rights Respecting human rights also means taking action, when and all employees, from CEO to project assistants are you discover that your company may cause or contribute to passionate about creating shared value and spreading or is linked to a potential or actual adverse impact on knowledge of and respect for human rights. On a daily basis human rights. we communicate to our employees and assist business relations on how to respect human rights in accordance to In order to know and show where our company cause or the UNGPs. contribute to potential or actual adverse impacts on human rights and to be able to address such impacts, GLOBAL CSR In 2012 we became more structured in embedding our performed a Human Rights Impact Assessment based on commitment throughout our organisation using the tools we the 42 distinct human rights referenced by the International created for clients and will continue this work in 2013. One Bill of Human Rights. activity involves the re-assessment of our employee In the following we will provide some lessons learned from handbook, employment contracts and all standard operating that exercise and provide a few examples of some of the procedures to ensure full alignment to our commitment to potential adverse impacts we identified. Through an respect human rights, i.e. with the UNGPs. example we will elaborate on how we are preventing and mitigating adverse impacts. 8 In order to accommodate the requirement of meaningful Example of an identified potential adverse impact and participation of stakeholders and to gain as much measures for prevention and mitigation knowledge about our potential and actual adverse impacts Headquartered in Denmark represents an increased challenge to on the human rights of our employees and external the right to non-discrimination; it is a fair assumption that the stakeholders we included the employees in the identification Danish society has little focus on raising awareness on process. The employees were assembled for a meeting discrimination and societal patterns that uphold stereotypes and about the UNGPs and given information on how to fill in the prejudices. The identification pointed to potential adverse impacts on the right to non-discrimination – related to gender. Our company’s ´Human Rights Impact-Assessment Sheet´ associate consultants and board members are predominantly male. which was handed in anonymously. Employees were asked This may indicate a gender-bias in the promotion or hiring process. to identify both potential and actual adverse impacts on all It may also be coincidental, but using evidential indicators from the 42 human rights. They were also asked to identify how gender-studies field, the risk of this being a pattern is high. GLOBAL CSR currently prevent, mitigate and provide access GLOBAL CSR is an equal opportunity workplace that values to remedy in regards to potential or actual adverse impacts diversity. In order to prevent and mitigate this potential adverse and finally employees were asked to identify where GLOBAL impact GLOBAL CSR trains employees, promotes diversity and CSR promotes the rights. seeks to best share the knowledge of our senior advisor on the field; the leading specialist in Denmark on structural discrimination. We have identified fourteen potential adverse impacts. We Gender balance among shortlisted candidates, is a criteria in our have described some of our potential adverse impacts in the recruitment process. Furthermore we believe that dialogue following figures. regarding sensitive issues is essential in order to become aware of, and be able to prevent, discrimination. We work actively to uphold an open environment where employees feel comfortable discussing discrimination; and to ensure that our clients are aware of the potential risk as well. In 2013 we will increase focus on gender balance in our board in order to mitigate our potential adverse impact. We will provide opportunities for career coaching to our advisers in order to enhance their possibilities for advancing their careers. 9 Remediation Example of an identified potential adverse impact and measures for prevention and mitigation In 2012 GLOBAL CSR experienced no legal or professional conduct actions. In relation to our employees the We identified a potential adverse impact in relation to the right to safe and healthy working conditions. Handling stress is a assessment has enabled us to focus discussions and to known challenge in consultancy firms. The uncertainty of future solicit for better solutions through our regular meetings assignments, the need for optimal performance every day and among employees; it has helped to prioritise time and the need to stay on top of the subject, make the work as a improved the confidence to express grievances or consultant challenging. Furthermore we risk having an adverse observations that management should consider in enabling impact on the right to safe and healthy working conditions, in a dynamic and constructive workplace. In 2013 we will that much of our work is desk-based computer work. focus more on access to remedy. GLOBAL CSR is well aware of our sector challenges and in 2012 we improved our focus on the causes for stress, and the general employee satisfaction. Our strategic focus on the right to An example of a grievance mechanism education where we have scaled up our course activities also helps create a more stable income thus minimising uncertainty Project Assistants at GLOBAL CSR have a contact person to for our employees. In 2013, this issue remains on our agenda. confide in and help them develop during their internship. The successful development of e-learning products will also Assistants are encouraged to contact their contact person enable our ability to generate more stable income. whenever needed and in addition we formalise such possibilities for grievance by arranging regular meetings with the assistants We have purchased height adjustable tables, ergonomically throughout their internship. mouse-pads and keyboards for all work stations to reduce physical strain. In addition we ensure that all employees can participate in monthly walk & talk stress-evaluations. In general, GLOBAL CSR strives to keep working hours at the agreed 37 hours a week. We also allow for flexible hours and that employees can occasionally work from home when needed and appropriate. 10 (distribution). By assisting our clients to contribute, while B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE complying with the agreed upon principles for social We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The sustainability, we ensure that CSR efforts both serve society success of our business depends on our knowledge and and our clients. We are experts at identifying both CSR competencies and our abilities to communicate this challenges and opportunities through direct application of knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously the universally agreed principles for sustainable improve our competencies on CSR and sustainable development. development in theory as well as in practice. It is also important for us to share our knowledge; support the In an effort to contribute to sustainable development, we development of the CSR field to find better, more costshare our knowledge by advising organisations and efficient and innovative ways to address global challenges in initiatives that are key players in the continued CSR relation to social sustainability. Two key principles of social development. These efforts include both compensated and sustainability, which we promote through our know-how and pro bono work for organisations such as the UN Working products are: (i) The right to education and (ii) freedom of Group on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations information. Global Compact (UNGC), the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, the Institute for Business & Human Rights, ”Our primary contribution to social sustainability is CSR Europe, the European Bars’ and Lawyers Association, through the actions of the clients we advise” AIM Progress, the Danish Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries, the Danish Government Centre for As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are both CSR, and a range of civil society organisations. experienced within the field of CSR as well as corporations that have only just begun working on their societal impacts Capacity development on UNGPs and human rights in a structured manner. Our services also span across borders, both when we provide services to international One of the greatest challenges lying ahead globally, to scale corporations and when we advise clients to address CSR in up the responsibility to respect human rights among all their relations; both in supply chains and downstream businesses, is awareness and capacity development. 11 Because of our competencies and position in the field, we in-depth training. We have also developed new erecognise the important role GLOBAL CSR can play in learning modules about the UNGPs and anti-corruption addressing this global challenge. for our e-learning platform, LEARN CSR, www.learncsr.com. The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs  GLOBAL CSR has as the first consultancy in the world “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in in collaboration with some of our clients developed and business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s tested an approach to Responsible Supply Chain much easier to blame someone. Limited capacity affects the Management that is in alignment with the UNGPs. ability of all stakeholder groups, including governments,  GLOBAL CSR’s talented team members continue to share businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessary roles.” their knowledge, serving as expert advisers: for the project group working on the EU Guide on Human Rights John Ruggie, dec. 4th 2012, UN Forum, Geneva for SMEs; to the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights; and CSR Europe, on their programmes in relation In 2012 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous to Human Rights – i.e. RSCM, Human Rights Awareness, national as well as international seminars, workshop, and Grievance Mechanisms. As an example GLOBAL CSR trainings and debates on CSR with a special emphasis on won the assignment to develop a guide to human rights building capacity and awareness about the UNGPs. The for SMEs. Although payment/time consumption for such company invested heavily in developing new tools for assignments rarely balances we found the project in businesses: complete alignment with our strategic CSR focus and  GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity were proud to be able to present the EU Guide for SMEs development and training in the UNGPs and human at the first UN Forum for Business and Human Rights in rights; targeting government representatives, civil Geneva in December 2012. In 2013 the guide will be society, academia, corporations, and CSR experts. presented in 25 other languages. During 2012 we trained more than 300 individuals in the  GLOBAL CSR has provided professional assistance to UNGPs, including 100 client representatives that received governments on national CSR/UNGPs action plans. 12 During the Danish EU Presidency, we assisted in we can access, and the better decisions we are able to designing and hosting the high level conference on the develop. UNGPs, where the full UN Working Group was assembled outside of Geneva for the first time. Article 2 of the Universal Declaration of GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in the public debate on Human Rights business and human rights and the Principles-Based “Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in Approach to CSR. We regularly publish articles and this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, participate in national and international working groups colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, related to the 10 UNGC principles and CSR. We devote time national or social origin, property, birth or other status [...]” to engage in the debate because we can see the added value of this approach to our clients and to society. Thus continuing to promote social sustainability and in particular the We also recognize that all people are prone to reduce UNGPs is an ongoing objective for GLOBAL CSR and an area complexity, by establishing stereotypes and thus occasionally will act with prejudice. A business that actively where we can make a difference. supports diversity can improve employee satisfaction, productivity, and retention. Also a diverse workforce is Turning adverse impacts into opportunities better equipped to understand the global marketplace which we serve. Diversity in the workforce is essential at GLOBAL CSR. We believe that diversity enables the organisation to improve its ability to innovate. 70 percent of our knowledge is tacit, i.e. resting with our employees. 70 percent of an individual’s knowledge lies with her network. In sum, the more diversity we manage to establish, the more knowledge 13 In order to mitigate our potential adverse impact on nonAn example of how GLOBAL CSR promotes the right to non-discrimination, identified as an actual adverse impact discrimination we will increase focus on identifying female board members that can also add skills to our board. In our  We develop capacity with the Danish film industry on work beyond CSR compliance GLOBAL CSR will continue to structural discrimination  We teach discrimination (direct, in-direct and structural) at address the global challenge of capacity development universities focused on the UNGPs and human rights both through our  Several employees spend free time pro bono to participate course activities and our e-learning modules. We will in public debates about discrimination in order to create continue developing tools for companies, organisations and awareness about this particular country risk in the public public authorities enabling them to implement the UNGPs  We conduct research on structural discrimination and helping them respect human rights. In particular we will focus our efforts to continue develop and communicate about our approach to responsible supply T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH chain management in alignment with the UNGPs. S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY Finally we will continue to ensure the quality of our activities In 2013 we will continue implementing the UNGPs in the and tools through use of other external experts in order to organisation. One of our goals is to ensure the integrating secure coherence with international principles. of the commitment to respect human rights in all organisational procedures and look more into access to remedy and grievance mechanisms. In addition to advising clients, GLOBAL CSR in 2012 advised both CSR Europe and a PhD Candidate at the Law Faculty in Copenhagen specifically on access to remedy. We intend to apply the learning to our organisation as well. 14 E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY Due diligence Companies of every size and type have adverse impacts on the environment through their business operations and We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impacts activities. When preventing and mitigating our adverse by always using the most environmentally friendly means of impact on the environment GLOBAL CSR we address the transportation. All executives and employees cycle, use subject areas covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7public transportation, or carpool as the predominant means 9. of transportation. When possible we have meetings through video and teleconferences, to minimize our use of air travel. CSR C OMPLIANCE During 2012 we participated in several meetings through teleconferences with clients both in Asia, Europe and “We aim to minimise our negative environmental Scandinavia. Using online technology to meet with clients impacts and where possible enhance our positive brings both economic and environmental benefits and environmental impacts” contributes positively to our employees work-life balance. Policy GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate environmental responsibility through our work, as well as internally in our business. We aim to minimise our environmental impacts and where possible enhance our positive environmental impacts. Our external contribution to environmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses in minimising their negative environmental impacts on the planet. 15 Our e-learning platform, LEARN CSR has allowed us to the bulk of our CO2 emissions stems from international air decrease the environmental impact of our company and our travel. clients even further, since our consultants and course In 2012, GLOBAL CSR continued implementing the participants don’t need to travel to a specific location to environmental action plan developed in 2010, which participate in lessons, but can enjoy the latest knowledge promotes green purchasing options e.g. new energy on social sustainability and anti-corruption regardless of efficient office supplies and an improved waste time or space. Several thousand employees have already disposal/recycling system. As an example we use recycled been trained through LEARN CSR; which constitutes a paper, reusable printer cartridges and strive to print only significant CO2 abatement. when strictly necessary and using front and back pages. However, being a consultancy that serves clients around the Remediation world, we cannot eliminate air travel. Our physical presence is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high service In 2012, GLOBAL CSR reduced our CO2 emissions from airquality often requires that we perform onsite assessments of all of a clients operations and branches. Change travel by almost half. This is especially due to our increase management and capacity development are essential in online and tele-communicative meetings. We have, components of our work and both require interpersonal however, seen an increase in electricity-use from 2011 to communication and presence. As an example GLOBAL CSR 2012. This, we find, is most likely explained by an increase in 2012 finished a series of consecutive training sessions on in employees, especially interns, causing us to have a business and human rights for top executives in Hitachi higher general use of electronics, computers etc. in the Europe all over Europe. office. Furthermore, we endeavour to maintain and expand our GLOBAL CSR will collaborate with public authorities and position as frontrunners in the field of CSR. This requires other relevant partners, if we identify any major adverse that we participate in debates to develop the field; which impacts on the environment. often involves presenting at international conferences. Thus, 16 We work in cooperation with our strategic partners that are Environmental Impact leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have 2011 2012 advised clients to perform environmental impact CO2-emissions from air travel in tons 8.37 4.71 Electricity in KWh 1156 4094 assessments, carbon and water footprint assessments. Paper (sheets) 2500 2500 Estimated total CO2-emissions (in tons) 9,5 Also, as part of raising public awareness and meeting the growing need for education on CSR and the business case for being environmentally responsible, we have participated *Our electricity numbers from last year were set lower in previous reports due to a miscalculation. Thus our KWh for 2011 are not, as in seminars and workshops, as well as facilitated and held formerly stated, 1156 but 2832. several seminars and workshops on, for instance, the cradle B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE to cradle concept. GLOBAL CSR works to promote environmental protection T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH and efficiency policies with our clients. In 2012, GLOBAL E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY CSR assessed and advised Danish and international clients on principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core business It is our goal for 2013 to make a positive contribution to the operations. These three principles serve to support development of environmentally responsible profiles and precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, to practices for businesses as an integrated and strategic way undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility of doing business. In particular we continue to promote and to encourage the development and diffusion of aligning environmental bottom-line management systems environmentally friendly technologies. with the process requirements set forth in the UNGPs. In 2012, we assisted our clients in meeting the growing In the long run, it is GLOBAL CSR’s goal to become CO2 environmental challenges and requirements that they face neutral in our operations and increasingly generate a today. positive impact on the environment beyond our indirect contributions through the actions of our clients. 17 E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY Due diligence Corporations seek to incorporate their contributions to GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are sustainable development into their core business strategies, proactive in encouraging positive norms and values while ensuring that no functions have adverse impacts. Besides amongst our employees and business relations. We are also focusing on making a profitable business, economic a financially transparent company and seek to foster an sustainability also means ensuring that we do not have open and transparent culture internally in the organisation. negative impacts on the economy in particular in relation to In addition to having an external accountant, we corruption and bribery. communicate about our budget internally amongst all employees. We consider these practices to be proportionate CSR C OMPLIANCE to our size and the risks that the company faces. “Our mission is to run a profitable business through We are aware that we run higher risks when operating promoting sustainable development” abroad in markets where bribery is commonplace, compared to Denmark. Thus we are diligent in Policy commitment communicating our values as the basis for doing business; and making sure to build business relationship based on GLOBAL CSR has a zero tolerance stance on bribery and trust and common understanding. corruption in the business and in relations with our clients and partners. In line with principal 10, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion, and facilitation payments. We are committed to complying with internationally recognised principles, such as the UN Global Compact, as well as local and extraterritorial anti-corruption and bribery laws. 18 B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE An example of an actual adverse impact on economic sustainability Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives need In 2012 we experienced an actual adverse impact when the CEO only address the international principles on anti-corruption, hired his daughter as project assistant, circumventing agreed we also advise our clients in relation to financial gearing, recruitment procedures and constituting an adverse impact on the prohibition of nepotism, a feature under corruption. As a good corporate governance and tax payments. family owned business and appreciating that the new project assistant possesses skills essential to our work the decision was Through our work we contribute to the elimination of discussed with and accepted by all employees. In addition the corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic new project assistant was informed that her relationship to the responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our owners would not change her opportunities or the expectations strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th to her work deliveries. principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. As consultants we were still confronted with the realities of Remediation the economic downturn that made most corporations very The risk of being involved with bribery is aggregated by the hesitant to spend resources on external consultants. We do, business culture one operates in. GLOBAL CSR has however, experience that businesses, governments and developed two e-learning modules on anti-corruption, ‘Antiorganisations increasingly realise the importance of, and corruption for employees’ and ‘Anti-corruption for managers’; opportunities in, addressing CSR diligently. as a tool to help our fellow businesses and our own Especially with the endorsement of the UN Guiding employees in achieving a corruption free business Principles, we witnessed great interest for our competences environment. from businesses, governments, organisations and sectors initiatives. The increase of CSR initiatives in the private and 19 the public sector appear to amplify in 2013 leading to international principles for business to apply when planning greater results for our business as well as for social, and executing tax payments for international operations. environmental and economic sustainability. By every hour’s work sold, GLOBAL CSR makes a contribution to sustainable Also GLOBAL CSR continues to develop practical solutions development through the impressive actions of our clients. for applying the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) in Social Responsible Investments (SRI). It is apparent that the In 2012 GLOBAL CSR formed a learning and advisory UNGPs can contribute to enable convergence and reduce process for Small and Medium sized Enterprises (SMEs) costs for investors while contributing to the scaling up the providing participants with the opportunity to fully enjoy the responsibility to respect human rights. benefits of CSR, while creating a forum to share experiences and promote efforts. The initiative supports the Danish Government's goal (from the action plan, 2012, and the objectives from 2010) to promote CSR among SMEs. Also it falls well in line with the work we finished for the EU Commission in 2012 and the Commission’s priorities. T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH E CONOMICL S USTAINABILITY In 2012 we developed for a client a report on the connection between taxes and Corporate Social Responsibility. GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be permanently available for download online on www.global-csr.com participate in and contribute to both national and and on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, international debates on the establishment of viable please contact us at info@global-csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. 20 , Vimmelskaftet 41A, 3rd Floor, 1161 Copenhagen K, Denmark, + 45 44 99 55 06, www.global-csr.com
