2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT Designing today the plants of the future 2 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 3 PROFILE MARKETS OUR VISION METAL / ALUMINIUM / Fives Solios STEEL / Fives Bronx, Fives Celes, Fives DMS, Fives Industries, Fives Stein Only innovative solutions will allow future industrial growth Glass / Fives Stein that is both sustainable and profitable. Since its inception, CEMENT / Fives FCB, Fives Pillard the Fives’ teams have been able to provide new industrial AUTOMOTIVE, AEROSPACE AND OTHER INDUSTRIES / Fives Cinetic solutions with a pioneering approach to address these challenges. LOGISTICS / Fives Cinetic ENERGY / Fives Cail, Fives Cryogenie, Fives Nordon, Fives North American, Fives Pillard Europe (excluding France) Sales €176 million 11% France Sales €269 million 18% Asia and Oceania Sales The Americas €374 million Sales 25% €421 million 28% Africa and the Middle East TABLE Message OF du PrésidentCONTENTS ......................................... 4 Sales 6 L’ESSENTIEL DE FIVES Message from the Chairman ........................... 4 €268 million 6 THE ESSENCE OF FIVES Évenement ........................................................... 8 Faits marquants ................................................. 10 A network of more than 18% Events informations financières .................. 128 Synthèse.................................................................. Highlights ......................................................... 10 80 affiliates and representative Organes de gouvernance .................................. 14 16 Summary of financial information ............... 12 offices in nearly 30 countries Corporate CONCEVOIR governance AUJOURD’HUI bodies ........................ 14 18 LES USINES DU FUTUR Savoir-faireDESIGNING industriel TODAY et THE PLANTS OF A s an industrial engineering group, Fives THE FUTUREinternationale .............................. 18 organisation Innovation expertise Industrial and ......................................................... 20 designs and supplies process equipment, international structure . . ................................. 20 Efficacité énergétique et production lines and turnkey plants for the Technologies impact environnemental & Eco-design ........................... 22 .................................. 22 world’s largest industrial groups in the aluminium, steel, glass, 24 ATAUTHE €1,324 million automotive & logistics, cement, energy and sugar sectors. CŒUR HEARTDE FIVES OF FIVES Ethics ................................................................. Responsabilité sociale ...................................... 26 25 €245 million Corporate social responsibility ..................... Éthique .............................................................. 28 26 of order intake of which close Located in nearly thirty countries and with more than 6,500 employees across six Health, Safety, Ressources humaines Environment ........................ 30 ....................................... 27 continents, the Group is known for its technological expertise and competence in to 50% is in emerging countries executing large-scale international projects. Human Santé, resources Sécurité, ............................................ Environnement 28 ...................... 34 of shareholders’ equity The Group’s know-how and solid field experience allow it to manage projects as a whole while respecting deadlines and fulfilling performance commitments. The effectiveness of its 32 36 MARKETSMARCHÉS Aluminium Énergie ....................................................... .............................................................. 34 37 €266 million R&D programs enables Fives to design forward-thinking industrial solutions that anticipate Steel ................................................................... Aluminium ........................................................ 35 38 client needs in terms of profitability, safety and compliance with environmental standards. Glass .................................................................... Acier ................................................................. 36 39 €1,508 million This strategy is also supported by a human resources policy putting people first, which promotes Cement . . ............................................................ Verre .................................................................. 40 37 of closing net cash position initiative-taking, technical excellence and team spirit. Automotive, Ciment Aerospace and other industries.... 41 ............................................................... 38 Logistics ............................................................ Automobile ........................................................ 42 39 of sales 6,521 Energy ............................................................... Logistique .......................................................... 43 40 42 44 BENCHMARKS 1,200 REPÈRES FIVES IN 2012 employees* Indicateursand Financial non-financial et extra indicators financiers financiers ........ 43 ....... 46 More than *consolidation scope at Dec. 31, 2012 people recruited in 2012 4 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2012, AN HISTORIC YEAR “2013 will be a year of ambition, growth and performance.” Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board 2 012 was marked by the celebration of our With turnover breaking through the symbolic we are focused on ensuring the success of the projects bicentennial. Created from the 19th century €1.5 billion barrier for the first time in its history (19% we share. merger between the two century-old increase compared to 2011) and EBITDA, which also businesses of Cail and Fives-Lille, and the exceeded €100 million for the first time (€115 million The recently introduced process of simplifying our brand subsequent acquisition of several more reflecting a 16% increase compared to 2011), a strong architecture should allow us to reconcile our decentralized companies, each with a long history, Fives has always balance sheet and record cash flow of €266 million at organizational structure with the need for global adapted successfully to the technological and the end of 2012, Fives proudly celebrated its 200 years efficiency. It also provides us with the opportunity to organizational fluctuations that have characterized the of history. With presence today in more than implement a Group-wide corporate plan designed to industrial revolutions of recent centuries. Since the 30 countries through more than 80 Group companies, strengthen the identity and values of Fives. This project first steam locomotives in the 19th century through Fives sells its products in more than 100 countries, will be delivered through four key initiatives sharing the the prestigious structures such as the Alexandre III employs 6,500 people worldwide, holds a portfolio of same goals: Bridge, the Gare d’Orsay train station, the elevators of 1,500 active patents, and continues its tradition to put the Eiffel Tower and the Tancarville Bridge, Fives has its energy and focus on the ideas of designing the • improving our level of professional excellence in a more evolved to become a leading international reference in industrial plants of the future. open and diversified world where projects are becoming industrial engineering. Today, the Group is, among increasingly and inexorably broader and more complex; others, present in the automotive industry (in Europe, Celebrating our 200th anniversary is also about looking • continuing to develop the personal wealth of the Group in Brazil, China, the USA and Russia), in steel (in China, to our future. 2013 will be another year of strong through recruitment, training, the promotion of gender India and Russia), in aluminium (in Canada, the Middle growth for our Group, driven by a full and profitable equality and diversity, and the ability to offer varied, East and Russia), in glass (in Brazil and Turkey), in order backlog of more than €1.3 billion at the end of international careers; cement (in North Africa, Brazil, Mexico, the Middle 2012. That trend is certain to continue in 2013 as a • encouraging creativity at every level of the business; East and Southeast Asia), in logistics (in Europe, North result of strong markets full of promise for the future. • making our customers true partners in ways that will America and Japan), and lastly in energy on every This growth will also be fueled by the planned allow us to be even more proactive and to anticipate continent of the world. Throughout its history, the epic acquisition of MAG Americas, the world’s leading their expectations even more accurately. story of the Fives group is united with the major events player in large-scale machine tools and composite in the world for industrial and economic development. processing. In 2012, MAG Americas reported sales of Despite the existing challenges of the economic nearly $400 million. Expected to be complete by midenvironment, 2013 will therefore be another year of The history of Fives is also about 200 years of personal year of 2013, this acquisition reflects the continued ambition, growth and performance. journeys. But no history of Fives could be complete international development of Fives in innovative without mentioning the men and women who built technologies for high added-value industries. It also this inspiring company. In the souls of the engineers is strengthens the Group’s presence in the United States, an open-minded view of world and its diversity, having where it benefits from the country’s dynamic economy an entrepreneurial spirit that composes the body, with and industrial base, as well as establishing Fives as a an ethical work sense for a job well done and team world leader in the machine tools market. spirit, these men and women are the most important assets of our Group. Thanks to them and the individual The year 2013 will also see our Group accelerate the entrepreneurs of a remarkable fate, like Jean-François process of profound transformation undertaken in Cail, Fives has innovated successfully throughout its recent years. The strength of the Fives growth model history and put in place the resources needed to comes primarily from the accountability of become a world leading group of companies, without responsibility by everyone in the business and its compromising the flexibility of a small business on a ability to network its skills and energy… in short, personal level. from its decentralized organizational structure that leaves room for every individual to express his or her 2012 also brought with it a change in the Group’s own entrepreneurial talents. Nevertheless, this shareholding structure, with the arrival of AXA Private consciously adopted organizational model is no Equity as the Fives’ principal, but minority, shareholder. obstacle to the implementation and exploitation of This new capital structure will allow us to continue technical, commercial or financial synergies between extracting the maximum benefit from our multi-sector Group entities, all of which generate additional value. and multi-technical expertise by building on our Another source of strength behind this model is the innovative talents, by harnessing the dynamic growth ambition that drives us and the resources we put in of the world’s most high-potential markets, and by place to ensure that we are the best-possible partner accelerating our external growth strategy. for our customers and all our stakeholders, because 6 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 7 THE ESSENCE OF FIVES EVENTS I HITGHLIGHTS I SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES Fives demonstrates the strength of its growth model and the relevance of its strategic positioning 8 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 9 EVENTS 200 years of 2012, AN EVENTful YEAR FOR FIVES, industrial progress WHICH CELEBRATED ITS BICENTENnial WITH ITS EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS WORLDWIDE FIVES OBSERVATORY FOR THE PLANTS OF THE FUTURE In 2012, the Group introduced a reflection think tank of the issues surrounding the industrial world of tomorrow, creating the Fives Observatory for plants of the future. This project combines both the general public and individuals with diverse expertise from academics to industrialists, architects and representatives from the non-profit sector. In launching the debate on this topical issue, Fives affirmed its status as an economic player in the core of industrial issues and listening to its stakeholders as to better innovate and respond to the expectations of its customers. In the framework of the Observatory, a series of three powerful events have been deployed throughout the year. These events include a survey conducted by the Ifop institute for the French vision and plants, a series of interviews with experts and the organization of a citizens’ conference, all which can be found on the dedicated website at www.plantsofthefuture.com. In 2013, new initiatives will be launched, with events that will feed a new reflection regarding the industry of tomorrow by involving new audiences in France and abroad. BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS 200 years of industrial progress around the world In 2012, Fives celebrated its 200 years of industrial progress with events in the USA, Russia, Turkey, France and China. These soirees gave Fives senior management and sales teams the opportunity to celebrate with their key customers and partners, creating a perfect opportunity for them to discover or rediscover the Group. All were attended by large numbers of guests who were clearly impressed by the history and vision of the Group presented to them; both the Fives of yesterday and its contribution to a series of industrial revolutions, and the industrial engineering INNOVATION AWARD Group of today, and the contribution it makes to so many industries worldwide. The first Fives Innovation Award These 200 years of industrial progress and personal journeys were also shared with The first Fives Innovation Award ceremony was held as part of the Fives 200th all Group employees, and will continue to be celebrated until the summer of 2013. Anniversary celebration in Paris on November 7, 2012. Introduced to stimulate In France, Japan, India, the USA, the UK… and every other Group operating country, creativity throughout the Group, the contest attracted 106 contestants from the Chairman of Fives or one of its other Executive Board Members has met face15 Group companies. From amongst the 137 ideas submitted, the judges panel to-face with employees to share with them the history, values and ambition of the unanimously congratulated all the innovations entered for their exceptional quality, Group at events that blend the spirit of Fives with the distinctive character of each ultimately awarding the Fives Innovation Award to Alain Genaud (Deputy Director of location. These events have also provided a perfect opportunity to celebrate the Steel Sales at Fives Stein) for an upgrade to the Wet Flash Cooling® proprietary commitment and involvement of all the people without whom Fives would not technology used in steel production. This internal contest, which will now be rolled out have been able to celebrate its bicentennial! progressively to all Group companies, is clearly fertile ground in which innovation and creative ideas will flourish. 10 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 11 HIGHLIGHTS Korea France ACQUISITIONS August February Korean Express awarded Fives Cinetic a contract to Fives Cinetic was awarded a contract by Caterpillar to January Acquisition of CBL Combustion Systems Pvt. Ltd. (now Fives Combustion Systems Pvt. Ltd.), an Indian company employing a workforce automate its main terminal in Gunpo, close to Seoul in supply a wheeled excavator assembly line. of 100 and specializing in combustion equipment for the energy and minerals industries. This acquisition strengthens the position of Fives in the Korea. This system includes both design and supply of a cement and energy sectors of the fast-growing Indian market by establishing a local operational base. / March Formation of Solios Chemical, complete automated sorting system for parcels and July following the acquisition of the Organic Chemistry and Distillation (Proabd®) activities of Litwin, based in Mulhouse (France). / July Acquisition documents based on the SBIR SD-2D and SBIR SD-D-W Fives Cail received an order from Lesaffre Frères for the of the Technip France Cement Division business portfolio, which completes the offer of Fives FCB in Services. / November Acquisition of Keods, cross-belt sorter proprietary technologies. supply of equipment to increase the capacity of its a French consulting company specializing in flat carbon steel for the automotive industry. Nangis sugar production plant: the order covers India centrifugals, a falling film evaporator with a surface area March of 4,500 sqm, and a multi-tube dryer with a capacity of Fives Cryogenie commenced work on two cold box 55 tons per hour. orders (one for an ethylene production unit and the other for a gas treatment unit) for GAIL (Gas Authority Hungary of India). This is the first major cryogenics contract won March by the Group in India. Audi placed an order with Fives Cinetic for a special THE AMERICAS July ASIA AND OCEANIA model of the Landis LT1 camshaft grinder, including two In iron ore pelletization, July saw Fives North American Japan headstocks and an internal loader thus offering greater Brazil secure an order from Essar Minnesota to supply China March productivity than the competitor technology. May combustion equipment for hardening furnaces with January To automate its terminal in Tokyo, Sagawa Express The Cimar company, a joint venture between Queiroz extremely low NOx emission characteristics to reduce Chinese steel producer TCSS (Tiancheng Stainless Steel renews its trust in Fives Cinetic awarding a contract to Russia Galvão and Cornelio Brennand, placed an order with emissions by more than 95% compared with existing Products), an affiliate of the Sichuan Jinguang Group, include four sorters with steel belt technology and with September Fives FCB for process equipment to be installed in a new technologies. placed an order with Fives DMS for the supply of two a capacity of sorting 30,000 items per hour. Fives Bronx received an order for finishing equipment to cement grinding center in São Luis. The order includes a ZR22-54 rolling mills for its new stainless steel cold equip three complete steel tube production lines for the 3,400 kW ball mill, a latest-generation TSV™ 3200 HF Mexico rolling plant. new Gazpromtrubinvest plant. This contract, which dynamic separator and a 2,000 m² Sonair process filter. July February EUROPE includes the supply of two straighteners, two hydro Fives Cryogenie received an order from a joint venture General Motors Shanghai awarded Fives Cinetic the testing machines, leak testing equipment and two Canada company led by Technip and Braskem to supply cold contract to supply four LT2e machines to grind the Germany finishing machines, represents the first major contract for March boxes for a 1.05 million ton per year ethylene project. journal faces, crankpins and main bearings of 3and April Fives in the Russian seamless tubes market. As part of the conversion project of electrolysis pots at This project is the largest private investment in Mexico 4-cylinder crankshafts. As part of a national program to upgrade and automate the Kitimat plant in British Columbia, Rio Tinto Alcan by a Brazilian company. March its facilities, Germany’s largest logistics operator renews its confidence in Fives Soilios and places an order Fives DMS signed two contracts with STSS (Shanxi contracted Fives Cinetic to work on its pilot project. for the supply of preassembled modules of a green Taigang Stainless Steel), a subsidiary of the group Tisco anode plant with a capacity of 42 tons per hour and AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST (Taiyuan Iron and Steel), Group company STSS (Shanxi From left to right, highlighting the French students: Florence Cotin from GDF SUEZ, Armelle Carminati three holding furnaces for a new foundry. Taigang Stainless Steel) for the supply of combined from ACCENTURE, and Estelle Fontenay from FIVES. Africa stainless steel rolling and pickling/annealing lines. The United States June order brings the total number of new installations and June Fives Pillard was contracted in June by Indian cement upgrades to 20 (10 lines and 10 rolling mills) sold since Fedex Ground awarded Fives Cinetic a contract to manufacturer Wacem to supply two 50 MW hot gas 1996 to the TISCO group, which is the world’s largest provide an integrated sorting system for its Windsor generators for a new raw mix grinding plant in Togo. producer of stainless steel. (Connecticut) center, covering the installation of six Wacem then renewed its confidence in Fives by placing May shoe sorters and a double LPS singulator with a capacity a similar order in October for its Ghana plant, followed Fives Cryogenie signed a contract with Air Liquide China of 15,000 items per hour. by another in December for the Novaflam® technology to supply heat exchangers for three major air separation In that same month, Fives Cinetic received an order from to be installed in its new Ethiopian production lines. projects on its Hanghzou site, representing a total brazed General Motors for two assembly lines to be installed in volume of 640 m3. its Toledo, Ohio (USA) and Silao (Mexico) plants. The United Arab Emirates July new lines will produce key components for use in February VAMA (Valin ArcelorMittal Automotive) the October 8-speed transmissions for rear-wheel drive vehicles. Fives Solios signed a turnkey contract with Emal ArcelorMittal/Valin joint venture awarded Fives Stein Ecovadis assessment (Emirates Aluminium manufacturer) for the supply and an order for two vertical furnaces, one for an automotive installation of five melting and holding furnaces as part galvanizing line, and the other for a combined continuous Fives ranked in the top 10% of the project to expand its Abu Dhabi plant. annealing line whose great flexibility in finished product of the 6,000 suppliers assessed by fabrication enables alternating production of annealed the agency in 2012 steel sheets and coated steel sheets. Evaluated by Ecovadis, an expert in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Fives was rated 6 out of 10, against an average of 4.2 given to all companies rated by Ecovadis. Fives is thus considered as a company who is November “committed” in terms of social responsibility and ranks in the top 10% The Sébastienne Guyot Bursary of the 6,000 suppliers rated by the agency. This assessment is based Scholarship award on four areas (environment, social, business ethics and suppliers), and strengthens the efforts of social The École Centrale Paris partnership responsibility undertaken by Fives As part of its partnership with the École Centrale Paris, since 2008. Fives has given its commitment to support a student through the award of the Sébastienne Guyot Scholarship. The principle behind the award is to leave students free to focus on their studies as a result of the sponsoring company meeting some of the costs involved July in their three-year course. The award underlines the New century, new shareholder commitment of Fives to extending the diversity of its recruitment in this talent pool of excellence. AXA Private Equity, a new partner of Fives Since 2001 and delisting from stock market, Fives has teamed up with a series of Supply of the assembly line and the filling financial partners that have successively supported its business growth over the equipment of the new production line years. In July 2012, AXA Private Equity one of the world’s leading private equity of PSA Peugeot Citroën in Kaluga, Russia. investors took the decision to provide the Group with its financial support and expertise. This partnership will give the Group the resources it needs to fund its medium-term and long-term growth plans. At the same time, Charterhouse, which had been Fives’ majority shareholder and financial partner since 2006, sold its entire HUMAN RESOURCES equity holding in the Group. Although AXA Private Equity is the largest shareholder in Fives, its holding represents less than 50% of Group equity, which means that the FIVES HAS GIVEN ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES THE CHANCE TO Fives executive management team collectively holds the majority stake in the Fives group. This change in the Group’s shareholder structure marks a new stage in the EXPRESS THEIR VIEWS FREELY AND ANONYMOUSLY history of Fives, which continues to grow, despite a difficult economic environment. This new partnership with AXA Private Equity will enable the Group to continue IN AN INTERNAL SATISFACTION SURVEY extracting full potential from its multi-sector expertise based on its ability to innovate and by capturing the dynamic high-growth markets. The survey is an effective way of measuring employee satisfaction and its trend over time, and uses operational indicators to identify priority areas for improvement and support the preparation of action plans. 72% responded! of employees See page 29 for more information Commissioning of the world’s fastest rolling mill, 1,200 meters per minute, for Tisco in China. 12 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 13 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2012, In 2012, the EBITDA broke through record saleS the €115 million barrier to end the year more than 16% above the 2011 level BREAKDOWN OF ORDER INTAKE SALES, ORDER INTAKE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CLOSING NET CASH POSITION AND The long-term issues over access to funding and the economic slowdown seen in emerging BY END MARKET EBIT AND EBITDA AND CLOSING ORDER BOOK SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY countries have imposed significant downward pressure on global industrial investment. Despite an AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA unprofitable and uncertain economic and trading environment, the Group order intake remained favorable, although it appeared down compared to 2011 (€1,324 million in 2012 compared to €1,674 million in 2011), held up well. Furthermore, this performance ranked higher than those 1,674 achieved between 2008 and 2010. 1,508 1,552 1,324 22.7 265.6 During this period, small and medium-sized order intake rose to a new record level, driven by the 1,352 21.2 239.2 1,283 1,268 1,359 1,379 235.8 244.8 244.8 buoyant energy sector (combustion and cryogenics) on the one hand, and a continuation, in 2012, 115.1 1,290 19.8 229.8 214.0 27% 1,049 1,224 of the positive trend seen in the automotive industry during 2011 on the other, especially in the American 99.0 18.4 223.2 31% and Chinese markets. A series of major contracts negotiated at the end of 2011 also came into force 1,117 182.2 2012 Figures 90.4 92.7 172.0 in 2012, mainly in the steel industry, in China; in the aluminium industry in Canada and the Middle East and 86.3 Automotive/logistics 76.2 15.2 Metal 74.6 74.0 in the logistics sector in Europe, the USA and Japan. Energy 727 6% 68.3 834 Cement 59.0 Additionally, the 2012 financial year was marked by a strong increase in sales, which ended the year at €1,508 million, setting a new Group record. This figure reflects the marked recovery seen in order intake during 36% 2011, which ended with an all-time high order backlog of €1,552 million, as well as the sustained level of small and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 medium-sized orders (for isolated equipment, spare parts and technical support services), which continued to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 grow in the first half of 2012. This high level of activity is reflected in the Group’s results, where EBITDA broke 9% through the €115 million barrier to end the year more than 16% above the 2011 level. € millions € millions € millions € millions 28% 12% 2012 Figures Sales Order intake R&D budget Closing net cash position The Group ended the year with a robust order backlog of €1,379 million, which provides strong forward visibility of EBIT* Closing order book Shareholders’ equity The Americas EBITDA* activity levels for 2013. Africa and the Middle East Asia and Oceania Lucile Ribot, member of the Executive Board, Group Chief Financial Officer France Europe (excl. France) 19% 32% *2008: french GAAP / 2009-2011: IFRS €1,508 million of sales €1,324 million of order intake of €245 million of which close to 50% is in emerging countries shareholders’ equity 14 Lucile Ribot , member of the Executive Board 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 15 Group Chief Financial Officer Frédéric Sanchez CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES Chairman of the Executive Board Martin Duverne, member of the Executive Board GROWTH AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE To meet the challenges resulting from the strong organic and external growth recorded by the Group in recent years, Fives has changed its organization and governance in two main areas. First, by strengthening its management structures; both at the intermediate management level within its group companies and by Jean-Camille Uring, strengthening the operational relay at the Board level. Second, by establishing The Executive Board The Executive Committee member of the Executive Board Fives is headed by an Executive Board overseen by the To support it in its decision-making, the Executive Board Country Departments that will be supported by local offices, beginning first in North Supervisory Board; the number of Executive Board has introduced an Executive Committee whose America and China. These departments will improve the consistent management of members is established by the Supervisory Board, members include the Group’s key operational and cross-regional issues. The Supervisory Board which has set a minimum of two members and a functional managers. The Supervisory Board exercises permanent control over maximum of five. A s t h e b o d y re s p o n s i b l e f o r c o n s u l t a t i o n , the management of the company by the Executive The Executive Board currently has four members and is recommendation and implementation, the Executive Board. It meets to consider the quarterly report to be responsible for the management of the company. It has Committee meets to consider issues submitted to it, submitted by the Executive Board, and inspects and the most extensive powers to act on behalf of Fives and to support the Executive Board in reaching those verifies the documents associated with the corporate under all circumstances, limited only by the company decisions that fall within its scope of competence. It also and consolidated financial statements of the Group. On purpose and powers expressly vested by the Supervisory examines the proposals for improvement put forward December 31, 2012, the 4 Supervisory Board members Board and shareholder meetings. by the Steering and Coordination committees. Its tasks are: Dominique Gaillard (Chairman), Lise Fauconnier Every member of the Executive Board also have include coordinating and monitoring the implementation (Vice-Chairman), Alexandra Goltsova and Laurent personal responsibility for supervising one or more of of Group policies. Roquette. Jacques Lefèvre is the Honorary Chairman. the Group’s Operational Divisions and one or several functional Fives departments. Denis Hugelmann Alain Cordonnier Head of the Automotive Division Head of the Cement Division Daniel Brunelli-Brondex Head of the Aluminium Division Michelle XY Shan Head of the Chinese Region Paule Viallon Head of the Group Human Resources Department Sylvain Dulude Head of the North American Region Benoît Caratgé Head of the Steel/Glass Division The Head of Country Jean-Marie Caroff He acts simultaneously as a leader, coordinator and Head of the International Development Department representative for Group initiatives at the national level. He also manages Fives’ relationships with local Jean-Paul Sauteraud stakeholders, and coordinates the relationship between Michel Dancette Head of the Group Legal Department these stakeholders and national Group companies. Head of the Innovation and Corporate Social Responsability Departments 16 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BODIES STEERING AND COORDINATION The Fives governance has adapted to the growth of the Group without compromising its essential structure of individual entities on a personal level that promotes team responsibility and motivation. Operating as think tanks, consultative bodies and management information channels, a series of cross-functional committees support the work of the Executive Committee and its contribution to Executive Board decision-making. “This committee gives us the opportunity to meet “The Group is growing, and regularly, discuss Group projects and work together the governing body is on how we will deploy those projects supporting that growth by in China.” giving us the assurance Shang Blao, CEO of Fives Stein Shanghai The Coordination Committee that information is properly The Steering Committee The Executive Board is forming the Coordination Committee with the intention exchanged and shared, The Executive Board is forming a series of regional Steering of boosting cross-functional interaction. This new body is being formed and that the various departments Committees whose prime purpose is to act as a creative melting pot specifically to: coordinate in a coherent way.” for the Group. • provide overall development support and assistance to Group companies, Lucile Ribot, member of the Executive Board In each major region, their membership includes Group company • act as a channel for informal communication, CEOs and functional departmental heads from within • ensure consistency between the policies and the recommended measures. headquarter and/or the region concerned. They promote regional cross-disciplinarity and ensure that the Group’s management bodies are fully in touch with operational needs. Introduced in 2012 in France, North America and China, similar committees will be formed at a future date in other countries. “The Steering Committee OF FRANCE has presented us with the analysis and recommendations we needed to make the prOmpt decisions required to support and accelerate a growth strategy for services that will drive Fives forward further and faster.” Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board “The Coordination Committee gives us a chance to progress together more effectively and efficiently. It also encourages us to formalize a number of working processes that have become “The discussions we have had within necessary as a result of the Group’s growth.” the France Committee this year have Céline Morcrette, Group Communications Director been particularly thought-provoking. “We use these committee meetings to discuss our individual challenges and Our goal was to converge on those priorities. We also use them to check that we are working with our group Group-level solutions that would be the companies in a consistent way. These committee meetings also encourage the “This committee allows us to progress together on issues most useful and suitable for all Group introduction of shared approaches to common issues.” of shared interest so that we can more effectively present companies.” Eric Bessière, Group Purchasing Director joint proposals to the Executive Committee.” Frédéric Thrum, CEO of Fives Cail Ron McCullough, CEO of Fives North American 18 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 19 DESIGNING TODAY THE PLANTS OF Pioneering and developing market-leading proprietary technologies to stay ahead THE FUTURE of the curve Industrial expertise and international structure I TECHNOLOGIES & Eco-DESIGN 20 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 21 INDUSTRIAL EXPERTISE AND INTERNATIONAL STRUCTURE Agility, durability and pragmatism Synergies in expertise Globally recognized for its technological expertise, Fives undertakes and delivers Its international, multi-sector expertise gives Fives an equipment and solutions for major industrial projects worldwide. This combination of enviable panoramic overview of industry around the expertise and experience in industrial operations ensures that lead times and world. Fives shares this with its customers as part of a continual process designed to identify new solutions performance are exceeded by the Group. The Group’s international structure gives it that combine technology with safety and profitability. the flexibility and responsiveness essential for effectively adapting to the specifications 30 For the same reasons, Fives can very easily bring a of each project. broad range of skills to any given project by extracting the same culture of innovation and pragmatism. industrial sites Global presence Expertise in manufacturing Close relationships With 80 locations in nearly 30 countries, Fives covers The Group made the choice long ago to maintain In addition to the close physical presence Fives has to of which 14 locations in France, the world. The commercial teams of its affiliates are control of the production and assembly of key elements its customers in their own countries, the organizational 2 locations in Italy, complemented by a network of representative offices of the supply chain and to outsource the remaining structure is one of short management reporting lines 2 locations in the United Kingdom, in Asia, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Turkey, and the Middle elements of manufacturing. and hands-on philosophy. This result guarantees that 1 location in Switzerland, East. This network brings Fives closer to its customers The organization of Fives reflects this decision, as the every customer will have easy access to points of and gives the Group the ability to draw on the Group relies on its global network of highly skilled contact with high levels of responsibility; people who 8 locations in the USA, experience of all its companies in any region of the machine shops and assembly plants whose expertise are fully informed of projects in progress and are 2 locations in China world. and experience guarantee the product quality. For personally involved in their delivery. and 1 location in India. many years, the Group has extended this network to A culture of major projects the European-American industrial platforms that have Throughout its history, Fives has provided its support also been adopted in China and India, allowing it to to leading industrial companies worldwide. The Group’s address local and export markets. Furthermore, secular experience has grown and developed in supervision and engineering local to its subcontractors industrial sectors such as aluminium, steel, glass, is also key. cement, energy, as well as the automotive and logistics industries. These industries are located where capital Network of trusted partners expenditure is high and projects have long lifecycles. It The Fives group has reconciled the diversity of countries is a tradition that has established Fives as a unique and industries with its commitment to building ongoing partner in mastering industrial engineering and relationships with its suppliers and has established a Les REPRESENTATIVE bureaux commerciaux, OFFICES, management of major projects. panel of strategic suppliers by utilizing the purchasing ancrageIN un ANCHOR AN le tissu THE LOCAL dans INDUSTRY experience of all its Group companies. This approach industriel local Expertise of key equipment has two objectives: the first is to control project-related As the Group secures regional bases, the Fives representative Its in-depth knowledge of production processes purchasing risks without compromising financial offices Ancrageare du the physical Groupe dans lesfulfillment différentes its commitment of zones géographiques,to enables Fives to develop key equipment with high performance; the second is to develop purchasing operate as closely as possible to its customers les bureaux commerciaux de Fives témoignent de sa volonté around the added-value on a wide range of innovative technologies. synergies between Group companies. world. Each Fives representative office is a crucial d’être au plus près des territoires. Connaissance du tissu bridgehead for It provides installations with a very high level of service gaining a clearer industriel, understanding expérience des marchés conditions of locallocaux, and carrying relations avec capability in terms of productivity, reliability, longevity, les the out groundwork vital administrations, for réglementaire, veille project success. proximité Fives has knowledge of the local industries, commerciale… ils sont la tête de pont nécessaire experience in the local à la energy and environmental performances. markets, relationships with official bodies, bonne connaissance du terrain et au travail de préparation regulatory monitoring indispensableandà local commercial la réussite de chaque presence… projet. Representative offices are Bureaux commerciaux located : Brésil, in: Japon, Chine, China, Japan, Brazil,Mexique, Mexico, Russia, Thailand, Turkey and Moyen-Orient, Russie, Thaïlande, Turquie. the Middle East, which was opened at the beginning of 2012. 22 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 23 technologies TECHNOLOGIES & éco-conception ECO-DESIGN PROPRIETARY ENVIRONMENTAL EQUIPMENT PERFORMANCE A PIONEER IN ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES Moving towards an eco-efficient industry Fives built its growth on the design of technologies that respond to the needs of its Committed to offering its customers the best available technologies in terms of customers and markets. The position of the Group is, and always has been, one of energy efficiency and environmental performance, Fives has developed an eco-design SUGAR developing equipment and proprietary solutions that consider the evolution of program, known as Engineered Sustainability®. This program also corresponds to one Cane shredding technologies. of the most important priorities of the Group Corporate Social Responsibility policy. ALUMINIUM With developments such as the Horomill® cement iron ore pelletization plant in Minnesota, USA, Fives Identifying the most efficient technologies Applications emerging in all markets Treatment of pollution mill, high-precision grinding machines, Flash Cooling® North American Combustion developed a 10-megawatt Recognized since its inception for its ability to maintain Seven Group companies joined the Engineered emissions and anode technologies and very low NOx combustion systems, prototype demonstrator at its Cleveland site to create technological leadership, today, Fives commits to Sustainability® program during 2012, and the first formation Fives has been a pioneer in launching innovative this ultra-effective technology. strive for excellence and achieve continuous equipment to complete the eco-design process was equipment in a number of markets it serves. Its improvement of its technologies in terms of their awarded the Engineered Sustainability® brand in July: technological expertise in furnaces and burners, Supporting customer innovation environmental performance by implementing the the CentriSpray washer designed for the automotive process engineering, heavy mechanical engineering Driven by the pressure of meeting environmental Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program in all market by Fives Cinetic (Cinetic Automation Corp.). and machine tools, special machines and robotized standards and the increased expectations for finished its Group companies. This program sets out a structured Seven projects are now at the design stage, with the systems is central to the success of the Fives group. products, the industrial performance goals of the and meticulous methodology for evaluating the majority focusing on the development of equipment for This technical expertise of its equipment provides its Group’s customers have evolved significantly over the environmental impacts of the product throughout its the steel, aluminium, automotive, combustion and customers with long-term solutions built around recent years. Given the important role played by its lifecycle. The result is the ability to identify and select energy (sugar refining) markets. flexible technologies with a path forward above the equipment in the production processes of its customers, those improvement opportunities that will optimize Michel Dancette, Head of Group Innovation & CSR, initial performance. Fives is responding to these challenges through active the technical, financial and environmental performance “FIVES HAS ENGAGED IN A SERIES OF shares his vision of the major priorities for Fives research to develop breakthrough technologies. As a of its equipment most effectively. By involving risk IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMS FOR KEY in developing advanced technologies. Offering the most effective solutions pioneering company throughout its history, Fives has analysis, it also evaluates whether equipment requires EQUIPMENT SERVING TARGET MARKETS SUCH Fives North American Combustion has designed a set itself the goal of supporting the innovation of its adjustments or modifications to improve operator AS STEEL AND ALUMINIUM, BOTH OF WHICH STEEL combustion technology that reduces nitrogen oxide customers. safety. Engineered Sustainability® involves Fives’ ARE PARTICULARLY SENSITIVE TO THE Reheating furnace emissions by more than 95% compared with affiliates in a demanding eco-design process designed CHALLENGES OF SUSTAINABLE and rolling mill traditional technologies. In response to an approach for long-term implementation and application. DEVELOPMENT. THESE PROGRAMS ARE 7 by the Essar Group about its plans to locate a new ESTiMATED TO BE COMPLETED IN 2013. By introducing this eco-design program, Fives expects STEEL PRODUCERS FACE STRICT REGULATIONS What tools support Group innovation and not only to anticipate regulatory constraints, but above IN TERMS OF NOx EMISSIONS, AS WELL AS Fives technologies technical developments? all to offer its customers solutions that respond HIGH ENERGY AND WATER SUPPLY COSTS, were the focus of the eco-design It’s vital for Fives to promote creativity and encourage the effectively to their own environmental footprint WHILE ALUMINIUM MANUFACTURERS ARE emergence of key ideas as a result of our ambitious innovation reduction targets. NOW LOOKING FOR NEW SOURCES OF ENERGY program in 2012 policy. For many years now, we have run a Group-wide innovation The Engineered Sustainability® label will enable SAVINGS.” contest to encourage our people, regardless of whether they work customers to identify eco-designed equipment that Pauline Plisson,Group Engineered Sustainability® Program Manager in R&D or not, to come forward with ideas for improvements or combines industrial performance with environmental radical breakthroughs. The most promising of these ideas are selected performance. and investigated by our R&D teams, and may lead to remarkable sometimes patented innovations, as was the case with Wet Flash The Engineered Sustainability® program includes the COMBUSTION Cooling® technology for the steelmaking market. It’s something that Digital-based innovation introduction of training initiatives for its own Forge furnace sets us apart from others, but it also protects our expertise, because employees, and also for end users in order to maximize intellectual property is crucially important to Fives. Brainstorming The latest information and communication technologies bring with them a major opportunity to boost the operational performance of the equipment facility performance. Fives considers the digital component as an integral and essential contributor to sessions in our Group companies, contests and interaction between R&D the design of its equipment, production lines and complete plants in the same manner as mechanical, supplied. teams are also important tools for stimulating innovation. The Fives group thermal, electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic technical parameters. also conducts early-stage research programs in collaboration with independent research laboratories and universities. Since last year, programs Fives designs automated control systems that optimize the processes involved in commissioning, focusing on cross-sector technologies, like energy storage, have been controlling, measuring and ensuring the safety of every production phase involving the use of its equipment and process lines. Its ultimate goal is to provide customers with ‘turnkey processes’ conducted directly at the Group Innovation Department level to gain the that allow them to fine-tune their operational performance, achieve greater solution flexibility, Chamber washer maximum benefit from synergies between all the skills available within the and facilitate equipment use and maintenance by operators. CentriSpray affiliates of Fives. In many cases, these automated systems also provide an effective response to customers’ social and environmental challenges by adopting better design alternatives in terms of ergonomics, Exhaust volume is reduced by 65% AUTOMOTIVE What would you say are the major trends of Fives in terms of innovation? reduced equipment size, emissions and plant safety. This approach puts people back at the heart 33% in energy savings: energy, heat, water, tempered plant air Air drying volume Engine component The Group keeps its core goals for the development of new solutions and product of the plant, but within a safer environment. pump is stopped when machine reduced 84% exhaust washer and dryer improvements: satisfying customers, anticipating technological evolutions and is not washing Regardless of the technology or end-user market concerned, digital-based innovation provides monitoring the market so that we can respond effectively to its expectations. the opportunity to offer previously ‘unimaginable’ solutions. The Group has been able to demonstrate its innovative abilities through the development of Digit@l Furnace AT Control Servo controlled more However, Fives has focused particularly on two key programs in recent years. The first Systems designed to optimize the performance of reheating furnace burners for OMK in Minimal energy effective cleaning & drying of these emerged from long-term consideration and assessment of the digital Russia, and the Firing System used in the anode baking furnaces of the Qatalum aluminum consumption when with increased precision innovation driven by the development of new information and communication smelting plant in Qatar. machine is starved technologies: we call this the digitally intelligent factory or Smart Digital Plant. This for parts means taking a new approach to plant operation based on software and automated The importance of the Fives Smart Digital Plant also extends beyond the solutions supplied Noise level is “THE ENGINEERED SUSTAINABILITY® LABEL BRINGS GREATER CLARITY systems that offer undeniable added value to customers, at the same time as meeting the to customers. It also includes all the services now available remotely thanks to installation guaranteed to be TO THE WAY WE COMMUNICATE THE BENEFITS OF OUR MACHINERY. of the data sensors that enable automated control. IT’S CHANGING THE PERCEPTION OF OUR NORTH AMERICAN CUSTOMERS, social and environmental responsibilities of Fives. The second major program relates to the Fives designs applications that use these data to give its customers the ability to control below 77dB environmental performance of our products, and can be seen primarily in the Fives their production processes more accurately and more effectively. WHO SEE OUR PRODUCTS AND COMPANY AS BEING VERY FOCUSED ON Engineered Sustainability® eco-design initiative. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE. THAT SETS US CLEARLY APART FROM 32% less energy for fluid heating Easy & safe maintenance OUR COMPETITORS.” Dave Stockaert, Cinetic Automation Corp. Product Manager 24 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 25 ÉTHIQUE ETHICS AT THE HEART Ethics: IN THE DNA of THE Group OF FIVES EthiCS I Corporate social responsibility I Health, Safety, Environment I Human resources “Working fairly and responsibly is the only way to stay ahead in the long term.” These words of Frédéric Sanchez reflect the strong conviction of Fives to make business ethics a fundamental element of the Group. Every year, Fives strengthens the current policies and values for all its employees. Awareness, information, leadership… Making ethics a subject for shared discussion To ensure that the same rules of business ethics are and consideration shared by all its companies and all its employees, Fives In 2013, the Group’s management will establish a plan has been operating a wide-ranging policy of corruption of action to promote dialogue and exchange, beyond prevention, as well as providing information about the the rules underlying the subject of ethics. A biannual fight against corruption and ethical market behavior. program has been defined to include prolonged This information is delivered verbally through grassroots actions and decentralize leadership awareness meetings, which have been led by head continuously at the Group company level. To achieve office over several years to establish and expand dialog this, the Group will appoint and train 15 ambassadors with local managers, more formally through the Code in 2013 to provide coverage of all Fives operating of Conduct issued to every Group employee and via the locations around the world. These ambassadors will Directives and Guidelines Manual. This final document contribute to preparing a toolbox containing a large is provided to all Group company managers, who are number of case histories to illustrate the reality of A responsible Group whose required to implement its contents and adapt them to ethical issues and make them more practically relevant. their own internal processes and systems. It also sets growth is supported out all the management rules applied by the Group: ethical rules, purchasing procedures, relationships with by long-term initiatives suppliers and subcontractors, agent management, and so on. In terms of preventive measures, the Group also and policies supports its affiliates in implementing risk analysis A Code of Conduct procedures and the development of associated risk prevention plans. Every employee also has a duty to alert the Group management team of any infringement in complete confidentiality. available in 13 languages and distributed to 96% of the Group employees “We introduce the Code of Conduct at every recruitment interview and ensure that all new employees sign it when they join us. Applicants really appreciate the fact that we are concerned about these issues in just the same way as we are about Health, Safety and the Environment. I think that sometimes it can really make the difference! Although our employees read and understand English, they also appreciate the fact that the code is available in their own language. They can find and re-read this code on the Group intranet at any time.” Elaine Wang, Head of Human Resources, China “Our customers’ requirements are reflected in our own code.” Jean-Camille Uring, member of the Executive Board 26 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 27 RESPONSABLILITÉ Corporate SocialSOCIALE Responsibility D’ENTREPRISE Health, Safety, Environment FIVES, Fives approaches A RESPONSIBLE GROUP a new phase Through its activities and its role as a leading international industrial player Fives The health and safety of its people is an ongoing priority for Fives. In 2009, the Group must be a responsible group that insists on meeting demanding standards in the way introduced a health and safety coordination structure with its main mission to develop it operates, in its relationships with stakeholders and in its environmental, economic a Group safety culture. A similar initiative was introduced in 2012 to reduce its and social governance. The initiatives implemented under the Fives Corporate Social environmental footprint. Responsibility policy focus on four strong commitments. 2012 • Target to secure ISO Minimizing the environmental footprint of Providing a safe and motivating working A proactive approach to safety the accident frequency in half within three years, and 14001 certification the Group and its customers environment The first three years of coordinated health and safety tightening safety management for temporary staff and for all industrial sites Fives has deployed two programs in response to this Health and safety is one of the pillars of the Fives CSR initiatives have added a new level of professionalism to Group subcontractors in response to the two deeply within 3 years. commitment. The first program is known as Engineered policy. The Group’s ambitions in this area have the safety commitments of the Group, significantly regrettable fatal accidents that occurred with one of its Sustainability®, and focuses on eco-design and developed over time, and the associated resources and raising accident prevention levels and reducing the subcontractors in Saudi Arabia during the year. • Incorporation of Safety target achievement machine safety. As a designer of key process equipment procedures have been continually reinforced since number of lost-time accidents. This Group-wide Fives Nordon achieves a significant in the variable portion of CEO compensation. for industrial customers most of which 2009. From 2013 onwards, the program coordination structure is constructed from four Environmental impact: initiatives at multiple levels improvement in workshop and project • Publication of the first Group Activity and impose a significant environmental “I WANTED TO GIVE THE FIVES GROUP will focus on direct management fundamental building blocks. The first relates to the The environmental footprint imposed by Fives itself site safety Corporate Social Responsibility report. impact Fives has introduced this A CLEAR CSR DIRECTION THAT WOULD involvement in the Group’s own workshops, benchmark standard implemented: a health and safety remains relatively small compared with the industrial When compared with 2011, the company’s safety performance program as part of its aim to lead by IMPROVE UNDERSTANDING AND ADOPTION on customer project sites and amongst all directive that provides an essential guide to practices installations supplied to its customers. Nevertheless, improved in 2012 with a lower frequency of lost-time example in terms of the energy efficiency OF OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL Fives employees. and organizational structures. The second is the the Group has launched a coordinated improvement accidents and lower accident severity (respectively falling 2011 • Fives joins the UN and environmental aspects of its RESPONSIBILITY IN ALL OUR OPERATING The human resources policy is also designed introduction of cross-referenced internal audits, which initiative to address this issue by consistently leading from 15.24 to 4.52 and 0.322 to 0.061)*. Global Compact. equipment. REGIONS. THIS COMMITMENT WAS THEN to respond to many of the Group’s social have contributed to improving practices by enabling by example in the environmental aspects of our Benoit Vivien, QHSE director of the company explains this The second program addresses the INTERPRETED THROUGH OUR COMMITMENT responsibility goals. The programs and more advanced companies to identify the areas in equipment, and through a commitment to involve all • Introduction of improvement: Group’s own environmental manageTO APPLYING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE resources implemented for skills and career which they could improve, and the least advanced Fives employees via a Group-wide program. “At Fives Nordon, we have a health and safety action plan that individual CSR action plans ment aimed at improving coordination UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT. THIS ma nag eme nt , com plia nce wi th companies to pinpoint priority action areas. At the The program launched by Fives in 2012 is structured involves everyone in the business, from worker to senior for Group companies. issues with the objective to achieve ISO INITIATIVE IS AN IMPORTANT GLOBAL international employee welfare protection same time, the introduction of a network of Health, around three priorities: management. Managers have annual targets on this subject. 14001 certification for all Group DEVICE FOR AN INTERNATIONAL GROUP OF standards and diversity in the workplace Safety and Environmental Coordinators covering all • mapping environmental impacts and risks on Fives Awareness on HSE is also supported by regular communications through internal letters, posters, events, etc. But although industrial sites by the end of 2014. COMPANIES LIKE OURS. I SUPPORT THIS are led and coordinated by the Fives human affiliates led at the Group-level has encouraged and sites HSE measures have been stepped up, the improvement in our 2010 •D  efinition of Although the core business of Fives is INITIATIVE PERSONALLY IN EVERYTHING I resources teams. This policy, which accelerated the sharing of feedback and good practices. • requiring ISO 14001 certification for all Group results has also been achieved thanks to our introduction of the Group CSR policy concentrated on designing equipment DO, AND contributes to dialogue, team diversity and The network of HSE Coordinators has been expanded industrial sites by the end of 2014 new improvement initiatives in response to feedback and and CSR Directive. and supervising its construction and AS EVERY YEAR PASSES, I SEE MY TEAMS personal development, enables the Group and consolidated over the last three years in every • c onducting diagnostic analyses and/or environmental significant events occurring during the year. Our view of HSE installation, a third of all Group locations BECOME MORE CLOSELY INVOLVED to capitalize on its people, at the same time Group operating region, and in all types of business audits of Group companies is a very operational and pragmatic one. Our safety policy and • Updating the Code of Conduct, organizational structure are consolidated year-on-year, translation into 13 languages and are industrial sites carrying out both IN PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF as securing their loyalty to the company. activity (project sites and workshops). In 2012, safety essentially as a result of continuous improvement in risk 67% of Group companies assembly and production. The Group THE GLOBAL COMPACT.”* target achievement has also been reflected in the prevention.” distribution to all employees. supports its sites in implementing their Frédéric Sanchez, Chairman of the Executive Board portion of variable compensation received by Group *Fives Nordon employees only own environmental management Integrating social responsibility company CEOs. (excluding subcontractants and temporary employees) systems. at every level of Group governance audited since 2010 2009 • Creation of a Group Adapting the corporate social responsibility ambitions 11,049,166 HSE** coordination structure. Promoting fair behavior in our markets and of the Group at every organizational level of the Fives 10,698,386 47 Group HSE representatives 9,766,097 behaving as a responsible partner group has been an objective ever since the CSR program • P hase 1 of the Sustainable Development 9,542,431 To ensure that the same rules of business ethics are was first launched. Since 2011, working meetings are awareness program for Group companies. shared by all its companies and all its people, Fives has held in all Group companies at the management level • First CSR report launched at Group level. built a corruption prevention policy around the provisions of its Code of Conduct. This policy will be to identify priority challenges, monitor progress towards achieving those challenges and supervise the 61 Group health and safety further strengthened from 2013 onwards following the associated CSR action plan. This “CSR Coaching” 108 audits conducted since 2009 2008 • Creation of the introduction of a network of ambassadors, as well as program enables the specific features of each training programs for all Group managers. organizational structure and market to be integrated 11.64 82 Corporate Social 30 industrial sites 81 into the Group-wide policy. Responsibility 8.20 74 Department. 7.57 * Cf. Global Compact general summary table, page 46 6.62 • HR policy incorporating 2005 0.318 76% of Group companies 0.208 0.165 have drafted and distributed greater gender 0.135 equality. • Sales representation rules directive. a health and safety policy 2009 2010 2011 2012 “The approach adopted by the Fives Group was very • The environment becomes the key focus 18 sites are MASE Hours Lost-time Accident Accident constructive for us. The directives and recommendations, for Group innovation strategy. worked accidents frequency severity regular inspections by the Group Safety Coordinator and A CSR POLICY INTEGRATED INTO GROUP GOVERNANCE the support provided by the Fives Pillard Quality and HSE Ever since its creation, the Group Corporate Social Responsibility Department has reported However, the encouraging results obtained generally and OHSAS 18001 Manager in France have all helped us to understand the directly to the Chairman of the Executive Board. The Department is headed by a member of the Group standards applied by an international group like Fives, Executive Committee. The members of the Group Executive Board meet quarterly to validate program content, across the Group during this period remain inconsistent certificated 2001 • First Group Business at the individual company level.To ensure that safety and to do so very quickly. We are absolutely gratified that take decisions on which projects to implement, and monitor the progress of initiatives already in place. Ethics Charter. becomes an integral part of the performance delivered workshop personnel have shown themselves to be The Executive Committee is consulted on a case-by-case basis, provides input for annual action programs and monitors their progress. by the Group and all its companies, Fives will commit particularly committed to meeting the new Health, Safety **HSE: Health, Safety, Environment Group company initiatives are coordinated and assessed at the operational, sectoral and regional management levels. itself in 2013 to a new and more demanding 3-year and Environmental targets: what we’ve seen has been cycle involving all managers. This plan targets to divide really effective teamwork.” Sanjeev Kumar Roy, Quality, Health and Safety Coordinator at Fives Combustion System Pvt. Ltd. Fives Combustion System Pvt. Ltd. joined the Group at the start of 2012 28 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 29 HUMAN RESOURCES A three dimensional EMPLOYEE HR POLICY SATISFACTION Employees are at the heart of Fives’ strategy and social responsibility challenges. As part In September 2012, Fives conducted an internal opinion survey amongst all its of providing everyone with a challenging and motivating working environment, the employees, giving them the opportunity to express their vision of their company and Human Resources Department has implemented a policy built on dialogue, skills the Group. Not only was this an effective way of measuring employee satisfaction development and respect for diversity within the company. and its trend over time, but also identifying areas for improvement as the basis for preparing action plans. D ialogue When it comes to human resources, dialogue is the absolute key to a long-term professional working to express their fullest potential and talent for the benefit of the company. The annual appraisal, career management committee, CEDRE and the fast-track This was the second survey conducted in France after the first in 2007, but the survey in 2012 gave all Fives employees worldwide the opportunity to express how 82% are satisfied or very satisfied with diversity and interest at their work. relationship. It gives everyone involved the opportunity Career Booster initiatives all allow employees to discuss satisfied they are in terms of their working environment In overall terms, the areas identified for improvement to discuss issues formally and check that expectations their careers directly with their managers or the Group motivation, commitment to the company, organization by the survey focus on improving the way in which and goals are clearly identified and shared. As the Human Resources Department. They are supported by or management for the first time. departments interact and formalizing personal goals founding principle that underpins the Group human in-service training and personal development and expectations (only 66% of employees said that resources policy, dialogue is encouraged in every opportunities, as well as skills-focused training programs Designed as a questionnaire (44 questions), the survey they had a clear understanding of these issues). Work circumstance. This process of dialogue begins as soon adapted to the personal development stage of each gave every Group employee the chance to express their will also be done with all managers to improve the level as new employees join the company as part of the individual. In a business where individual expertise is a views freely and anonymously on: working conditions, of attention to feedback from employees… only 60% introduction process that provides every new recruit determining factor in performance, Fives has made daily working life and the company, which covered were satisfied or very satisfied that their managers took with a fast-track understanding of the company, its human resources management one of its leading internal organization, interdepartmental collaboration serious notice of what they had to say. The high level of participation in this survey reflects the organizational structure and operating methods priorities. and commitment to the company and Group. From 2013 onwards, action plans will be prepared in high level of interest shown by Fives employees in this first international through face-to-face meetings with various contacts. It conjunction with individual company management Group-wide opinion survey. The survey results reveal some significant, but not continues with the ‘starter’ meeting that assesses the integration period held between six and eighteen months of employment. Dialogue then continues D iversity Operating in a wide-range of geographical locations and countries around the world, Fives Questions on length-of-service levels, age, professional grading, management responsibility, the company and the country also added greater detail to the results. teams, human resources departments and employee representatives to improve company operation and organization in targeted areas identified in the survey surprising, inconsistencies. They reflect the history of each company, factors imposed by the wider economic climate, but also the cultural diversity that exists within the Group as a result of its international dimension. throughout the working relationship using other naturally gives way to diversity. In a Group where most At 72%, the high level of survey participation provided results. These responses must be tailored to the social People’s relationship with the company and with work 6,521employees resources that address career development more specifically. With full involvement from employee representative employees are men, the first and most important priority is to introduce more women into all teams. Other priorities include gender equality, a reliable and detailed set of indicators. The SECAFI group provided an analysis of the survey results for France, and Inergie was used for the Group analysis, this and organizational specifications of each Fives company. In many cases, working groups with employee members will be formed to develop and varies from continent to continent, but this cultural diversity is by no means a problem. Although levels of satisfaction may differ, the outcome is a shared one in which the expectations and directions of from 49 different nationalities organizations, this process reflects an open social relationship and trust between the employer and multiculturalism, fair treatment and equal opportunity. In 2012, the Group completed an internal awareness provided a relevant and objective overview of the opinions in each entity, including a comparison by propose operational measures. progress are similar. These points of convergence form the cornerstones of a Group culture. They will enable us to work employee, and is designed to maintain a positive and campaign addressing the workplace integration of country and business sector. This analysis also reveals a These favorable survey results confirm that Fives has together on those areas where we need to do more work, at the same time as 16% of employees are women constructive atmosphere that has led to the signature disabled people, and in 2013 will conduct an appraisal high level of overall satisfaction amongst employees, made the right choices in identifying its priorities: reminding us to capitalize on our strengths. of many Group agreements in recent years. of all the resulting initiatives. The Group signed two including a strong commitment to their company and creating a shared management culture that respects agreements in France, the first on the prevention of Fives group: 85% of respondents expressed a strong local cultures and uses an identical set of managerial As a result of the answers received, we now have the concrete paths we 32% of them are Engineers and/or Managers discrimination and equal treatment, and the second commitment to their company, 76% are satisfied or tools, and building high-quality relationships with our need to take to progress in particular areas. With further analysis of the D evelopment To encourage and support individual career development, the Group Human Resources Department relating to employment of persons over the age of 55. The agreements reflect the commitment of Fives to combat every form of discrimination. This commitment very satisfied with working in their company and 72% would recommend it to a friend. The level of recognition given to relationships in the workplace was quite employees by encouraging and supporting their individual career development and addressing their personal aspirations. responses, shared trends and nuances company by company will allow us to develop individual action plans for each company; action plans in which it will be important to involve every staff member. It is now more has put in place a series of resources that allow is supported by training programs addressing the issues exceptional, with 94% of employees saying that they important than ever that the interests of the company converge with those management teams to create employment terms and surrounding discrimination prevention and diversity were satisfied or very satisfied with the working of its teams. conditions to achieve the goals of the Group, and offer promotion for management teams, supervisory staff relationship they have with colleagues. Furthermore, Paule Viallon, Head of Human Resources everyone the career development opportunities needed and employee representatives. RATE OF PARTICIPATION BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION 69% of Group employees receive a regular appraisal interview Benelux Germany United Kingdom 86% 71% 71% France Switzerland The number of 68% 72% China Career Booster North America Spain Italy 92% meetings rose by 58% 69% 95% 90% Japan 98% between 2011 and 2012 India 98% 1,262 69% of employees attended Brazil at least one training course in 2012 91% people were recruited worldwide in 2012 30 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 31 HUMAN RESOURCES WHY DID THEY “EVER SINCE 1979 WHEN I FIRST ARRIVED AT FIVES, RIGHT UP UNTIL TODAY, EVERY TASK IS A REAL CHALLENGE. I’VE BEEN ASSIGNED TO WORK IN ONE OF OUR INDIAN COMPANIES FOR THE LAST FOUR YEARS, WHERE MY ROLE IS TO CONSOLIDATE GROUP WORKING METHODS BY ADAPTING THEM TO LOCAL CONDITIONS SO THAT THE ENTITY CAN BECOME SELF-SUFFICIENT AND REMAIN COMPETITIVE. AS IN CHINA AND EUROPE, THE GROUP HAS SUCCEEDED IN INDIA BY COMBINING ITS SHARED MANAGEMENT STRATEGY WITH ITS RESPECT FOR LOCAL VALUES WHICH ARE HUMILITY, confidence and dedication.” José Foggia, Technical Director of Fives Stein India Projects Pvt. Ltd. (India) CHOOSE FIVES? With Fives since 1979 “WHEN I LEFT SCHOOL, I COULDN’T MAKE UP MY MIND ABOUT WHAT KIND OF CAREER I WANTED TO AIM FOR. THE CROSS-DISCIPLINARY ETHOS OF THE GROUP AND ITS TECHNICAL AND INDUSTRIAL SKILLS ARE WHAT ATTRACTED ME. I ALSO CHOSE FIVES BECAUSE IT’S A COMPANY ON a personal level IN WHICH EVERYONE CAN HAVE REAL AND MEANINGFUL RESPONSIBILITY. NO ONE IS EVER ANONYMOUS HERE. TODAY, I’M STILL DELIGHTED BY MY CHOICE, BECAUSE I LEARN SOMETHING NEW EVERY DAY ACROSS A HUGE DIVERSITY OF SUBJECTS.” Some have joined Fives recently; others have already built long careers with the Group. Aurélie Gonzalez, Group Environmental Innovation Engineer (France) With Fives for less than one year Just like their 6,000+ colleagues, these employees contribute every day to the business development of the Group. Why did they choose Fives? Why are they still here? Focus on their motivations… “FIVES IS AN EXTREMELY ATTRACTIVE GROUP, BECAUSE IT PROMOTES AND ENCOURAGES INTERNAL MOBILITY LOCALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY. THE DIVERSITY OF ITS PRODUCTS AND CUSTOMERS MAKES IT A VERY STABLE GROUP WITH THE ABILITY TO ABSORB THE CYCLICAL PEAKS AND TROUGHS OF THE MARKETS IT SERVES. THAT’S A GREAT STRENGTH.” Baida Davish, Head of Purchasing at Cinetic Automation (USA) Joined the Group in 2011 “FIVES IS AN ATTRACTIVE GROUP WITH STRONG GROWTH POTENTIAL, BUT IT’S ALSO A GROUP THAT CARES ABOUT THE WELLBEING OF ITS PEOPLE AND RESPECTS THEIR DIFFERENCES. FIVES HAS GIVEN ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO WORK ON A MULTITUDE OF DIFFERENT PROJECTS WITH ONE COMMON THREAD RUNNING THROUGH ALL OF THEM: DELIVERING “AFTER 31 YEARS OF EXPERIENCE IN ELECTRICAL THE BEST RESPONSE TO OUR CUSTOMERS AND OFFERING ENGINEERING AND CONTROL SYSTEMS WITH THEM INCREASINGLY EFFECTIVE SERVICES.” DIFFERENT COMPANIES, THE OPPORTUNITY Pablo Arribalzaga, CEO of Fives North American Europe (Spain) PRESENTED TO ME BY THE GROUP’S LOCAL TEAM With Fives since 1991 IN INDIA MADE ME WANT TO BE PART OF THE BUSINESS. BY JOINING FIVES, I’VE BEEN ABLE TO PUT MY SKILLS TO WORK FOR A LEADER IN TECHNOLOGY, AND SHARE MY EXPERIENCE WITH YOUNG ENGINEERS WHO WILL UNDOUBTEDLY MANAGE AND LEAD THE GROUP IN THE FUTURE.” “I WAS FIRST ATTRACTED TO FIVES BECAUSE OF ITS AMBITION, RATHER THAN WHAT IT WAS AT THE TIME. SINCE I’VE Utpal Samaddar, Head of the Electrical & Automation Department of BEEN WORKING HERE, I’VE DISCOVERED A RESPONSIBLE, OPEN AND ACCESSIBLE GROUP WITH STRONG personal, Fives Stein India Projects Pvt. Ltd. (India) “IT REALLY DOESN’T FEEL AS IF I’VE BEEN WITH THE GROUP FOR 18 YEARS, BECAUSE I’VE MORAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES; A GROUP THAT I’M PROUD TO BELONG TO. OVER THE LAST TWO CENTURIES, THE With Fives since 2011 NEVER BEEN BORED! THE TASKS ARE EXTREMELY VARIED AND IN ALL OF MY PROJECTS, MEN AND WOMEN OF FIVES HAVE ACHIEVED MANY GREAT THINGS. AT MY OWN MODEST LEVEL, I’VE BEEN ABLE TO MAKE A MAJOR CONTRIBUTION, FROM THEIR EMERGENCE RIGHT I’M ABLE TO WORK AUTONOMOUSLY BECAUSE I’M TRUSTED BY MY MANAGERS, AND I’M PROUD TO BE ONE OF THOSE THROUGH TO THE INDUSTRIAL APPLICATION. FIVES HAS GIVEN ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO WHO CONTINUE TO BEAR THE TORCH BY WORKING ON THE PROJECTS OF TODAY AND TOMORROW.” BUILD A MOTIVATING AND INTERNATIONAL CAREER. THANKS TO THE TRUST OF Yohann Vaur, Head of Aircraft Industry Sales at Fives Cinetic (France) MY MANAGERS, I’VE BEEN ABLE TO PROGRESS MY CAREER WITHIN THE GROUP Joined the Group in February 2012 AND MAKE MY CONTRIBUTION TO BUILDING IT.” Agnieszka Borysowicz, Deputy CEO of Fives Engineering (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. (China) With Fives since 1995 32 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 33 MARKETS ALUMINIUM I STEEL I GLASS I CEMENT I Automotive, Aerospace and other industries I LOGISTICS I ENERGY Performance-focused technologies and expertise 34 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 35 Markets ALUMINIUM The primary aluminium market was impacted by the fall in prices and production STEEL In the steel sector, the market slowdown that began in 2011 continued into 2012 overcapacity seen in several regions of the world. This market context has halted all when it spread as far as the world’s leading steel producing country, China, where new capital expenditure, and anticipated major project schedules were postponed. almost all previously announced projects have been suspended. Despite this Nevertheless, investment decisions announced at the end of 2011 were confirmed unfavorable market environment, the Group was able to secure three major orders at the start of the year, allowing Fives to secure a number of major contracts in for carbon steel and stainless steel production lines. Fives was also awarded a major Canada and the Middle East. contract in the Russian seamless tubes market. fives Offer FFER Raw materials FIVES O Coal tar distillation. Static crystallization in molten media. • Stainless steel • Carbon steel Liquid pitch marine terminal. Digit@l Furnace® AT, reheating Digit@l Furnace® AT, reheating furnaces furnaces (long and flat products) Carbon Reversible cold rolling mills Tunnel furnaces and heat treatment Green anode plants, fume treatment centers, firing equipment Skin-Pass rolling mills furnaces and process control systems for anode baking furnaces Annealing and pickling lines Welded tube lines and carbon butts recycling units. (hot and cold) Continuous annealing lines (carbon Bright annealing lines sheet and tin-plate) Electrolysis I-BAL (bright annealing line with Continuous galvanizing lines Gas treatment centers and bath processing units. EcoTransFlux® inductive heating (horizontal and vertical) and Flash Cooling®) Organic coating lines (convection and Casthouse induction) Holding and melting furnaces, heat treatment furnaces, • Silicon steel Combined and compact lines and casthouse water cooling systems. Digit@l Furnace® AT, reheating furnaces • Steel and non-ferrous metals Reversible cold rolling mills Finishing equipment and mechanical Annealing and pickling lines processing for bars, tubes and pipes Decarburizing and coating lines Annealing and coating lines Ma’aden Alcoa Aluminium is continuing Fives Solios continues to open up the North to develop its production unit equipped American market KEY REFERENCES with Fives Solios technologies In 2012, the graphite electrode manufacturer Showa KEY REFERENCES In 2010 and 2011, Ma’aden, a joint venture between the Denko Carbon awarded Fives Solios a contract to supply BAOSTEEL (China) 2004-2012: supply of 3 galvanizing lines for automotive, 2 tinplate high-speed annealing lines (800 m/min), state-owned Saudi Arabian Mining Co. and Alcoa, a turnkey pitch fume capture system for the new paste Fives: setting the benchmark in the high value-added TISCO Group to 20 (10 lines and 10 rolling mills), 4 vertical furnaces for continuous annealing and galvanizing Ma’aden Alcoa Aluminium (Saydi Arabia) 2010-2013: awarded Fives Solios a series of major contracts. Fives unit at its Charlotte plant in South Carolina, USA. steel production market which is the world’s largest producer of stainless steel. (automotive) lines for carbon steel, and 2 horizontal furnaces for supply of 2 green anode plants, each with a capacity of 40 tons, Solios will supply two anode production workshops, In the industry of carbon steel, stainless steel or silicon silicon steel and one rolling mill for stainless steel. a liquid pitch terminal, 4 potline gas treatment centers, 15 melting and holding furnaces, 1 bath processing unit and 2 static side-well each with a capacity of 40 tons, a liquid pitch terminal, steel, the producers all choose Fives’ technologies for four gas treatment centers, a bath processing unit and “IN MARCH 2012, FIVES ACQUIRED A NEW their ability to produce high value-added steel. In the Finishing equipment: Fives Bronx continues its global TISCO (China) 1997-2012: supply of the world’s largest furnaces for a 380,000 tpy rolling mill recycling unit. stainless steel annealing and pickling line with a capacity of fifteen foundry melting and holding furnaces. In 2012, COMPANY SPECIALIZING IN CARBON PRODUCT carbon steel market, Vama, the joint venture between expansion 1,150,000 tpy, the largest stainless strip bright annealing line EMAL (U.A.E.) 2012: supply and turnkey installation of 5 melting Fives Solios also provided this customer with support for CHEMICAL ENGINEERING. THIS NEW COMPANY ArcelorMittal and Valin, awarded Fives Stein a contract In the seamless tubes market for end-user customers in (150,000 tpy), and numerous ZR type rolling mills, including and holding furnaces. the commissioning of its anode production workshop. NOW KNOWN AS SOLIOS CHEMICAL WHICH during 2012 to design and manufacture two vertical the gas, oil and energy transmission industries, the Group the fastest in the world (1,200 m/mn). Rio Tinto Aluminium (Canada) 2012-2013: supply of an The first of four gas treatment centers involving the MARKETS THE PROABD® PROCESS ORIGINALLY annealing furnaces for its new production lines. The first delivered many service calls to maintain its installed base start-up of the first electrolysis pots was brought into DEVELOPED FOR COAL TAR DISTILLATION AND BYis dedicated to the production of premium galvanized of equipment worldwide. Fives Bronx also received a POSCO (Korea) 2007-2011: supply of a rapid wet Flash Cooling® electrolysis pot gas treatment center fitted with latest-generation system, 2 vertical furnaces for galvanizing (automotive) lines Ozeos filters for the Joncquière plant in Quebec, as well as operation successfully, enabling Ma’aden Aluminium to PRODUCT RECOVERY COMPLEMENTS OUR steel for the automotive market. The second will be major order from a division of the Russian gas producer equipped with the Flash Cooling® technology, one slab 3 holding furnaces and the hot line for the 42 tph anode plant at begin mainstream metal production within the deadlines DIVISION AND DIVERSIFIES ITS MARKET OUTLETS.” equipped with a combined continuous annealing line Gazprom to supply finishing equipment for its new tubes reheating furnace and 4 rolling mills for the ZPSS and QPSS sites Kitimat in British Columbia. set. Fives Solios was also granted acceptance of the first Daniel Brunelli-Brondex, Head of the Aluminium whose flexibility will alternately produce annealed steel production line. in China. Qatalum (Qatar) 2007-2010: turnkey supply of a green anode three billet casting holding furnaces at the same site. Division sheets and aluminium-based coated steel sheets. This During 2013, the Group will also supply Samsung particular type of steel will supply the fast-growing “KEODS, A METALLURGICAL CONSULTANt ANSHAN IRON & STEEL (China) 2010: supply of 2 ZR type plant, 4 pot gas treatment centers, a fume treatment center for the rolling mills for silicon steel. anode baking furnaces, the holding and melting furnaces for the Engineering with two furnaces for its new 380,000 tons automotive market for steel with very high elastic limits, COMPANY, WHICH JOINED THE GROUP IN 2012. casthouse with a water cooling system, the firing equipment and per year rolling mill. Supplied to a site that will eventually and will be the first time that this grade has been THE STEELMAKING PROCESS EXPERTISE SHOUGANG JINGTANG (China) 2008-2010: supply of process control system for the anode baking furnaces and the liquid become the world’s largest integrated complex, these produced in China by this customer. CONTRIBUTED BY ITS TEAMS ALLOWS FIVES TO 4 vertical furnaces for galvanizing and continuous annealing pitch marine terminal. industrial successes consolidate the excellent position of In grain-oriented silicon steel production, the Group STRENGTHEN ITS RANGE OF SERVICES, WITH lines, including one continuous annealing with a capacity of 11,000,000 Fives Solios in the three key sectors of the primary commissioned two production lines for Baosteel in PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON TREATMENT LINES 1,100,000 tpy, equipped with Flash Cooling®. Sohar Aluminium (Sultanate of Oman) 2006-2008: turnkey supply of a green anode plant, 2 potline gas treatment aluminium industry: carbon, electrolysis and foundry. China during the year; both ahead of schedule. These (GALVANIZING AND ANNEALING LINES) FOR THYSSENKRUPP (USA) 2007-2012: supply of 3 rolling mills centers, the fume treatment center for the anode baking furnace, new projects confirm Fives’ status as the preferred PRODUCTS SERVING THE AUTOMOTIVE MARKET.” and one Skin-Pass for its new Alabama plant. holding and melting furnaces for the casthouse with a water cooling system and a liquid pitch marine terminal. Rio Tinto Alcan reaffirms its confidence in the Group hours worked without supplier of China’s leading steel maker. Benoit Caratgé, Head of the Steel Division In 2012, Rio Tinto Alcan granted on-time acceptance of the pot ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP. (USA), ARCELORMITTAL CST Hindalco Mahan et Aditya (India) 2009-2010: supply of 2 gas treatment center for its Jonquière pilot production unit in a lost-time accident at the (Brazil), CELSA (Spain), çolakoGlu (Turkey), SEVERSTAL (Russia), SISCO (China), USIMINAS (Brazil), WELSPUN AND complete anode plants, followed by an order for furnace heating and control systems. Quebec: the first plant in the world to be equipped with 600 kA electrolysis pots. This center also uses Ozeos filters developed Ma’aden Alcoa Aluminium Cold rolling: Fives DMS technologies set the benchmark In 2012, Fives DMS confirmed its ability to be at the JINDAL STEEL & POWER LTD., STEEL AUTHORITHY OF INDIA LIMITED SAIL (India) 2007-2013: supply of Digit@l Furnace®, Rusal (Russia) 2011: supply of 2 gas treatment centers for by Fives Solios, which deliver a significant reduction in the construction site* forefront of technology with the successful selected for their heating quality and their unmatched energy the Taishet and Boguchany plants. plant’s environmental footprint. Aluminium production should commissioning of the world’s fastest cold rolling mill and environmental performance. commence in the first half of 2013. *Data March 2013 for TISCO in China (1,200 meters per minute, BOOMERANG TUBE (USA) 2011: supply of a ERW pipe mill. Baosteel (China) 2012: supply of 2 gas treatment centers for Also during the year, Rio Tinto Alcan contracted the Group to compared with 1,000 meters per minute for the most the Taishet and Boguchany plants. supply three holding furnaces for the foundry at its Kitimat efficient technologies previously available). Also SHAOGUAN (China) 2011: supply of 2 roll bar straighteners. plant in Canada, as well as a complete hot line for the 42 tons during the year, Fives DMS signed two contracts with Showa Denko Carbon (USA) and SGL (France) 2012: per hour anode production workshop delivered in the form of STSS (Shanxi Taigang Stainless Steel), an affiliate of TMK 2001 (Russia and USA) 2011: supply of 2 pipe supply of a turnkey pitch fume capture system. preassembled modules. TISCO, for the supply of combined stainless steel straighteners and 7 inch hydrotester. rolling and pickling/annealing lines. Each line HYUNDAI STEEL (Korea) 2011: supply of a high speed round incorporates a sequence of five rolling mills capable of bar straightener. reducing the thickness of incoming product by up to 70%, as well as a continuous cold annealing process line. The order brings the total the number of new installations and upgrades sold since 1996 to the 36 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 37 Markets GLASS In 2012, the market for flat glass continued to suffer from an imbalance between supply and demand in the global market. Impacted by problems in the construction CEMENT After a slight recovery in 2010, the market for new cement production capacity (outside China) fell for the second consecutive year, making 2012 the lowestindustry, Western countries saw major manufacturers continue the trend of plant performing year since 2009. Leading international customers continued to defer closures, whilst China struggled with structural overcapacity following massive all decisions, whilst local cement manufacturers often struggled to secure investment in previous years. A large part of the order intake was made in the hollow funding. In this context, the Group remained focused on supplying equipment glass and packaging glass sectors, where traditional clients continued to invest. and associated services to the world’s most dynamic regions and those areas where its presence has traditionally been strong, with particular emphasis on fives Offer Latin America, Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East. Thermal equipment and production lines for: • flat glass (melting furnaces, tin baths, annealing lehrs FFER and air pollution control systems); fives O • hollow glass (melting furnaces, conditioning equipment and ancillary equipment); • special glasses (melting furnaces, conditioning • Complete turnkey cement plants. equipment and ancillary equipment). • Grinding plants and process equipment for the cement industry and mineral grinding (kilns, ball mills, Horomill®, Rhodax®, Zero-NOx precalciner, TSVTM classifiers, etc.). • Clean combustion engineering and systems for rotary kilns for calcinations and drying (Novaflam®, Rotaflam®, etc.). • Dust collection equipment for kilns, coolers and grinders. Fives Stein wins industry acclaim for its ultra-thin Hollow glass and packaging glass: an international glass technologies reputation In 2012, Fives Stein designed, supplied and commissioned From the USA to Europe, the Middle East and Asia, Fives an electric furnace and distribution system for the high Stein has been applauded by its long-term customers in value-added production line operated by its Chinese the special glass and packaging glass sector. As part of the KEY REFERENCES customer CDGM Glass at its Chengdu plant. This construction of its new special sodium silicate-based installation is dedicated to the production of ultra-thin glass fiber production unit in Latvia, Valmieras Stikla CBVP Groupe Cornellio Brenand (Brazil) 2011-2012: design and manufacture of an 800 tpd float glass production glass for touchscreen applications. The Group’s range of Skiedra specified the melt and packaging technologies The Group continues to expand in Brazil Combustion: the Group continues its growth in India KEY REFERENCES unit. electric melting furnaces for glassmaking and its ability to developed by the Group, placing an order for an electric In 2012, the company Cimar, a joint venture between At the start of the year, the Group strengthened its develop special equipment at the cutting edge of furnace and two production lines. Queiroz Galvão and Cornelio Brennand, placed an order position in the fast-growing Indian cement market by Holcim (Brazil) 2011-2012, Holcim APASCO (Mexico) Obeikan Glass Co. (Saudi Arabia) 2008-2011: design and technology (including bath equipment and annealing with Fives FCB for process equipment to be installed in a finalizing its acquisition of CBL, now renamed Fives 2007-2012 and Holcim (Costa Rica) 2002-2004: supply of supply of a complete* float glass production line of 800 tpd. lehr control systems) position Fives Stein as a pioneer in new cement grinding center in São Luis in the state of Combustion Systems Pvt. Ltd. This Indian company production lines of 4,500 tpd (clinker), of 3,500 tpd and 3,000 tpd. this fast-growing, high-technology market. “THROUGH THE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Maranhão. The order includes a 3,400 kW ball mill, the specializes in the design and supply of combustion Okan cam (Turkey) 2008-2010: design and manufacture of a batch processing plant and float glass production line. EFFORTS PURSUEDBY FIVES STEIN IN RECENT latest-generation TSV™ 3200 HF dynamic separator and equipment, the majority of which is used in the minerals Qatar national Cement Company (Qatar) 1995-2010: Float glass: Fives Stein offers a melting furnace with YEARS, THE GROUP NOW HAS THE CAPABILITY TO a 2,000 m² Sonair process filter. Following the contract sector (cement) and energy industry such as the supply turnkey supply of Umm Bab 2 (2,000 tpd), 3(4,000 tpd) and guardian rostov (Russia) 2011-2012: supply of a 900 tpd 10 -15% lower energy consumption SERVE THE MARKET GROWTH FOR THE signed with Holcim in 2011 to supply a new 4,500 ton per of burners for industrial boilers and conventional power 4 (5,000 tpd) production lines. annealing lehr. Given the fact that the cost of energy accounts for 40% PRODUCTION OF ULTRA-THIN GLASS USED IN day production line for its Barroso cement plant in the generating plants. With its head office in Mumbai, Fives Cimar (Brazil) 2012: supply of a cement grinding center, of the total cost involved in flat glass production, Fives TOUCHSCREEN APPLICATIONS. THE RANGE state of Minas Gerais, this order confirms the ability of Combustion Systems Pvt. Ltd. employs around 100 LG Chem (Korea) 2011: supply of 20 pairs of top rolls for the first including a 3,400 kW ball mill, the latest-generation TSV™ float glass plant dedicated to ultra-thin glass production. Stein has focused its research and development efforts OFFERED BY FIVES STEIN COVERS ALL THE HOT Fives to respond effectively to demand from the fastpeople, and also operates a production and assembly 3200 HF dynamic separator and a 2,000 m² Sonair process on reducing energy consumption at the source by END EQUIPMENT REQUIRED FOR THIS HIGHgrowing Brazilian cement market. plant in Vadodara in the state of Gujarat. This acquisition filter. AVIC (Hainan) special glass materials co. (China) perfecting its new patented Low Energy Melter® float TECHNOLOGY MARKET.” allows Fives to accelerate its penetration of the Indian 2011-2012: supply of a complete tin bath for the new 600 tpd glass furnace technology. The L.E.M® allows customers to Thierry Valot, Head of the Glass Division, Fives Stein Fives Pillard technologies recognized by producers combustion market, at the same time as gaining a new Imsat Ceprocim Engineering, Groupe SNEF (Moldavia) float glass production line. 2012: installation of a TSVTM 3000 HF separator at the Lafarge achieve an energy savings of 10-15% compared with around the world manufacturing unit. Group Rezina cement plant as part of a project to convert a Sangalli Vetroitalia (Italy) 2010-2011: design and supply current market standards by influencing all three stages In 2012, the excellent technology designed by Fives grinding plant to a closed-circuit operation. of a complete tin bath with a capacity of 650 tpd. in the glass melting process. Most importantly, it avoids Pillard enabled the Group to win a record number of losses through the furnace walls, increases the heat contracts for nozzle projects. “IN 2012, FIVES FCB ACQUIRED A KEY BUSINESS Holcim (worldwide) 2012: supply of 21 Novaflam® burners to TG ANHUI (China) 2012: design and supply of a Low-E lehrs of exchange effect in regenerator chambers and controls Fives Pillard has confirmed its position as an industry PORTFOLIO, THE CEMENT DIVISION OF THE equip new lines or replace existing less efficient equipment. 1,200 t/d. the recirculation of glass as a result of innovative leader with more than 100 Novaflam® burners sold to TECHNIP FRANCE GROUP, AND SIGNED A Groupe Wacem (Ethiopia, Ghana and Togo) 2012: supply Guardian Industries (Saudi Arabia) 2012: reconstruction of developments in furnace design and geometry. This equip new lines or replace existing less efficient LICENSING AGREEMENT WITH THE AUSTRALIAN of Novaflam® burners and 2 new-design pulverized coal-fueled a coloration feeder at the Al-Jubail plant. technology has been adopted by CBVP, which will equipment. More specifically, Holcim chose Fives for the COMPANY FCT-ACTECH TO MANUFACTURE AND 50 MW hot gas generators for a new raw mix grinding plant. become the first glass manufacturer to benefit from majority of its projects, placing orders for 21 Novaflam® MARKET THE COSMA™ SYSTEM THAT PROVIDES SISECAM (Bulgaria) 2012: supply of a working end and 8 feeders. L.E.M.® on its float glass production line in Brazil at the burners during the year. REAL-TIME ANALYSIS OF CEMENT AND CLINKER Lafarge (Tanzania and Uganda) 2012: supply of a solid biomass-fueled Novaflam® burner and hot gas generator. end of 2013. MINERAL PHASES TO IMPROVE THE PERFORMANCE Ba Vidro (Poland and Spain) 2012: supply of 2 projects for the construction of a working end and 4 feeders. OF CEMENT PLANT BAKING AND GRINDING UNITS. Siam City Cement (Thailand) 2012: supply of Novaflam® THESE NEW ADVANCES STRENGTHEN OUR burners®. Valmieras Stikla Skiedra (Lithuania) 2010-2012: supply of POSITION, ESPECIALLY IN THE SERVICES MARKET.” a new production unit for special sodium silicate-based glass fiber, Alain Cordonnier, Head of the Cement Division Tokuyama (Japan) 2012: supply of a Novaflam® unit; including an electric furnace and 2 production lines. the only burner ordered internationally for use with a 7,000 tpd line powered by alternative fuels. CDGM GLASS (China) 2010-2012: supply of electric furnace and distribution system for the Chengdu plant. * i.e melting furnace, tin bath, lehr and air pollution control 38 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 39 TRIBUNE Markets MARCHÉS Automotive, LOGISTICS Aerospace In logistics, the market remains promising, driven by strong growth in the volume of goods transported. More specifically, express courier companies have continued the process of automating their sorting and other industries centers with ambitious programs launched in Japan, Europe and North America. In this market context, Fives continued throughout 2012 to be the preferred choice of leading international players wishing to benefit from its expertise and technologies. fives O ffer After a record year in 2011, the automotive market remained • Equipment and automated systems strong in 2012. In the machining systems segment, the Group ffer fives O with high production rates for: benefited from capacity projects in China generated by both Machining Foundry national and international makers, and the wave of engine and Automation • Design and installation of tailor-made logistics solutions (high-speed Assembly powertrain replacement programs in the United States. handling and automated sorting systems) supported by related after-sales service. Integration of industrial processes Automation and assembly programs initiated by American • System maintenance and European makers in the BRIC countries Brazil, Russia, • Computerized order preparation and production line conveyor solutions. India and China were confirmed during the year. Lastly, order • Systems maintenance. intake from the aerospace sector surged at the end of the year. Fives Cinetic maintains its longstanding partnerships Equipment developed by the Group continues to be with leading automakers the preferred option for manufacturers worldwide PSA Peugeot Citroën, Renault, General Motors and In terms of machining technology, the Group won the Chrysler… all these leading manufacturers accepted or majority of the year’s major capital investment contracts, Postal service operators awarded their major Express courier companies continue to automate commissioned equipment or production lines designed most of which are based in emerging countries. In China, development programs to Fives their sorting centers by Fives Cinetic in 2012. From Morocco to the USA along the Group won a large number of orders for Landis The development of the parcel market, which is gradually Driven primarily by e-commerce and residential with Russia and China, the satisfaction delivered by the orbital grinders, connecting rod grinders and Giustina replacing traditional courier services, is encouraging deliveries, strong volume growth of transported goods company’s teams and the effectiveness of its solutions bearing grinders for leading manufacturers such as more postal service operators to invest in suitable has enabled Japanese, European and North American enabled the Group to win new contracts. PSA Peugeot Volkswagen, General Motors, Ford and Honda. General technologies. In recent years, many national operators courier companies to continue the process of automating KEY REFERENCES Citroën ordered a complete suspension swivel assembly Motors Shanghai awarded Fives Cinetic the contract to have engaged in large-scale programs. This is certainly their sorting centers. The commitment of market players Sweden Post (Sweden) 2011-2014: 12,000 items per hour line for its Mulhouse plant, whilst Renault contracted supply four LT2e machines to grind the faces, crankpins the case in Western Europe (Germany and Sweden) and to reinforce their domestic networks has generated new automated sorting system for 3 postal sorting centers, including Fives Cinetic to supply equipment for four its production and journals of 3and 4-cylinder engine crankshafts. North America (Canada), where the emphasis is on opportunities for small-scale projects, both with major the SBIR SD-2D, ACCORD singulators and multifunctional bulk lines: 2 for Tangier in Morocco, Curitiba in Brazil, Douai in In filling and sealing systems, the Rapidcharge® and modernizing existing facilities, and in emerging countries international companies and with smaller national feeding chutes. KEY REFERENCES France and Revoz in Slovenia. In the USA, Chrysler Fiat Decker range of equipment designed by Fives Cinetic (mainly those of Eastern Europe) for network expansion players in Turkey. This trend enabled the Group to secure turned to Fives Cinetic as part of its project to expand was once again the preferred choice of Asian, Brazilian projects. Fives Cinetic has succeeded in establishing a major order from Fedex Ground in the USA for an CANADA POST CORPORATION (Canada) 2010-2013: high-speed automated sorting systems for the sorting centers in capacity and upgrade its Dundee plant, which has been and European manufacturers during the year. Other itself as a contributor to these programs, and in 2012 automated sorting system with the capacity to sort Winnipeg, Toronto, Vancouver and Calgary. Automotive earmarked to produce four new types of improved highlights included the award to the Group of Honda’s was awarded a contract to design two new sorting 15,000 items per hour. This new commercial success energy-efficient engines. As a result, the Group has been only major investment in Japan during 2012, and a multisystems for the Swedish Post Office (Sweden Post) raises the profile of Fives in the freight transportation MNG Kargo (Turkey) 2011: automation of 7 sorting centers for Chrysler Fiat (USA) 2011-2012: assembly and machining contracted to design and supply Landis grinders and site contract for Nissan expansion projects in Brazil, centers in Hallsberg and Roserberg. The SBIR SD-2D segment. Meanwhile, in Asia, and more specifically in one of Asia’s leading courier companies. lines for the new range of Tigershark engines (Dundee plant). 9 assembly and testing lines for key components used in the convert an engine assembly line (equipment design, Mexico, Indonesia and Thailand. cross-belt technology developed by the Group will Japan and Korea, where the market is particularly strong Sagawa (Japan) 2012: 4 multilevel automated sorting 8-speed ZF transmissions fitted to rear-wheel drive vehicles. manufacture and installation) to include gantry cranes enable these centers to sort up to 12,000 items per hour. as a result of the aging and density of the population, systems with a total capacity of 30,000 pph. and elevators, CentriSpray washers and DyAG diagnostic In aerospace, Fives Cinetic is responding to demand A major logistics operator in Germany has also adopted large logistics companies, already customers of the General Motors (USA and Mexico) 2012: 2 assembly lines systems. from a fast-growing market the SBIR MD-W technology developed by Fives Cinetic Group, continued to invest substantially in sorting Fukuyama Transporting/Fujisawa (Japon) 2011: for key components used in 8-speed transmissions for rear-wheel In 2012, Fives Cinetic continued to grow its sales in the for inclusion in its pilot system. This achievement will centers. automated sorting system incorporating 2 SBIR MD sorters drive vehicles. aerospace sector, in both the aerostructure and aircraft serve as a key reference for the modernization and interconnected at two different levels. General Motors Shanghai (China) 2012: supply of 4 LT2e engine segments. The MGP and DHP machines automation of the customer network, which has set a Service: the Group continues to expand YAMATO TRANSPORT (Japan) 2010: one high-speed machines to grind the faces, crankpins and journals of 3and developed by the Group for profile machining and sheet target of boosting the capacity of its parcel sorting its maintenance business based on performance automated sorting system installed in the Kanagawa center 4-cylinder engine crankshafts. metal trimming attracted the interest of French and centers to 40,000 items per hour. It also provides the guarantee contracts (6,000 items per hour), and another in the Wakayama center American aircraft manufacturers for their remarkable Group with excellent visibility in the market and the In 2012, Fives Cinetic continued to expand its (10,000 items per hour). FAW 1st Engine Plant (China) 2011-2012: 9 LT2 orbital grinders for use in truck engine crankshaft production. productivity and flexibility. opportunity to establish itself as a long-term partner of maintenance business based on performance guarantee CHRONOPOST (France) 2012-2013: SBIR MD-W automated Aerospace this customer. contracts with Safran and SNCF in France. sorting system with a capacity of 9,000 pph. Volkswagen China (China) 2012: supply of a special LT1 Satisfied with the level of service provided by Group camshaft grinder. FIGÉAC AÉRO (France) 2012: design and supply “WE ARE CONSTANTLY SEEKING TO ADAPT OUR teams at its Saint-Pierre des Corps, Limoges, Périgueux SCACHAP (France) 2012: high-speed sorting of dry food goods of 4 MGP 150 profile milling centers. RANGES OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TO the and Saintes locations, SNCF (the French national rail for 37 E. Leclerc supermarkets. The order preparation solution Audi (Hungary) 2012: supply of a special model of the Landis LT1 DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR MARKETS. AT THE services operator) extended its Facilities and Equipment includes 6 ergonomic workstations, a belt conveyor system, an camshaft grinder to include two component carriers and an automated reading and weighing system, and a SBIR SD-W integrated internal gantry crane. Construction plant BEGINNING OF 2013, FIVES CINETIC LAUNCHED maintenance contract to include the Technical Centers cross-belt sorter. CIT’E-DRIVE, A TECHNOLOGY DESIGNED TO in Bordeaux and Tergnier. Renault (Morocco) 2010-2012: design, supply and Caterpillar (France) 2011-2013: supply of a painting line AUTOMATE ‘DRIVE’ ORDER PREPARATION AND SEINO (Japan): automated sorting system with a capacity of commissioning of all the handling systems for the panel and final incorporating a CFCFrixline friction conveyor and a wheeled ENABLE OUR CUSTOMERS TO BOOST THE SPEED 6,500 pph using Steel Belt Sorters for 10 sites since 2000. assembly shops involved in Phase I of the company’s Tanger excavator assembly line. Méditerranée plant project, all the handling equipment required for AND PROFITABILITY OF THEIR FACILITIES, AT the metalworking and assembly shops covered by Phase II of the THE SAME TIME AS IMPROVING WORKING project, and the supply of fluid filling and testing equipment. CONDITIONS FOR THEIR EMPLOYEES.” Philippe Verne, CEO of Cinetic Transitique PSA Peugeot Citroën (Russia) 2011-2012: design and supply of the assembly line and fluid filling equipment for the Kaluga plant. 40 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 41 Markets ENERGY fives OFFER • Industrial equipment primarily used in energy production : In the energy sector, powerful market drivers include the Engineering, supply, manufacturing and assembly of high growing needs of emerging countries and the higher standard pressure piping (new construction or refurbishing) Brazed aluminium: plate-fin heat exchangers (for air separation demands of the industry in terms of energy efficiency and units, ethylene production or liquidfied natural gas) environmental performance. As a result, Fives was awarded a Cryogenic pumps record number of projects in 2012. The Group benefited from • Combustion systems designed for electric and thermal energy production and for industrial processes. the strong recovery in capital investment seen in the cryogenic equipment segment (especially in the Chinese air separation • Equipment and complete plants primarily used in sugar and bioethanol production. market), a favorable commercial environment in industrial combustion systems, particularly in the United States, and additional work imposed by nuclear safety authorities on new construction projects underway in France. Despite the slowdown in major markets for sugar refinery equipment and bioenergy that was seen in Brazil and India, Fives nevertheless managed to maintain its orders in the most active regions, especially in South America, Africa, Asia and France. Cryogenmash (Russia) 2012: supply of exchangers for air separation units. Air Liquide, Hangyang, SAS, Posco, Yingde & Hangyang (China) 2012: supply of a large number of cryogenic pumps. Cryogenics, technology and expertise acclaimed by contracts worldwide, from Europe and the USA to India, Combustion: technologies with high energy Fives Cail: premium technologies for the sugar Essar (USA) 2011-2012: design and supply of a combustion all industry sectors South America and the Middle East. The Group has also performance refining and bioenergy markets system for the Essar iron ore pelletization plant in Minnesota. In the air separation and industrial gas production sector, seen practical evidence of the first significant investments The tightening of energy and environmental regulations In 2012, many industrial capital investment projects Fives received a number of major orders during the year in liquefied natural gas (LNG) and shale gas processes. in a number of countries continues to capitalize, have materialized, not only in the cane sugar producing Vale S/A (Brazil) 2009-2012: design and supply of 46 special from leading international industrial corporations, as well attracting industrial manufacturers to the combustion countries in South America and Africa, but also beet self-inspirating high efficiency gas burners and their associated as domestic customers. These orders included the Fives Nuclear: sustained activity in 2012 technologies offered by Fives, which differ from sugar producers in Europe, and France in particular. systems. Cryogenie contract with Air Liquide China to supply Despite the deferment to 2013 of certain modernization competitor offerings in their ability to achieve the Through the energy efficiency delivered by equipment Alstom Power Boiler (Estonia) 2012: supply of all burners exchangers for three major air separation projects on its projects for the French nuclear power plants, Fives emissions limits set without the need for additional such as its ZUKA® batch centrifuge, falling film (total power of nearly 200 MW) for the circulating fluidized bed Hanghzou site, representing a total brazing volume of Nordon completed a number of sustainable maintenance external solutions, while maintaining the thermal evaporators and continuous vacuum pans, Fives Cail is boiler of a new power generating plant. 640 m3. This order allows the Group to benefit directly and downtime operations during 2012. The Group also performance of production facilities. Most importantly, able respond to the diverse demands of its customers from the growing demand for oxygen and H2/CO units in continued to work on the central equipment room (CER) these technologies reduce installation costs and worldwide. Cofely (France) 2012: supply of 2 GRC LONOxFLAM® G2 low-NOx boiler burners and the CO2 saver system. this country. This Air Liquide order comes after a series of and auxiliary piping at the Flamanville nuclear power site operational energy consumption. In this sector, the Meanwhile, a series of new refinery projects have been major projects awarded to Fives by the same customer in in France. combustion solutions and burners developed by Fives launched, particularly in Asia. Against this background, Cristal Union (France) 2012: supply of 9 GRC recent years, reinforces the strong market position of Pillard are widely recognized as the “Best Available Fives Cail designed and supplied 20 centrifuges for LONOxFLAM® G2 low-NOx gas burners for 3 boilers. Fives Cryogenie, and demonstrates its ability to supply Technologies”. refineries operated by PT Adikaria Geminlang and PT exchangers for large-scale air separation units. In the same way, the success of the breakthrough Medan Sugar Industry in Indonesia. SRD (Dunkerque, France) 2012: commissioning of 4 KFT burners for an existing 63 tph boiler. Meanwhile, the growth in global demand for natural gas technology developed by Fives North American in iron encouraged the launch of numerous hydrocarbon ore pelletization since global marketing of the process Rhums St Maurice (French Guiana) 2012: supply of sugar processing projects, for which Fives was awarded began in 2012, has won the Group many orders in North KEY REFERENCES cane grinding equipment. America, Brazil and India. CMI Energy Services (Belgium) 2012: commissioning of a latest-generation GRC LONOxFLAM® V2 fuel. EPR Flamanville 3 (France) ALSTOM 2007-2013: “Our technology of GRC LONOxFLAM G2 prefabrication and erection of steam and feedwater piping in the Thai Oil (Thailand) 2012: conversion of 4 out of 5 boilers to low NOx burners allows our customers turbine hall and AREVA NP 2008-2013: design, prefabrication low-NOx. to reduce by more than half the emissions and erection of secondary and NSSS auxiliary piping systems. of NOx of their installations. On the Lessafre Frères (Nangis, France) 2012: supply of 4 ZUKA® KPM (Indonesia) 2012-2013: prefabrication and supply of 1750 high-efficiency centrifuges, a falling film evaporator with a three boilers that we have retooled this 290 pipe bends, 1 qualification bend and 36 test bends for TOTAL surface area of 4,500 m2, and a multi-tube dryer with a capacity year for Crystal Union in France, the NOx INDONESIA. of 55 tph. emissions were measured 100mg/Nm3 (3%O2 dry) for initial values which Technip/Braskem (Mexico) 2012: design of cold boxes for SIPH (Ivory Cost) 2012: installation of new D412 discontinuous exceeded 225.” ethylene production (1.05 million tpy). centrifuges, FC1300 continuous centrifuges and an online shredder. Luigi Russo, CEO of Fives Pillard Air Liquide (China) 2012: supply of exchangers for 3 major gas separation projects at Hangzhou. SOMDIAA (Cameroon) 2012: supply of a rapid decanter and centrifuges as part of plant capacity upgrades. Gas Authorithy of India (India) 2012: supply of 2 cold boxes; one for an ethylene production unit, and the other for a gas PT Adikarian Gemilang, PT Medan Sugar Industry treatment unit. (Asia) 2012-2013: supply of 20 centrifuges. Air Products (Malaisia) 2012: exchangers for cold boxes to be supplied to Petronas, the world’s leading FLNG operator. 42 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 43 BENCHMARKS Financial and non-financial indicators INDICATORS FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1. Financial indicators Order Intake Sales Order Book By End Market By End Market By End Market (€Million) 2010 2011 2012 (€Million) 2010 2011 2012 (€Million) 12.31.10 12.31.11 12.31.12 Automotive/Logistics 399.1 607.2 479.8 Automotive/Logistics 274.4 391.3 541.1 Automotive/Logistics 240.8 476.1 406.1 Metals (aluminium & steel) 468.8 550.7 404.8 Metals (aluminium & steel) 365.3 474.9 527.3 Metals (aluminium & steel) 571.6 656.5 555.7 Energy 286.4 272.7 355.2 Energy 284.5 290,2 317.3 Energy 234.8 217.4 249.9 Cement 69.7 243.7 84.0 Cement 125.1 111.9 122.2 Cement 69.4 201.8 167.2 Total 1,224.0 1,674.3 1,323.8 Total 1,049.3 1,268.3 1,507.9 Total 1,116.6 1,551.8 1,378.9 By Geographical Area By Geographical Area By Geographical Area (€Million) 2010 2011 2012 (€Million) 2010 2011 2012 (€Million) 12.31.10 12.31.11 12.31.12 The Americas 232.7 546.8 367.0 The Americas 218.8 295.4 421.3 The Americas 186.4 448.7 392.2 The Middle East & Africa 243.3 350.2 114.9 The Middle East & Africa 193.2 246.3 268.2 The Middle East & Africa 236.4 350.4 195.3 Asia & Oceania 392.4 338.9 422.6 Asia & Oceania 306.3 331.8 373.4 Asia & Oceania 402.7 417.6 478.7 France 234.8 241.2 256.3 France 205.4 223.3 268.9 France 169.5 187.5 174.5 Europe (excluding France) 120.8 197.2 163.0 Europe (excluding France) 125.6 171.5 176.1 Europe (excluding France) 121.6 147.6 138.2 Total 1,224.0 1,674.3 1,323.8 Total 1,049.3 1,268.3 1,507.9 Total 1,116.6 1,551.8 1,378.9 Contribution from mature economies 49% 44% 50% Contribution from mature economies 46% 50% 46% Contribution from mature economies 39% 37% 33% Contribution from emerging countries 51% 56% 50% Contribution from emerging countries 54% 50% 54% Contribution from emerging countries 61% 63% 67% Summary of consolidated figures Sales Net profit In 2012, sales totaled €1,508 million, a new record high for The total income tax expense (current and deferred) for (€Million) 2010 2011 2012 the Group, and a €240 million (19%) improvement on the the financial year was €35.9 million, and therefore 2011 figure. This increase includes a consolidation scope €2.5 million higher than the figure for 2011 (€33.4 million). Sales 1,049.3 1,268.3 1,507.9 effect of €12 million and a positive foreign exchange rate This figure includes €33.4 million of current tax due Gross Margin 242.5 280.3 324.2 effect of €47 million. At like-for-like consolidation scope (of which €13.3 million relates to those companies within EBITDA 86.3 99.0 115.1 and foreign exchange rates, sales were therefore up by the French tax relief group, with the remaining €181 million (14%). €20.1 million attributable to those French and international EBITA 71.7 83.5 97.3 companies not included in that group), plus a deferred tax The majority of this increase is attributable to the higher charge of €0.4 million. Current operating profit (EBIT) 68.3 76.2 92.7 level of opening order backlog (up 39%), as well as to the Operating profit 63.7 75.0 92.4 good level of small and medium-sized order intake seen in Net profit of consolidated companies was therefore the first half of the year, with some of these orders €52.3 million. This figure was €11.3 million higher than Net financial result 4.1 (0.6) (4.1) delivered during the financial year. that for 2011 (€41.0 million), with the increase in EBITDA Profit before tax 67.8 74.4 88.2 (+€16.1 million) being partly offset by lower financial EBITDA income and a higher income tax expense. Net profit of consolidated 43.0 41.0 52.3 EBITDA refers to Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, companies Depreciation and Amortization of property, plant and Net profit (Group Share) 42.5 40.4 50.8 equipment and intangible assets. Group EBITDA for 2012 totaled €115.1 million, reflecting a €16.1 million (16%) Shareholders’ equity increase over the figure for 2011. This increase includes a attributable to owners of the 223.2 244.8 244.8 Group positive foreign exchange rate effect of €5.3 million. The Cash and cash equivalents consolidation scope effect was not significant. 214.0 239.2 265.6 at December 31 At like-for-like consolidation scope and foreign exchange rates, EBITDA was up by 12%, remaining virtually unchanged as a proportion of sales at 7.7%, compared with 7.8% in 2011. Net financial result The Group’s net cash position at December 31, 2012 was €266 million; a level €27 million higher than that at December 31, 2011 (€239 million). The €115 million in EBITDA has funded the payment of corporate income tax (€36 million), net capital expenditure (€26 million) and dividend payments (€41 million). In addition, €15 million in short-term liquidity recognized under financial assets in 2011 has been restated as cash and cash equivalent following the disposal of these investments at their maturity in 2012. 44 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 45 BENCHMARKS 2. Non-Financial indicators 2.2. Innovation indicators Introduction to site-specific data and ethics/health safety/ The Group accident frequency rate improved significantly to 6.62, largely as a result of the environment statistics excellent performance of the energy division, especially in two companies: Fives Nordon The Group’s non-financial indicators were strengthened during 2012, with the introduction 2010 2011 2012 The Health, Safety and Environment report covers 99% of Group employees, and includes and Fives Cryo (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. However, this improvement at the Group level masks the of an additional report covering innovation. This report takes data previously monitored in all sites employing more than 10 people in the middle of 2012, as well as all industrial sites. weaknesses identified in the safety management of organizations. The program for 2013 other ways and collects information useful for innovation management from the Group R&D expenditure in millions of euros 19.8 21.2 22.7 focuses specifically on improving the safety culture throughout the Group, with a particular companies. Quarterly reporting of accident statistics was also introduced during the year. For Breakdown of R&D expenditure 2.3. CSR cross-sectional indicators emphasis on the commitment and leadership of safety management personnel. the majority of non-financial data, 2012 marked the fourth year of Group-level reporting, Costs of patents and trademarks 9% 7% 6% The momentum continues for Health & Safety certification and particularly OHSAS 18001 with a significant improvement in both data quality and the way in which Group companies Standard design and formalization of Know-how 14% 15% 14% compliance. One new company gained certification in 2012 (one of the new sites integrated The Europe Asia and are structured to provide relevant feedback in a quantitative form. Continuous improvement of products and processes 39% 41% 41% 2010 2011 2012 France into the scope during the year was already certified), and an additional nine sites are in the Americas (excl. France) Africa Development of new products and processes 27% 29% 32% process of certification. An interpretation error resulted in the number of sites with safety Research and radical innovation activities 11% 8% 8% Number of affiliates 2.1. Social indicators included in the scope of certification being overstated by three in previous years (as a result of compliance with a Patents and trade names the CSR policy 44 50 51 19 8 14 10 national standard which does not, upon closer inspection, lead to certification). Number of patents and trademarks 1,476 1,599 1,447 Total number of sites 69 75 79 38 11 15 15 Europe Number of patent families in force 336 347 371 The Asia and Industrial sites 22 29* 30 14 8 5 3 2010 2011 2012 France (excl. Number of first patents registered 34 21 18 2012 was the first year in which accident statistics were tracked for temporary staff. Americas Africa Offices 21 23 27 11 3 5 8 France) Of which percentage of patents relating Temporary staff members are employed in France, the USA and the United Kingdom, Combined sites to energy and environmental performance 53% 57% 44% and regional facilities 26 23* 22 13 0 5 4 although one French site alone accounts for nearly 30% of all hours worked by temporary Employees 5,639 6,108 6,521 1,142 3,636 995 748 Number of patents relating to equipment staff within the Group. In 2012, temporary staff were involved in 15 lost-time accidents Men 84% 84% 84% 87% 84% 85% 77% energy and environmental performance 18 12 8 Number of affiliates Number of ‘product’ trade names registered 86 97 93 (all in France), which had the effect of increasing the combined Group accident frequency Women 16% 16% 16% 13% 16% 15% 23% already embarked on a CSR action plan 1 6 25 11 6 2 6 rate for employees and temporary staff to 7.47. Percentage of engineers The eco-design program among women 28% 30% 32% 13% 44% 11% 22% Number of products carrying the Engineered Sustainability® mark ND ND 1 Percentage of employees The Group network of HSE representatives and auditors continues to grow with the Number of products currently being analyzed ND ND 7 accounted for by these creation of new posts in Group companies, especially in China and India. Number of nationalities 45 46 49 Number of affiliates with at least one product currently being Group companies 2% 25% 56% 40% 8% 2% 6% Number of sites with ISO Employees by category analyzed ND ND 7 9001 certification 47 48 51 29 6 11 5 2.6. Environmental indicators Percentage of eligible affiliates participating in the program ND ND 21% Engineers and managers 38% 38% 39% 32% 43% 27% 43% Number of people trained in eco-design ND ND 47 Number of sites engaged in Technicians, designers ISO 9001 certification 1 2 2 0 0 0 2 Europe Fives Innovation Awards The Asia and and supervisors 26% 25% 24% 15% 26% 26% 22% Number of FTE(1) Health, 2010 2011 2012 France (excl. Number of affiliates taking part in the Group Innovation Award Americas Africa Staff 14% 14% 14% 17% 10% 21% 17% Safety and Environment France) Operators 22% 23% 24% 36% 21% 26% 18% contest launched in 2011 ND 15 26 staff in the Group ND 46.6 50.5 32.8 4.7 7.9 5.1 Percentage of Group employees invited to compete for the Industrial sites 22 29* 30 14 8 5 3 Employees by age range Innovation Award ND 19% 40% (1) FTE: Full-Time Equivalent Number of sites with Number of ideas submitted for innovation contest ND ND 252 * 2011 data restated in accordance with the new rules governing the definition of industrial sites. 14 15 18 8 5 3 2 Less than 20 0% 1% 1% 0% 0% 3% 0% ISO 14001 certification From 20 to 29 15% 15% 16% 12% 16% 11% 27% Number of research and test centers Number of sites From 30 to 39 23% 23% 24% 13% 26% 17% 35% Number of research centers 16 16 17 In 2012, the scope of the CSR reporting changed following the acquisition of an Indian company engaged in ISO 14001 From 40 to 49 27% 26% 26% 23% 26% 27% 25% France: 11, The Americas: 3, Europe (excluding France): 2, Asia: 1 Fives Combustion System Pvt. Ltd. at the beginning of the year, and as a result of two certification 5 4 14 5 3 2 4 From 50 to 59 29% 28% 28% 37% 27% 36% 9% companies reaching the threshold for participation in the Group CSR reporting structure. Two Percentage of industrial 60 and more 6% 6% 6% 15% 4% 7% 3% sites certified 41% 41%* 47% 43% 63% 60% 0% companies were excluded from the scope of the CSR policy during the year. In addition, the Employees by length of service The Group commitment to R&D continued to grow during 2012, with related expenditures rules defining industrial sites were also refined during the year to more accurately reflect the Percentage of sites that have written and rising by 7% to nearly €23 million. The year saw a significant increase in expenditure on operational reality of Group companies. As a result, six locations previously classified as mixed Less than 5 35% 40% 41% 39% 38% 36% 66% distributed an From 6 to 10 19% 18% 20% 14% 23% 16% 17% new product and process development, where the major focus is on developing ideas sites or regional facilities were reclassified as industrial sites. Environment policy ND 48% 59% 68% 55% 53% 47% From 11 to 15 11% 10% 9% 8% 10% 11% 4% submitted for the innovation contest. Number of FTE From 16 to 20 8% 7% 7% 7% 7% 10% 7% The deployment of the CSR support program (CSR coaching) for Group companies accelerated Environment staff in the From 21 to 25 8% 8% 7% 8% 7% 10% 2% Group ND 13.7 15.3 8.3 2.1 3.4 1.6 The Fives portfolio of patented innovations grew by 7% between 2011 and 2012, further in 2012, with 25 Group companies submitting CSR action plans. Program launch meetings From 26 to 30 6% 4% 4% 5% 4% 8% 2% strengthening the technological position of the Group. At the same time, more selective were held in France, the USA, China and the UK. Electricity consumption From 31 to 35 7% 6% 5% 9% 5% 4% 1% 40.5** 44.6** 48.6 23.6 13.0 6.9 5.1 parameters have been applied to choosing patents maintaining only the most relevant, Safety and environment resources also continued to be developed during the year, not only for in GWh From 36 to 40 4% 4% 5% 7% 5% 4% 1% 41 and more 2% 2% 1% 2% 1% 1% 0% while optimizing the cost/efficiency ratio applied to the portfolio, which reduced the Group companies operating on customer sites, but also those with industrial sites. Natural gas and heating 64.7** 60.2** 57.2 26.3 23.7 6.4 0.8 total number of patents below 1,450. The same requirement for greater efficiency also oil consumption in GWh applies to the management of product brand portfolios, with the arrival of three new 2.4. Business ethics indicators Total energy Employees by region 2010 2011 2012 brands registered in 2012, and the decision not to renew those that had become obsolete. 105.1** 104.7** 105.9 49.9 36.7 13.3 5.9 consumption in GWh The Americas 17% 17% 18% A major differentiating axis of Fives is the energy and environmental performance of its 2010 2011 2012 Electricity France 59% 58% 56% machine and equipment, the Engineered Sustainability® eco-design program was a key consumption in €000 3,347** 3,820 4,430 2,043 982 848 557 Europe (excluding France) 15% 15% 15% accelerator in 2012. The year marked the completion of the program structure, granted Number of languages into which the Group Code of Conduct 2 12 13 Natural gas and heating Asia and Africa 9% 10% 11% has been translated the first Engineered Sustainability® product mark, seven additional products at the oil consumption in €000 2,139** 1,954 ** 2,141 1,366 409 312 55 % of companies in which the Code of Conduct has been distributed 75% 90% 94% Skills and mobility management analysis stage and adoption of the program by a quarter of all Group companies involved Total energy % of employees accounted for by these companies 77% 93% 96% consumption in €000 5,487** 5,774 6571 3,409 1,391 1,159 612 in product development. These actions are expected to boost the number of patents filed Proportion of French affiliates with an implemented GPEC* policy 80% 84% Water consumption for innovations that impact equipment energy and environmental performance, which (industrial sites) in m3 ND 96,477* 87,644 % of French employees for which the “GPEC*” policy has been deployed 75% 93% was limited to eight in 2012. As part of this commitment, 47 employees from the R&D The year 2012 was more preparation than business ethic actions. Training initiatives built Water consumption % of employees reviewed by the “CEDRE” career management committee 40% 35% 52% % of employees receiving regular appraisal interview 63% 59% 69% teams, design offices and sales teams received training in eco-design principles during the around the Code of Conduct will be launched in 2013. However, the method of distribution (industrial sites) in €000 ND 160* 175 % change in employee numbers compared to the previous year 2% 8% 7% year. for the code has been improved, especially amongst recently acquired companies. Number of employees recruited 843 1,231 1,262 * 2011 data restated in accordance with the new rules governing the definition of industrial sites. Number of people having attended ‘career booster’ interviews 88 84 133 Following the success of the first edition of the Fives Innovation Contest, which culminated 2.5. Health & Safety indicators ** 2010 and 2011 data corrected (to address issues identified in 2012). % of employees having attended at least one training course 59% 60% 69% in the award ceremony held to coincide with the Group Bicentennial event, interest in this initiative from Group companies was confirmed with a growth in participation. The Group sent out a strong signal at the beginning of 2012, with the announcement of a 2010 2011 2012 Designed to encourage the emergence of new ideas, this contest generated more than target for all industrial sites to achieve ISO 14001 certification by the end of 2014. Two The total number of Group employees had risen to more than 6,500 by the end of 2012, 250 innovation proposals during the 2012 financial year, some of which show considerable Number of industrial sites 22 29* 30 major industrial sites in the USA received certification during 2012, and 14 other sites as a result of organic and external growth. The sustained pace of recruitment seen in 2011 promise. Number of sites with safety certification 13** 16** 18 launched the certification process. continued during the year, with more than 1,200 new hires joining the Group. Additionally, five new companies also joined the consolidated Group. The inclusion of Solios Chemical in 2012 enhances the scope of Fives’ test facilities Number of sites engaged in safety certification 6 3 9 The Group’s overall energy consumption is marked by the continued rise in its electricity Percentage of industrial sites with safety certification 0% 17%* 17% available to the Group through the acquisition of an additional research center offering % of affiliates having written and distributed a Health & Safety Policy ND 72% 76% consumption over the last three years, in terms both of absolute value and footprint ratio: As a result, all regions saw an increase in employee numbers. In terms of proportion, this new skills in hydrocarbon chemistry. The company is located in Mulhouse in eastern Number of FTE(1) Health & Safety staff in the Group ND ND 35.2 this overall increase in the intensity of electricity usage is directly related to the very increase was greater in China, especially in the automotive, logistics and cement divisions. France. strong increase in business activity seen on the Group’s major industrial sites over this Employee accident frequency (Number of lost-time accidents 8.61 7.57 6.62 same three-year period. (≥1 day) x 1,000,000 / Number of hours worked) As part of supporting recruitment and orientation over recent years, the Group Human Resources Department has expanded its range of training opportunities, and 69% of Employee accident severity (Number of lost-time accidents The trend in consumption of energy from fossil fuels is partly driven by the climate, and 0.208 0.165 0.135 (≥1 day) x 1.000 / Number of hours worked) Group employees attended at least one training course in 2012. the other, by business activity in Group companies. The reduction in test activity linked to General deployment of career management processes continued during the year, and Employee + temporary staff accident frequency ND ND 7.47 the development cycles of a major energy division Group company in the USA (which more than half of all employees attended a “CEDRE” career management committee % of lost-time accidents occurring on customer/subcontractor sites ND ND 20% accounts for a quarter of Group consumption), combined with the mild winter in the USA, review. % of lost-time accidents occurring in workshops ND ND 62% contributed to an overall reduction in gas consumption across the Group. % of lost-time accidents occurring in offices ND ND 7% In terms of diversity, the proportion of female employees within the Group remained % of lost-time accidents occurring on business trips ND ND 11% Water consumption remains impacted by leaks and the ability of Group companies to Number of Group HSE representatives 40 45 47 consistent with previous years at 16% of the total workforce. However, the proportion of detect and repair them quickly: the reduction in 2012 was achieved by dealing with a Number of Group HSE auditors 8 10 11 female engineers and managers continues to increase, reaching 32% in 2012 across the Number of Group HSE audits conducted 15 17 25 major leak in one of the Group’s workshops. With the exception of this specific case, the Group, and 44% in France. % of companies audited (cumulative) 29% 49% 67% general trend is upwards. The prices charged for water have also increased across the board in all regions, including China, although the cost of water here remains around 10 times cheaper than elsewhere. * 2011 data restated in accordance with the new rules governing the definition of industrial sites. ** 2010 and 2011 data corrected (to address issues identified in 2012). 46 2012 ANNUAL AND CSR REPORT / 47 BENCHMARKS Progress in deployment of the Group Program progress level corporate social responsibility program Commitment Level of incorporation into Initial level of maturity Level of maturity Program Knowledge of Group practices Definition of Group goals Deployment and implementation Results monitoring the governance of the Group in 2008 at end 2012 and its affiliates A global overview was conducted at end of 2012 to measure the overall progress made Eco-design & machine safety Monitoring of Group company annual The prime goal of the Group innovation Systematic introduction of this initiative Quarterly reporting of R&D budgets Incorporated into the biannual R&D towards the key challenges identified when the program was developed in 2008. TO MINIMIZE GC 8 R&D programs since 2005. strategy since 2005. under the Engineered Sustainability® since 2006, and reporting of programs program supervisory meetings on a GC 9 environmental program introduced and practices since 2012. affiliate-by-affiliate basis. The following have been added to the initial list of actions compiled in 2008: in 2011, and deployed since the start of the environmental footprint • a key objective relating to our customers: on the one hand, supporting customers with 2012. their individual corporate social responsibility policies as part of helping them to achieve Environmental management Waste and hazardous product Announcement at the start of 2012 Launch of the support program Annual reporting of environmental issues Incorporated into annual CSR progress their own goals, and on the other hand, introducing an initiative to promote social GC 7 management included systematically of the ISO 14001 target for all industrial for Group companies on environmental since 2010. reviews with Heads of Division. of Fives and its customers responsibility targeting customers that are less engaged, GC 8 in all HSE audits conducted by the Group sites by the end of 2014. management. • an objective relating to our own environmental footprint, supported by the launch of a since 2009. continuous improvement program in 2012. Business ethics and corruption prevention Review of the practices of the main Code of Conduct since 2001. The updated Code of Conduct has been Reporting of Code of Conduct Incorporated into the annual report of TO PROMOTE honest, fair behavior in our The following table details the overall progress made by the global corporate social GC 10 companies conducted in 2009. Group Directives since 2005. distributed internally to all employees distribution to employees. CEOs on the Directives and Guidelines since the end of 2010. Manual. responsibility program of the Group and how that progress relates to the commitment Training program now in preparation. made by Fives to respect and promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. All 10 principles have been incorporated in fully into the Group corporate social Sustainable Partnerships / Incorporation Partial vision via Group Purchasing 2013 goal to introduce a proactive Tool box made available at the end of Level one reporting on responsible Incorporated into the annual report of responsibility policy and several programs contribute directly to Fives’ progress towards of social and environmental criteria into Steering Committees approach with clear goals. 2010 (Group general conditions of purchasing practices since 2010. CEOs on the Directives and Guidelines full compliance with the commitments set out in the Global Compact. purchasing practices purchase, standard questionnaire, etc.). Manual. markets and to behave as a responsible partner GC 1 – GC 2 – GC 3 – GC 4 – GC 5 Their correlation with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact is indicated by ‘GC1’ (Global Compact 1) for the program that corresponds to Principle 1 of the Global Compact, Sustainable Partnerships / Promotion Partial vision via sales representative 2013 goal to introduce appropriate January 2013 launch and so on, as detailed below: of social responsibility to our customers surveys and working meetings. communication tools and resources at Group level, and begin deployment Human rights in selected affiliates. GC 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Health & Safety management Regular internal auditing of Group comGroup Directives formalized at the end First cycle of implementation Annual reporting since 2009. Precise annual targets set for CEOs, GC 2. ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pany practices since 2009. of 2010. 2009-2012. Quarterly reporting since 2012. with target achievement levels reflected Labor Second cycle launched at the end in compensation packages. of 2012 focused on involving every GC 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition level of management. TO PROVIDE a safe and motivating working environment of the right to collective bargaining; GC 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Diversity Group report on gender equality and age Diversity Directive introduced in 2005: Discrimination prevention training Annual monitoring of the agreement Incorporated into the annual report GC 6 structure. Group agreement signed in 2007 for sessions conducted in France since 2009. on diversity within France. of CEOs on the Directives and Guidelines GC 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and Specific diagnostic analysis of disability France. Group Directive on discrimination Disability awareness initiatives in 2011 Incorporated into Group HR reporting. Manual. GC 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. in 2011. prevention training at the end of 2010. and 2012. Environment GC 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Compliance with international employee Survey of current practices in target Goal set by the Group HRD in 2009. Regional harmonization of welfare Survey of annual compensation, Incorporated into the annual report GC 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and welfare protection standards countries conducted in 2009. Directive on a possible framework for schemes (effective in France and the EU, including welfare benefits. of CEOs on the Directives and Guidelines GC 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. welfare benefits. and now in progress in China). Manual. Anti-corruption Launch of the process to introduce an GC 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and international benchmarking system. bribery. Skills and career management / Identification Group HR involvement in all Group Group agreement signed at the end of Deployment of the “CEDRE” scheme. Incorporated into Group HR reporting. Group company management committee and management of high-potential employees company “CEDRE” career development 2005 for France. involvement in all career development (CEdre) committee meetings. Group Directives at the end of 2007. committee meetings. Skills and career management / Group HR involvement in Group Group GPEC agreement signed at the end Deployment of the scheme in France. Annual assessment of the scheme Incorporated into the annual report Skills and employability development (GPEC) company GPEC schemes. of 2008 for France. deployment status. by CEOs. Group Directive at the end of 2010. Directives and Guidelines Manuals Feedback on usage of the previous DirecThe Directives Manual must be distribuThe Directives and Guidelines Manual Annual report by CEOs on The Directives and Guidelines Manual tives Manual gathered in 2009. ted to, and used by, all Group entities. was first distributed in 2005, and implementation of Group Directives. is approved by the Board of Directors TO INTEGRATE social Department-by-department audits and updated in 2007 and at the end of 2010. (or equivalent governance body) monitoring of directive application. of all Group companies. responsibility at every level Incorporation of CSR into the organizational Review of Group company CSR challenges Decision in 2011 to deploy a support Program launched mid-2011. Progress points developed and agreed Priority action topics incorporated into structures of Group companies and maturity levels in 2009. program for all affiliates designed to help An average of 15 meetings held with CEOs. affiliate progress plans and monitored of Fives governance them build their own CSR action plans. every year. by Heads of Division. Topic not identified. Emergent. In construction. Defined, with deployment in progress. Fully and satisfactorily deployed. Fives 27 / 29 rue de Provence 75009 Paris www.fivesgroup.com Fives • French limited company (Société Anonyme) with Executive Board and Supervisory Board Share capital €102,723,764 Registered ofﬁce: 27-29 rue de Provence, 75009 Paris (France) Tel: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 75 Fax: +33 (0)1 45 23 75 71 • E-mail: contact@ﬁvesgroup.com • www.ﬁvesgroup.com • 542 023 841 R.C.S. PARIS APE 7010Z • Edited by the Communication Department of Fives • Photography: Fives, Le Square • Copyright © 2013 Fives All rights reserved • Created by Le Square (01 45 06 56 44) This document is printed on uncoated paper Arcoset white white 80 gr qualiﬁed FSC (Forest Stewardship Council)
