Statement of support Auluna Leather Company has been member of Global Compact since April 2010. Auluna Leather Company is dedicated to fulfill the intentions of the 10 principles outlined by the UN in the Global Compact Initiative. Global Compact is a logic and natural part of Auluna Code of Conduct. Through the concept of UN Global Compact we are committed to respect fundamental human rights, basic labour rights and environmental challenges. As a trend and sourcing company supporting a broad range of customers in the fashion industry we have committed ourselves to implement these principles in our value chain. For this purpose we have established a Traceability Program as a way to communicate guidelines and requirements to our suppliers and their sub suppliers. We support our suppliers and factories so that they can have a proactive approach to the environmental challenges and always choose environmental friendly methods and best available technology (BAT). By joining the COP we will extend measurement of our performance within the ten principles in Global Compact year by year in close coordination with our own Auluna Code of Conduct. Our COP-report will be launched through the UN Global Compact homepage. www.unglobalcompact.org and can be downloaded from our website www.aulunaleathercompany.com. The COP will be available for all employees and business partners. Date: 15.06.2013 ___________________________ Ole Overgård, CEO COP 2013 /2014 Page 1 of 11 Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 2012 Company data : Company name Auluna Leather Company A/S Sector Textile and Clothing Adress Cypresvej 8 Number of Employees 13 7400 Herning Country Denmark Membership date May 2010 Contact name Ole Overgård Contact position CEO Contact details Phone +45 97 47 24 11 www.aulunaleathercompany.com Brief description of nature of business Auluna Leather Company A/S has since 1965 been working in the leather and fashion industry. Today we act like as a trend and sourcing partner for companies in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland , Germany and Poland. 10 % of our turnover is generated from our own brands and from our shops in Poland. The brands are Auluna, Nova Bags & Accessories, Kaos, Minna, Patino and the shop concept called Underground. Auluna Leather Company A/S was from the very beginning producing in Denmark, but since medio 1980’s all production has been made in Poland and the Far East. Today our product program is not only real leather products, but also fake fur, imitation of leather and textile for outer garments. From 2004 the former family owned company has been taking over by 3 persons working in the company, and today Auluna Leather Company A/S is a daughter in Auluna Group A/S together with 7 other individual companies. The company's mission is to be a trendsetting specialist sourcing and production of leather/related outer garments to the fashion industry in Scandinavian and selected European countries. Read more on www.aulunaleathercompany.com. COP 2013 /2014 Page 2 of 11 Human Rights Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment/policy We are committed to support human rights principles as a consequence of our strategy in CSR and the values in our company. According to our policy the company and all suppliers to Auluna Leather Company A/S must always respect the protection of international human rights. It is also an obligation for us, that we and our suppliers always to comply with all national laws relevant to human rights issues. A brief description of our processes or systems Our CSR-policy is covering all human rights issues, however until now we have mainly focused on working hours, compensation and OHS (occupational health and safety). We mainly operate in long terms relations with a group of core suppliers (preferred partners) with whom we have been doing business with for a long time. It is our belief that we can influence our core suppliers by upholding a constant pressure on information and documentation for fair working conditions. Our policies and our in-house procedures for hiring new employees ensure us against any discrimination or other human rights abuses. In Denmark we observe the Danish legislation, which does not allow any discrimination what so ever. All terms of employment are established by individual workers contracts according to Danish legislation. Auluna Code of Conduct, our internal procedures and our in-house awareness of worker interests will prevent us from abuses of human rights. Suppliers We have established a Traceability Program for suppliers in risk countries and every second year we ask responsible people from our supplier companies to confirm Auluna Code of Conduct. Auluna Code of Conduct is stipulating requirements and gives guidelines/self assessments tools to follow sustainable and fair business principles build up on the 10 principles of UN Global Compact We encourage all suppliers to participate in the BSCI workshops held in different countries and keep on being updated on the international development and status of human rights in business. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The issue in our Danish Company is not regarded as a problem. Our employees all respect and understand the Our impact goes for our handling of audits and through visit in the factories. We have had 2 meetings for training our office people to understand and make to does when meeting and visiting people with influence in the factories. COP 2013 /2014 Page 3 of 11 Suppliers We have defined 3 categories of suppliers in our company; Preferred Partner, Partner and Supplier. To become a Preferred Partner we need the management and the setup in the factory to comply with our Auluna Code of Conduct with no limitation. Partner status means that we are guiding and helping to understand how to expand by complying with expectations on human rights. We will minimize the numbers of factories with no clear politics for fair human rights. According to our Traceability Program we will provide all our core suppliers with a self assessment tool (BSCI) corresponding to the social part of Auluna Code of Conduct helping to identify the weak areas to work on and to prepare for audit. We encourage all suppliers to participate in BSCI workshops in different countries. We will ask the suppliers to organize local training and to have a pre-audit done in order to have a formal corrective action plan (CAP) to work from. Our external audit initiatives means that we suggest SEDEX, BSCI or similar third party inspections also related for Human rights. Measurable results and outcomes Since the beginning of 2004 we have been working with our Auluna Code of Conduct. All employees have every year been giving 1-2 workshops updating on the latest development of CSR. We have raised awareness about CSR issues in our headquarters and our employees. Especially labour rights and environmental standards can give benefit both for our business and for the environment where we source our products. Suppliers Our preferred factories have now obtained significant awareness of human rights and the correlation to survive and expand the business. They have seen that focusing on CSR means that they can get new customers together with us and by this increasing the business. We have during the last year approved 8 BSCI factories through the BSCI system. Here we can document that focus and improvements with Human Rights is sufficient to pass the BSCI system. COP 2013 /2014 Page 4 of 11 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment/policy We support the principles of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. We are a member of the Danish Federation of Textile & Clothing (DM&T) and we respect the collective agreement system as a supplement to Danish Labour legislation in our area of business. It is system of collective negotiation between employer and employee, called the « danish model » resulting in a collective agreement in line with legislation. We also support the UN global work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour and the extortion of child labour and any discrimination of employment. According to Auluna Code of Conduct all suppliers must comply with both national legislation and the more specific rules in Auluna Code of Conduct. It is a core value to us that all employees in Denmark and every where our products are produced are treated with respect and dignity. We do not tolerate child labour as defined in the ILO conventions under the age of 15 years (14) or the local defined school age. Auluna Leather Company recommends suppliers to treat young workers between 15 and 18 years (in some countries from 14 to 18 years) as a vulnerable group given appropriate jobs only never engaged with dangerous or hazardous work. If a child is ever revealed in the production we insists, that a plan should be made in order for the child to go back to school and at the same time compensation should be given to the family by offering an other family member a job. It is a rule in Auluna Code of Conduct that no worker must be subject to discrimination due to race, religion, age, national origin, sexual orientation or gender. No female workers should be discriminated for any reason what so ever and no pregnancy test are allowed. HIV/aids tests are not allowed either. A brief description of our processes or systems In our headquarters in Denmark we follow the Danish legislation on labour rights. All employees are allowed to organize in unions as we respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Auluna Leather Company follows the collective agreements for the different types of staff according to Danish tradition. We have a detailed staff handbook with supplementary rules. According to the Danish Health and Safety Work Act, we have a health and safety committee with representatives from the workers and from the management group. Our occupational and safety work is well organized and functions successfully according to the intentions of the law. We hold 2 meetings pr. COP 2013 /2014 Page 5 of 11 year and keep record of all meetings. We have made the compulsory APV assessments for all workplaces and we are keeping records of any accidents what so ever. We do not have any risk of work related accidents since our production takes place abroad. We discuss any potential work related issues in the group. We have a very family friendly working environment where every worker can choose to take part in a flexible time system instead of fixed working hours. We have a system where overtime is always voluntary and we do not pay a premium for overtime hours, because the employees wants to save up hours and have some hours or days off for personal reasons on a individual basis. We try to meet the wishes from our employees as much as running the company allows us. We are paying our workers above average for similar jobs in the industry. We have 5 weeks of vacation and paid sick leave. We are in compliance with Danish legislation and collective agreements in our area. Every employee has all together 5 weeks plus extra 5 personal holidays every year plus all public holidays. According to the relevant collective agreement the employees have a private pension. One share is paid by us and the other is paid by the employee. The amount is deducted from the salary and paid directly to the insurance company. We also have an employer-paid health insurance. All employees are encouraged to take education within their area of responsibility. The company provides everyone with a private illness insurance. We offer for free coffee, tee, fresh fruit and free breakfirst every morning (According to taxregulation in Denmark). As a benefit all employees can buy the company products at very favorable prices. We strive to give both men and women equal opportunities and we encourage to join relevant training programs within their area of responsibility. Suppliers Our policies and positions are transferred into concrete guidelines in Auluna Code of Conduct. Auluna Code of Conduct includes the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact initiative including the most important Labour Rights and conventions. According to Auluna Code of Conduct it is a general rule that no worker must work more than 48 hours + 12 overtime hours and never on a regular basis. Compensation must always be paid according to a premium rate according to local legislation and all workers must have one day off after 6 days work. The occupational health and safety work with our suppliers is of most importance to us and we hold -as a minimum -a legal framework in the national laws in our production countries. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We are continuously working to improve our working environment, according to the Danish legislation and we will assess any labour related risk of accidents professionally. COP 2013 /2014 Page 6 of 11 We will allocate a responsible person and set-up a few relevant key points on specific areas within labour rights in our head office in Denmark and at our main suppliers in order to be able to measure our efforts year by year. We strive to give both men and women equal opportunities. Suppliers We have defined 3 categories of suppliers in our company. Preferred Partner, Partner and Supplier. To become a preferred partner we need the management and the setup in the factory to comply with Auluna Code of Conduct with no limitation. Partner Factory status means that we are guiding and helping to understand how to expand by complying with expectations on labour rights. We will minimize the numbers of factories with no clear politics for fair labour rights. According to our Traceability Program we will provide all our core suppliers with a self assessment tool (BSCI) corresponding to the social part of Auluna Code of Conduct helping to identify the weak areas to work on and to prepare for audit. We encourage all suppliers to participate in BSCI workshops in different countries. We will ask the suppliers to organize local training and to have a pre-audit done in order to have a formal corrective action plan (CAP) to work from. Our external audit initiative is due to begin from 2013 at our core suppliers in risk countries. Some suppliers will have audits very soon and others will have to wait another 1-2 years. Measurable results and outcomes We have raised awareness about about CSR issues in our headquarters especially on human rights and labour rights at all our main suppliers. We have no doubt that our initiatives beyond the legislative obligations have given the enthusiasm among our staff. Our occupational health and safety work is well functioned. Suppliers We have raised awareness about CSR issues in our supply chain in general and especially about human rights and labour rights at all our main suppliers in risk countries. Some suppliers will be ready to have audits done very soon and others will have to wait another 2-3 years. We are confident that our relationship with these suppliers has grown stronger due to the CSR process they undergo because of our commitment. We see the benefit for some of the factories as they can now offer their employees better and improved conditions and by this also an increasing in the efficiency. All employees in Auluna Leather Company visiting and auditing suppliers has to talk about the labour rights and dignity. Whenever something is discovered, it will be discussed with immediate effect by the responsible person at the suppliers. Situations will be reported to the CSR responsible in Denmark, which will take actions depending of the situation. COP 2013 /2014 Page 7 of 11 We have during the last year approved 4 BSCI factories through the BSCI system. Here we can document that focus and improvements in the area of Labour is sufficient to pass the BSCI system. COP 2013 /2014 Page 8 of 11 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment/policy Auluna Leather Company A/S wants to produce as sustainable as possible, though we know that any production will lead to a negative impact on the environment. Our defined Substitution Philosophy supports our policy. We would try to reduce dangerous and hazardous substances/chemicals as much as possible in our value chain. If not added in the process line it will not be harmful before, under and after the production. Auluna Leather Company is compliant with environmental legislation in Denmark and we expect and test our suppliers to comply with their national legislation too. A brief description of our processes or systems In Denmark the impact on environment is mainly under influence on our decisions taken from sourcing and production. For this purpose we have selected our specification in Auluna Code of Conduct. Suppliers Auluna Leather Company communicates all identified issues of impact on environment in Auluna Code of Conduct. Focus has until know been on:  Origin of materials  Waste water systems  Dyestuff  Electricity  Transport materials Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The management is now allocated as the responsible team in Denmark to reduce our impact on the environment in Denmark. In spring 2012 Auluna head office has moved to new and updated facilities. Both projects concerning energy consumption and waste management has been implemented. The new premises have very low electricity and heating/cooling solution unit. We expect to reduce both energy and waste for the years to come. To benefit both the environment and the cost level for Auluna. As a very important part we will keep on focus for solutions on environmental impact – and future cost reducing. We will try to reduce our consumptions of paper and printing to an absolute minimum. COP 2013 /2014 Page 9 of 11 Suppliers We will still use Auluna Code of Conduct as the central tool of encourage and stay focus on environmental issues at our suppliers. Origin of raw materials is an ever ongoing target for us, as we are of the opinion that a lot of environmental impact is decided on raw material level. Our Substitution Philosophy is under implementation. We think that we should avoid dangerous chemicals in the production processes rather than keep on testing and documenting in the final garment. The only winner is the companies earning money from making test. We are following the Swedish Project ITWS, which focus is to raise the awareness of the challenge that using clean drinking water in the production of textile and leather should be reduced to a minimum. A very interesting project we will follow closely. Measurable results and outcomes We have successfully raised awareness that the environmental issues are of most importance to North European customers. Through Auluna Code of Conduct we have engaged all suppliers to have a higher awareness on environmental challenges. We monitor all environmental issues when we visit our factories. Reporting will be made to the CSR responsible person in Denmark. In our ever going fight to reduce the consumption of papers, all our order confirmation in our own brands runs automatically in IT systems. Our effort on restricted chemicals has contributed to a general higher awareness of avoiding harmful chemicals in our garments. A waste management system has been introduced by the end of 2012 and we separate paper, glas, plastic and metal to ensure recycling is possible. COP 2013 /2014 Page 10 of 11 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Our commitment/policy We strongly refrain from all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. It is our policy that bribery must not be offered, promised, used, accepted, demanded or contributed from. We strongly support the work done by UN and other international organization against corruption. A brief description of our processes or systems Our headquarters is situated in Denmark, which is regarded as one of the least corrupted countries in the world. Corruption is forbidden in Denmark and does almost never take place. We have no internal procedures to disclose or to monitor corruption on a daily basis because it is hardly relevant for us since we never have had a case of bribery. We try to influence our suppliers, that corruption is very wrong and that they should refrain from using bribery in any situation what so ever. However we are aware of the demand for small facility payments in various countries due to cultural reasons. We have informed our suppliers that corruption is a key issue for us and that we might carry out unannounced inspections to disclose bribery if we have any such indications what so ever. Practical actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year In 2011 we have initiate our Bribery Reporting Programme and this program will be developed in the years to come. We have strong evidence that inspectors from some third party auditor companies in China and India is taking bribe to approve goods and production. We want to fight this in any possible way we can. A delicate matter in culture having another opinion of the word “bribery”. Auluna Leather Company has introduced procedures and a reporting system which will be implemented further in 2013. We will include an anti-bribery clause in our staff handbook that forbids all employees to receive any gifts from customers, suppliers or other company. We encourage our suppliers to set up anonymous suggestion boxes in the factories. Employees should be comfortable in having a safe place to bring forward their assumptions. Measurable results and outcomes Until now we have never been involved in any legal cases regarding corruption. We are comfortable that we comply with all relevant legislation in Denmark regarding corruption and bribery. We have raised awareness about bribery and anti-corruption at our suppliers and will use any occasion to talk about this situation as bribery is unacceptable. COP 2013 /2014 Page 11 of 11
