enabling positive futures United nations global compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Old mutual IS AN INTERNATIONAL LONG-TERM SAVINGS, BANKING, PROTECTION AND INVESTMENT GROUP Introduction 1  Statement of support from Julian Roberts, CEO of Old Mutual 2 Our business at a glance 4 Our approach to responsible business Our progress 5 Human rights 6 Labour 7 Environment 8 Anti-corruption Looking ahead 9 Looking ahead 9 Useful links Contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, or would like to provide any additional feedback on this Communication on Progress please email our Responsible Business Team at responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk Cover picture – Team One Race, Best Presentation Winners at the Young Enterprise East London Company Final hosted by Old Mutual STATEMENT OF SUPPORT juliAn roberts, CEO OF OLD MUTUAL Over the last 12 months Old Mutual has delivered strong Our five pillars – financial results despite the continued market volatility. We have done this by delivering against our Group ■■ Responsible Investment strategy which has simplified, streamlined and de-risked ■■ Responsible to our customers our business over the last three years. However, the ■■ Responsible to our employees events of 2012, such as the LIBOR scandal, and the recent ■■ Responsible to our communities challenges on corporate tax, have brought into sharp focus the fact that success in the financial sector now, ■■ Responsible environmental management and in the future, will be underpinned by being recognised as a responsible business. Through our position as an Key progress in 2012 – international long-term savings, banking, protection and ■■ Became a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for investment Group, I believe Old Mutual can and should be Responsible Investment recognised as a growing force for good in global society. ■■ Continued to provide financial education to our customers As we approach our fifth year of participation in the Global ■■ Reduced overall carbon emissions by nearly 13% since 2010 Compact, we are able to reflect on how useful the framework has ■■ Maintained on-going support tailored to the needs of local been in guiding Old Mutual to play a positive role in society, often communities, focusing on financial education, investing in challenging economic times. Since 2008, we have made good £13.4 million in communities across the Group. progress in our Responsible Business aspirations, and how we communicate these plans to our stakeholders. The release of our The progress we have made in these five areas during 2012 is annual Responsible Business Report alongside our Annual Report extremely encouraging and further emphasises our commitment to reflects Old Mutual’s approach to responsible business and becoming a truly Responsible Business. However, there will always be embedding our core values. The Global Compact has proved a more for us to learn – more opportunities, and more challenges. Being valuable tool for helping us to both deliver and communicate our an active member of the Global Compact gives us the support to face Responsible Business activities, and helped ensure consistency in these with confidence, learning from other members and sharing our our approach throughout the Group, focusing on our five pillars own progress. Our 2012 Communication on Progress provides a brief to fully integrate each aspect across Old Mutual. summary of our activity against the ten Global Compact principles over the last year. For more comprehensive information, please visit our website and other Old Mutual publications that detail our progress and plans including our 2012 Responsible Business Report. Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive 1 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 Our business at a glance This table shows a high-level summary Group of the Group and our Old Mutual is an international long‑term principal business units savings, banking, protection and investment Group For more information on the Group’s Financial Performance see the Financial Review on pages 65-72 in our Annual Report. Business units Long-Term Savings We provide innovative life assurancebased solutions which address both protection and retirement needs For more information on our Long-Term Savings business unit see pages 30-43 in our Annual Report. Banking We have a majority shareholding in Nedbank, one of South Africa’s leading banks, which also has banking interests in other countries in southern Africa For more information on our Banking business unit see pages 44-53 in our Annual Report. Short-Term Insurance We provide short-term insurance solutions in southern Africa through Mutual & Federal For more information on our Short-Term Insurance business unit see pages 54-57 in our Annual Report. US Asset Management We aim to grow our customers’ savings and wealth, whether through active and On a constant currency basis. direct asset management or the selection 1 2 % of total operating business unit’s AOP after tax and non-controlling interests (before finance and other central costs). of funds and managers for customers % of FUM in Group core operations. to invest in 3 4 Excluding operating results from affiliates held for sale or disposed of and OMAM(UK), which was transferred to For more information on our US Asset Management business unit Old Mutual Wealth. see pages 58-62 in our Annual Report. 2 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2012 Primary locations Operational highlights LTS – southern Africa, Europe, Colombia, AOP per share up 9%1 to 17.5p £1,614m 2011: £1,515m Mexico, India and China Full dividend for the year was 7.0p, up 23% Funds under management (FUM) 2012 US Asset Management – US and UK in cash terms Banking – southern Africa Financial Groups Directive (FGD) surplus £262.2bn 2011: £267.2bn Short-Term Insurance – southern Africa of £2.0 billion Number employed* 2012 The 2012 financial targets, set in 2010, were successfully delivered 54,368 2011: 55,549 * Nordic employees excluded from both periods Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2012 Operational highlights Contribution to Group AOP was up 9%1, with strong growth AOP2 FUM3 £800m 2011: £793m in profits in Emerging Markets Funds under management (FUM) 2012 NCCF was stable at £3.2 billion, despite challenging market conditions in the UK 58% 46.4% £121.8bn 2011: £108.5bn and Europe There was a continued shift from covered to Number employed 2012 non-covered business, with non-covered sales Our brand up 27%1 to £14,549 million and APE sales 21,789 2011: 22,851 down 2%1 to £1,133 million Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2012 Operational highlights Contribution to Group Strong headline earnings growth of 21%1. AOP2 FUM3 £828m 2011: £755m AOP was up 23%1 Common equity Tier 1 ratio (Basel II.5) Non-interest revenues up 12%1 and net interest income up 9%1 32% 4.5% 11.4% 2011: 10.5% Credit loss ratio improved to 1.05% from 1.13% in 2011 Number employed 2012 Basel II.5 common equity Tier 1 ratio of Our brand 28,767 2011: 28,494 11.4%, up from 10.5% in 2011 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2012 Operational highlights Contribution to Group Gross written premiums increased by 9%1, AOP2 FUM3 £43m 2011: £89m with strong premium growth in iWyze Gross Written Premiums AOP was down 47%1, due to worse claims experience and losses at iWyze 3% 0.1% £746m 2011: £761m Mutual & Federal remains well capitalised, with a 64% international solvency margin Number employed 2012 Our brands 2,371 2011: 2,390 Adjusted operating profit (AOP) 2012 Operational highlights Contribution to Group AOP was up 10%1 to £95 million in USAM’s AOP2 FUM3 £91m 2011: £67m continuing operations4 Funds under management (FUM) 2012 NCCF in continuing operations4 was £0.9 billion 7% 49.0% £128.4bn 2011: £148.8bn FUM in continuing operations increased by 14%1; with continued strong Number employed 2012 investment performance Our brands 1,225 2011: 1,564 3 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 OUR APPROACH TO responsible business Old Mutual’s approach Our governance Our Responsible Business Committee operates at Group level, chaired by Don Schneider (Group Human Resources Director and to being a Responsible Executive Committee Board Member) and including representatives from the range of different business functions. The Committee’s role is Business lies at the core to champion and challenge our approach to responsible business on all levels and to help fully embed it in all we do. Supported by the Head of how we address the of Responsible Business, the Chair is also responsible for reporting to the Executive Committee on the integration of responsible business Compact’s ten principles. plans in to Group operations, the Chair also ensures the rest of the Executive team collaboratively lead on our Responsible Business strategy. Below we provide an overview of how we go about this, by closely Each strand of our Responsible Business Strategy has comprehensive monitoring our processes and polices to ensure they remain pertinent governance structures in place to certify accountability for decisions and valid, sharing open and honest information with our employees made and actions taken. Each business division within the Group has its and other key stakeholders, encouraging any and all feedback, and own governance structures in relation to the reporting of responsible building ownership for responsible business in all roles at Old Mutual. business aspects, which each work alongside with the Group structures. The CEO of each business is accountable for compliance with our Our business model is simple. We harness the resources and skills Group Operating Model, which includes responsible business practice. we have across the Group into our long-term savings, protection, banking and investment businesses to drive value for shareholders Our processes and other stakeholders. Measuring and sharing our progress is an important way for us to track performance and highlight where additional resources Our five strategic priorities may be required. We have a number of frameworks in place to continually monitor our development and keep responsible business Develop the customer proposition and experience high on the business agenda. We also have a range of metrics in place Deliver high performance in all business units to track our progress, an area we are continuing to develop. Share skills and experience across the Group Our employees Build a culture of excellence Throughout 2012 we continually assessed the current status of each of Simplify our structure to unlock value our business units to make sure they have a common understanding of responsible business. Through a series of innovative networks For more information on the Group’s Strategy see and dedicated responsible business practitioners, we now have Where We Are Going on pages 18-28 in our established individuals at a senior level, ‘policy owners’, to drive Annual Report. compliance to the Responsible Business Framework in each business. We are also working towards expanding this to include a senior level The successful delivery of our strategy – and realisation of our network. These policy owners and practitioners are supported by corporate vision – depends on how we do business. We are employees who help implement changes and work with the wider committed to operating responsibly, examining our impact on both employee base to firmly embed responsible business practice into the environment and the wider community as an integral part of our everyday business activity. On-going initiatives held throughout the decision-making process. At the heart of this are the relationships we year across the Group such as community volunteering and form with all stakeholders including our customers, our employees, environmental campaigns, supported our aim for Old Mutual our shareholders, governments, regulators and community groups. employees to act responsibly in their everyday behaviours and decisions, not just within the workplace. Having strong relationships with these stakeholders is vital to the success of our business, and talking with them regularly improves both Our future our ability to understand potential risks to the business, and to identify The Group-wide implementation of our revised Responsible Business new opportunities to create long-term value1. Strategy in 2013 will result in each business having a clearer Taking account of the impact our business has on our stakeholders understanding of the alignment of responsible business to our overall and those around us, we have identified five pillars around which we business strategic priorities. Improvement in our data collection focus our Responsible Business activity. methods will continue, to ensure our targets are appropriate and to enhance the confidence we have in our statements. We will continue to work with our businesses to deliver the Responsible Business Our five pillars strategy and improving the channels through which we report our progress so there is greater transparency on our challenges and Responsible Investment achievements. Responsible to our customers Responsible to our employees Responsible to our communities Responsible environmental management 1 See our online report for more information on our stakeholder engagement www.oldmutual.com/reports2012 4 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 OUR PROGRESS 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights abuses. Old Mutual’s position implementation and compliance. It is their responsibility to escalate Throughout our various operations, Old Mutual is fully committed to material instances of non-compliance with the Group policies with the raising awareness of human rights and labour standards, and ensuring Group Governance function. they are respected in all our activities. Our Group Code of Conduct and Group Operating Model remain core Our relations with employees and other stakeholders are firmly built to ensuring responsible business practices are understood and embedded on respect for the individual. We manage our engagement with all our across the Group. stakeholders in accordance with the Group’s core values: Pushing beyond boundaries, Accountability, Respect and Integrity. Our Group Code of Conduct contains a number of specific statements that address the principles relating to human rights in the Global Systems Compact. We have a number of channels for reporting any suspected breach of human rights, including the Human Resources, Responsible Business and/ In our recently reviewed Responsible Business Policy, which is part of our or Risk functions, to the Audit and Risk Committees that are in place across Group Operating Model, we explicitly reference human rights and the the Group, with escalation to the Group Audit and Risk Committee where responsibilities of all our employees towards others. warranted. At Group level we have policies that encourage engagement with our It is standard practice that the owners of all Old Mutual Group policies, communities. To supplement these, at local level there is flexibility to focus with the support of their business unit representatives, are tasked to track on the issues that are most appropriate to that business. 2012 highlights on progress Supporting local communities Our on-going support for our local communities forms part of our Improving our Responsible Business Governance commitment to the promotion of human rights where we operate. In 2012 We continued to enhance a number of our key responsible business we invested £13.4 million in community projects across the world, processes and governance tools. This included: reflecting our aim to enable positive futures, including: ■■ Updated our Responsible Business Policy; this forms part of the Group ■■ The UK businesses continued to support financial education in London risk compliance process where business units internally report their and Southampton through the Young Enterprise Scheme, which has performance every six months now reached over 10,000 young people since 2010 ■■ Improved monitoring of the Responsible Business Policy, new ■■ In South Africa, the Old Mutual Legends Programme continued to Community Investment Principles and new Code of Conduct drive accelerated growth in small black-owned businesses, assisting Moving forward on Responsible Investment 85 organisations in 2012, an increase from 67 in 2011 In 2012, we also focused on improving our approach to responsible ■■ Won the Socially Responsible Investor of the Year at the Imbasa investment including considering how our investments can impact social Yegolide Awards for our Old Mutual Investment Group (South Africa)’s issues such as human rights: Housing Fund ■■ Became a signatory to the UN-backed Principles for Responsible ■■ Continued to donate to community projects through our five Investment (UN PRI) as an asset owner Old Mutual Foundations and the Nedbank Foundation ■■ Continued our involvement in the implementation of the Code for ■■ Raised £1.6 million through Nedbank Affinity programme – an initiative Responsible Investing in South Africa (CRISA) through our participation that donates money to South Africa’s Arts & Culture Trust, the Green in the CRISA Committee Trust, the Sports Trust or the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund every time a customer uses a Nedbank Affinity banking product ■■ Undertook a Group-wide review of our current Responsible Investment practices using the UN PRI reporting framework For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 5 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 OUR PROGRESS continued 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. labour. UN Global Compact Principle 4 UN Global Compact Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in and compulsory labour. respect of employment and occupation. Old Mutual’s position relation to all our employees. This policy sets out the mandatory We continue to uphold the principle of the freedom of association and the requirements in terms of policy and practice that all business units must effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, where permitted meet. The policy covers a range of aspects, including employee relations by the law. and employment, diversity, selection and appointment, remuneration and performance management and employee welfare. We do not tolerate forced labour or child labour, under any circumstances. CEOs from each business unit are required to sign a Letter of Representation annually to confirm both they and their employees have We are wholly committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group complied with the Group Policy over the previous year and detail where structure: the different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our any issues have arisen. This is supported by regular internal audit checks employees are one of our biggest assets. Our policies ensure that no to confirm compliance to this and other Group policies. employee receives less favourable treatment based on their gender, age, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or any other factor unrelated to We also spend time carefully selecting and working with all our suppliers the requirements of their position. In southern Africa, recognising the to ensure they reflect the values we see as important in relation to labour unique circumstances, we balance these principles against our standards. This work is underpinned by internal governance bodies that commitment to address employment equity and transformation issues. promote and facilitate good labour practices. We continue to provide on-going training of employees to ensure all people responsible for Systems procurement are aware of the relevant requirements. We have a comprehensive Human Resource Risk Management Group Policy in place that governs the management of labour standards in 2012 highlights on progress ■■ Revised and updated the Group health and safety governance information and issued a new Group Health and Safety Standard Broadening horizons to improve our culture We delivered a range of activities and initiatives across the Group to Building our diversity promote greater understanding and learn from experiences across the We continued to increase our diversity across the Group, with a strong different businesses. These included: focus on increasing the number of women within the business and developing the proportion in leadership positions. For example this year: ■■ Old Mutual Africa launched the Wilika Leadership Programme in June 2012, ensuring that managers across Namibia, Zimbabwe, Swaziland, ■■ Achieved our target of having two female members on our plc Board Malawi, Kenya and Nigeria will benefit from a single leadership and on target to achieve our 2015 target of at least three female Board development programme for the first time, run by the Old Mutual members Business School ■■ Ran a ‘Women in Leadership’ forum in South Africa, aiming to create ■■ Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) workshops and opportunities for more talented women to reach senior management updates were delivered to line managers to help employees conduct levels in the business our business in the spirit of empowerment as well as in line with the letter of the law External recognition This year we have been recognised by a number of external organisations ■■ Launch of the Nedbank People with Disabilities Communications plan, for our various achievements relating to our employees, including: which is closely aligned to the national and international calendar of events for people with disabilities ■■ Awarded two of South Africa’s top employer awards for our Maintaining strong employee relations and commitment to employees in Old Mutual South Africa (OMSA) and a healthy workplace Mutual & Federal We have continued to establish improved working conditions for our ■■ Achieved B-BBEE Level 2 for all our South African businesses employees across the Group in 2012 ■■ Measured progress concerning our culture through the second annual Group Culture Survey which indicated that we have improved our ‘Entropy’ with a healthier corporate culture For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 6 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 OUR PROGRESS continued 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Businesses encourage the development and diffusion of environmental challenges. environmentally friendly technologies. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Old Mutual’s position Our Group Climate Change Strategy, developed in 2010, has helped us As a Group, we are fully aware of our global footprint and its focus on reducing our climate change impacts and improving our energy implications, and know that we can continue to improve our operations efficiency. Within this strategy we set ourselves the target of reducing and behaviours to minimise any negative impacts across the business. Old Mutual’s carbon emissions by 20% by 2020. Our 12 dedicated Alongside this focus, we continue to look for innovative ways of Environment Taskforces across the Group who work to implement our contributing positively to the environment and ensuring the way we Climate Change Strategy act as a focal point in helping deliver this key target do business reflects emerging thinking on best environmental practices. and build on the multitude of activity already going on across the Group. As an investor, we make the conscious decision to invest in ‘green’ One of the greatest climate change risks to our business is through the technologies and promote products and services that allow our clients investments we hold and the policies we underwrite. We have a number to have greater environmental responsibility. of socially responsible investment and ethical funds available to our customers to invest in specific environmental projects, however our Systems Group-wide aim is to mainstream environmental, social and ethical Our approach to environmental management lies with effective facilities criteria into all our investment making decisions. and property management, aligned with employee engagement – encouraging staff to take ownership of their own environmental footprints both at work and home. We monitor, manage and reduce our impacts as far as possible – from waste production, energy, water and paper consumption in our buildings to how we travel to our meetings. 2012 highlights on progress Promoting greater environmental responsibility We further promoted greater environmental responsibility through Reducing our environmental footprint support of others and investment of our own and our clients’ funds. We continued to make progress in reducing our environmental outputs and increasing environmental efficiency across the Group. ■■ Remained a key participant in the South African Government’s Highlights include: Renewable Energy Programme through our Old Mutual Infrastructural, Developmental Assets (IDEAS) Managed Fund. In the first and second ■■ Reduced overall carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 13% Group-wide phases of the project we won 10 of the 28 projects, providing over ■■ Old Mutual appeared in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index £13.6 million of financing for four wind and six solar power projects for the fourth consecutive year, ranking eighth for the Financial representing generation capacity of 665MW Services sector ■■ Signed the Carbon Price Communique – an international coalition of ■■ In our investment property portfolio, we decreased our carbon business leaders urging governments to ensure successful transition to a emissions by 8% to 0.22 tonnes of CO2e per square metre climate-resilient economy (2010: 0.24 tonnes CO2e/m2) ■■ Actively involved in the Green Building Council of South Africa ■■ Conducted our first internal audit of all our environmental data to (GBCSA)’s Green Lease Committee, a working group set up to develop improve quality and data collection processes a Green Lease Toolkit – providing a clear framework for achieving better environmental performance at existing properties ■■ Introduced Vspace, our new videoconferencing system, in South Africa and the UK, reducing need for air travel and improving efficiency in time and cost For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 7 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 OUR PROGRESS continued 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Old Mutual’s position We work closely with regulators, law enforcement agencies and trade The values of Old Mutual are completely against the concepts of bribery associations to share good practice both inside and outside the Group. and corrupt business practices, which create unfair markets, erode public By promoting better education and awareness of issues connected with trust and stifle long-term economic development. We remain fully financial crime we also help promote a more accountable society that is committed to ethical and legal business conduct in all the countries where able to combat other anti-social activities that are often supported by we operate. gains from financial crime. Systems We have a Group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy in place. All The Business Protection team at Group Head Office oversees the business units are required to follow the requirements of this policy and implementation of our financial crime prevention policies across the CEOs are required to attest annually in relation to compliance with this Group. This team reports to the Group Executive, Board Risk and Group policy. Audit Committees. Major issues are escalated and dealt with as they arise, while less serious issues are reported and analysed quarterly. All this work We have skilled and experienced forensics teams in our major businesses is underpinned by regular contact with the business units. that have responsibility for overseeing the policy and for investigating any allegations of bribery that involve our employees. Our Group Code of Conduct helps our employees clearly understand the ethical standards we all apply when interacting with customers and other We also have whistle blowing arrangements in our businesses that stakeholders. All employees are required to regularly review the Code of facilitate employees (and in some businesses, members of the public) Conduct to ensure they fully understand all aspects. raising issues anonymously. Such issues would include instances of bribery or corruption. 2012 highlights on progress ■■ Cyber-crime labs in Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank made Working against corruption through positive networks significant contributions to the investigation of crime within our business. Tackling corruption in all its forms requires having robust systems in place, Nedbank has developed a detection system which monitors staff and having the right working culture within the Group. We collaborate activities on the bank’s various systems and flags suspicious activity for with other organisations to create positive networks to tackle corruption. further investigation In 2012 we continued to make progress in a number of these areas. Highlights include: ■■ Our financial crime teams have been linking their anti-bribery and corruption communications within the context of the Group Values and Code of Conduct to emphasise how everything we do comes back to ■■ Group Head Office undertook a Bribery and Corruption internal audit being a responsible business in compliance with the new Bribery Act in the UK For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 8 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 LOOKING AHEAD Old Mutual is committed Each of our five pillars of Responsible Business has targets for the future, with some of our aims for the coming year summarised below – to advancing the Global ■■ Responsible Investment – construct our first report (for publication in 2014) on our Responsible Investment progress using the UN Compact’s principles and PRI framework, as well as implement our Responsible Investment Standard for the incorporation of environmental, social and broader UN goals within ■■ governance criteria into investment decisions Responsible to our customers – further enhance our Customer our business and through Strategy, working towards becoming our Customers’ Most Trusted financial Partner working with others. Our ■■ Responsible to our employees – continue to embed behaviours that reflect Old Mutual Group values in practice and to use the annual overarching aim for 2013 Culture Survey to track progress is to increase the visibility ■■ Responsible to our communities – increase focus on measuring our impact, particularly the long-term benefits of those receiving Old Mutual support to optimise benefits for the communities of Responsible Business, we serve both internally and externally. ■■ Responsible environmental management – continue to improve data management through internal audits, starting the process of external verification for future use, in preparation for the increase in environmental reporting and compliance obligations Useful links Old Mutual Group Values Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – http://www.oldmutual.com/about/ourValues.jsp Guidelines on Responsible Investment http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelinesJan2012.pdf http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726 Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – Old Mutual Group Responsible Business Report 2012 Guidelines on Responsible Ownership http://rbreport2012.oldmutual.com/responsible-business/ http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ OMIGSAResponsibleOwnershipGuidelines.pdf Nedbank Integrated Report 2012 http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/financial/Nedbank_ar2012/ Old Mutual South Africa transformation http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx Nedbank United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/16583 https://www.cdproject.net/ 9 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2012 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No. 3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa (No. 1999/004855/10), Malawi (No. 5282), Namibia (No. F/3591559) and Zimbabwe (No. E1/99) Registered Office: 5th Floor Millennium Bridge House 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.oldmutual.com
