Sustainability Report 2012 Bosch Group Urban Utopia The world’s major cities are growing rapidly. According to United Nations estimates, more than 36 million people will be living in Tokyo by 2030. Mexico is expected to count more than 20 million inhabitants and the population of Los Angeles will likely exceed 18 million. Urban conurbations of this size require an enormous amount of energy, produce large volumes of waste, and pollute the air with greenhouse gases. However, megacities also give rise to opportunities. In densely populated areas, resources can be used more efficiently and technical innovations rolled out in a more cost-effective manner. Bosch is already working to turn urban areas into powerhouses for sustainability. Smart helpers – how RFID chips reduce energy consumption in workshops, page 9 Eco-friendly design – why household appliances are becoming increasingly energy efficient, page 10 Solutions for the future – how Bosch is promoting the creation of worldwide Striking a balance – knowledge networks, page 16 when acknowledging family commitments boost career opportunities, page 13 ▶ Company Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts “Sustainable action ensures that the future will be worth living for generations to come.” Could you please give us an example of this? DENNER One very serious example is climate change. Before we do anything else, we need to understand how the energy consumption of, say, a production facility or a vehicle today will affect the climate in the future – including on the other side of the planet. Only then can we do the right thing. As private citizens, we can buy vehicles with good fuel economy. As a company, we can invest in optimizing the energy efficiency of production processes and facilities, or develop ecofriendly products that help conserve resources. However, the following example is absolutely paramount Dr. Volkmar Denner, chairman of the board in this: as long as we do not fully understand causeof management of Robert Bosch GmbH effect relationships, we should focus on minimizing the potential negative effects of our actions. This preD ventive approach is advisable when it comes to clir. Volkmar Denner on the interactions between global mate change, for instance. megatrends, corporate responsibility, and sustaina­bility as a business model. Is climate change the measure of all things when it comes to the interconnectedness of developments over time and around Dr. Denner, networking is a major theme in the current Bosch the world? Sustainability Report. Why is that? DENNER Alongside global warming, there are other DENNER In today’s world, things are more interconworldwide factors involved, known as megatrends. nected than ever before. The global flow of goods, Here, too, we can see a high level of interdependency. business, and capital means that change is becoming At the center, there is demographic development, ever faster and more frequent. This creates complexwhich varies greatly from region to region, but will ity and, often, we do not fully understand how our curultimately result in the continuous net growth of the rent actions will impact on the future. This is equally world’s population in the coming years. More people true for individuals, organizations, and even whole means increasing demand on food supplies and societies. But that is precisely what sustainable action greater energy consumption. These trends have a is about – understanding the link between cause and knock-on effect on global pollutant emissions, which effect. Both over time and for the world as a whole. once again reached a record level in 2012. 3 “No one can ignore global megatrends and their interactions any more.” Dr. Volkmar Denner No one can ignore these interactions and their impliecologically sound environment. That is why he procations any longer. A company of our size, with more moted healthcare, education, and international than 300,000 associates in over 50 countries, certainly understanding in his time. can’t. For this reason, we are well-advised to carefully analyze the megatrends that are relevant to us and What makes Bosch qualified to roll out sustainability as a busidraw the right conclusions. ness principle? DENNER Our four business sectors – Automotive TechThe topic of sustainability has become omnipresent, particunology, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and larly in business. Do companies have a special responsibility? Energy and Building Technology – focus on areas that DENNER Balancing the present day against the future is will be decisive in achieving a sustainable society in a challenge for the whole of society. One thing is certhe future. The high level of technological innovation tain – everybody bears equal responsibility, especially in our products and services is helping to conserve because the world is working in ever more interconresources and reduce energy needs worldwide. This nected ways. At this point, I would like to quote our applies to industry and manufacturing, but also to pricompany founder Robert Bosch, who as early as 1921 vate households. Our “Invented for life” quality promsaid, “Improvements in the world of technology and ise therefore provides significant value contributions science should always also be beneficial for mankind.” in the here and now – and stimuli for the future. Does sustainability work as a business model? What are you doing to make sure you continue to keep this DENNER Yes, we at Bosch are certain it does. Household promise of sustainability in the future? appliances offer a good example. Our decision in 2010 DENNER The future doesn’t develop in step with to launch the super-efficiency portfolio of exceptionally annual reports. It is an ongoing process that has to be energy-efficient appliances was a business decision – explored and thus shaped. We did that in 2012, for not the result of expectations being placed at our door. instance: despite the difficult market environment, we Today, BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH is a further increased our high level of research and develEuropean market leader. This proves to me that conopment expenditure. We spend 50 percent of our R&D sumers recognize serious efforts, and reward them not budget on products that are energy-efficient and least through responsible purchasing decisions. ­conserve resources. As a result, we filed a total of 4,800 patents last year, with which we hope to help Could you please define the Bosch Group’s position on sustainraise quality of life worldwide. Furthermore, sustainability? ability in a company is also a question of attitude. A DENNER Sustainability means planning with foresight, values-based corporate culture can only grow by recognizing the consequences of your own actions, ­virtue of everybody’s conduct over the long-term. and working toward securing a future worth living for generations to come. That was how Robert Bosch Dr. Denner, thank you for talking to us. acted, because he was convinced that a company could only achieve long-term success in a socially and Sustainability on the internet at csr.bosch.com 4 ▶ Company Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts Acting Responsibly Business success and corporate social responsibility do not rule each other out. In fact, they go hand in hand. Robert Bosch put this principle into practice when he established the “Workshop for Precision Mechanics and Electrical Engineering” in Stuttgart in 1886. In the decades that followed, he used his innovative strength, far-sightedness, and sense of social responsibility to lay the foundations for what is now a leading company in its industry. T he Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. In fiscal 2012, the company generated sales of 52.5 billion euros with some 306,000 associates. The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 360 subsidiaries and regional companies in almost 50 countries. If its sales partners are included, Bosch is represented in some 150 countries worldwide. A new structure based on four business sectors – Automotive Technology, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology – has been in place since the beginning of 2013. The aim of the Bosch Group is to improve the quality of people’s lives through innovative and beneficial products and services that spark customers’ enthusiasm – in other words, to offer technology “Invented for life.” This goal is closely related to the company’s commitment to responsible corporate governance, which has been a constant throughout its history. Protecting the environment, climate, and resources A responsible citizen and philanthropist, Robert Bosch always gave back to the wider community right from the outset. To this day, lasting corporate social responsibility is an important 5 “Our founder Robert Bosch believed that striving for sustainability made perfect business sense.” Dr. Volkmar Denner Self-sufficient in its energy needs, and comfortable as well: The award-winning Solar Decathlon house was created in a joint project with the Technical University of Darmstadt part of the company’s philosophy. This includes protecting the climate, environment, and resources. The company is committed to reducing harmful CO2 emissions, continuously improving technical systems, and developing new applications for the future. All Bosch divisions offer customers energy-efficient solutions, such as energy-efficient refrigerators and state-of-the-art heating systems and machine tools. In production, Bosch attaches utmost importance to the efficient use of energy and the conservation of natural resources. Renewable energy sources such as wind, water, and the sun play a key role in this. Supporting associates Worldwide, some 306,000 associates bring their expertise, dedication, and passion to bear for the Bosch Group. The company strives to offer these associates the best possible conditions. This is why Bosch trains young people around the world, is committed to equal opportunities, and is open to new employment models such as part-time work and job sharing. With these options, Bosch is also creating the conditions that will attract qualified new associates. The Code of Business Conduct offers all Bosch associates a set of guidelines that help them act with integrity and a sense of purpose. It also sets out all relevant legal and internal regulations. Together with the Bosch Values, the Code of Business Conduct lays the foundation for global success and trust in the Bosch Group. Supporting society Today, Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH owns 92 percent of Bosch. The foundation carries forward the social commitment of company founder Robert Bosch and helps find solutions to pressing social issues through its own programs and institutions and by supporting external initiatives. The work of the foundation is geared primarily toward supporting international understanding, social welfare, education, and health. More information on the company can be found here. More information on the Robert Bosch Stiftung can be found here. 6 Company ▶ Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts Environment All for One Goal According to the International Energy Agency's (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2012, fossil fuels remain dominant in the energy mix despite the increase in low-carbon energy sources. In light of this, the aim of limiting the increase in the global temperature to two degrees Celsius seems a distant dream. But there is hope. Energy efficiency is a key lever of climate protection. With regard to of increasing energy prices and political requirements, it is also becoming a competitive factor for companies. B osch is committed to actively shaping watt hours, which corresponds to the annual climate protection. Based on its own energy consumption of approximately 930 value added, the company aims to single-family homes. As a result, CO2 emisreduce relative CO2 emissions by 20 percent sions at Reutlingen and Kusterdingen are by 2020 compared with 2007 levels. To this around 3,500 metric tons lower at each locaend, the Bosch divisions have defined clear tion, which makes an important contribution climate protection objectives and measures to the Bosch climate protection goals. to improve energy efficiency. Their CO2 coordi­ nators are responsible for defining specific goals for the various locations and coordinating their activities. The figures show that Bosch is on the right track. In 2012, relative CO2 emissions were already 13 percent below 2007 levels. Heat from cooling water Measures that may seem laborious in theory are quickly becoming a reality at the Bosch locations. One example is the utilization of waste heat from cooling water at the German plants in Reutlingen and Kusterdingen. To produce ultrapure water, the locations use drinking water from Lake Constance. The water, which has a temperature of less than ten degrees Celsius, has to be heated to 10 degrees Celsius. For this purpose, the plants use the heat from cooling water, which is recovered using two heat exchangers. This reduces the combined energy requirements Reutlingen plant uses waste heat from cooling water to reduce its of both locations by around 14 million kiloenergy consumption 7 On average, 90 percent of the heating requirements at the Bosch location in Rodez, France, are met by its new biomass heating plant Energy from biomass Consuming energy in a manner that conmeasures, the largest Bosch production locaserves resources and protects the climate is tion in the United States has already cut its also extremely important at Bosch in Rodez, CO2 emissions by 28 percent since 2007. France. Since January 2013, this location has been equipped with a biomass heating plant. Around 6,600 metric tons of wood chips from local forestry are incinerated in More information on environmental this plant each year. Rodez uses the energy and climate protection at Bosch can be generated in this way to produce hot water found here and process heat. On average, the energy generated by the wood chip plant covers 90 percent of the location’s heating needs. And since the incineration of biomass releases only the same volume of carbon dioxide that trees previously absorbed from the atmosphere, the location also saves CO2: the plant reduces its emissions by Key data 2012 around 600 metric tons per year. Total energy requirements → 6.3 million megawatt hours Reaping the benefits of hard work Reduction since 2007 7 percent Experience at the Charleston plant in the Total CO2 emissions → 2.5 million metric tons United States underlines the importance of Reduction since 2007 5 percent absolute, associates’ contributions and ideas for energy 13 percent relative efficiency. The environmental officer’s team Total waste → 0.5 million metric tons works with all associates at the location. As a Reduction since 2007 10 percent result of this cooperation, a throttle in the Total water usage → 16.6 million cubic meters compressed air pistols used at this plant preReduction since 2007 5 percent vents compressed air from being wasted. The Total wastewater → 13.3 million cubic meters plant has thus been able to reduce the numReduction since 2007 5 percent ber of compressors. Thanks to this and other 8 Company ▶ Environment Products Associates Society Key figures + facts Environment Project Portfolio Commitment to the planet The main idea behind “Earth Week” at many Bosch Group locations was to set an example for environmental and climate protection. When the initiative was launched on March 31, 2012, non-production departments turned off the lights for an hour to help protect the climate. The following week, associates took part in a number of different environmental protection initiatives. For example, associates planted trees, cycled to work, or carpooled. In other words, they helped the planet and encouraged others to do the same. More information on environmental and climate protection at Bosch can be found here New lighting systems To save energy, the Bosch locations have developed and implemented IndraLogic SPS, an innovative lighting solution. The system automatically regulates the intensity of light – depending on the level of daylight and whether anyone is in the room. The lights are therefore only turned on when necessary, and only at the required intensity. Thanks to this energyefficient control system, plants have reduced their energy requirements for lighting by up to 60 percent. More information on this topic can be found here Controlled process Lower water and paint consumption, reduced solvent requirements, efficient use of waste heat, and energy savings of up to 75 percent – with credentials like these, RFID-controlled painting at Bosch in Mellansel, Sweden, is another milestone in environmental protection. In the past, external service providers were responsible for painting the hydraulic motors. Today, the company performs this task itself and has developed a special resource-friendly process for the purpose – with the aim of protecting the environment. More information on the Mellansel location can be found in English and Swedish here Products Eco-Friendly Production Due to climate change and the increasing scarcity of resources, products now have to meet ever-stricter environmental requirements. Firstly, legislation is being introduced to minimize air, water, and soil pollution. Secondly, growing environmental awareness and rising energy prices mean that ecological considerations are playing a greater role in customers’ purchasing decisions. With the “Design for Environment” concept, Bosch ensures that material specifications as well as energy and resource efficiency are taken into account when new products are being planned. T oday, Bosch refrigerators and freezers are becoming increasingly eco-friendly. This use up to 72 percent less energy than success story is the result of a systematic comparable models from 15 years ago. approach known as “Design for Environment” And a compact vehicle equipped with innova(DfE). Since this approach was introduced tive diesel technology already meets the CO2 in 2000, the company has applied four main targets that are set to come into force in 2020 criteria to assess the environmental impact in the EU. These are just two examples of how of products as early as the development Bosch products across all business sectors phase. Do energy consumption levels meet 10 Company Environment ▶ Products Associates Society Key figures + facts A product’s environmental impact is assessed right from the development phase the specified targets? What degree of noise ronmental expertise of all Bosch locations. or exhaust pollution does the product generAfter all, a lot of small improvements can ate? Is the material used environmentally make a real difference when it comes to ecofriendly? Can the product be reused or recyfriendly product design. cled? This information is used to compile a requirement profile that takes the legislative framework, customer requirements, and company-specific guidelines into account. More information on our portfolio of Regular audits ensure that these requiresustainable products can be found here ments are met. Taking eco-friendly design one step further To continue its success story, Bosch began expanding the definition of eco-friendly design in 2012 with the aim of decoupling Key data 2012 growth and resource depletion. The concept implies that growth is accompanied by a conNumber of associates → 43,000 tinuous decrease in the relative quantity of employed in research and raw materials used. To achieve this, product development engineers are testing materials to determine Research & development → Around half the which are suitable for production, how much expenditure for R&D budget sustainable products waste is generated during the manufacturing process – and how resources can be reduced Sales attributable to → Around one third the environmental/ of total sales or even recycled. In a second step, Bosch also safety portfolio plans to systematically and efficiently analyze existing products around the world with Patents registered worldwide → 4,800 regard to their contents and recyclability. CO2 emissions from current Implementing this forward-looking project compact diesel vehicles → 81 g/km also provides an opportunity to pool the envi11 Products Project Portfolio High-performance lightweight fan module The AirMax ECo2, a new air conditioning fan module for vehicles, consists of an electric motor and a fan wheel. When this product was being developed, a broad range of environmental criteria were taken into account. For example, the engineers decided not to use carbon brushes and copper commutators and thus eliminated graphite and copper dust. What’s more, the module performs just as well as its predecessor, but is 500 grams lighter. This leads to considerable savings in raw materials, fuel, and CO2. More information can be found here Doctor’s visit at the touch of a button Bosch experts across business sectors worked together to develop a technical solution to support treatment for the chronically ill. The result is a system based on measuring instruments, a base station, and programs to process health data. With this system, patients can take measurements themselves and send them to their doctors. The data is presented in such a way that doctors can assess their patients’ state of health at a glance. Telehealth thus enables the chronically ill to lead a “normal” life without constant visits to the doctor’s office. More information can be found here A house full of energy Bright rooms, state-of-the-art building technology, and energy-efficient household appliances – that is how an Energy Plus Home, which is the product of the Bosch brand Buderus, provides more energy than its occupants consume. Take the new-build in Wetzlar, which Bosch uses as a model property in Germany. A brine/water heat pump that extracts energy from the ground provides heating for the family that has lived in the house since 2012, and a solar array provides additional power. The Energy Plus concept can be realized in both new and existing buildings. More information can be found here Company Environment Products ▶ Associates Society Key figures + facts Associates Work Culture of the Future Structural change within society presents a double challenge for companies. On the one hand, they have to prove themselves on an ongoing basis in the battle to attract new recruits and the most promising talent. On the other hand, they also have to encourage employee loyalty and ­systematically train staff throughout their careers. Bosch shapes this process by adopting a ­forward-looking HR policy and taking an active approach to diversity management. Factors such as family-friendliness and flexible work models are key parameters in this process. T o create an attractive work environBosch pledges to help associates achieve a ment and enable flexible working work-life balance, promote mobile working, hours and workplace arrangements and implement a management culture that for associates, Bosch looks beyond the focuses on results rather than the amount implementation of individual measures. The of time spent in the office. Specifically, this company strives to make comprehensive means that associates can, for example, changes toward a work culture that takes work flexibly from home if their child is ill. individual circumstances and interests into Bosch already has more than 100 different account. The global work-life balance guidework time models across hierarchical levlines introduced in 2012 were an important els – from part-time work models and telemilestone on this path. Through these, working to job sharing. 13 In May 2012, Bosch was named the most family-friendly large company in Germany. Left to right: Kristina Schröder, Germany’s Federal Minister of Family Affairs; Christoph Kübel, member of the Bosch board of management; Angela Merkel, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany; and Heidi Stock, head of diversity management at Bosch Family time as a career module For many years, Bosch associates have been ted to changing its work culture, and this able to work flexibly and thus strike a balance makes the global supplier of technology and between their family and professional responservices a real driving force. But cultural sibilities. In introducing the new guidelines, change takes time, even for pioneering comBosch is strengthening its commitment to panies like Bosch. It cannot be prescribed. It actively supporting part-time managers and needs to develop slowly over time. In this proassociates in particularly difficult family situa­ cess, the new guidelines serve as a frame of tions. For instance, since 2012 associates reference for managers and associates across have been allowed to replace a career modcountries and divisions. Their task is to ule, such as an international assignment, with breathe life into the guidelines and implefamily time to reach the next level of the hierment them in their day-to-day working lives. archy. With this approach, Bosch is promoting a work culture in which family obligations and work commitments are of equal value. More information on our flexible work The company is also creating the basic contime models and our diversity manageditions to enable associates to return to ment measures can be found here work quickly after an absence due to family commitments. To this end, Bosch is continuously expanding the child-care facilities at its locations in cooperation with parent initiatives, municipal authorities, and external service providers. Key data 2012 Breathing life into the guidelines With these and many other measures, Bosch Work time models at Bosch → More than 100 is systematically expanding the basis for a Proportion of female flexible and family-friendly work environment. associates worldwide → 24 percent This commitment has also been recognized. Cross-location associate In 2013, the Bosch Group was named the networks → 10 most family-friendly large company in GerSenior experts at Bosch many in the “Erfolgsfaktor Familie” (family as worldwide → More than 1,600 a success factor) competition. Bosch not only offers specific measures, but is also commit14 Company Environment Products ▶ Associates Society Key figures + facts Associates Project Portfolio Living and experiencing diversity “Diversity is our advantage” was the motto of the first Diversity Week held at more than 40 Bosch locations in Germany and Switzerland in 2013. This measure was a highlight of the global diversity initiative launched in 2011. Associates were given the opportunity to find out about diversity at Bosch at info stands, events, and presentations. Members of more than ten different associate networks such as “women@bosch”, “50plus”, and “Abroad and back for Bosch” also provided practical insights into the topic. More information on diversity management at Bosch can be found here Focus on family The question of how to combine family and career is a key topic for diversity management at Bosch and also an important issue for members of the “family@bosch” associate network. The group meets regularly to discuss how a better work-life balance can be achieved, and to initiate events on the topic. Examples include the “Leben im Alter” (life in old age) trade fair and workshops on flexible and part-time work. The network also currently distributes information to around 600 associates via the family@bosch mailing list. More information on the topic of work-life balance can be found here Successful integration Diversity and equal opportunities are part of the Bosch corporate culture and are vital for the Group’s global success. A prime example of this is Bosch in India, where the “Ability in Disability” project was launched in 2009 to promote the occupational and social integration of people with physical or mental disabilities. Bosch initially employed five associates with disabilities in the country – and now employs around 60. The company also awards manufacturing contracts to the “Ability in Disability” organization. Its zero-error rate makes it a valued partner. More information on “Ability in Disability” can be found here Society Knowledge for Change Whether it’s the steam engine, the internet, or nanotechnology – sometimes, technical innovations can change the world. Such innovations are essential to master global challenges such as the transition to renewable forms of energy, urbanization, and demographic change. This is why, for decades, Bosch has been committed to networking knowledge and driving forward research in areas that are relevant to society. Since the launch of the InterCampus program at the end of 2011, the company has stepped up its support for higher education. T he Robert Bosch Centre for Cyber local weather. Another team is working on the Physical Systems opened in Bangalore, topic of how sensors can be used to help culIndia, in November 2011. The renowned tivate land in a needs-based manner. professors and scientists who work there, most of whom are IT specialists, are focusing Intelligent networks primarily on the highly complex task of netTo make these and other pioneering research working virtual and real worlds. The solutions activities possible, Bosch launched the Interdeveloped in the new research center are Campus program in 2011. As part of this prohighly relevant to society. For example, spegram, a total of 50 million euros is to be made cialists are currently developing a control sysavailable over a period of ten years. The funds tem that allows buildings to independently will go toward setting up university chairs, influence and regulate their energy requirefounding institutes, and supporting university ments based on current energy prices or the networks. Scientists in Germany, China, India, 16 Company Environment Products Associates ▶ Society Key figures + facts Prospects for academics Key data 2012 With the InterCampus program, Bosch is expanding its support Projects authorized by the for higher education and creating Robert Bosch Stiftung → 800 projects value added for everyone involved Funding provided by the in the project. Through the close Robert Bosch Stiftung → 70 million euros contact with specialists and Expenditure for the Bosch innovators, the company is able InterCampus program → 5 million euros to access research findings that Donations collected by the translate into products and can Primavera association → 0.6 million euros thus be made available to the masses. In turn, highly qualified experts at universities benefit and the United States will benefit from this. from the Bosch Group’s practical experience Across national boundaries, they will have the in addressing challenging topics. What’s opportunity to work on forward-looking solumore, the Group also offers young graduates tions in the fields of electromobility, power excellent prospects for the future. In 2012, generation, energy efficiency, and emissions Bosch employed 43,000 research and develreduction. The aim is to encourage a dynamic opment professionals worldwide. Last but transfer of knowledge, both between indinot least, the close cooperation between vidual universities as well as between scienproduct engineers and scientists across the tists and development teams at Bosch. globe helps find solutions to complex global challenges and thus safeguards the future Scientists from Fudan University in Shanghai well being of society. are working with colleagues from Reutlingen and Stuttgart to enable the series production of power electronics for electric cars. In the United States, the Bosch Energy Research More information on our social commitNetwork (BERN) was founded with the help ments can be found here of the InterCampus program. The network is made up of ten top universities, which are cooperating to investigate energy efficiency and renewable energies. The best results will be put into practice, and Bosch will provide funding to encourage their use. 17 Society Project Portfolio Students train students Based on this guiding principle, trainees at Bosch in Waiblingen made the most of the opportunity to spend six weeks working in Chon Buri in Thailand. The company is setting up a plant there and thus requires well-trained skilled workers. The German trainees shared their knowledge with their Thai co-workers and strengthened their own intercultural skills. The project is part of the international apprentice exchange program, which aims to enable young people to act responsibly and be team-focused. More information on the apprentice exchange program can be found here Training for Vila Verde Helping young people get an education – this was the aim of the Oficina Profissionalizante project launched in 2004 in Vila Verde, a disadvantaged district of Curitiba, Brazil. With the help of this project, some 300 school children gained certified qualifications in 2012 and around 70 percent of them found suitable jobs. The project is sponsored by the Instituto Robert Bosch, which also initiates various activities in schools and kindergartens in Vila Verde and trains women in skilled trades. More information on the work of the Instituto Robert Bosch can be found in Portuguese here Empowering people The aim of the Bosch India Foundation, which was founded in 2008, is to help people – regardless of their origin – to lead an independent life in dignity through training and technical solutions. The foundation is bringing this vision to life with around 50 individual programs. In 2012, for example, it held computer training courses for unemployed young people from rural areas, offered self-defense courses, and reached around 3,000 young people thanks to its close ties with other non-profit organizations. More information on the Bosch India Foundation can be found here Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts Key data 2012 Key data on the group Sales by business sector 4,787 52,464 IN SALES million € million € INDUSTRIAL 15 +1.9 % TECHNOLOGY SALES GROWTH RESEARCH AND over 2011 DEVELOPMENT 26 % 59 EXPENDITURE Automotive 77 % SALES REVENUE CONSUMER Technology generated outside Germany GOODS AND BUILDING 4,800 PATENT APPLICATIONS TECHNOLOGY in 2012 Shareholder structure SOME OF OUR CORE AIMS BOSCH FAMILY 7 1 robert bosch gmbh 20 % REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS by 2020 compared to 2007 levels ROBERT BOSCH % 92 20 % PROPORTION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES by 2020 STIFTUNG GMBH Occupational health and safety Environment 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2012 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS 3,500 3,000 ENERGY demand – 7.7 % 2,500 3,012 2,687 6.3 million megawatt hours 2,000 2,128 1,500 1,818 1,913 2,012 1,000 – 33.2 % WASTE 500 – 10.1 % 0.5 million metric tons DAYS LOST 50,000 WATER CONSUMPTION 40,000 – 4.8 % 30,000 39,311 16.6 million cubic meters 36,250 20,000 28,037 27,082 26,122 10,000 24,672 5,000 – 33.5 % WASTEWATER – 4.8 % 0 13.3 million cubic meters HEADCOUNT co2 emissions absolut 500,000 (–13 percent relative) 400,000 –5% 300,000 2.5 million metric tons 302,519 305,877 200,000 271,265 281,717 270,687 283,507 100,000 INVESTment In ENVIRON50,000 +12.8 % MENTAL protection + 119 % 0 46 million euros More information about our sustainability figures can be found here 19 Communication on progress Activities – an Overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004 and is committed to the Compact’s ten global principles for responsible corporate governance. The following table offers an overview of the progress made in the 2012 reporting period in relation to these ten principles. Principle Basis/goals Activities Results Principle 1: Support and respect Code of Business Conduct Audits: Scheduled continuation of Around 180 audits performed so far; the best human rights supplier audit on social and environmental suppliers acknowledged with the Bosch topics; target: 240 audits worldwide by the Supplier Award; penalties for non-compliant Basic principles of social end of 2013 suppliers responsibility at Bosch Principle 2: No complicity in human rights abuses Bosch purchasing guidelines Principle 3: Uphold freedom of Corporate objective: association Women to occupy 20 percent of managePrinciple 4: Elimination of all ment positions by 2020 forms of forced and compulsory labor Integration of the topic of Principle 5: Abolition of child Education shapes the future: InternaRecord sum of over 660,000 euros raised, diversity/proportion of labor tional charitable organization “Primavera” ­support for 25 projects in 11 countries to women into the Bosch established by Bosch associates to foster independent living for young people Group’s strategic roadmap educate and train disadvantaged children in poor regions of the world Bosch Human Resources Dual training in Asia: Systematic Since 1913, over 100,000 young people System (BHS) expansion of the Bosch training model – worldwide have been given occupational after China and India, now also in Vietnam training based on the German dual model and Thailand (apprentices’ workshop and in-company training)– currently around 6,500 young adults in 20 countries Principle 6: Elimination of Working culture: Rolling out group-wide Impetus for sustainable change in working discrimination directives to achieve individual work-life culture at the Bosch Group; now over 100 balance working time models across all hierarchy levels, including part-time work, teleworking, and job sharing; family time as a career module; extension of childcare; awarded title of “most family-friendly large company” in Germany by the Federal Ministry of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth Diversity management: Systematic Proportion of female associates now around continuation and expansion of the group24 percent; number of retirees who continue wide program to support associates and their commitment as senior experts: 1,646 attract the best staff Inclusion: Expansion of the “Ability in Around 60 people with physical or mental Disability” project at Bosch in Bangalore disabilities now employed in Bangalore (India) launched in 2009 (around 5,700 associates with severe disabilities in Germany) Awareness week: First “Diversity Week” Information and knowledge-sharing on diversity held at 40 locations in Germany and for Bosch associates Switzerland 20 Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts Principle Basis/goals Activities Results Principle 7: Precautionary Corporate objective: Design for Environment (DfE): SystemFurther development of DfE requirements environmental protection 20 percent cut in relative atic expansion of the group-wide strategy profile – breaking the connection between CO2 emissions by 2020 on developing especially eco-friendly growth and consumption of resources; pooling products launched in 2000 – consumption, environmental know-how at all Bosch locations. emissions/noise, materials, recycling/ Around 50 percent of the group-wide budget for Guidelines for occupaconversion research and development is now spent on tional safety and environespecially sustainable products. Bosch filed mental protection 4,800 patents worldwide in 2012, ­including 838 in Europe. Bosch is therefore the European company with the most patent applications Bosch Product in 2012 Engineering System (BES) Energy efficiency and reducing CO2 Reduction of around 10,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions: Efficient production processes each year; presented with the “environmental Bosch Production System and cutting-edge plant technology at award for companies” of the State of Baden(BPS) location for automotive electronics in Württemberg in the energy efficiency category Reutlingen (Germany) Waste-heat utilization: Heat exchangers Reduction in energy needs by 14 million kWh Design for Environment for heating the necessary ultrapure water p.a., cut in annual CO2 emissions at both (DfE) from the cooling water at the Reutlingen locations of 3,500 metric tons and Kusterdingen locations (Germany) Biomass heating plant: Covering Conservation of natural resources and cut in 90 percent of the annual heating requireCO2 emissions at the location by 600 metric ments at the Rodez location (France) via a tons p.a. biomass heating plant using wood offcuts from local forestry Principle 8: Initiatives to CO2 coordinators: Appointment of In 2012, relative CO2 emissions were down promote greater environmental people responsible for specific achieve13 percent on the value for the reference responsibility ment of emission reduction targets in the year 2007 group at locations throughout the world ResQ – resource efficiency in the Optimization programs initiated at four supply chain: Project to boost sustainsuppliers so far; significant improvements in ability performance in the Bosch supply production (wastewater treatment plant, chain in China savings in lubrication oil) and processes (working conditions, cut in occupational accidents, goal of certification to ISO 14001 by end of 2013) Energy Plus Home: Development of a Reference project for energy-efficient building building services concept with positive management for new and existing buildings energy balance for the Bosch Buderus brand Earth Week: One-week campaign at Raising associates’ awareness and motivating locations internationally to mark the them to make their own contributions to WWF’s annual Earth Hour environmental and climate protection Principle 9: Development and Award-winning innovative strength: Honored as the “World’s Most Admired diffusion of environmentally Assessment of the Bosch Group with Company” in the automotive supplier category friendly technologies regard to innovative strength, HR manageby business magazine Fortune. Bosch is ment, use of financial resources, corporate number one in all nine categories. Basis for the social responsibility, management quality, award is an international management survey financial solidity, long-term investment by Fortune planning, product and service quality, and international competitiveness to ensure economic and environmental sustainability Super-efficiency portfolio: Systematic Energy savings of up to 72 percent compared to expansion and further development equivalent appliances 15 years ago of BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH energy-efficient refrigerators and freezers Diesel engines – common-rail producInjection pressure has increased from 1,400 tion milestone: Bosch production of its to 2,500 bar since 1999. By 2013, production efficient and eco-friendly common-rail of 10 million systems for commercial vehicles injection system is already in its fourth and 74 million systems for cars; vehicles with product generation with continuously Bosch injection technology honored by the improved performance and systematically German Automobile Club ADAC – BMW 520d reduced fuel consumption as “car of the future”, VW eco up! as “best innovation” in the environment category 21 Principle Basis/goals Activities Results Gasoline engines – production mileFuel consumption and CO2 emissions reduced stone for injectors and high-pressure by 15 percent by using Bosch gasoline direct pumps: Gasoline direct injection as a key injection, turbocharging, and electronic engine technology for economical yet high-perform­ management; market volume for eco-friendly ance engines; production of 50 million engine components expected to triple by 2015 injectors and 10 million high-pressure pumps by the end of 2012; doubling of manufacturing volume within just one year Alternative drives – electromobility: Launch of Alpha-Laion joint project to develop Founding member of the national electrohigh-performance and cost-efficient lithium-ion mobility platform with the objective of cells; the project is being managed by Robert making Germany a leading supplier and Bosch GmbH, supported by the German Federal leading market for electromobility by 2020 Ministry of Economics and Technology for three years with funding totaling 13 million euros. The consortium partners’ own contribution is around 19.5 million euros. Bosch invests a total of 400 million euros a year in electromobility Energy storage for the energy revoluMarket-ready storage media for wind and solar tion: Concerted development efforts by farms, co-generation and biogas plants, and the Bosch Group to counter the volatilities individual households; unveiling of a virtual of renewable energy sources and the power station of the future for smart managechallenges of decentralized energy ment of decentralized power generators at generation, thus making a key contribution distribution grid level to efficiency and security of supply as part of the energy revolution Smart light management: Roll-out of the 60 percent reduction in energy consumption for Bosch IndraLogic SPS system for demandlighting at all locations driven control of lighting in buildings at all locations RFID in coating: Resource-friendly coating Reduction in water, ink, and solvent consumpof hydraulic motors using automatic tion; energy savings of up to 75 percent radio-frequency identification at the Bosch Rexroth Mellansel location (Sweden) Research networks: Continuation and Research into future-focused solutions for expansion of the international InterCamelectromobility, energy generation, energy pus Program launched in 2011 with efficiency and cutting emissions at locations investment totaling 50 million euros such as Shanghai (China), Reutlingen, and Stuttgart (Germany); founding of the Bosch Energy Research Network (BERN) in the U.S. Principle 10: Work against Code of Business Conduct Compliance officers and whistle­ Annual reporting to supervisory board and corruption blower portal: Facility for all associates to combined works council on recorded breaches report identified or suspected breaches of and action taken Basic principles of social compliance; contact persons in the regions responsibility at Bosch and whistleblower portal for personal, telephone or electronic notification – also anonymous if desired Bosch purchasing guidelines Compliance training: Scheduled Raised awareness and assessment compecontinuation of training courses and tence result in increased use of group-wide web-based training sessions on raising compliance structures Member of Transparency awareness among all associates in the International (since 1995) group Compliance with Code of Business Conduct for executives and associates Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group: The Bosch “House of Orientation” – vision, mission, values, core competencies, and the Bosch Business System. Newly created bodies are responsible for efficient implementation of all sustainability activities in the group – office, expert committee, and steering committee. Scope of reporting The validity of information is specified in the relevant text, key figures, or targets. This report presents a summary of current activities from the whole area of sustainability in the Bosch Group. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. Reporting period The reporting period covers January 2012 to spring 2013. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2012. The editorial deadline was May 31, 2013. Memberships (excerpt) United Nations Global Compact (2004), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), Global Reporting Initiative (organizational stakeholder) 22 Company Environment Products Associates Society ▶ Key figures + facts Looking back on Perfect combination 12/13 → Bosch is equipping the VW eco up! presented by the state of Baden-Würtwith numerous drive components. temberg. With its efficient production The compact vehicle, which can be processes and state-of-the-art systems, run on either natural gas or gasoline, the plant sets an excellent example. was named the most environmentallyAmong other things, the Automotive friendly vehicle 2012/2013 by Verkehrs­ Electronics location saves around club Deutschland (VCD). Thanks to 10,000 metric tons of CO2 per year. innovative fuel-injection technology, among other things, the eco up! consumes just 2.9 kilograms of natural 2012 gas per hundred kilometers. This December June translates into 79 grams of CO2 emissions per kilometer. September Training beyond requirements → In 2012, training at Bosch once again went above and beyond the Group’s own needs. In the fall, a total of 1,553 young people started their training at Bosch locations in Germany. A better future for children A space for visionaries Some 6,500 young people around the → Primavera Hilfe für Kinder in Not → The groundbreaking ceremony world are currently completing an e.V., an association run by Bosch marked the start of construction for apprenticeship. In addition to passing associates, raised record donations the new German research center in on technical expertise, the training of 663,000 euros in 2012. Primavera Renningen near Stuttgart. From 2015, aims to promote the development of helps children in the poorest regions it will serve as a base for some 1,200 social skills. With this in mind, around of the world who grow up without technicians and engineers from a 300 trainees per year are given the educational opportunities. In 2012, wide range of disciplines, who will be opportunity to gain initial work experithe association supported 25 projects working on forward-looking projects. ence outside their home countries and in eleven countries with the help The location will be run on a resourcestrengthen their intercultural skills. of Bosch volunteers and local aid friendly basis, thus saving around organizations. 30,000 cubic meters of drinking water each year compared with buildings of conventional design, for example. November 2013 June 2013 Promoting diversity August → “Diversity is our advantage” – Bosch has chosen this motto to encourage Protected habitats associates to take part in the first → The agricultural scientist Dr. Jan German “Diversity Day.” Companies Börner is the latest winner of the and institutions throughout Germany ­Robert Bosch Junior Professorship can show how diversity contributes to 2012. He is developing strategies for their own success and helps overcome the sustainable use of tropical rain social and political challenges. Over the ­forests in Brazil at the University course of one week, internal events are of Bonn’s Center for Development Award-winning energy efficiency taking place at more than 40 locations. Research. Since 2008, Robert Bosch → The German location Reutlingen As well as information stands, presentaStiftung has awarded one junior earned ­Robert Bosch GmbH the “Envitions, and an international theme week ­professorship each year to outstanding ronmental Award for Companies” in the in the cafeteria, every location is offeryoung scientists. “Energy excellence” category, which is ing its own highlights. Published by Robert Bosch GmbH Corporate Communications, Brand Management, and Sustainability (C/CC) Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany Phone +49 711 811-0 Senior Vice President Uta-Micaela Dürig Contact Head of Sustainability Office Bernhard Schwager bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Phone +49 711 811-6402 Project team Madeleine Förster Monika Loy-Schick Bernhard Schwager Realization Ketchum Pleon GmbH, Düsseldorf Additional information on the company and sustainability at Bosch is available here: Annual Report 2012 Bosch today www.bosch.com/sustainability
