Index • Founder’s Commitment Letter Page 3 • Company’s History Page 4 • Our History in Sustainability Page 5 • Un Global Compact’s Ten Principles Page 5 • CEMEFI Page 6 • Web Page Page 6 • Social Responsibility Course Page 6 • HUMAN RIGHTS • Our Commitment to Human Rights Page 7 • Our Actions and Results with Human Rights • Employees Page 7 • Community • Relay for Life Page 8 • Casa Simón de Betania Page 9 • LABOUR • Our Commitment to Labour Page 10 • Our Actions and Results with Labour • Support Campaigns Page 10 • Acknowledgment Event Page 11 • Drawing Contest Page 12 • Mother’s Day Page 13 • Work Environment Page 13 • One Million Wax Rings in a month event Page 14 • Courses and Training Page 15 • Suppliers Development Page 15 • ENVIRONMENT • Our Commitment to the Environment Page 16 • Our Actions and Results with the Environment • Recycling Page 16 • Technological Waste Page 17 • Sustainability Meetings Page 18 • ANTI-CORRUPTION • Our Commitment to Anti-Corruption Page 19 • Our Actions with Anti-Corruption • Code of Conduct Page 19 • Conflict of Interest Policy Page 19 • About this report Page 20 2 Founder’s Letter Noe Marmolejo Dear Friends: The Marmolejo family began manufacturing wax rings for the plumbing industry in 1985 under our first company, Baldini S.A., and then under Multiceras S.A. de C.V. In 2000, to better meet the increased in demand for wax rings, we decided to create a separate entity to specialize in plumbing products; we incorporated a separate company, Aztec Plumbing S.A. de C.V., which continues to follow our family’s values and principles. Even before we formalized a Social Responsibility plan, we always held Social Responsibility as a core value in our wax-ring business, initially in the plumbing division of Multiceras and then in Aztec Plumbing — especially given its larger percentage of female employees with their special circumstances and needs. When Multiceras joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative in 2012, Aztec Plumbing followed suit, and also committed to following its Ten Principles. In this first report we want to share with you what we have learned about Social Responsibility and the results we had last year. There is still much to do. However, I am confident that we are on the right path for a sustainable future. Sincerely, Noe Marmolejo President Emeritus Aztec Plumbing, S.A. de C.V. 3 Company’s History 13 years Aztec Plumbing S.A. de C.V. began as a separate company from Multiceras S.A. de C.V. in 2000. The two companies share facilities in the Garcia, Nuevo Leon plant, as well as administrative resources, including the Human Resources and Social Responsibility (RSE) teams. Multiceras began in 1977, when its founder, Noe Marmolejo, began exporting beeswax from Mexico to the United States. In 1978 Noe and Robert Baldini founded Baldini S.A. in Mexico. Initially they exported only beeswax, but after changes in Mexico’s regulations to the Candelilla wax trade, Robert asked Noe to oversee the procurement and logistics of Candelilla wax, which is obtained from the wild Candelilla plant, which grows in the Chihuahuan desert in the north of Mexico and south of Texas. The next natural step was to import petroleum waxes that Mexico did not produce, and this became a large source of business for the young company. At that time the Mexican government required importers to do some transformation to imported raw materials, creating the need for a wax plant. The first plant was built in Saltillo, Coahuila in 1981. In December 1983 there was a fire at the plant, which fortunately had no personal loss, but resulted in a relocation of the plant to Santa Catarina in the metropolitan area of Monterrey, Nuevo Leon. The company’s growth averaged 15% per year in the early years. Mr. Baldini also had a wax-trading company in the United States, and so to avoid conflict of interest with clients, in 1986 Mr. Baldini sold his stake in the company, and since then the Marmolejo family has retained 100% of Baldini S.A. In 1990 Baldini S.A. was divided into Multiceras S.A. de C.V., for the wax division and Multiquim, S.A. de C.V. for the chemical products division, which was a distributor in Mexico for the BF Goodrich Carbopols and some other chemical products from companies from Asia, Europe, and the United States. Multiquim was sold to the company Noveon Inc. in 2002. In 1991, the Marmolejo family acquired a property in an industrial park in Garcia, Nuevo Leon, near Monterrey, and built the facility where the wax plant currently operates. Since 1985 as of to date, the company has manufactured the wax rings for plumbing industry, growing and improving continuously to meet its customer’s needs. 4 Our History in Sustainability Early on we discovered that female employees were well-suited to the production tasks involved in the production of wax rings and we began hiring women for these positions. This has represented an interesting opportunity for the community, as most jobs in the area are for male workers. Women from neighboring communities have been able to grow professionally and contribute to their families’ income by working with us. Having this work force composition in the plant has led us to develop strategies to fulfill their specific needs, such as relocating pregnant workers to less physically taxing positions. In 2012 we formalized our commitment to sustainability with the establishment of a Social Responsibility Program modeled on the Multiceras program. Multiceras joined the UN Global Compact on October 4, 2012, and Aztec Plumbing followed suit on November 1, 2012, and committed to submit an Annual Sustainability Report. We pledge to respect and promote the principles listed below. UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5 CEMEFI Multiceras was invited by Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relación con la Agricultura (FIRA), to participate in the process to achieve the Social Responsible Enterprise Accolade given by CEMEFI (Mexican Philanthropy Center) as part of its Value Chain. In April 2013 Multiceras was awarded the Social Responsible Enterprise Accolade. Because Aztec Plumbing shares the same core values as Multiceras, as well as a common Social Responsibility program and Human Resources department and policies, we will not pursue a separate accolade for Aztec Plumbing at this time. WEB PAGE When we began our Social Responsibility Program we created a section on our website (www.aztec-plumbing.com) in which we explain our program, including our Code of Conduct. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COURSE In order to implement our Social Responsibility Program, we had two members of our management team obtain the Tools in Social Responsibility for Small-and Medium-Sized Companies Certificate from the Tecnológico de Monterrey. Currently one of our coordinators is taking a course in Social Responsibility, also given by Tecnológico de Monterrey. In October 2012 we gave a Social Responsibility course for all the employees in our facilities in Garcia, Nuevo Leon. 6 Our COMMITMENT to Human Rights A fundamental aspect for Aztec Plumbing is to generate a positive impact for our stakeholders. We are therefore committed to protecting and upholding human rights. Our ACTIONS with Human Rights San+ago Arciniega, 4 years old, son of Iván Arciniega EMPLOYEES Since our beginnings, the human rights of our employees have been a priority. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment, promoting good relationships among employees, and upholding code-of-conduct and anti-sexualharassment policies. Anti-Sexual harassment Policy The objective of this policy is to ensure an ethical relationship between the company and its employees with appropriate physical and verbal conduct without distinction between gender, age, civil status, and position Code of Conduct Policy The objective of this policy is to promote appropriate conduct and to set the parameters for expected behavior from all Aztec Plumbing employees according to our core values. 7 Our ACTIONS with Human Rights COMMUNITY On June 2013 we were invited by our customer Fluidmaster Inc. to participate in a Relay For Life event it was attending in San Juan Capistrano, California. Through our donation we were able to learn about and participate in this organization’s mission to raise money and awareness for the American Cancer Society. We are proud to share the Relay For Life story here. In May 1985, Dr. Gordy Klatt walked and ran for 24 hours around a track in Tacoma, Washington, ultimately raising $27,000 to help the American Cancer Society fight the nation’s biggest health concern – cancer. A year later, 340 supporters joined the overnight event. Since those first steps, the Relay For Life movement has grown into a worldwide phenomenon, raising nearly $5 billion to fight cancer. Now each year, more than 4 million people in over 20 © Logo and Images are property of Relay For Life countries raise much-needed funds and awareness to save lives from cancer through the Relay For Life movement. What is Relay For Life? • Organized, overnight community fundraising walk • Teams of people camp out around a track • Members of each team take turns walking around the track • Food, games and activities provide entertainment and build camaraderie • Family-friendly environment for the entire community Our RESULTS in Human Rights For more information and to find out the next events, please visit This year we made a donation of US its website at: $1,000. We will participate next year with this organization, and will help to promote www.relayforlife.org it throughout our organization and with our customers. 8 Our ACTIONS with Human Rights Casa Simón de Betania A.C. provides 24/7 service and care, including medicine, Casa Simón de Betania, A.C. – Monterrey, medical and nursing treatment, mobility of N.L. patients to medical consultancy, nourishment, religious services, different Established in 1987, Casa Simón de Betania kind of therapies, and funeral services if A.C. is a free nursing home that hosts and necessary. cares for children, youth, and the elderly infected with HIV, cancer, and tuberculosis, without regard to religion, gender, or age. To learn more about their outstanding work, please visit their website: They help those unable to afford medical www.casasimondebetaniamina.org. treatment, those whose family cannot care for them, as well as abandoned people. © Logo and Images are property of Casa Simón de Betania A.C. Campaña de Recolección de Despensa y Medicamentos en favor de Casa Simón de Betania, A.C. Our RESULTS in Human Rights Te invitamos a apoyar su noble labor donando los productos que ellos más necesitan: Despensa: Frijol Sal Leche Light (tetrapak) In 2013, together with the Mexican chapter of the Leche Light Deslactosada (tetrapak) American Chamber of Commerce, Aztec Lavandería: Jabón de barra, marca Zote Plumbing employees collected donations of Detergente en polvo para lavar ropa (marca indistinta) Detergente líquido lavatrastos (marca indistinta) groceries, hygiene and cleaning products, Higiene y cuidado personal: Gel para el cabello (botes chicos) Pañales grandes, para adulto Pañales transversales, conocidos “salvacamas” personal care, and disposables. Desechables: Vaso térmico #12 Vaso plástico #12 Plato térmico con tapa, tipo para hamburguesa. ¡GRACIAS! Campañas de apoyo a la Comunidad 9 Our COMMITMENT to Labour In addition to being one of Aztec Plumbing stakeholders, employees are our most valuable asset. We are committed to respect, value, and support our employees to help them reach their professional and personal goals. Our ACTIONS with Labour Maricela Andrade, 12 years old, daughter of Maricela Moreno SUPPORT CAMPAIGNS Aztec Plumbing supports our employees, collaborating to improve their quality of life through the following: Visual Health Campaign; this School Aid Campaign; this year supported 21 employees year supported 26 people with for access to a visual checkup, children at kindergarten, and helped them to acquire elementary and junior high lenses school level Celebrations: The International Women's Day, Día de Muertos, Mexico’s Independence day, Christmas and New Year’s celebration, and a monthly cake for employees birthdays. Transportation service: And in our scholarship daily route that benefits 22 program, we have 1 employees employee studying English 10 Our ACTIONS with Labour AKNOWLEDGMENT EVENT Recognition was given to employees who demonstrated outstanding commitment to company values. This annual event was held during the traditional Christmas celebration, where 18 employees received acknowledgment from our CEO, Fernando Montaño, and our President, Raul Marmolejo. Our Values The Commitment acknowledgement celebrates the time worked at Aztec Plumbing by giving a recognition for 5, 10, and 15 years of service. This Commitment Quality year the recognition was given to four employees. For the Quality and Creativity awards, employees are invited to vote for peers who have excelled in the implementation of each value on their daily work. Crea+vity Because of their exceptional and continuous quest for improvement in their daily work, recognitions for Quality were given to Claudia Gaytan and Jose Guadalupe Castellanos. Claudia Gaytan´s Testimony “It’s really fulfilling to receive this acknowledge from the company and more from my teammates, this motivates us to keep striving every day to give a quality service”. 11 Our ACTIONS with Labour DRAWING CONTEST This year we held our first drawing contest for employee’s children between the ages of 6 and 12. The contest was called “What Can I Do for the Environment?” and was intended to promote an environmental awareness and ecological conscience in the children, as well as provide the opportunity for families to have conversations on this important subject. Julián Arciniega, 7 years, son of Iván Arciniega Each of the 27 participants received a certificate along with a drawing kit of crayons, colored pencils, and a sketchpad. The three winners also received a diploma and a school kit that consisted of a backpack and calculator. The Monterrey awards ceremony took place in Sesame Street Park. The Mexico city ceremony took place at Six Flags Park, and the Cuatro Cienegas ceremony was held in a pool complex. Sarahi daught Torres, 11 y er of M ea artha R rs, eyna 12 Our ACTIONS with Labour MOTHER’ S DAY To celebrate all women who have the good fortune of being moms, our Human Resources department merged the annual event for Mother's Day with the celebration of Children's Day, so that employees’ families could be together for some family time. For Monterrey offices the event was held in Sesame Street Park, where the children spent a fun afternoon, and families enjoyed a healthy environment where they performed shows and Mariachi. A similar event was held on Mexico City for the office located there, which was organized on the Six Flags Park. Meanwhile in Cuatro Cienegas our peers from Multiceras had a barbeque on a pool complex resort. WORK ENVIRONMENT The Multiceras and Aztec Plumbing “palapa” is a common area in our Monterrey facility where employees can get together for recreational activities. The use of the “palapa” is under Human Resources Department control, who are responsible for approving its use upon request. Father's Day celebration took place at the Monterrey palapa with a barbeque contest among employees, and the opportunity for employees to detach from work stress for the afternoon, resulting in a fun and healthy environment. 13 Our ACTIONS with Labour ONE MILLION WAX RINGS IN A MONTH In April 2013 we hit a new production record by turning out one million wax rings in a month, an accomplishment made possible through the involvement and commitment of all of our employees. Given the growth that we have had in the last in April 2013! 12 months we have been able to increase our staff by 47%. To celebrate this event we held a party for employees and shareholders. Our founder, Noe Marmolejo attended this reunion and he thanked the Aztec Plumbing employees headed by operations manager, Edgar Contreras, and also the Multiceras team that provides the wax for the rings and that works very closely with the Aztec Plumbing team to meet its customers’ demands. 365 INCIDENT-FREE DAYS Another big achievement of the Aztec Plumbing team was to reach 365 days with out any accidents. On June 2012 we reached that target and we have been working diligently to maintain it. 14 Our ACTIONS with Labour COURSES AND TRAININGS Most of the trainings and courses that have been taught are field preparation so that they can handle the equipment as best as possible. It is required for the employee to understand the use of the production line and to be well prepared on the area they are managing so that the production flow goes without stop. They have been also induction courses on general company policies as the Social Responsibility policy. During this courses we share with the new employees our Code of Conduct and explain the expected behavior towards the company and their peers. Courses planned for next year include: • First Aid • Fire Brigade • English Classes • Workshop Leader Coach • Basic Mechanics • Computing Classes SUPPLIERS DEVELOPMENT We have implemented a supplier development program to enrich our value chain. This program started as a pilot with two of our local suppliers. These suppliers were evaluated using a questionnaire covering legal and ethical areas. We want to work with companies whose policies and activities allow them to stand out as socially responsible organizations. Aztec Plumbing is working along with Multiceras with BlueBox, the company that supplies our cardboard boxes. We have been sharing with this company our Social Responsibility experiences, specially in Human Resources area. 15 Our COMMITMENT to the Environment At Aztec Plumbing we are aware that we only have one world and the natural resources are limited. We are committed to make decisions that minimize the negative impact on the environment and to implement environmentally responsible policies. Our ACTIONS with the Environment Carolina Navarro, 11 years old, daughter of MarPn Navarro RECYCLING Some years ago we have started recycling pallets and cardboard, and in February 2013 we started a campaign to recycle aluminum cans, plastic bottles and paper. At the beginning we set recycling containers, but later on we found out that the paper that was generated in the dining area could not be recycled properly, so we decided to begin another campaign for recycling paper in the office area where this material is generated. We established a Reduce, Reuse and Recycling Policy through various campaigns. The money gathered from the sale of recycled materials is used to buy special equipment for our employees or to Ángel M assist with our volunteer activities. elé son of ndez, 10 yea Simón r Melén s old, dez Our RESULTS with the Environment Recycled 1,920 pallets 32.8 Kg recycled aluminum cans 13.5 Kg plastic 3,000 Kg recycled bottles cardboard 16 Our ACTIONS with the Environment TECHNOLOGICAL WASTE Technological waste causes great harm to the environment and this risk is growing every day, as equipment rapidly becomes obsolete. The UN calculates that every year more than 50 million tons of technological waste is generated. A lot of this material is irresponsibly discarded in garbage dumps. Inadequate treatment of the e-waste can result in irreversible damage to the environment and is a health risk. We are committed with the environmental preservation. Multiceras and Aztec Plumbing have a policy of sending all discarded equipment to specialized companies for updating or recycling. Our Information Technology team (IT) sends obsolete equipment only to authorized recycling contractors. In addition: 1. We set up a lease program for all the computing equipment. 2. We use refilled printer cartridges. 17 Our ACTIONS with the Environment SUSTAINABILITY MEETINGS AND UTILITIES USAGE REVISION In order to set action plans for the economic, social, and environmental aspects of the company, and to keep track of them, we hold a quarterly sustainability meeting. At this meeting the person responsible for each area presents his or her results. Among the results analyzed, we put emphasis on those that affect environment the most: Energy, Water and Gas consumption. These utilities are shared with Multiceras facilities, so these results are the same for both companies. Energy Water Gas 18 Our COMMITMENT to Anti-Corruption At Aztec Plumbing we know that the only way to fight corruption is by doing things correctly. We therefore commit ourselves to respect the laws of the land, and to promote our values, especially when dealing with customers and suppliers. Néstor Flores, 7 years old, son of José Inés Flores Our ACTIONS with Anti-Corruption CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct is based on our Core Values of Honesty and Responsibility. All employees are familiar with the Code of Conduct and they are expected to use it in their every day activities. Our Code of Conduct is available for download from our website in the Social Responsibility Program section: http://www.aztec-plumbing.com/rse.htm. CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY Some of our employees, especially those who deal with customers, suppliers, and government agencies, must be prepared to deal with corrupt situations in a proper way. Therefore we have prepared a Conflict of Interest Policy in which we clearly specify the way Aztec Plumbing expects our employees to act, as well as a test for those employees who have been trained in the usage of this policy. 19 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report was prepared by the Social Responsibility team: • Adaleni Solís • Carlos Medellín • Miguel Arato • Mireya Marmolejo And with the participation of: Liliana Ayala, Reynold Valdez, Laura González, Alejandro Canizales, Noe Marmolejo and Ana Marmolejo. We thank the children who participated in our first Drawing Contest. We have included some of their drawings in this report. For any comments in this report please contact Adaleni Solís at: adaleni.solis@multiceras.com. Ángel Meléndez, 10 years old, José Eduardo Flores Cazares, 12 years old, son of Simón Meléndez son de José Inés Flores Diego Alejandro Solís Garza, 10 years old, son of Ruth Garza 20
