Agrium 2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support Agrium became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in April 2008. This global network is an ideal avenue for sharing and learning about best practices, and for continuing to engage in open dialogue with our stakeholders. Our participation in the United Nations Global Compact clearly demonstrates to our employees, communities, suppliers, customers, and to the public, our deep commitment to continually improving our environmental, human rights, labour rights, and anti-corruption performance. We remain committed to the ten principles of the Global Compact and to the organization itself. The following table includes descriptions of Agrium’s commitment, systems, activities and outcomes that address the ten Global Compact principles. Mike Wilson President and CEO Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Actions and Outcomes Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems Although Agrium operates mostly in countries where there are numerous regulations addressing human rights issues and there is low risk of human rights abuses, we take our role to “respect, protect and remedy” human rights seriously. We continue to develop a due diligence process and supplier code of conduct guidelines that include human rights. Our new CSR policy also addresses human rights. Agrium's policies and Principle 1: Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outline our employees' rights and obligations for building a respectful Businesses should and discrimination-free workplace. support and respect the As part of our participation in the United Nations Global Compact, we have made the following human rights protection of commitments: internationally proclaimed human rights. • We will not take part in human rights abuse, and will not engage or be complicit in any activity that solicits or encourages human rights abuse. See Appendix 1 below: • In providing for the protection of company personnel and assets by public or private security forces, we will promote respect for, and protection of, human rights. • “Disclosure on Management Agrium is committed to the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and neighbors, and Approach: Employee the security of our employees, products and facilities. We promote business practices that respect the value Practices” of human life. • “Disclosure on Our employee safety programs are aimed at providing the awareness, training, procedures, equipment and Management follow-up to ensure a culture of safety at Agrium. At Agrium, we are committed to the implementation of our Approach: Society” Environment, Health, Safety and Security Management System at all levels of the organization. We conduct regular assessments at all Agrium locations to ensure conformance with our systems and compliance to applicable regulatory requirements. For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Workplace Section. Principle 2: Agrium is interested in operating in developing nations, not only to expand our markets, but also to help provide the essential building blocks for economic development. We believe that the ability to produce safe Businesses should ensure and abundant food is fundamental to reducing poverty, advancing education and stabilizing economies. that they are not In deciding if we should enter a specific developing nation, we conduct an assessment that looks at risks complicit in human rights related to corruption, economic sanctions, land disputes, or a poor record on human and indigenous rights, Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 3 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems abuses. among other considerations. Once we decide to enter a country, we also make commitments to apply our company-wide policies (often exceeding national regulations), source supplies and employees locally as See Appendix 1 below: much as possible, and invest in the communities where we operate. • “Disclosure on When we enter a new region, we don’t assume to know the local culture. We strive to have our international Management operations run by local citizens, applying our company-wide standards. Approach: Employee Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) is our means of management oversight for ensuring ethical Practices” behavior. Among other issues, it addresses: conflict of interest, fair dealings, gifts, legal compliance, and • “Disclosure on confidentiality. Our new CSR policy addresses human rights. We continue to develop a due diligence process Management and supplier code of conduct guidelines that include human rights. Approach: Society” Employees can use a confidential, anonymous hotline to report suspected breaches of regulations or of our Code. Our legal department follows up on all calls and reports quarterly on investigations to the Audit Committee of the Board. We require employees to annually undergo refresher training and acknowledge their compliance with the Code. We provide anti-corruption training for senior management in high-risk areas. To make sure our policies are followed, corporate groups work with business units to develop implementation and training tools. Should a human rights issue arise, the senior vice president of human resources would address it in accordance with applicable legislative standards and the principles of the Fundamental Human Rights Conventions of the International Labour Organization. See also Principle 1. For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Workplace Section. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Agrium’s relationship with labour unions is critical to the reliable operation of our facilities. Employees at the freedom of Agrium are free to organize into trade unions. We have operated for many years without a labour disruption association and the to operations. We successfully renegotiate union contracts regularly. For outcomes, please see the effective recognition of Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Workplace Section. the right to collective bargaining. Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 4 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems See Appendix 1 below: • “Disclosure on Management Approach: Employee Practices” Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and Agrium’s new CSR policy addresses human rights. We continue to develop a due diligence process and compulsory labour. supplier code of conduct guidelines that will not tolerate forced or compulsory labour. We do not operate in locations where there might be significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour. See Appendix 1 below: • “Disclosure on See also Principle 1. Management Approach: Employee Practices” Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective Agrium’s new CSR policy addresses human rights. We continue to develop a due diligence process and abolition of child labour. supplier code of conduct guidelines that will not tolerate child labour. We do not operate in locations where See Appendix 1 below: there might be significant risk of incidents of child labour. • “Disclosure on See also Principle 1. Management Approach: Employee Practices” Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 5 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems In the past few years, Agrium has grown to more than 14,000 employees. To continue to thrive locally and globally, we must capitalize on our differences by setting corporate direction and policy to ensure that we have an experienced, diverse, and inclusive workforce comprising international talent. We recognize that employees of different ages, genders and cultures bring valuable experiences and perspectives in addition to having different needs. Our policies and practices are inclusive and respect the diversity of our workforce. Agrium's policies and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) outline our employees' rights and obligations for building a respectful and discrimination-free workplace. Employees can use a confidential, anonymous hotline to report suspected breaches of regulations or of our Code. Our legal department follows Principle 6: up on all calls and reports quarterly on investigations to the Audit Committee of the Board. We require employees to annually undergo refresher training and acknowledge their compliance with the Code. Businesses should We define an inclusive workplace as a respectful climate where we value diversity, leverage all talents, and support the elimination strive to recognize and develop each person to their full, unique potential in creating business success. Our of discrimination in goal is inclusion on many levels: social (e.g., race, age), values (e.g., personality, attitudes, culture), and respect of employment information (e.g., knowledge, education, global experience). and occupation. To support workplace diversity, Agrium formed the Agrium Women’s Leadership Group (AWLG) in 2004. The See Appendix 1 below: AWLG was established to provide mentoring, networking and development opportunities for women within Agrium as a means to support efforts to attract and retain female employees at Agrium. The AWLG embraces • “Disclosure on a broad, inclusive vision to “Recognize, Develop and Enable Women’s Potential at Agrium”. The AWLG is Management open to any employee of the company and not only provides programs, mentoring and networking Approach: Employee opportunities for women, it also helps participants define career paths, encourages flexible and creative Practices” solutions to business challenges. The AWLG inspires managers and leaders to demonstrate and support workplace diversity and equity. In 2010, Agrium introduced in-person leader workshops and a self-guided online learning tool to employees to enrich our understanding of the benefits and challenges that diversity and inclusion bring to our lives at work – and in our communities. Since its introduction, close to 700 employees have attended in-person workshops. During our on-line learning pilot of the Harvard ManageMentor® Diversity-Inclusion Module, which ended in July 2013, more than 1600 employees participated in the online training. 2012 was a baseline year for us in determining our current diversity strength. In order to better understand diversity in business units and across the company, we are monitoring and tracking the diverse populations Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 6 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems on the basis of turnover, internal moves, and hiring practices. For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Workplace Section. Our approach incorporates the precautionary principle, management systems, regular audits, and corrective action tracking. Our company-wide risk management system provides a process through which identified risks can be stored, classified, prioritized, and responsibly assigned. We employ about 90 control systems to achieve reliable and enhanced business management. We regularly conduct entity-level assessments that address key management system components (e.g., planning, responsibility, programs, monitoring, Principle 7: reporting). Businesses should We engage stakeholders on sustainability throughout the value chain often from a precautionary approach. support a precautionary We work with regulators and industry experts to extract raw materials in a manner that will minimize longapproach to term environmental impacts and enable reclamation of the land. In our production processes, we work with environmental our employees and external experts to maximize energy efficiency, reduce emissions, and prioritize safety. challenges. We work with customers, carriers and government to continually improve the security and effectiveness of our distribution system. We work with researchers, industry associations, and growers to ensure our See Appendix 1 below: products are applied using best management practices (BMPs) to improve environmental and economic performance. • “Disclosure on Management Best Management Practices Approach: Agrium has been a major contributor to developing the Global 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework. The Environmental system has been adopted by the Canadian Fertilizer Institute in Canada, The Fertilizer Institute in the United Protection” States, the International Plant Nutrient Institute, the International Fertilizer Institute, and in 2009, the • “Disclosure on association of Plant Food Control Officials. These associations are now working with researchers, Management governments and NGOs to establish educational programming, best practice research and measurement Approach: Product systems to support long-term implementation. Stewardship” We believe that following the 4Rs—applying the right form of product at the right rate, right place and right time—can result in significantly reduced environmental impacts from fertilizer use, while supporting growers’ economic and social goals. Best management practices are utilized within each of the 4Rs. We are continually working with researchers and growers to develop BMPs that support the 4Rs. Agronomists work with growers to identify the practices that best fit their soil, climate and farming Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 7 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems operation. Ensuring unique and appropriate BMPs for each situation improves performance and grower adoption. Commonly used BMPs include: soil testing to optimize nutrient rate; controlled-release fertilizers or split applications to match nutrient availability with crop need; and, banding and buffer strips to keep nutrients in the right place. Agrium also provides a number of services that support BMP implementation on the farm. For example, when we apply inputs for farmers, we use global positioning systems to help determine variable rates for application, and adjustable spray nozzles to minimize drift of chemicals onto adjacent vegetation or land. Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction We engage a variety of stakeholders in the development of our climate change strategy, in order to identify internal and external opportunities to reduce emissions, enhance energy security and improve our industry’s competitiveness. Stakeholders include governments and industry associations, with whom we work to help develop policies and regulations that are effective, efficient and fair. Greenhouse gas emissions from farming activities can be reduced through the use of best management practices. A tonne of greenhouse gas emissions reduced on the farm can offset a tonne produced elsewhere. Agrium supports the development of related protocols and technologies for growers and collects farm offsets for sale to large emitters. Creating New Reduction Tools Before a greenhouse gas offset can be confirmed and accounted for, a protocol must be developed to provide technical requirements used to ensure the offset is real and verifiable. Agrium worked with stakeholders to develop a nitrous oxide emissions reduction protocol. This protocol defines the BMPs growers can use to reduce nitrous oxide emissions associated with nitrogen fertilizer applications on the farm. The protocol is based on the 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework, described above. This protocol helps to increase nutrient use efficiency, reduce nutrient losses to the environment, and provide the foundation for additional offsets, further contributing to growers’ economic viability. Researchers estimate that implementation of this protocol could reduce field emissions of nitrous oxide by 15 to 25 percent, without reducing yields. Theoretically, if growers of Canada’s top five crops followed the protocol, it is estimated that this would result in an annual reduction of 2.7 to 4.5 Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 8 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Additional research will be conducted to further quantify and improve the effectiveness of this protocol. Alberta has adopted this protocol and many jurisdictions worldwide are now considering adoption. Agrium provides BMPs that growers can use to reduce nitrous oxide emissions. Our controlledrelease products generally increase yields and reduce nitrous oxide emissions per unit of nitrogen applied. Our retail group also provides growers with soil testing and variable rate application technologies that can help reduce emissions. Farm Offsets Agrium owns Crop Reduction Offset Projects Ltd. (CROP), a greenhouse gas aggregation business in Alberta. CROP purchases offsets from growers, who have reduced emissions through the use of BMPs, such as reduced tillage, on their farms — providing growers with increased revenues. For additional outcomes, please see the Summary of Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Activities table in Principle 8. Principle 8: Agrium effects meaningful environmental change by creating, implementing and measuring programs to enrich and improve the natural environment in which food is grown. We also work with customers to ensure Businesses should our products contribute the maximum value to their crops while minimizing nutrient losses to the undertake initiatives to environment. promote greater Climate Change environmental responsibility. We generate greenhouse gases and other air emissions, directly and indirectly, through the production, distribution and use of our products. See Appendix 1 below: Agrium’s direct greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 9 percent since 2008, while production • “Disclosure on increased 23 percent during that time. Our greenhouse gas emissions intensity—a measure of efficiency— Management has decreased by 11 percent since 2008. Approach: Agrium’s internal greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction strategy focuses on the nutrient production stage of our Environmental business since it is estimated to account for more than 95 percent of Agrium’s direct emissions. Our strategy Protection” to reduce greenhouse gases includes energy efficiency improvements, nitrous oxide (N2O) emission • “Disclosure on reductions, and carbon dioxide (CO2) capture for enhanced oil recovery. We have an Emission Reduction and Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 9 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems Management Energy Conservation project team that identifies and evaluates opportunities at our production facilities. Approach: Product Energy Efficiency Improvements Stewardship” About 60 percent of the natural gas required to produce nitrogen fertilizer is used to obtain the hydrogen required to produce ammonia. Emissions related to this process cannot be reduced given current economically viable technologies. The remaining combustion natural gas can be managed to reduce CO2 emissions by improving energy efficiency, and through other emission reduction opportunities. Government-sponsored studies estimate for the Canadian industry that a further three to five percent reduction in combustion emission intensity may be attainable. In an effort to reduce natural gas use production costs, Agrium has already implemented a number of efficiency and emissions reduction projects, including: • installing efficient product dryers at Vanscoy, Saskatchewan, reducing energy use by 13 percent; • de-scaling heat exchangers at Redwater, Alberta, reducing natural gas use by 114 million cubic feet; and, • building a co-generation plant (power and steam) at Carseland, Alberta. Nitrous Oxide Emissions Reductions One of our greatest immediate opportunities for reducing greenhouse gas emissions is the implementation of nitrous oxide abatement technology at two of our US sites. This technology converts N2O emissions to nitrogen and oxygen. Nitrous oxide has a global warming potential that is 310 times more potent than CO2. Carbon Dioxide Capture and Storage Carbon capture for enhanced oil recovery is another significant opportunity for reduction. This entails capturing CO2 at our production facilities where it is purified and transported to an oil field. It is then pumped under high pressure into the reservoir. The CO2 mixes with the oil remaining in the reservoir, causing it to become more mobile. Producing wells pump the oil to the surface where the CO2 is separated from the oil and re-injected underground. Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 10 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems After the success in recapturing CO2 at our Borger, Texas operation, we recently signed an agreement to capture CO2 emissions from our Redwater, Alberta facility, to supply Enhance Energy’s Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) projects in Alberta. Some of our actions generate greenhouse gas reductions outside our own operations. Our efforts in this area include developing new products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from farming activities, and our aggregation business that collects greenhouse gas offsets from growers for sale to large emitters. We also support grower efforts to reduce greenhouse gases through the development and implementation of best management practices. Although some of these actions do not directly benefit Agrium, we believe they are important in achieving societal and customer benefits. Agrium is committed to reducing the impact of our products on the environment after they leave our hands. Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 11 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems We are a key supporter in the development of the Global 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework. This sciencebased system identifies best practices for producers who apply nutrients. We believe that following the 4Rs — applying the right source of nutrients at the right rate, right place and right time — can result in significantly reduced environmental impacts from fertilizer use. 4R practices minimize nutrient losses to air and water, replenish and protect soil quality, and can help minimize impacts on wildlife habitat. Protecting the environment doesn’t have to come at the expense of economic and social goals. The 4R system helps to produce more food for growing populations, and provides growers with the economic returns required to support their families and to build communities. We have been active in making sure this approach grows globally. See Principle 7. Protecting Watersheds Excessive nutrient application can eventually result in damage to water bodies and wildlife habitat. Through our agronomists and certified crop advisors we consistently communicate to customers the need to adopt best management practices that focus nutrient use on the 4Rs – applying the right form of product at the right rate, right time and right place. Following the Global 4R Nutrient Stewardship Framework minimizes nutrient releases into the environment. Wetlands play an integral role in intercepting nutrients and improving water quality. Accordingly, we direct significant community investments to programs that protect wetlands. Since 2008 we have contributed almost $1.2 million toward habitat restoration and conservation in the Canadian prairie provinces. With our partner, Ducks Unlimited Canada, our funds are used to purchase marginal but strategic land, restore it to its original ecological function and at time of resale, place perpetual conservation easements or long-term agreements on all or most of the land. The net proceeds of the resale of the land are reinvested in new conservation land. For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Environment Section. See also Principle 7. Principle 9: Nutrients are essential to life in proper quantities, but excess and unwise nutrient use can contribute to a variety of environmental issues. Businesses should Agrium is working with researchers to grow more food through the use of best management practices (see encourage the Principle 7) and new technologies like controlled-release fertilizers. Controlled-release products time the development and release of nutrients to match the needs of the plant. These products limit the number of required Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 12 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems diffusion of applications to the crop, saving energy and time, minimizing loss to the environment, and boosting yields. environmentally friendly Environmentally Friendly Products and Services technologies. Beyond selling high quality products to our customers, our retail outlets also provide services that help See Appendix 1 below: reduce environmental impacts. By analyzing yield, soil and plant tissue tests, and weather and crop scouting data, our agronomists and certified crop advisors are able to help growers make better decisions to optimize • “Disclosure on inputs to reduce nutrients lost to the environment, and overall costs. With advances in technology, we are Management moving toward customized production prescriptions. Because we also apply to our customers’ fields a Approach: significant portion of the crop inputs we sell, we are able to follow the best management practices we help Environmental to develop. For example, through the use of global positioning systems we are able to apply nutrients and Protection” crop protection products more precisely to reduce drift and overall application rates. • “Disclosure on Management On the product side, our expanding production and sales of ESN (controlled-release nitrogen) helps to deliver Approach: Product nitrogen when the crop needs it, with significant reductions of nitrogen loss to the air and surrounding Stewardship” watershed. The improved nutrient efficiency allows farmers to reduce the volume of fertilizer required. Also as a significant retailer of seed, we market improved varieties with new traits that reduce the requirement for chemical inputs such as herbicides. Ensuring Product Quality and Responsibility As the biggest retailer of crop inputs in the United States, we purchase numerous products from third-parties for resale at our outlets. Unlike our own products, we have less control over the quality of third-party products. One way to ensure product quality is to purchase and distribute crop protection products that are U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) registered. We have communicated our corporate responsibility values with our major suppliers and are working with them to understand and confirm their commitments to our standards. We perform analyses of third-party products to ensure compliance with stated specifications. Key initiatives of our internal climate change strategy include the use of technology to reduce emissions through process and energy efficiency improvements, mitigating emissions through abatement of N2O, and carbon capture and storage (see Principle 8). For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Environment Section. Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 13 Commitment Actions and Outcomes and Systems In deciding if we should enter a specific developing nation, we conduct an assessment that looks at risks related to corruption, economic sanctions, land disputes, or a poor record on human and indigenous rights, Principle 10: Businesses among other considerations. Once we decide to enter a country, we also make commitments to apply our should work against all company-wide policies (often exceeding national regulations), source supplies and employees locally as forms of corruption, much as possible, and invest in the communities where we operate. See Principle 2. including extortion and We take security, corruption, human rights and sustainability risks seriously and, in certain cases, we will bribery. choose not to invest in certain jurisdictions regardless of potential returns. See Appendix 1 below: Recognizing that Agrium has distinct business divisions and operations in several countries, we empower divisions to set policies to address specific regional or cultural variations. However, to instill a consistent • “Disclosure on “tone from the top”, we have designated 16 entity-wide policies, including: our Code of Business Conduct Management and Ethics (Code); Delegation of Authority; Anti-fraud; Diversity; Harassment and Workplace Violence; Approach: Employee Political Donations; and EHS&S; among others. The Code is our means of management oversight for ensuring Practices” ethical behaviour. Among other issues, it addresses: conflict of interest, fair dealings, gifts, legal compliance, • “Disclosure on and confidentiality. We require all employees to annually acknowledge their compliance with the Code. Management Employees can use a confidential, anonymous hotline to report suspected breaches of the Code. Our legal Approach: Society” department follows up on all calls and reports quarterly on all investigations to the Audit Committee of the • “Disclosure on Board. To make sure our policies are followed, corporate groups work with business units to develop Management implementation and training tools. Approach: Community Engagement” We provide anti-corruption training for senior management in high-risk areas. For outcomes, please see the Performance Tables in Appendix 2, specifically the Community and Economic Section. Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Page 14 Appendix 1: Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) diagrams Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Appendix 2: Performance Tables Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress Agrium 2012 Communication on Progress
