CSR Report（Highlights） 2013 Editorial The report and website both concern the Group’s activities Scope of the Report in the area of corporate social responsibility(CSR). The Unless otherwise stated, the report covers 11 companies objective is to improve communications with our stakereferred as “the Group” or “Mizuho” below. holders by reporting on the Group’s thinking, policies, and （Note） Mizuho Securities and Mizuho Investors Securities initiatives based on plans in the area of CSR, and to merged on January 4, 2013. provide further impetus for our CSR activities in the future. Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Corporate Bank merged on The report contains information about Mizuho’s CSR July 1, 2013 management ideas and systems as well as related activiDescription ties implemented during fiscal 2012 selected based on consideration of both the level of importance to Mizuho “The Group,” or “Mizuho” and the level of interest among stakeholders, and informaMizuho Financial Group and its 10 core group companies in tion on activities related to business activities is presented Japan: Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Securities, Mizuho Trust & with two points of initiative focus—“Finance to support the Banking, Trust & Custody Services Bank, Mizuho Asset real economy” and “Finance to meet new expectations.” Management, DIAM, Mizuho Research Institute, Mizuho The website systematically and exhaustively presents Information & Research Institute, Mizuho Financial Strategy, information on Mizuho’s CSR efforts in eight fields. The and Mizuho Private Wealth Management. content of the report is the result of deliberations by the Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG) CSR Committee and final decisions by the President. Refers to Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. on a non-consolidated basis. Reported Reported High in this report on our website Period Covered This report covers the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, Stakeholder concerns 2013. However, it also includes information on significant events since April 2013. Publication Information Date of issue: September 2013 Next scheduled publication date: September 2014 High Low (Previous publication date: September 2012 , Degree of Importance for Mizuho frequency:annual) Company Overview (As of March 31, 2013) Trade name Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Business Mizuho Financial Group is a bank holding Activities company which operates and manages its Domestic stock exchange 8411 banks, long–term credit banks, specialized securities code securities companies and other companies Date of January 8, 2003 which the Company may own by law as its establishment subsidiaries, and engages in business Location of head office Marunouchi 2-chome Building, appertaining to the management and 2-5-1, Marunouchi,Chiyoda-ku, operation of such companies. Tokyo,100-8333, Japan TEL:81-3-5224-1111(reception) Outstanding 25,116,306,477 shares Shares (Common: 24,164,864,477, Capital ¥2,254,972 million Preferred: 951,442,000) Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange (First section), Representative Yasuhiro Sato, President & CEO Osaka Securities Exchange (First section), Number of employees 55,492 New York Stock Exchange* (Consolidated) *American Depositary Receipts (ADR) listed on the New York Stock Exchange Mizuho Financial Group Mizuho Bank Mizuho Mizuho Securities Trust & Custody Mizuho DIAM Mizuho Mizuho Information Mizuho Mizuho Private Services Bank Trust & Banking Asset Management Research Institute Financial Strategy & Research Institute Wealth Management 1 Mizuho Financial Group C S R Report 2013（Highlights） Contents Editorial/Company Overview 1 Contents 2 A Message from the Group CEO 3 Our Approach to CSR Special Feature on Social 6 and its Promotion and Environmental Considerations 41 in Our Business Activities Special Feature on Efforts 9 to Facilitate Financing Mizuho and its Involvement 42 with the Equator Principles Special Feature on Examples of Applying the Equator Principles 44 12 Customer Relations Special Feature 47 Efforts Made during Financial Product on Corporate Governance 13 Marketing Activities Measures for Financial Crime Prevention 15 Special Feature 50 on Employee Relations Special Feature on Initiatives to Support the Recovery from 18 Allocating and Developing Human Resources 51 the Great East Japan Earthquake on Group–wide Basis Measures to Promote Industrial Development Support Designed Women's Career Development 53 19 to Provide Employment and Sound Work–Life Balances Measures Designed to Facilitate 22 Housing Reconstruction Special Feature on Support Social Contribution Activities for Financial Education 56 23 and Social Contribution Activities in the Disaster–stricken Areas Special Feature on Actions across Support for Financial Education 57 the Group Toward Growth Areas 26 Social Contribution Activities 60 Overview of Initiatives to Support Growth 28 of Renewable Energy Example of Use of a Solar Power Generation Project to Support Resolution 29 of Issues Facing Management Example of Support for Megasolar Project 31 through Project Finance Initiatives for Medical Care Field 33 Initiatives for Agriculture 37 Initiatives for the Asian Region 39 2 Mizuho Financial Group C S R Report 2013（Highlights） A Message from the Group CEO We will aim to become the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan and, as a unified group, will pioneer the new frontiers of finance. Making a Fresh Start as One MIZUHO to Establish a New Business Model of Financial Institutions I would first like to take this opportunity to express my sincerest thanks for your continued interest in and support of our Group. We have set the course of our management policy to establish a new corporate structure and strengthened corporate governance. More specifically, we have implemented a set of measures, starting with turning our trust banking and two securities subsidiaries into our wholly owned subsidiaries in September 2011. We also merged Mizuho Securities and Mizuho Investors Securities in January 2013 and turned the new Mizuho Securities into a directly held subsidiary of the Mizuho Financial Group in April. Thus, we have moved to a new group capital structure, which places banking, trust banking, securities, and other major group companies under the direct control of the holding company. Yasuhiro Sato President & Group CEO Then, in July 2013, we merged two subsidiaries, Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Mizuho Corporate Bank. The birth of the new Mizuho Bank completed the basic structure for integrated group management. Going forward, we will continue to develop even more advanced and sophisticated group management approaches and strengthen the corporate governance of the Group. Furthermore, in April of this year, we commenced our New Medium–term Business Plan, One Mizuho New Frontier Plan—Stepping Up to the Next Challenge. During the Plan's formulation, I was keenly aware of how the financial industry's past and present influences its future. Looking at finance as a single industry, and examining how business models have evolved over the years is very helpful in perceiving where Mizuho is currently positioned and in determining what its vision for the new frontier of finance should be. Looking back at the history of the finance industry, one sees how the 1990s ushered in the so–called financial supermarket model, whereby commercial banks, securities firms, and insurance companies merged to form huge financial conglomerates. The first decade of the 21st century saw an explosion of the investment banking business model, whereby financial institutions reaped huge profits trading on proprietary accounts, and then the dramatic implosion of that model with the collapse of Lehman Brothers. Now, in the wake of the global financial crisis, financial institutions around the world are searching for a new business model. Possessing a firm grasp of our industry's past helps us to define our vision for its future, which enables us to hold in–depth discussions regarding the kind of financial institution we want Mizuho to become. Therefore, the New Medium–term Business Plan is not simply a projection of our current situation over the next three years, but incorporates longer–term strategies intended to determine where Mizuho will be 10 years from now. Along with our actions toward forming a new, common corporate culture as we push forward toward the new Mizuho as a unified group, we have developed a new brand slogan—One MIZUHO: Building the future with you—from the perspective of building the optimal brand for the new Mizuho. In the spirit of One MIZUHO, we will aim to become the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan. Positioning CSR Initiatives as a Pillar of Corporate Conduct and Enhancing CSR Promotion Systems Mizuho recognizes the importance of outlining its stance toward CSR initiatives with respect to its stakeholders. At the same time, it acknowledges the critical need for employees to pursue initiatives that reflect considerable sensitivity toward CSR in the conduct of their duties. Guided by the Mizuho Vision in the Mizuho Corporate Philosophy, Mizuho updated its definition and stance regarding its Basic Policy on CSR Initiatives, taking into consideration ISO 26000 and related standards. Furthermore, CSR committees were newly established at Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities to enhance CSR initiatives. In addition to upgrading the CSR promotion system across banking, trust banking and securities, the move established two points of CSR initiative focus— finance to support the real economy and finance to meet new expectations —based on such factors as changes in the external environment and stakeholders' expectations of Mizuho. Pushing ahead with business strategies derived from the Medium–term Business Plan will exhibit the initiative perspective from a CSR angle. By taking these two perspectives into account in initiatives through our core business, Mizuho is committed to contributing to society's sustainable development as a comprehensive finance group. Promoting Group–wide Initiatives to Strengthen Business Activities and Foundations In fiscal 2012, the Group promoted group–wide CSR initiatives in eight initiative areas: thoroughly implementing the customer first; meeting social responsibilities through business activities; environmental initiatives: support for financial education; social contribution activities; creating fulfilling workplaces; corporate governance; and promoting communications. From the business activity standpoint, we took continued initiatives to provide a smooth supply of funding to customers, implemented measures to prevent financial crime, and strengthened initiatives to support recovery after the Great East Japan Earthquake. In addition, we focused on group–wide initiatives in growth areas, such as renewable energy, agriculture, and medical care. More specifically, besides loans, we formed equity funds with a view to proliferating megasolar power projects and Sixth Industry initiatives in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, provided multifaceted support from the medium– to long–term perspective in industrial and corporate fields, such as consulting that leveraged the Group's comprehensive capabilities, and responded to wide–ranging needs and problems. In addition, forming the foundation underpinning initiatives in our business activities, we focused on upgrading our governance systems for more advanced group–wide management, on nurturing human resources on a group–wide basis in banking, trust banking, and securities as well as global personnel, and on the promotion of diversity. These initiatives have been positively evaluated, and Mizuho was selected as one of the world's advanced companies in a survey of global institutional investors that assessed company measures taken against global warming. Mizuho has also received recognition as a company that serves as a model in such areas as giving women opportunities to demonstrate their abilities. For example, Mizuho was awarded the 2012 Minister's Prize from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Equal Employment/Work and Family Harmonization, which commends companies promoting equality and coexistence in the category of Companies Promoting Equality. Finance to Support the Real Economy, Finance to Meet New Expectations In the years to come, Mizuho will promote CSR initiatives that meet stakeholder expectations and that are based on, for example, changes in the external environment and international criteria. In addition, we will further strengthen initiatives in our business activities on a group–wide basis, based on the, previously mentioned newly established two points of CSR initiative focus, namely finance to support the real economy and finance to meet new expectations. In addition, regarding CSR activities as leveraging the management resources of our core business, we will work with an ongoing focus on supporting financial education. We gratefully look forward to receiving the ongoing support of each and every one of our stakeholders, as we move ahead with these endeavors. July 2013 President & Group CEO Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Our Approach to CSR and its Promotion In February 2013, we formulated the Mizuho's Corporate Identity, which serves as the concept that forms the basis of all activities conducted by Mizuho. We also updated our definition of CSR activities and our approach to these activities to reflect the new Mizuho's Corporate Identity and changes in external business conditions. At the same time, we have put in place a CSR promotion structure while identifying two additional points of initiative focus for strengthening CSR activities through our core business activities. Basic Approach toward CSR Initiatives Mizuho recognizes the importance of outlining its stance toward CSR initiatives with respect to its stakeholders. At the same time, it acknowledges the critical need for employees to pursue initiatives that reflect considerable sensitivity toward CSR in the conduct of their duties. Guided by the Mizuho Vision in the Mizuho's Corporate Identity, Mizuho updated its definition and stance regarding its Basic Policy on CSR Initiatives taking into consideration the ISO 26000 and related standards. Definition CSR initiatives entail the practice of corporate activities that reflect an unwavering awareness toward the importance of Mizuho's social responsibilities and public mission as a global financial group, take into consideration the expectations of stakeholders, and thoroughly fulfill its responsibilities toward society, which provides the basis for its existence. Basic stance Recognizing that CSR initiatives help contribute to the sustainable development of society and provide the platform for creating and advancing corporate value, Mizuho has positioned CSR initiatives as a pillar of its corporate conduct. Guided by this basic stance, the Group as a whole is promoting CSR initiatives in a consistent manner. Identifying Points of Initiative Focus Awareness of the responsibilities of corporations to society in their core business activities has continued to increase in recent years. This awareness is evident across a wide range of areas, including interest in ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility, and the concept of creating shared value (CSV), as well as the growing emphasis placed on companies to contribute further toward the sustainable development of society through their mainstay activities. Mizuho identified points of initiative focus that take into consideration the expectations of stakeholders and changes in external conditions in order to better contribute to the sustainable development of society through its mainstay activities. In order to better grasp stakeholders' expectations, we also conducted surveys and hearings with prominent individuals to ascertain their opinions. The feedback received highlighted a number of requirements across a wide range of fields. These requirements included support that takes full advantage of the comprehensive and total coordination capabilities that only a megabank can provide, efforts to take the lead from a finance perspective to foster industry over the long term, a clear message of the Group's focus on demand and its customers amid diminishing trust in the finance sector following such incidents as the sub–prime loan crisis, and the pledge to address the myriad of global issues through mainstay business activities. In light of stakeholders' expectations and changes in business conditions, Mizuho has recently identified two additional points of CSR initiative focus. Moving forward, we will place the utmost emphasis on finance to support the real economy and meet new expectations. In pushing forward the business strategies that are derived from the Medium–term Business Plan announced in February 2013, these two additional points of initiative focus reflect our emphasis on CSR. By engaging in our core business activities from the point of view of these two perspectives, Mizuho is committed to contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Points of Initiative Focus Initiative Focus Initiative Details Specific Mizuho Initiatives (1) Finance to In addition to fulfilling our role as a Special Feature on Efforts to support the key component of the infrastructure Facilitate Financing real economy that supports the economy and Special Feature on Customer society, we will contribute to the Relations development of the real economies Special Feature on Initiatives to of the world, Asia and Japan by Support the Recovery from the utilizing our specialized expertise, Great East Japan Earthquake network, and wide–ranging financial services capabilities to foster Special Feature on Actions across industry from a medium– to the Group Toward Growth Areas long–term perspective. Special Feature on Social and Environmental Considerations in (2) Finance to We will promote business and Our Business Activities meet new address the new needs of expectations stakeholders that arise from changes in society. This includes expectations toward increased convenience as well as the impact of business activities on the environment and society. Working in unison, Mizuho will continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society. Harnessing its expertise and know–how while taking into consideration the expectations of stakeholders, we will work to become a financial institution that supports the real economy and meets new expectations. The CSR Report 2013 contains details of specific initiatives from each of the aforementioned two points of focus. Putting in Place a CSR Promotion Structure CSR committees (business policy committees) have been newly established in MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC, the core companies of the Group, in order to promote CSR initiatives that reflect the business strategies of each company. In this manner, we are endeavoring to strengthen our CSR promotion structure. CSR Promotion Structure * TCSB, MHAM, DIAM, MHRI, MHIR, MHFS, Mizuho Private Wealth Management Guided by this new structure, and based on the Group's annual CSR initiatives policy deliberated by the CSR Committee of the Mizuho Financial Group, the key group companies formulate CSR initiatives policies that take into consideration individual business strategies, promote initiatives, and monitor progress. In addition, the CSR committees at MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC deliberate on specific details. From a MHFG perspective, the CSR Committee reviews and deliberates on overall summaries of the policies, promotion, and progress of each group company. The CSR Committee therefore oversees and promotes CSR initiatives for the Group as a whole. Special Feature on Efforts to Facilitate Financing Sustained Support for Customers' Business Expansion, Management Reform, and Business Revitalization Efforts Sustained Efforts in Accordance with Our Basic Policy Regarding the Facilitation of Financing In accordance with Mizuho's fundamental approach of active fulfillment of its financial intermediary function, under an appropriate risk management structure, Mizuho contributes to the sound development of its customers' businesses and the enhancement of their private lives and the economy. Mizuho has long been striving to proactively provide financial intermediary functions. While the Act Concerning Temporary Measures to Facilitate Financing for SMEs, etc. (hereinafter, SME Finance Facilitation Act ) expired as of March 31, 2013, Mizuho's approach to facilitating financing will remain unchanged going forward. Mizuho's business offices and head office will continue concertedly striving to strengthen their follow–up measures after consultations and applications regarding financing, the adjustment of loan conditions and other items and to proactively offer consulting services regarding management challenges aimed at providing problem resolution proposals, thereby fulfilling its responsibilities as a financial institution to provide sustained support for customers' business expansion, management reform, business revitalization, and other efforts based on a good understanding of customers' perspectives. Statistics on Mizuho's receipts of and responses to customers' loan modification requests in accordance with the SME Finance Facilitation Act are shown below. Implementation of measures * in accordance with Article 4 and Article 5 of the SME Finance Facilitation Act (December 2009 through March 2013) (Cases) Cases in which Cases in which borrowers are housing borrowers are SMEs loan recipients Number of loans for which an application was received for 117,293 16,775 modification of conditions Of which, number of loans for which modification of conditions 108,120 14,483 was implemented Of which, number of loans for which modification of conditions 4,591 1,154 was refused Of which, number of loans for which modification of conditions 2,843 340 is under review Of which, number of loans for which application for 1,739 798 modification of conditions was withdrawn * Totals for MHBK and MHTB Provision of Support Finely Adjusted in Line with Customer Life Cycles Responsiveness to Increasingly Diverse Needs Besides fund procurement, customer needs with respect to banks are increasingly diverse and include needs related to support for the expansion of domestic and overseas marketing routes, support for IPOs, support for business succession, etc. Corporate life cycle (evolution stages) To respond to the needs of these customers, Mizuho provides proposals of optimal solutions with respect to each customer's life–cycle stage and other special characteristics. Our business offices and head office work concertedly regarding both management consultation and management support measures. Posture regarding management support for SME customers The specialized section to support the business revitalization within Mizuho's Credit Group works intensively to provide support for SME customers' management improvement and business revitalization while the Bank's Corporate Finance Support Department and Financial Facilitation Promotion Department provide consultation and guidance to branches with respect to collaboration with external organizations, external specialists, and other financial institutions. Mizuho's solutions support units' capabilities for financing solutions and the specialized functions of Group companies are utilized to provide support for the efforts of branches and to otherwise supplement capabilities for providing SME customers with management support. Mizuho has also prepared diverse tools for moving ahead with management consulting activities carefully tailored to each customer's special situation. Depending on a given customers' situation and needs, measures can be taken to provide financial diagnosis reports, various kinds of website–based information resources, and diverse other kinds of resources. For example, the Mizuho Business Mall website offers customers personnel/labor consulting services, information on legal reforms, and industry–specific information, economic information related to interest rates, forex rates, and diverse other subjects. In addition, when necessary, customers can use the Mizuho Business Mall to make on–line requests for materials and submissions of inquiries. Working via the Mizuho Business Mall, we strive to quickly respond to customer requests. Tools for management consultations and other objectives A page from the Mizuho Business Mall website MHBK provides customers with support on a daily basis using the research functions, information provision functions, and general management–related consulting functions of MHRI and has continuously since fiscal 2010 enabled SME clients to participate in the Mizuho Business Consulting Seminars , which address management challenges and other issues. In fiscal 2012, approximately 160 companies participated in four sessions of the Business Consulting Seminars. A Class in the Business Consulting Seminars In February 2013, MHBK partnered with the Tokyo Small and Medium–Sized Enterprise Management Consultant Association (T–SMECA) to organize a new program in which the SME business consultants who are members of T–SMECA provide support to help Mizuho customers draft management reform plans. Going forward, Mizuho will continue moving ahead with its proactive measures aimed at facilitating financing while concurrently taking steps to additionally augment its array of products and services so that it can further increase the sophistication of its diverse solutions functions. Special Feature on Customer Relations On the basis of our Customer First policy, we aim to provide comprehensive financial services of the highest level that consistently satisfy customers' needs. To satisfy our customers and gain their trust, we will work to improve convenience and safety, based on customer feedback. At the same time, we will put ourselves in each customer's position to meet his or her diverse needs and expectations, leveraging the high degree of professionalism of each group company to provide products and services that meet customer needs. Efforts Made during Financial Product Marketing Activities Strengthening Measures to Respond to Our Broader Investor Base and the Advent of Increasingly Diverse Financial Products Amid the protracted low–interest–rate era, customers seeking fund management methods that offer higher yields are showing growing interest in such investments as investment trusts, stocks, and bonds, and the range of investors is becoming broader. Moreover, the types and characteristics of financial products have become increasingly diverse in recent years, and banks have begun offering products more complex than ordinary savings and time deposit accounts at their teller counters. As a consequence of these trends, banks are now positioned to meet customers' diverse fund management requirements, but another aspect of this situation is that many customers are confused about how to choose financial products. In view of this situation, MHBK has been endeavoring to upgrade its employees' skills with respect to consulting–style marketing activities, and we believe that our efforts have effectively helped customers identify and utilize the fund management methods that are the most appropriate for them personally. Proposing Fund Management Methods that Correspond to Customers' Needs and Desires Before MHBK proposes financial products to customers, it questions customers about their investment objectives, investment experience, asset situation, life stage, and other relevant factors. Based on that information, we consider a diverse array of products and do our utmost to select and propose the fund management methods that best correspond to individual customers' needs and risk tolerances. Striving to Provide Easy–to–Understand Product Explanations When providing explanations of specific products, we give a priority to explaining product mechanisms and characteristics in an easy–to–understand manner as a means of helping customers make the optimal choices. To this end, we have prepared and employ various kinds of reference materials that include summary lists of key points to be explained. In addition, our financial consultants (FCs) are equipped with iPad * multifunctional information terminals, which they use to show customers charts and other graphic materials that help them understand the mechanisms and characteristics of financial products. The visual reference materials effectively help deepen customers' understanding of financial products, and the iPads are also useful tools for various other purposes, such as quickly providing customers with the latest market information and any additional information they would like to consider. After products have been sold, FCs visit or telephone customers periodically—or in the case of such special circumstances as fluctuations in related markets that exceed a specified magnitude—to offer additional explanations about changes in the management and other aspects of the financial products they have purchased. We strongly emphasize the provision of this kind of after–sales follow–up service. Using iPads to Explain Financial Products A screenshot of iPad * iPad is a trademark of Apple Inc., which is registered in the United States and other countries. Employment of FC Instructors to Promote the Upgrading of FCs' Skills To continuously improve our employees' skills for these kinds of consulting–style marketing activities, it is crucial to systematically work to upgrade each FC's product– and market–related knowledgeability, explanation skills, and communication skills. In view of this, MHBK periodically implements group training programs within branches, organizes product study meetings with respect to newly launched products, and also provides other kinds of training needed to upgrade FC skills. In addition, all branches throughout Japan are periodically visited by one of approximately 30 FC instructors who have accumulated considerable experience in the FC field and have the role of supporting efforts at each branch to foster the development of their FCs' skills. Specifically, the FC instructors organize role–playing study meetings, sit in on FC's discussions with customers, and provide practical guidance aimed at ensuring that all FCs can steadily improve their capabilities. Going forward, MHBK will maintain its commitment to sustaining progress regarding the preparation of tools for easy–to–understand product explanations and the fostering of personnel with high levels of skills. In this way, we intend to further strengthen our consulting–style marketing capabilities so that we are positioned to provide customers with optimal products. Employee Voices Since joining MHBK and becoming an FC, I have received diverse kinds of training that has equipped me with the knowledge and know–how needed to respond to customers' diverse fund management needs. After gaining considerable work experience and striving to upgrade my own consulting–style marketing skills, I became an FC instructor, and I am now seeking to provide useful information and guidance to FCs. The mission of FC instructors is to put their accumulated experience and knowledge to use by providing FCs with practical guidance that enables them to do their jobs more effectively. We do our best to understand Asuka Kawasaki Manager, Investment Product customers' situations and perspectives, and I think we are Sales Promotion Team, training the kind of FCs who will consistently earn customers' Consulting Business gratitude. To carry out my mission as effectively as possible, I Development Division, Mizuho plan to relentlessly continue my studies of subjects related to my Bank FC instructor position going forward. Measures for Financial Crime Prevention Strengthening of Measures for Preventing Financial Crime Damages Preventing Financial Crime Damages As part of its efforts to carry out its social responsibilities as a financial institution, Mizuho has implemented various measures to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; Mizuho also implements various measures to prevent damages that may occur due to fraudulent withdrawals involving cash cards, internet banking, and other methods as well as remittance solicitation fraud and other such criminal activity. Measures for Preventing Money Laundering In recent years, international demands for measures to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorist and other problematic activities have intensified. Mizuho is working to prevent financial crimes by thoroughly undertaking confirmation procedures in accordance with relevant laws and regulations *1 when accounts are established at its branches and when transactions are made, by establishing and employing specialized units and systems to monitor suspicious and fraudulent transactions, and by other means. One representative example of these measures is our introduction, in December 2008, of an advanced Anti–Money Laundering (AML) Monitoring System of a type employed effectively by many leading European and U.S. banks. Mizuho was the first Japanese bank to introduce such a system, which positions the Bank to continuously and comprehensively monitor multiple accounts. *1 The Act on Prevention of Transfer of Criminal Proceeds (revised April 2013) Measures to Prevent Fraudulent Internet Banking Withdrawals Recently, the incidence of fraudulent internet banking withdrawals associated with phishing sites and fraudulent software programs has been increasing. To enable individual customers to use internet banking with greater safety and peace of mind, we have introduced one–time passwords (MHBK and MHTB) and a Risk-Based Authentication system *2 . We are also working to increase customers' awareness of dangerous situations by providing easy–to–understand examples of specific types of financial crimes on our websites. Risk–Based Authentication Flow Diagram *2 Risk–Based Authentication is a system for comprehensively analyzing the customer's usual computing environment and requiring additional authentication when there is concern regarding the possibility of fraudulent usage. Even in cases when a third party has obtained knowledge of passwords and other information, the requirement of additional authentication is an effective countermeasure for preventing fraudulent account usage. Measures to Prevent Remittance Solicitation Fraud *3 Remittance solicitation fraud has become a major social problem. Remittance solicitation fraud methods have become diverse, and those seen recently include pretending to be a son or grandson requesting the transfer or hand delivery of money, demanding remittances purportedly in payment for internet website usage, etc., providing financing information via direct mail or leaflets and then demanding the remittance of guarantee fees prior to the provision of financing, pretending to be a social insurance office, etc., that is purportedly undertaking medical expense refund procedures, and demanding the remittance of money. Trends in the number of remittance fraud attempts detected and the total amount of resulting damages in Japan Source: Prepared by Mizuho Financial Group based on National Police Agency materials *3 Remittance Fraud A general term referring to fraudulent solicitations of remittances, including claims to be in need of funds, sending of fictitious invoices, making fraudulent demands for security deposits, making fraudulent offers of refunds, etc. To prevent customers from becoming victims of remittance fraud, MHBK and MHTB are stepping up such wariness promotion measures as the provision of verbal reminders to customers at teller counters and ATMs and the provision of additional warnings via posters, leaflets, websites, ATM screens, and other media. Introduction to Remittance Fraud Methods A number of MHBK employees have been designated by the Metropolitan Police Department as Warning Meisters *4 in honor of their individual success in proactively warning customers about remittance fraud and preventing the incidence of such fraud on multiple occasions. We will do our utmost to prevent customer victimization by sustaining such customer alert activities at each branch of MHBK and MHTB going forward. *4 Warning Meisters are financial institution staff and others who proactively provide customers seeking to withdraw or remit large sums of money via ATMs or at teller windows with alerts and warnings and have thereby realized outstanding performance in preventing the incidence of remittance frauds. Employee Voices All of us at the Sakuradai Branch are concertedly working to prevent remittance fraud. Each time bank employees and lobby staff members interact with a customer, we are always conscious of the need to consider whether or not the appearance of the customer, the nature of the transaction in question, or other factors are cause for concern. If we have even tentative doubts, we immediately report to a supervisor in order to obtain a confirmation of the transaction and other items. Koichiro Kuno (Warning Meister) We also cooperate with the police on a daily basis, work to share Manager, Customer Service our information related to new crime incidents, implement Section, Sakuradai Branch, Mizuho Bank financial crime prevention training programs, and take other measures, including region–wide measures, aimed at maintaining the security of our customers. Special Feature on Initiatives to Support the Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Emphasizing Industrial and Regional Reconstruction Support with a Focus on Employment Creation and Housing Reconstruction Based on its recognition of its essential responsibilities and missions as a financial institution, Mizuho is concertedly marshaling its resources to help restore the lifestyles, industries, and economy of the regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, focusing its efforts primarily on areas that were directly impacted by the disaster. Having established the Tohoku Reconstruction Desk at its headquarters, Mizuho proactively engages in information exchange and liaison activities with companies, financial institutions, and local government units in disaster–stricken areas as well as related central government units so that it can maintain an accurate and timely grasp of needs and explore the most effective ways that Mizuho can make contributions to reconstruction and recovery. Currently, two years after the earthquake disaster, a considerable amount of efforts has been made to realize reconstruction and recovery, but the impacted regions still face numerous challenges, and two major themes of the challenges are employment creation and housing reconstruction. To provide the employment that will enable people in impacted regions to earn their livings, Mizuho is supporting the business revitalization of impacted companies, and it also considers the fostering of new business creation and industrial development to be important means of increasing job opportunities. Moreover, there is a need to acquire and prepare a considerable amount of land as a means of providing the many people still living in temporary housing with new dwellings. In view of these situations, Mizuho is making the most of its broad range of capabilities—including those for industrial studies, public–private partnership financing schemes, and other diverse financing methods, trust banking functions, and consulting—to provide support for industrial and regional revitalization with emphasis on employment creation and housing reconstruction. The Group is also engaged in various kinds of social contribution activities aimed at helping promote the recovery of disaster–stricken areas. Industrial Development Support Designed to Provide Employment Collaboration with Regional Financial Institutions to Support the Revitalization of Disaster–stricken Enterprises Setting up of the Mizuho Tohoku Industry Development Fund In August 2011, Mizuho set up the Mizuho Tohoku Industry Development Fund (hereinafter, the Fund) with the objective of contributing to reconstruction and revitalization efforts in the Tohoku Region over the medium to long term by providing capital funds to promote industrial development in the region. The fund provides assistance to not only Mizuho customers but also companies introduced by financial institutions in disaster–stricken areas. Drawing on a combination of Mizuho's industry knowledge, network of major corporations and financial institutions, and experience with middle market and small– and medium–sized enterprises, the Fund is collaborating with regional financial institutions to rehabilitate companies and foster industrial development in disaster– stricken areas. Providing Capital Funding to Support Corporate Business Revitalization that Promotes Economic Revitalization in Disaster–stricken Areas In March 2013, the Fund provided JPY 1 billion in funding support to Yamanishi Co., Ltd. (hereinafter, the company), a shipbuilding company based in Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture. This initiative increases the number of companies that have received support by means of the Fund to three. Established in 1920, the company is one of the Tohoku region's leading shipbuilding companies, and its facilities were severely damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster. The company has a long history and large number of employees, and providing support for the revitalization of its business operations is highly significant with respect to the economic revitalization of the disaster–stricken areas as well as the revitalization of the region's fishing industry, which is one of the regions principal industries. The damage to the company was extremely severe—after its production facilities were destroyed by the tsunami, the company was forced to discontinue almost all of its business activities for roughly a year. Various measures were taken to provide the company with support, however; its main bank, the 77 Bank Ltd., and other financial institutions forgave the company's outstanding debts and other support initiatives, and the Corporation for Revitalizing Great East Japan Earthquake–Stricken Businesses provided JPY 4 billion of support. With these conditions as a backdrop, Mizuho received a request for collaboration from 77 Bank. Based on consideration of the company's societal role in its region and other factors, the Fund was used in March 2013 to provide JPY 1 billion in funding support through the subscription of subordinated debt issued by the company. Mizuho Tohoku Industry Development Fund Operating Scheme *JVs: Joint Ventures A ship launching ceremony Support for Biomass–Fueled Electric Power Generation Business that Utilizes Forestry Resources in the Disaster–stricken Areas Supporting Efforts to Promote Renewable Energy as a Means of Revitalizing the Disaster– stricken Areas Consciousness of Japan's nationwide energy challenges has deepened since the earthquake disaster, and the utilization of renewable energy in the disaster–stricken areas is attracting increasing attention. Mizuho has previously proactively engaged in projects related to renewable energy, and it has a strong record of performance in a broad array of renewable energy–related business ranging from consulting through funding operations. Making use of its accumulated know–how to support efforts to promote renewable energy in the Tohoku region, MHIR is participating in the Fukushima Floating Offshore Wind Farm Demonstration Project and has engaged in consulting work related to biomass–fueled electric power generation in the disaster–stricken areas. During fiscal 2012, MHBK and MHRI provided multidimensional support related to wood biomass– fueled electric power generation business to Utti Kawai Co., Ltd. (hereinafter, the company), a lumber company based in Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture. Broad Range of Support for Realizing Business in Wood Biomass–Fueled Electric Power Generation The Tohoku region is rich in forestry resources but its tree harvesting and other forestry activities have been curtailed in recent years owing to such factors as a lack of successors to forestry businesses and increases in low–priced lumber imports. Moreover, harmful rumors associated with the nuclear power plant disaster have caused such problems in the disaster–stricken areas as decreases in sales of wood chips and bark with applications related to animal feeds and mushroom cultivation as well as difficulties in finding locations to dispose of waste–wood from damaged houses and other sources. On the other hand, obtaining stable supplies of wood–chips for use as fuel is the biggest challenge that must be surmounted to commercialize wood biomass–fueled electric power generation business. If logging in the disaster–stricken areas can be promoted and wood chips and waste–wood in low demand from the region can be utilized as a means of providing stable supplies of wood–chip fuel for wood biomass–fueled electric power generation business, the initiative will contribute to the solution of numerous problems, such as the need to revitalize the forestry industry, the need to make use of forestry resources, the need to expeditiously process waste–wood, and the need to create additional energy sources. For this reason, Japan's Forestry Agency has established a subsidy system for supporting the commercialization of wood biomass–fueled electric power generation business, biomass–fueled power generation has been included within the scope of Japan's Feed–in Tariff Scheme for Renewable Energy, and other diverse measures are being taken to promote such renewable power generation operations. MHBK has participated in the company's biomass power generation business initiative from the conceptual planning stage. In collaboration with MHIR, which has abundant knowledge and know–how, the Bank provided support for the drafting of a business plan. After the decision was made to commercialize this business, MHBK made full use of the Mizuho Group's broad–ranging capabilities to provide multi–dimensional and detailed support, such as the provision of introductions to power plant manufacturers, the provision of business–use land, and the provision of introductions to lawyers and other specialists. Regarding funding, MHBK has collaborated with regional financial institutions to provide the first round of financing needed to fund plant construction. Each aspect of the company's wood biomass power generation business is creating employment opportunities, such as those related to logging and wood processing activities to provide fuel and those related to power plant operations, and regional society has shown growing interest in the creation of an additional energy source and other benefits the business is expected to offer. This project is MHBK's first financing package for a renewable energy–based electric power generation business in the disaster–stricken areas. A wood biomass–fueled electric power plant Measures Designed to Facilitate Housing Reconstruction Support for Public Housing Construction in Sendai City Overcoming Challenges to Obtain Residential Land Many houses in the disaster–stricken areas were destroyed, and many people in the region are still being forced to live in temporary housing. To provide these people with new dwellings, each local government is moving ahead with plans for constructing public housing facilities. The biggest challenge on the path toward implementing those plans is the difficulty of obtaining residential land. In coastal areas devastated by the tsunami, the amount of land suitable for housing was originally small, and it has become difficult to obtain additional residential land. Moreover, local governments in the disaster–stricken areas are suffering from severe personnel shortages, and the civil engineering and construction companies tasked with the job of preparing land and constructing housing are suffering from chronic insufficiencies of necessary resources. Confronting this situation, Mizuho is leveraging the overall strengths of the Group as it seeks to find ways in which it can contribute to promoting housing reconstruction. For example, Mizuho is considering initiatives through the use of diverse financing functions, including those involving public–private partnerships, through the use of consulting functions, and through the proposal of new kinds of schemes that involve trust banking functions. Support for the Public Housing–Use Land Readjustment Project in Sendai Sendai City is planning to create 3,000 units of public housing for the victims of the disaster, but it required time to overcome challenges related to a shortage of land and other factors, and this had continued to delay the start of construction. Against this backdrop, MHBK learned that financing support was needed for the Arai–Nishi Area Land Readjustment Project (hereinafter, the Project) in Wakabayashi Ward and began considering how it could provide the requisite support for the Project and thereby promote housing reconstruction in the disaster–stricken areas. The Project calls for constructing approximately 750 housing units and 66,000 square meters of commercial zone space on roughly 46.8 hectares of land, and it will entail the provision of a large–scale financing package worth approximately JPY 10 billion to the related land adjustment association. While these characteristics make the Project highly difficult to execute, MHBK recognized that the Project is an extremely significant step toward providing disaster victims with housing. Accordingly, MHBK began providing support by collaborating with the construction company commissioned to act at the overall project representative and with the 77 Bank, Ltd., to implement the first round of financing for the Project in January 2013. The groundbreaking ceremony for the Project was conducted in June 2013, and plans call for progressively preparing and selling residential land lots during the period from fiscal 2014 through fiscal 2018. MHBK will take measures to sustain its support for this project going forward. Social Contribution Activities in the Disaster–stricken Areas Besides making use of its specialized knowledge and networks and drawing on the overall strengths of the Mizuho Group to promote recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster, Mizuho is also contributing by providing employee volunteers and saplings, organizing financial education programs in the disaster–stricken areas, and engaging in other social contribution activities in a sustained manner. Mizuho Forest Project To reforest coastal land in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture, Mizuho entered into an agreement with Fukushima Prefecture, Iwaki City, and coastal forest owners. Based on the agreement, in April 2013, Mizuho began implementing the Mizuho Forest Project, which entails the planting and maintenance of trees in a portion of the coastal disaster prevention forest area, to be named the Mizuho Forest. The project is being implemented in the Shinmaiko Coastal Forest, a coastal disaster prevention forest extending approximately seven kilometers on a north-south axis along Iwaki City’s Pacific Ocean coastline. While tree planting to create the forest is said to have been begun by the lords of the Iwaki Taira district during Japan’s Edo era, the forest was devastated by the tsunami that followed the Great East Japan Earthquake disaster in March 2011. Besides alleviating the damage caused by tsunamis, coastal disaster prevention forests help protect residences and farmland from flying sand and wind damage, so reestablishing such forests is an essential preliminary measure toward enabling people to live and resume farming activities along the coast. Of the approximately 70 hectares covered by the Shinmaiko Coastal Forest, Mizuho has designated 2.27 hectares as the Mizuho Forest. After the completion of Fukushima’s embankment construction project and other site preparation measures, plans call for planting approximately 10,000 trees per hectare of the Mizuho Forest during a roughly 1.5 year period beginning from October 2014. A total of 23,000 Japanese black pine tree saplings are to be planted. During the three years from April 2016, Mizuho will undertake forest maintenance operations, including weeding, fertilization, and supplementary planting activities. Mizuho employee volunteers will be dispatched to carry out these operations in collaboration with local organizations. Ceremony to finalize the agreement Site at which plans call for undertaking tree planting activities Financial Education in the Disaster–stricken Areas Aiming to promote the diffusion of financial education that fosters children's capacity to live, Mizuho has chosen to emphasize support for financial education within its CSR programs and began moving ahead with related initiatives in 2005. Since fiscal 2006, we have collaborated with Tokyo Gakugei University to establish a joint research project on financial education. Combining expertise from both sides, we are working to develop practical teaching tools and broaden the adoption of financial education. Making use of the results of these efforts, we are collaborating with respect to educational support activities in the disasterstricken areas. On June 22, 2012, Mizuho participated in the Career Challenge Day program held at Ofunato City in Iwate Prefecture for all that city's second-year middle school students. In place of workplace experience programs that have been difficult to implement since the earthquake disaster, the program was designed to provide opportunities to learn about different kinds of work, and 21 companies and other organizations based in Iwate Prefecture and elsewhere took part. After a lecture presented by a Mizuho employee that explained flows of money and the role of banks within society, the employee discussed the nature of bank–related work, the rewards of such work, and other topics in response to interview questions posed by students. Participating students made such comments as I think it's important to be of use to other people, and I want to do many things that benefit people in the future. I was reminded about the importance of ‘trust.’ From now on, I want to do my best to study for the future. I was thinking that I might want to seek a job at a bank in the future. The lecture portion of the Career Challenge Day program In addition, on February 4, 2013, Mizuho participated in the Collaborative Career Practical Education Forum—Make Iwate Dynamic a Decade from Now! program. The forum positioned a directly linked network of schools, companies, associations, and other entities as an asset of Iwate and was organized with the objective of building a platform for sustained practical career education programs tailored to the circumstances of individual schools. Mizuho distributed financial education textbooks and DVDs developed by the joint research project with Tokyo Gakugei University and explained how they should be used. Employee Voices When presenting information about careers, we did not merely explain the nature of work tasks but went deeper into topics related to the difficulties and rewards of jobs, and I have a feeling that we spurred the children to think more about the meaning of work and what kind of work they want to do in the future. Going forward, I would like to continue participating in educational support activities in the disaster–stricken areas so that I can contribute to children’s education. Toshiaki Nakao Manager, CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Communications Division, Mizuho Financial Group Cooperating in the Provision of Information to Evacuees To cooperate in the provision of information to disaster victims who have left Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures and taken refuge elsewhere, MHBK has obtained pamphlets and other materials issued by Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures on such subjects as post–earthquake reconstruction and revitalization efforts and is making them available at each of its offices and branches throughout Japan. Pamphlets that provide information on post–earthquake reconstruction and revitalization efforts Special Feature on Actions across the Group Toward Growth Areas In December 2012, the Japanese government drew up a policy mix of three arrows to revive the economy, comprising an aggressive financial policy, a flexible fiscal policy, and a growth strategy that encourages private–sector investment. Of these three strategies, the newly established Industrial Competitiveness Council has been discussing the development of specific practical approaches to encouraging private–sector investment, to generate sustainable growth in the Japanese economy. Drawing on its industrial knowledge and know–how and its broad–based customer network, Mizuho offers multifaceted support for growth industries and enterprises not only by providing financing but also through services from across the entire group, such as help with fund procurement, through equity fund–based investment, and management consulting. Between fiscal 2012 and the first half of fiscal 2013, Mizuho set up four equity funds and strengthened such support through provision of funding to serve as capital for growth industries and corporations. Moreover, in April 2013, MHBK launched an internal Next–generation Industrial Development PT, with the aim of promoting medium– to long–term initiatives to foster new industries. In the medium–term business plan announced in February 2013, proactively strengthening the risk–taking functions for growth industries and enterprises was likewise designated a basic strategy. Under it, the following specific business strategies are proposed: providing highly sophisticated incubation function (proactively using equity investments and funds, etc.) Group–wide, taking action across the Group Special Feature on Actions across the Group Toward Growth Areas such as agriculture, medical, senior and infrastructure industries, and contributing to the regional communities through proactive response to regional recovery and industrial development. As a provider of financial services, Mizuho will continue contributing to the national and global economy and community by stepping up its initiatives Special Feature on Actions across the Group Toward Growth Areas. Overview of equity funds in which Mizuho is involved (fiscal 2012 and the first half of fiscal 2013) Fund(s) for the Sixth Industry initiative in the agriculture, forestry, and fisheries sectors Date of formation April 2013 Scale of fund JPY 10 billion Management Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd.; other sub–funds decided on a case–by–case companies basis Investors Mizuho Bank, Ltd./Mizuho Capital/Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Fund Corporation for Innovation, Value–chain and Expansion Japan/regional financial institutions, etc. Fund characteristics Support for practitioners in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries (primary– sector employees) engaged in Sixth Industry initiatives for agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, and for participating secondary and tertiary sector businesses Mizuho Mega–Solar Fund TK Date of formation November 2012 (establishment of management companies) Scale of fund Approx. JPY 5 billion Management Mizuho Mega Solar Fund Co., Ltd. company Investors Mizuho Bank, Ltd. and others Fund characteristics Support for businesses engaged in solar power generation business within Japan Mizuho Growth Support Investment Limited Partnership (Mizuho growth support fund) Date of formation January 2013 Scale of fund JPY 10 billion Management Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. company Investors Mizuho Bank, Ltd./Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. Fund characteristics Meets corporate fund procurement needs at differing company growth stages, by making available the full spectrum of funding options from venture capital investment onwards, targeting companies in particularly promising business fields Mizuho ASEAN Investment L.P. (Mizuho ASEAN PE Fund) Date of formation March 2013 Scale of fund Up to USD 200 million Management Mizuho Asia Partners Pte. Ltd. company Investors Mizuho Bank, Ltd./Japan Bank for International Cooperation Fund characteristics Invests in local firms which have good potential in collaborating with Japanese companies (including joint ventures involving a Japanese company), to help Japanese companies set up operations in the ASEAN region, etc. Overview of Initiatives to Support Growth of Renewable Energy Implementing Wide–ranging Support, from Policy Support to Commercialization Consulting and Financial Aspects Renewable Energy Feed–in Tariff System Launched Amid the calling into question of energy supply and demand concepts that has happened since the Great East Japan Earthquake, there has been increasing interest in renewable energy, which has a number of benefits, including having minimal environmental impact, such as from CO2 emissions, and enabling energy self–sufficiency. As the Japanese government has thus been working to promote the growth of renewable energy—such as solar, wind, hydroelectric, geothermal, and biomass—a feed–in tariff system for electric power generated by these types of energy was introduced from July 2012. By calculating the total electricity generating capacity of renewable energy power generation facilities that meet certain conditions and providing a mechanism by which electric power companies can purchase that power at a fixed price over a set period of time, this system mitigates the risk of the power generation business and has been designed as a policy to attract new market entrants. Particularly in the case of solar power generation, the installation site and initial costs and the period up until the commencement of power generation present less of a hurdle to a new market entrant when compared with other forms of energy. Many corporations are showing interest, because the system enables market entry at different levels of scale, from comparatively small facilities that utilize the roofs and walls of offices to large–scale megasolar power plants. Promoting the Growth of Renewable Energy by Multifaceted Customer Support In addition to vigorously working on research studies relevant to environmental and energy issues, Mizuho has focused its efforts on loans to promote environment–friendly corporate management and facility investment. In Europe, which is engaging in renewable energy with a pioneer spirit, a large number of projects have been financed, including for wind power, solar power, and solar thermal power generation, and a wealth of experience amassed. In Japan, wide–ranging services have been offered, such as from environment–related policy support, corporate environmental management consulting, and environment–related investment fund aspects. Based on the new tariff system, Mizuho is drawing on its wealth of expertise and wide–ranging financial functions to offer support from both sides in formulating business plans for its customers to enter the solar power generation business and in providing financing. Through its nationwide branches, MHBK is offering wide–ranging support to the introduction of solar power generation facilities. For example, Mizuho is providing information on the policies and systems related to renewable energy to small– and medium–sized enterprises, proposing power generation businesses, coordinating investors and contractors, supporting the drawing up of business plans based on cash flow analysis, and providing funding support. In addition, Mizuho is deploying support centered on the provision of project financing for megasolar businesses to large corporations. Playing a central role in this regard is the Renewable Energy Task Force set up in August 2011. This cross–organizational task force plays a pivotal role in enabling the sharing of information across business divisions as well as in promoting unified responses, and it is making it possible for Mizuho to build up a top–class track record in the financial industry. In November 2012, Mizuho Mega Solar Fund Co., Ltd. was set up to target investment in the megasolar business and commenced providing equity support. Example of Use of a Solar Power Generation Project to Support Resolution of Issues Facing Management Helping Overcome a Customer's Management Challenges by Providing Support for Solar Power Introduction Proposal for Solar Power Business Utilizing a Portion of Plant Grounds Since its founding in 1885, Nippon Crucible Co., Ltd. (hereinafter, the Company), has provided industrial furnaces and refractory products used for heating and melting metals. The Company recently began considering various ways of making use of an underutilized portion of one of its plants—the Toyota Plant. Having engaged in transactions with the Company for many years and worked to help the Company overcome its management challenges, MHBK noted that the government was proceeding with deliberations regarding a fixed feed–in tariff system for renewable energy with the goal of introducing such a system in fiscal 2012. Making use of the know–how of its Industry Research Division, which had already been studying this kind of system for some time, MHBK presented the Company with an explanation of the system and a proposal for the establishment of a solar power business (hereinafter, the Business) utilizing a portion of the grounds of one of the Company's plants. The Company had been considering methods for making use of underutilized portions its plants and, during the time period before the proposal was presented, it had also noted the potential benefits of solar power generation operations. The Company had begun full–scale discussions about undertaking such business, which can be expected to provide stable income over a 20–year period while contributing to the success of government policies aimed at promoting environment-friendly energy sources. Making Use of Specialist Knowledge to Provide Detailed Support From a time before the determination of the renewable energy feed–in tariff level, MHBK had conducted detailed income/expenditure simulations based on assumed tariff levels, and MHBK also provided the Company with timely information on the progress of government deliberations regarding the tariff level and other information the Company required to move ahead with its consideration of the Business. After the Company decided to move in the direction of the commercialization of the Business, MHBK provided detailed support with respect to financing proposals as well as introductions to contractors and the supply of diverse materials needed for presenting business-related explanations to people within and outside the Company. As a result, in June 2012, the Company formally decided to undertake the business by utilizing a portion of the grounds of its Toyota Plant. A total of JPY 659 million was invested to fund the construction over roughly a half year of a solar power generation facility named Nippon Crucible Toyota Solar Park. This facility, which began generating power on March 1, 2013, is expected to generate approximately 2,200,000 kWh of power and reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 750 tons each year. By drawing on the experience and practical know–how it has gained during the course of this and other projects, Mizuho plans to continue proactively promoting renewable energy projects and supporting their implementation going forward. Nippon Crucible Toyota Solar Park Customer Voices Proactively engaged in the environmental protection and energy conservation field, our company is developing products and applications unrelated to the steel and automobile manufacturing industries, such as refractory products for applications related to nuclear power and solar power. Our new solar power business is making good use of a previously underutilized portion of our Toyota Plant’s grounds, and we expect the fixed feed–in tariff system will enable our solar power business to generate stable income over the next 20 years. Mr. Masashi Okubo Representative Director Mizuho took the initiative in providing us with support for solving Nippon Crucible Co., Ltd. all kinds of management problems associated with the business, from the business commercialization concept planning stage through the provision of funding stage. We will continue to anticipate great things from Mizuho, our main bank, going forward. Example of Support for Megasolar Project through Project Finance Project Finance for the Largest Megasolar Power Plant in Japan The Megasolar Project Proposal Kyocera Corporation (hereinafter, Kyocera ), IHI Corporation (hereinafter, IHI ), and MHBK announced in April 2012 that the three companies had reached a basic agreement to explore the feasibility of constructing the largest megasolar power plant in Japan — Nanatsujima, Kagoshima City, Kagoshima Prefecture. The project site of the megasolar power plant is approximately 1.27 million square meters (roughly the same area as 27 baseball stadiums) of land owned by IHI. The basic agreement calls for construction of a 70–megawatt solar power plant at a cost of about JPY 27.0 billion. Plans call for the generation of about 79,000MWh annually, which could provide power for about 22,000 average households *1 and offset about 25,000 tons of CO2 per year *2 . The power generation capacity of the solar cell modules is expected to be roughly equal to just under 40% *3 of the total amount of industrial–use solar power equipment shipped in Japan in 2011. Leveraging its acquired knowledge in renewable energy and project finance, MHBK focused on the megasolar power plant project prior to the start of feed–in tariffs for renewable energy, and offered Kyocera and IHI commercialization proposals and commercialization support in connection with the megasolar power plant project. These efforts were consistent with the needs of IHI to effectively utilize substantial land holdings and actively promote renewable energy, and Kyocera, which has years of experience in the solar cell business. Kyocera, IHI, and MHBK then came together to solve project–related issues one by one in a continued push toward commercialization. After these three principal partners reached agreement, knowing that local cooperation would be essential to the implementation of the project, the partners also obtained the cooperation of Kagoshima Prefecture, Kagoshima City, and other concerned parties in the region. Arranging Project Finance in Cooperation with Regional Financial Institutions Kagoshima Mega Solar Power Corporation was established as a special–purpose company in the power generation business through funding by seven companies, including Kyocera and IHI, in July 2012. Construction of the power generation plant began in September 2012 and is expected to reach completion in the fall of 2013. MHBK served as lead arranger for JPY 23.4 billion in syndicated loans in March 2013 as part of its project finance efforts, with participating investors, including the Kagoshima Bank, Bank of Kyoto, Century Tokyo Leasing, as well as regional financial institutions in the Kyushu area. In addition to solar power generation contributing to the revitalization of the Kagoshima area as it advances the environmental business, based on both its scale and the heightened social awareness it has generated, the project shows the promise of contributing to the advancement of renewable energy. Starting with this project, MHBK in FY2012 arranged project financing for eight domestic megasolar projects. Total costs of these projects were just under JPY 100.0 billion, of which arranged funding was JPY 83.0 billion. *1 Based on an average use of 3,600kWh per household. Source: Denki–no–Hiroba (Electricity Forum) of the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan *2 Based on calculations derived from Industry–level Self–regulations on Labeling provided by JPEA (the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association) *3 Based on Quarterly solar cell shipment volume in Japan as provided by the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association Rendering Establishing the Mizuho Mega Solar Fund to Support Our Customers With the aim of fostering domestic solar power businesses, MHBK decided in November 2012 to make an equity investment of JPY 5.0 billion through the Mizuho Mega Solar Fund, which was established to invest in megasolar projects. In its capacity as a front–runner in the solar power business, MHBK leverages the knowledge acquired through involvement in a series of projects, and in an effort to meet the financial needs of customers as they advance their solar power businesses, actively supports commercialization through loans and the utilization of the Mizuho Mega Solar Fund. In particular, investment through the fund addresses financial–solution needs of customers, such as reducing the investment burden as entry to, and expansion in, the power generation business progresses. The Mizuho Mega Solar Fund also decided to invest in a megasolar business with Mitsuuroko Green Energy, Recycle One, and others in March 2013. Mizuho is committed to advancing the spread of the renewable energy business to meet the diverse needs and expectations of involved companies. Structure of the Mizuho Mega Solar Fund Employee voices Discussions surrounding a new energy policy following the Fukushima－Daiichi Nuclear Plant accident have given rise to expectations for the emergence and expansion of new markets for renewable energy businesses. Accordingly, with the establishment of a cross–organizational Renewable Energy Task Force in August 2011, we have been involved in a wide range of activities beginning at the upstream level, proposing solutions to owners of idle land, supporting the commercialization of power generation businesses, and working to further match the needs of parties on both sides. Keenly aware of the importance of the Koji Shiroishi renewable energy sector as part of Japan's energy policy, we are Deputy Manager, Project working to strengthen our capacity for aggressive risk taking in Finance Team, growth industries and enterprises while actively promoting Structured Finance Division, environmental businesses. Mizuho Bank Initiatives for Medical Care Field Supporting a Medical Institution Restructuring Project to Create the Community Medical Care Systems of the Future Addressing the Tasks of Differentiating Medical Institution Functions and Promoting Regional Collaboration to Progress toward Optimal Medical and Nursing Care The rise in social security expenses associated with demographic graying has become one of the principal factors causing the deterioration of Japan's fiscal soundness. Aiming to sustain the country's social security systems despite the emerging super–aged society, the government in June 2011 released its Definite Plan for the Comprehensive Reform of Social Security and Tax —a blueprint for creating optimal medical and nursing care systems by 2025 (the so–called 2025 model ), when members of Japan's baby boom generation will be 75 or more years old. By promoting progress with respect to the differentiation and strengthening of hospital inpatient medical care functions, collaboration among medical care institutions and between medical care and nursing systems, and the improvement and strengthening of home medical care, the 2025 model aims to optimize the utilization of limited medical care resources (human, financial, and equipment resources, etc.) and indicate the direction of measures for building systems capable of more–effectively and more–efficiently providing medical care and nursing care services. The fiscal 2012 revision of medical fee reimbursement levels provides generous funding for medical care institutions that emphasize coordination with other medical care institutions and nursing care facilities, medical care institutions that emphasize home medical care programs, and medical care institutions that emphasize other management measures in line with the 2025 model. To achieve progress toward the 2025 model, Japan's medical care institutions must naturally clarify the functions that they should be responsible for while also making additional function strengthening and function converting efforts as well as additional efforts to strengthen their collaboration with other medical care institutions and nursing care providers. Reorganization of Medical/Nursing–care Functions (2025 Model) Targeted by the Definite Plan for the Comprehensive Reform of Social Security and Tax Source: Prepared by the Industry Research Division of MHBK based on Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare materials Drawing on Mizuho's Overall Strengths to Help Medical Care Institutions Overcome Management Challenges Anticipating that the healthcare industry centered on medical/nursing care services will be an important growth industry that supports Japanese society going forward, Mizuho is drawing on the Mizuho Group's overall strengths to help medical institutions throughout Japan overcome management challenges and thereby realize the 2025 model. MHBK has assigned hospital specialists to its Industry Research Division's Healthcare/Specified Corporation Team (currently, the Corporate Marketing Division's Specified Corporation Team). Working in collaboration with branches, these hospital specialists undertake discussions with medical care institution managers and strive to help them overcome the various challenges they are facing. Specifically, the hospital specialists provide up–to–date information about government– and industry–related trends, consider problem–solving measures, respond to funding needs, and offer other kinds of assistance. In addition, MHBK is collaborating with MHRI and MHIR to provide consulting services related to the various kinds of challenges that medical care institutions are facing. Support for the Integration and Restructuring of Tochigi City's Community Medical Care Centers One example of the kinds of initiatives Mizuho has been making to overcome the management challenges faced by medical care institutions is the support it has provided for the Community Medical Care Restructuring Project (hereinafter, the Project) being implemented in the southern area of Tochigi Prefecture, which has found it difficult to sustain community medical care systems owing to shortages of physicians and other factors. The Project aims to effectively use limited medical care resources and realize high–quality medical care by integrating and restructuring three leading hospitals in Tochigi City—Tochigi Prefecture Welfare Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives Shimotsuga General Hospital (467 beds), Yokikai Tochinoki Hospital (165 beds and a long–term geriatric nursing care facility annex with 50 beds), and the Shimotsuga–gun Municipal Medical Association Hospital (112 beds)—and thereby establish a large–scale and comprehensive medical center able to effectively serve the local community by meeting a wide range of medical and nursing care needs. Specifically, by renovating and reconstructing existing hospital wards, obtaining additional land, and taking other initiatives, the Project aims to create two community hospitals with clearly differentiated roles (a medical care center focused on acute, sub–acute, and secondary emergency patients and a medical care center focused on recovery and chronic care patients) along with a general healthcare support center responsible for operating geriatric nursing facilities as well as providing support for medical examinations and home care services. This large–scale project is designed to generate a high level of social benefits, and it has been allotted a special grant from the national government for community medical care rehabilitation projects as well as other grants and subsidies from the national government, Tochigi Prefecture, and Tochigi City that, together, are expected to total JPY 8.8 billion. Since the 2011 announcement of the merger of the three hospitals, MHBK's Tochigi Branch, hospital specialists in MHBK's Industry Research Division (currently, the Corporate Marketing Division), and MHRI medical institution management consultants worked together to gain an understanding of the needs of Tochigi City as well as long–term customer Yokikai Tochinoki Hospital and provide sustained support to meet those needs. Specifically, Tochigi City's Community Medicine Countermeasures Office was supplied with marketing information on the surrounding medical care environment and other subjects, and concurrent management support measure proposals were made along with introductions to potential partner companies with capabilities for helping improve hospital management systems. MHRI presented a medical care management support plan proposal. In these and other ways, the Mizuho Group dynamically provided support for measures aimed at realizing improved community medical care systems. As a result, the Tochigi District Medical Center (tentative name) Establishment Preparation Committee (hereinafter, the Committee) decided in June 2012 to commission MHRI to perform consulting work related to the Project, and the institute has subsequently provided various kinds of support, including the drafting of a basic plan for new hospital ward construction; the creation of organizational, personnel, and other systems for the medical center; the creation of all types of implementation systems for the new corporation operating the medical center; the implementation of procedures for establishing the new corporation; and the drafting of management strategies. The Project has progressed while creating a solid foundation for ensuring transparency and creating optimal community medical care systems in line with the customer's wishes. At the time of the selection of contractors to design new hospital wards, for example, after consultation with the Committee, the public proposal method was employed to ensure transparency. This open–type method entailed identifying a limited number of design companies that have demonstrated their construction work performance capabilities, inviting those companies to directly make presentations to the managers of the Project, the immediate evaluation of the presentations, and the same–day announcement of the evaluation results. In addition, the integration and reorganization process was designed to help overcome challenges associated with medical care personnel shortages. The hospital with acute stage care capabilities, the geriatric nursing facility, the general healthcare support center focused on examinations, and other facilities each had to be assigned specific functions so that—despite the diverse duties, work schedules, and other employment conditions of medical staff members—work environments could be created that enable each member of the medical staff to make the most of his or her respective capabilities. In view of this need, MHRI proposed a post–integration/reorganization organizational and personnel system in which all medical staff members would be directly employed by a newly established entity, the Tochigi Medical Center General Incorporated Foundation. As a result of the acceptance of this proposal, an organizational and personnel system has been created that allows for flexibility in the assignment of personnel to multiple facilities based on consideration of each employee's capabilities, experience, age, physical condition, and family situation. In addition, a management by objectives and an evaluation system have been positioned at the center to enhance the motivation of its medical staff members and other employees by systematically ensuring that employee performance will be appropriately evaluated. In these ways, diverse workplaces have been created along with an environment designed to enable medical staff members to sustain their work for protracted periods, and this is expected to lead to a further improvement in the quality of community medical care services. In addition, a regional health care information system has been created to enable the sharing of medical records with other hospitals and clinics in the region, and plans call for the progressive implementation of additional measures designed to promote the strengthening of medical and nursing care–related collaboration among facilities throughout the southern area of Tochigi Prefecture. With respect to corporate functions, the concentration of planning, personnel, accounting/finance, and procurement functions within the medical center's headquarters will enable the corporation to undertake unified initiatives and create an environment that will facilitate efforts to increase efficiency and upgrade the quality of operations. Besides supporting the creation of these management systems, Mizuho plans to collaborate with regional financial institutions in providing the newly established corporation with working capital. Regarding funding needs associated with the construction and operational inauguration of new hospital wards going forward, Mizuho is considering the organization of syndicated loans in cooperation with regional financial institutions, and it plans to sustain its various kinds of support for the corporation over the long term. Artist's Rendition of New Hospital Building (prepared by Yamashita Co., Ltd., at the pre–basic–design stage) Employee Voices This kind of project, which involved the integration of public– and private–sector hospitals to create a large–scale medical care center that will be the core medical care unit in its region, is still extremely rare in Japan at this point. It will be attracting considerable attention going forward as a model case that can help indicate the ideal direction of the future evolution of the country's community medical care systems. Besides high–quality medical service provision capabilities, medical care institutions must have solid management systems to support those capabilities. As it prepares for additional Yuichi Watanabe Senior Consultant, Management initiatives designed to strengthen Japan's community medical Strategy Team, care systems going forward, MHRI is planning to work in close Consulting Department, Mizuho cooperation with MHBK and other partners in efforts to enable Research Institute medical care institutions to overcome the various management challenges they face. Initiatives for Agriculture Helping Make Japan's Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries New Growth Industries Revitalization through Collaboration with Secondary and tertiary Sector Enterprises As the need grows for high–quality food supplies due to world population growth and rising incomes in emerging countries, it is predicted that demand for food will increase globally in the future. In light of these trends, as well as the low level of food self–sufficiency in Japan, it is clear that agriculture, forestry, and fisheries (the three industries) form promising future growth industries, as the base of the food supply chain. However, in Japan, these sectors are beset by problems. The scale of operations is small, practitioners are often part–time, with second jobs, and the rising old–age dependency ratio and lack of successors are becoming serious issues. As things stand, Japanese farming, forestry, and fishing are not sufficiently competitive as independent industries, despite Japan’s bountiful climate and other natural assets, its highly sophisticated technologies, and its wealth of machinery and material inputs. In recent years, various measures have been undertaken to regenerate and reinvigorate these three industries under the Sixth Industry initiative. This is a drive to promote stable growth and development of the three sectors and revival of the regions, by increasing added value in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries through the integration of their production, processing, and logistical operations under a model in which their practitioners (primary sector workers) not only supply the raw materials, but also take a core, comprehensive role in secondary sector (manufacturing and processing) and third sector (wholesale, retail, and tourism) activities. A range of initiatives has already been launched, including capital and operational alliances linking agriculture, forestry, and fisheries professionals with food processors and local logistics companies, as well as the establishment of businesses for direct marketing and home delivery of local produce in both its original and processed states, and of directly operated restaurants. Measures are also under way to encourage the entry of secondary and tertiary sector companies into these primary industries, and to promote their alliance and collaboration with enterprises in these three industries, to spur the development of local business and the creation of new industries. Green Light for JPY 10 Billion Fund to Help Create New Growth Industry In a measure to promote the Sixth Industry initiative, the government in December 2010 promulgated the Law Concerning Creation of New Businesses through Local Resource Use by the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Sectors, etc., and the Promotion of Local Use of Products of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries ( Sixth Industry and local production for local consumption legislation), and began to provide support through such measures as grants and deregulation. Furthermore, in August 2011, the Law for Establishment of the Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Fund Corporation for Innovation, Value–chain and Expansion Japan (A–FIVE–J Foundation) was enacted. It was decided to establish a JPY 10 billion Fund for the Conversion of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries into Growth Industries, with the aim of supporting businesses engaged in the Sixth Industry initiative for these three sectors. Investors in this fund include the A–FIVE–J Foundation, financial institutions, and local government bodies. The fund comprises multiple sub–funds created for specific regions and themes, and for each sub–fund, project proposals under the Sixth Industry initiative are solicited and identified, based on specific regional characteristics and themes. After a review of the project plans by the A–FIVE–J Foundation, subordinated loan capital is provided as necessary to businesses that have received approval from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, with investment and management support lasting up to 15 years. How the Fund for the Conversion of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries into Growth Industries Works Using investment and subordinated loan capital from the fund, businesses can launch new ventures without needing large amounts of equity capital, and can also more easily access financing from financial institutions due to the bolstering of their financial position. Another advantage is that workers in the three sectors can become involved in pricing, by leveraging partner companies’ know–how and marketing channel networks. Moreover, collaboration with workers in the three sectors gives partners from the secondary and tertiary sectors opportunities to improve food product quality and so better differentiate their own food products and menus, and to develop export businesses by harnessing the quality and brand strength of Japanese agriculture, forestry, and fisheries products. Furthermore, the regional financial institutions and local government bodies participating in the fund benefit from increased business opportunities, on the back of the growth of local enterprises in the three industries, and expanded tax revenues from local economic development and increased employment creation. Support for the Sixth Industry Initiative Based on a Wealth of Investment Experience and a Nationwide Network At Mizuho, we see the revitalization and industrialized development of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries as not only improving Japan's food self–sufficiency ratio, but also being key to resolving major issues, such as expansion of internal domestic demand, creation of employment, recovery in the earthquake–hit Tohoku (northeastern) region, and regional economic revival across Japan. Based on this belief, in February 2013, we announced the launch of a preparatory framework ahead of the creation of the Fund for the Conversion of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries into Growth Industries, and in April 2013 invested JPY 250 million in the 'Sixth Industry' regional fund for Fukushima Prefecture. In addition to providing risk money through alliances with regional financial institutions and local government bodies, Mizuho has partnered with Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd., which has a wealth of experience in funding and management support for venture enterprises, to support the Sixth Industry initiative in agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, through involvement in the establishment of funds in all parts of the country. While regional financial institutions and government bodies with strong local roots take the lead in the project, regarding the identification of targets for sub–funds and business–matching services, Mizuho, with its nationwide and global networks, will focus on bringing to bear its industrial expertise and broad customer base to identify potential producer–partner pairings. As part of preparatory measures, a Sixth Industry Initiative Support Desk is being set up at MHBK. Mizuho is committed to contributing to the conversion of agriculture, forestry, and fisheries in Japan into growth industries and the revitalization of regional economies, by providing broad–based support, including in the formation and operation of the funds and in fund procurement and business–matching. Initiatives for the Asian Region Leveraging the Experience and Expertise Acquired in Japan to Participate in the Development of Asia Asia continues to exhibit economic growth surpassing that of the developed economies. At the same time, the region has substantial capital needs for robust levels of private capital investment and the development of social infrastructure. It is noted that not only large Japanese companies but small– to medium–sized Japanese companies as well are steadily expanding in the area, which is seen not only as a production base, but also a consumer market. Mizuho views Asia as a key strategic region and through the leveraging of its knowledge of the region and the expertise gained as a financial services group, it continues to actively foster operational alliances with local financial institutions and government offices. At the same time, we are contributing to the economic and social development of Asia by supporting the growth of local businesses and Japanese firms establishing a presence in the region, and the development of the financial and capital markets in Asia. Asian Bond Market Development Conference The heads of a group of Asian financial institutions gathered on October 13, 2012 in Tokyo to discuss Asian bond markets. At the meeting, financial institutions discussed the need to develop bond markets within the Asian region as an important part of the infrastructure to support the ongoing economic development in Asian nations and other issues including the role that each financial institution needs to play in that development. An agreement for mutual cooperation was reached to promote the development of Asian bond markets. Mizuho will continue to cooperate with the participating financial institutions to contribute to economic development in the Asian region. <Financial institutions Attending the Meeting> Bangkok Bank, DBS Group Holdings / DBS Bank, Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, KDB Financial Group / Korea Development Bank, Mizuho Financial Group, Bank Negara Indonesia, Shinhan Financial Group, State Bank of India, Bank of the Philippine Islands, Maybank Participants of the Asian Bond Market Development Conference Establishing the Mizuho ASEAN PE Fund Member states in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are expected to show strong economic growth going forward, surpassed only by China and India. Measures such as the expansion of the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) are expected to contribute to the further integration of ASEAN member states and non–member states, giving the region the potential to become a major economic zone. MHBK established the Mizuho ASEAN PE Fund (hereinafter the fund ) in March 2013 as a private equity fund to invest in local businesses, including joint ventures involving Japanese firms, in the ASEAN region. Together with the establishment of the fund, the company launched Mizuho Asia Partners Pte., Ltd (hereinafter, MAP ), a wholly owned subsidiary, as a fund management company. The primary objective of the fund is to assist the expansion of Japanese firms, particularly small– and medium–sized enterprises, into the ASEAN region by investing in local companies. Specifically, the fund aims to partner with Japanese firms to invest jointly in companies located in the ASEAN region thereby assisting the management of the invested companies. With the aim of promoting the creation of alliances between Japanese and local firms, the fund will also seek out and invest in local companies that have the potential to be good investment opportunities for Japanese firms. The fund was established with the target amount of USD 200 million. In addition to MHBK committing the maximum of USD 125 million to the fund, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation has committed the maximum of USD 25 million, having signed a Memorandum of Understanding with MHBK to support the development of overseas operations of Japanese firms in cooperation with the fund. MHBK and MAP continue to support the growth of Asian companies, as well as small– and medium–sized Japanese firms, through use of the fund, as well as by leveraging the Group's wide–ranging network of partners (including local financial institutions), and the knowledge of the region gained to date. Schematic Representation of the Fund Special Feature on Social and Environmental Considerations in Our Business Activities Mizuho recognizes its social responsibility as a global financial group to contribute to the sustainable development of society. Specifically, Mizuho aims to take a comprehensive approach to the development of its business activities that factors in economic, environmental, and social considerations. In order to advance these efforts given the specialized nature of the financial industry, Mizuho is an active participant in initiatives, such as The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society. When participating in loan operations for large–scale development and construction projects, MHBK has sought to ensure both environmental protection and economic development through financing operations that are based on The Equator Principles, which were adopted by the company in 2003 and provide a framework to ensure full consideration of the social and environmental impacts of such projects. In investment activities as well, MHTB, along with DIAM, is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which ensure that institutional investors incorporate environmental, social, and corporate governance issues into their decision–making processes. Based on the spirit of PRI, MHTB and DIAM have incorporated items related to the environment, society, and corporate governance as indicators into some of their funds, and take those indicators into consideration when exercising their voting rights. In considering environmental and social concerns in its operating processes, Mizuho Bank has been promoting the Heartful Project, which adopts universal design principles making bank branches barrier–free, with an aim toward making the bank one that is easy for anyone to use regardless of age, gender, or disability. In an effort to reduce the environmental impact of business activities, we are also promoting throughout the Group measures aimed at fostering a society that places an emphasis on recycling and energy conservation. Mizuho and its Involvement with the Equator Principles Applying the Equator Principles to Large–scale Project Finance There is a growing interest among stakeholders regarding how banks address environmental and social considerations as a part of project finance operations for large–scale development efforts. MHBK became the first Asian bank to adopt the Equator Principles in 2003 and has since addressed regional environmental and social issues tied to funded projects in compliance with these principles. MHBK served as Secretariat Bank for the Equator Principles Financial Institutions from November 2006 to July 2008, and from 2010 played a leading role in the organization's activities as a member of the Steering Committee. In an effort to increase the reliability of disclosures, MHBK from FY2012 secured third–party verification * of the number of projects shown on the company's website as screened based on the Equator Principles. * Refers to verification of the number of projects listed on the Mizuho website as screened based on the Equator Principles (broken down by category, sector, and region). Revision of the Equator Principles It has been 10 years since the launch of the Equator Principles, and there are increasingly strong calls from society at large for companies to actively address environmental and social concerns, including, first and foremost, climate change. We believe such an environment calls for a stepped–up approach to the Equator Principles, and, to meet the demands of society, the Equator Principles Association in June 2013 revised the Equator Principles. There were two key revisions, one of which is an expansion in scope. Prior to revision, the Equator Principles were applied to project finance with total capital costs of USD 10 million or more. However, after the revisions, corporate loans and bridge loans tied to large–scale project financing would also fall under the scope of the Equator Principles. The second point concerns the strengthening of information disclosure regulations. Prior to revision, financial institutions participating in projects falling under the scope of the Equator Principles required the client to submit environmental and social impact assessment reports to them. Following the revisions, the client will be requested to post such information on a website so that it may be easily viewed by any interested parties. Increasing Consideration of Biodiversity In countries around the world, the movement over the last several years to develop and strengthen legal systems for the conservation of biodiversity has been steadily gathering momentum, and companies in these countries are also being asked to participate. As an example, the European Commission in December 2011 announced the EU Biodiversity Strategy to 2020, which aims to propose by 2015 an initiative to ensure there is no net loss of ecosystems and their services. In addition, the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group, has issued guidelines entitled IFC Performance Standards, and these have been adopted by the Equator Principles Association. The biodiversity preservation provisions of these standards were strengthened in January 2012. In response to these developments, MHBK joined as a proposed member with the Equator Principles Association, the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association, and the International Council on Mining and Metals in February 2013 to establish the Cross Sector Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), which will consider measures and strategies to reduce the impact of large–scale development projects on biodiversity. MHBK in March 2010 joined the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP), an international initiative aimed at fostering a global framework for the creation of biodiversity offsets. Since joining as one of the first private financial institutions, the company, in the course of developing a framework, has been able to accumulate valuable know–how related to biodiversity offsets. Mizuho intends to leverage the know–how gained through these efforts, while continuing to foster with its customers a more comprehensive framework aimed at preserving biodiversity as part of its own investment activities. Examples of Applying the Equator Principles Supporting the Largest LNG Project in Japan's History of Energy Development Large–Scale Project that Could Supply 10% of Japan's LNG Import Volume Natural gas produces less CO2 and NOx during combustion than other fossil fuels and also has a smaller environmental impact throughout its entire life cycle. Therefore countries around the world are accelerating the shift from oil to natural gas and demand for natural gas is soaring. Japan has been the world's largest importer of LNG (liquefied natural gas), and the import volume is increasing sharply due to the tight supply–demand balance of energy following the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011. In such an environment, one large–scale LNG development project that will have a particularly large impact on the stability of Japan's energy supply is now under way. This is the Ichthys LNG Project (hereinafter, the Project ) off the coast of Western Australia, which is being implemented by INPEX Corporation (hereinafter, INPEX ) and its partners. The Project involves drilling in natural gas fields off the coast of Western Australia, construction of a subsea pipeline extending about 889 kilometers from the location to Darwin, Northern Territory, and construction of an onshore LNG liquefaction plant in Darwin. This is a large–scale project producing 8.4 million tonnes of LNG per annum, which represents about 10% of Japan's total annual LNG import volume, and an important project for securing energy supply to Japan. This is also a groundbreaking project from the point of view that a Japanese company is serving as the project operator. Supporting the Project as a Financial Advisor Due to the size of the Project, the project cost would amount to USD 34.0 billion. A financial advisor plays a particularly important role in financing such large–scale projects, working closely with the project developer from the planning stage and coordinating the interests of a number of financial institutions involved to achieve optimal financing. This advisory role requires not only considerable expertise and experience in financing, but also a wealth of knowledge related to the management of resource–development projects. MHBK has played the extremely important role of financial advisor for this Project. After INPEX confirmed the natural gas reserves through exploratory drilling, MHBK, from the Project's development stage, has had continued discussions with the company about the financing. MHBK signed a financial advisory agreement in 2009, and, in a bid to secure optimal financing, has provided comprehensive advice, including review of the project development plan, LNG sales contracts and construction contracts and advice related to environmental regulations. Consequently, in December 2012 MHBK has successfully arranged a USD 20 billion project finance package involving eight export credit agencies and 24 commercial banks, which is the largest ever in the international financial market, and achieved a significant milestone for the successful development of the Project. Environmental and Social Considerations as a Key to the Project's Success One of the most important points in arranging project finance is minimizing the project risk to encourage financial institutions to provide loans. While this, of course, requires rigorous investigation on profitability and reliability, it is also critical to ensure that the Project is a sustainable project in harmony with the natural environment and the local community. MHBK became the first Asian bank to adopt the Equator Principles in 2003 and now plays a leadership role as a member of the Steering Committee for the Equator Principles Association. Leveraging the knowledge and expertise gained from our experience, we offered advice to INPEX as the project operator regarding appropriate strategies and considerations related to environmental and social issues. INPEX has, for many years, been involved in a number of resource development projects in Japan and overseas, and has accordingly established high standards of environmental and social impact management from its own perspective. MHBK checked the measures which the Project had already taken from the financing viewpoint against the Australian environmental regulations and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) standards on which the Equator Principles are based, and supported INPEX to develop action plans to close the gaps. Then MHBK negotiated with lenders on how to reflect the action plans in the loan agreements with a view to balancing the interests of the operator and the lenders. In this manner MHBK arranged the large–scale financing step by step. Supporting Efforts to Promote Sustainable Economic Development and Minimize Environmental Impact The environmental and social impact management for this Project covers very broad areas. In addition to conducting detailed hearings on the management plans, MHBK supported INPEX's initiative drawing on its expertise in environmental and social matters and more than 30 years of experience in LNG development projects. Considering the nature of offshore resource development, the Project has given special consideration to biodiversity. For example, to protect rare marine animals, such as dugongs and dolphins, the Project decided to avoid underwater blasting in dredging operations and to employ a specialized cutter to scrape away the bedrock. In addition, the Project has plans to minimize green–house gas emissions in the LNG production process and offset the CO2 emissions by forestation. Dolphins in Darwin Harbour Forestation Efforts From the viewpoint of social impact management, the Project aims to limit its impact on fishing areas. As part of this, it agreed to reduce the length of the jetty located nearby local fishing areas. Additionally, by providing assistance in the construction of vocational schools, the Project is actively supporting the creation of employment opportunities and the fostering of human resources that can contribute to the development of the local economy. The Project is taking a variety of actions to promote the development and sustainability of the local community in a broad context, including preservation of the cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples. The basis of these considerations is mutual understanding with the local community through close communication. As part of the implementation of this Project, INPEX has actively promoted information sharing and discussions with the local community since the planning stages, through consultation with local representatives and briefing sessions. This approach has helped the Project to take actions closely fitted to the needs of the local community and won positive recognition of the Project. In a recent survey, more than 80% of the local residents showed support for the Project. Vocational Training School Continued Monitoring throughout the Project Life Following the construction work of the Project facilities, drilling of production wells and commissioning, the Project will start production by the end of 2016. Sales and purchase contracts have already been signed for 100% of the expected LNG production volume, and approximately 70% of it will be supplied to Japan. The Project is expected to remain in operation for about 40 years, and MHBK intends to conduct monitoring of the operations on an ongoing basis. Specifically, MHBK intends to review reports from the operator and the lenders' environmental consultants and provide advice on an appropriate course of action as necessary, to support the Project which contributes to a stable supply of energy for Japan. Employee Voices The Ichthys Project is a very significant project as it serves to ensure a stable supply of energy that is indispensable to Japanese industry. We are not only proud but grateful to have been given the opportunity to contribute toward the success of the Project. MHBK was able to carry out the important responsibilities of financial advisor thanks to its expertise and long experience in project finance as well as the expertise of the Sustainable Development Department as an environmental and social Kentaro Sakaguchi Vice President, Project Finance specialist division within MHBK. – Energy and Natural Resources, In this Project we have gone through various negotiations with Global Structured Finance financial institutions on how to minimize project risks, including Division, Mizuho Bank environmental and social impacts, and how to reflect that in loan agreements. We believe Mizuho's keener eye toward recognizing risks made a big difference in this area. With this accumulated knowledge, we would like to make contributions from the financial side to the success of projects which promote sustainable development of economy and society, and also to provide the best support to our customers. Special Feature on Corporate Governance Advanced Group Management Structure Mizuho has been aiming to build the most effective and advanced group management structure. This includes taking advantage of the characteristics and competitiveness of being the only Japanese banking group that holds its own bank, trust bank and securities company and moving to a new group capital structure and new group operational structure and the strengthening of group governance that aim to promote timely and unified group strategic planning under the strong governance of the holding company. New Group Capital Structure In January 2013, our two securities subsidiaries merged to establish a new MHSC, thereby creating a structure to provide securities functions in a unified manner as Mizuho's full–line securities company. In April 2013, MHFG turned the new MHSC, which had been a consolidated subsidiary of MHFG, into a directly–held subsidiary of MHFG and moved to a new group capital structure, placing the banking, trust banking, securities and other core group companies under the direct control of the holding company. Furthermore, in July 2013, MHCB and MHBK conducted a merger. New Group Capital Structure Strengthening Governance to Support the Unified Group Strategy We have strengthened our governance structure from a group–wide perspective to support the unified group strategy. To establish an advanced group management structure, we had clarified the role of Group CEO, enhanced the independence of the consultative body to the Board of Directors, and unified corporate planning and management units. In addition to these initiatives, in April 2013, we strengthened unified group–wide strategy operations through the holding company. First, in addition to the President and CEO of the new MHBK, MHTB and MHSC Presidents also became standing members of the Executive Management Committee at MHFG. Secondly, we strengthened our ability to respond to challenges in supporting unified group management by executive officers in charge of corporate planning and management at MHFG serving, in principle, concurrent roles at group companies including MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. We also clarified the positioning of group chief officers in the corporate planning and management functions at MHFG. Furthermore, we established various relevant working groups (WG) under the Business Policy Committees at MHFG and the new MHBK for the purpose of specialized and intensive studies on important themes. These WG include WG on risks involved in rise in long–term interest rates, WG on foreign currency funding, WG on cross shareholdings, and WG on enhancing group management system across banking, trust and securities functions. New Group Operational Structure In April 2013, we moved to a new group operational structure that enables MHFG to determine strategy and initiatives and formulate business plans corresponding to each unit responsible for business strategy promotion across group–wide banking, trust banking, securities and other business areas. Specifically, MHFG established ten business units and head–office coordination divisions to determine strategy and initiatives across group–wide banking, trust banking, securities and other business areas based on the ten business units across MHCB and MHBK under the substantive one bank structure launched in April 2012. MHFG also established five group strategy conferences (Group Retail Strategy Conference, Group Wholesale Strategy Conference, Group International Strategy Conference, Group Asset Management Strategy Conference and Group Markets Strategy Conference) to deliberate on important matters in terms of group business strategy among the multiple relationship management units and products units that relate to similar customer attributes. Under this operational structure, MHFG will determine overall group strategy as well as segment strategy across the group, and each group company will determine entity–level plans in accordance with MHFG's strategy. Strengthening Governance to Support the Unified Group Strategy Going forward, Mizuho will sustain its efforts to create highly advanced group management structures that offer optimal effectiveness. Special Feature on Employee Relations To respond to economic globalization and the increasing diversity of consumer needs, while seeking to increase Japan's economic vitality despite the country's progressive demographic graying and shrinking labor force, it is becoming increasingly important to foster the development of global human resources and make use of a diverse employee base, without discriminating on the basis of nationality, gender, or other individual characteristics. Moving ahead with related initiatives is becoming an important management objective for companies. In April 2013, Mizuho instituted its new HR Vision. based on its corporate philosophy as a means of clearly articulating its vision with respect to human resource management. In addition, one of the strategies in the Medium–term Business Plan Mizuho announced in February 2013 calls for allocating and developing human resources on a group–wide basis, and we are emphasizing the implementation of measures related to this objective. Specifically, we are seeking to allocate and develop human resources for our banking, trust banking, and securities businesses on a group–wide basis to foster the development of global human resources, and promote an increase in the number of women in managerial positions, thereby establishing a human resource base that is optimal for supporting the successful execution of Mizuho's business strategies. Institution of the New Vision for Human Resources To realize one of the fundamental tenets of Mizuho's Corporate Identity— bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate —we believe it to be important to ensure that all employees share a common understanding of the corporate philosophy in a way that instills a corporate culture in which all employees are autonomously inspired to implement optimal initiatives. To help realize this objective, we are doing our utmost to implement human resource management policies that are in accordance with the newly instituted HR Vision. . HR Vision (established April 1, 2013) Mizuho Financial Group firmly believes that the personal development of individual employees contributes to the stable and sustainable growth of Mizuho as a whole. Mizuho recognizes those employees who put the Mizuho Values into practice, and helps employees to create a more fulfilling life through their work. Mizuho encourages employees to utilize their strengths, and provides opportunities for them to use their skills and to develop their abilities. Mizuho encourages employees who differ in terms of gender, country of origin, cultural background, and values to understand, respect, and inspire each other. Mizuho works with its employees to create a corporate culture that encourages people to be passionate about and to take pride in their work. Allocating and Developing Human Resources on Group–wide Basis Eliciting Group Synergies As the only Japan–based banking group with a full array of banking, trust banking, and securities operations, Mizuho is aiming to further strengthen collaboration among Group units as a means of providing a wide range of seamless financial services to its customers in a direct and timely manner. To this end, besides flexibly transferring employees among the Group banking, trust banking, and securities units (arranging transfers accompanied by changes in corporate affiliations), we are seeking to employ trainee postings, secondments, and other methods to foster the Group–wide and global development of distinctively Mizuho human resources while also flexibly employing strategic human resource management methods designed to support diverse Group business strategies. Integrated Utilization and Development of Global Human Resources in Japan and Overseas Mizuho's medium–term business plan includes the vision of being the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Japan, and the rest of Asia. To realize this vision, we believe that each Group employee working in Japan or overseas must adopt a broad, global perspective. Based on this idea, Mizuho has established a Global Career Management Department within its Group Human Resources Division and is seeking to strengthen its global human resource functions and systems in an integrated manner in Japan and overseas while also taking diverse initiatives aimed at fostering the development of global human resources. Strengthening Global Human Resource Functions and Systems To strengthen its systems for utilizing human resources globally, Mizuho is moving ahead with measures—including the creation of a human resource database with information on approximately 6,000 international staff members—to establish an integrated human resource management system encompassing operations in Japan and overseas. In addition, by transferring international staff to posts in Japan, expanding the hiring of non–Japanese university students in Japan, and taking other initiatives, we are accelerating the globalization of our domestic operations. Measures for Fostering the Development of Global Human Resources Manager Training at Overseas Bases Working in collaboration with external educational institutions, Mizuho is establishing manager training programs at its overseas bases with the objective of intensifying the development of distinctively Mizuho global human resources who share a common understanding of Mizuho's Corporate Identity. Measures to Foster the Development of National Staff Human Resources Mizuho is proactively working to foster the development of National Staff human resources through training and career development programs. In fiscal 2012, more than 100 National Staff members participated in training programs in Japan and were given opportunities to interact with domestic employees engaged in day–to–day business operations and to visit Japanese corporate customers as a means of strengthening collaboration between Japanese and overseas bases. Employee Voices In May 2013, I participated in a training program in Japan. In the course of the program, I was able to directly observe the highly professional attitudes of my colleagues working in Japan as well as other aspects of Japan's unique business culture, and I was particularly impressed by the way that each individual employee gives top priority to meeting customer needs and strives to improve the quality of the services he or she provides. As a result, I feel motivated to do my utmost to perform my work in China while giving even greater emphasis than before to the customer first philosophy, and I am hoping that this will Swallow Zhang accelerate the momentum of my personal development as a Manager, Shenzhen Branch, Mizuho Mizuho employee. I am very pleased that the training program is Corporate Bank (China) Co., enabling National Staff members to gain a better understanding Ltd. of operations at headquarters in Japan and is providing us with opportunities to exchange information directly with branch employees with whom we previously could only interact with by means of telephone calls. I am looking forward to the expansion of this training program so that a growing number of my subordinates in China can also participate going forward. Measures Focused on Employees Working in Japan Mizuho has expanded its systems for supporting the efforts of employees working in Japan to improve their skills through measures such as the establishment of the Mizuho Global Communications Club, which helps employees upgrade their English–language skills and promotes improved understanding of different cultures, as well as the establishment of a home–stay program that arranges for National Staff members participating in training programs in Japan to live at the homes of Japan–based employees. In addition, to augment the overseas living experience of relatively young employees, we are proactively offering opportunities to study abroad and join training programs at overseas bases. In fiscal 2012, we sent approximately 100 young employees overseas. A meeting of the Mizuho Global Communications Club A National Staff member participating in the home–stay program Measures to Promote Women's Career Development and Sound Work–Life Balances Mizuho has established a Four R's basic policy for women focused on the concepts recruit (promote active hiring of women), raise (promote women to managerial positions), retain (maintain or increase employee motivation by moving forward with the development of conditions allowing them to freely exercise their capabilities), and relate (actively promote internal and external dialog to encourage a change in consciousness for the organization as a whole). This policy is designed to enable female employees to make full use of their abilities and realize workplace environments that inspire employees to feel motived to work and take pride in their work. In addition, we are emphasizing measures to promote sound work–life balances so that employees can continue working while maintaining harmony between their work and their private lives. Helping Women Advance in Their Careers Awarded Minister's Prizes in Equal Employment/Work and Family Harmonization Mizuho was awarded the 2012 Minister's Prize from Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in Equal Employment/Work and Family Harmonization for commendation of companies promoting equality and coexistence in the area of Companies Promoting Equality. We received the award as a group (with special focus on five group companies: MHFG, MHBK, MHCB * , MHTB, and MHIR). The decision to present this award reflected the ministry's evaluation of Mizuho's vigorous efforts to create better workplace environments based on the Four R's basic policy for women as well as Mizuho's sustained measures to support the autonomous career development efforts of individual employees, which have led to an ongoing rise in the share of managerial posts occupied by women. * MHBK and MHCB merged on July 1, 2013. The Award Presentation Ceremony Measures to Promote Women's Career Development Besides using its Expert Program system to foster the career development of female manager candidates, Mizuho regularly organizes diverse group–wide seminars and events designed to promote an increase in women's career consciousness, facilitate the exercise of leadership within corporate organizations, and realize other related objectives. In fiscal 2012, a total of 2,168 employees participated in those seminars and events. The Job Fair event, which provides information on diverse posts within the Group Promoting Women to Managerial Positions and Hiring Women for the Managerial Career Track Mizuho is taking various positive action initiatives to enable female employees to utilize their abilities in the workplace, and it has undertaken an additional reevaluation of statistics regarding the career advancement of women during the three years from fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2014. We have further increased our efforts to fairly and equitably hire and promote capable individuals to managerial positions, and these efforts are steadily producing results in terms of progress toward the attainment of targets regarding the percentage of women hired for the managerial career track and promoted to managerial positions. At the end of fiscal 2012, the percentage of managerial positions filled by women had risen to 13.0%. Positive Action Targets (fiscal 2012 through fiscal 2014; MHBK and MHTB) Make women about 30% of new graduate hires for our managerial career track Raise the ratio of women in managerial positions to about 15% by the end of fiscal 2014. Changes in the Percentage of Women in Managerial Positions Note: Figures are for MHBK and MHTB. Sound Work–Life Balances—Promoting Harmony between Work and Private Lives Continuing to Work while Raising Children Mizuho has exceeded legal requirements with respect to the provision of child–care leaves of absence, shortened work hour systems, and other systems that enable employees to strike a balance between work and child raising so they can continue to work, and it has striven to further expand and strengthen those systems. The number of employees utilizing the systems has steadily increased each year, and the number of employees who took advantage of child–care leaves and used the shortened work hour systems during fiscal 2012 both exceeded 1,000 (total figures for four companies—MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and MHIR). In addition to the seminars that we have for some time offered for employees currently raising children, we have supplemented these with the organization of Support for Balancing Work and Child Raising Seminars that are designed to meet the needs of such people as employees returning to work after having taken child–care leaves. Relatively senior female employees with experience raising children also participate in the newly organized seminars to share their know–how on methods of achieving sound work–life balances. Number of Employees Taking Child–Care Leaves of Absence (Including Fathers Taking Childbirth–Related Leaves) Note: Figures are totals for four companies—MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and MHIR. Active information exchange at a seminar for employees currently raising children Making Progress toward Sound Work–Life Balances for Employees Caring for Senior Family Members Having established nursing care leaves to facilitate sound work–life balances, we are emphasizing measures to increase employees' awareness of those leaves. During fiscal 2012, we published the initial edition of Nursing Care Guide and also invited Tsuneo Sasaki (special advisor to Toray Corporate Business Research, Inc.) to present a lecture on this subject at a Seminar for Managers that was attended by approximately 200 managers. The Seminar for Managers on nursing–care leaves to facilitate sound work–life balances Measures for Reducing Overtime Hours As a means of helping all employees realize sound work–life balances, Mizuho is taking measures to reduce excessive overtime work. We are promoting such companywide measures as the establishment of specified early return days and early return weeks during which employees are encouraged to leave the office at the official end of office hours rather than working overtime. Special Feature on Support for Financial Education and Social Contribution Activities Based on the belief that it is better for children, who will be responsible for society's future, to have a deep understanding of finance in order to live independently in an increasingly complex and globalized society, Mizuho has made providing support for financial education an emphasized field within its CSR activities, and it has sustained its efforts with respect to this field. In addition, aiming to fulfill the roles expected of a good corporate citizen in partnership with local communities, Mizuho has instituted Standards for Social Contributions and Environmental Issues and is sustaining its implementation of social contributions in accordance with those standards. Support for Financial Education Providing Financial Education to Foster Children's Capacity to Live Aiming to provide children with basic knowledge of and raise their interest in finance that is deeply rooted in social life, Mizuho moved in April 2005 to position support for financial education as an emphasized field within its CSR programs. Subsequently, Mizuho has drawn on its wide range of practical knowledge and know–how about finance nurtured through the provision of comprehensive financial services to move ahead with the provision of support for financial education at two levels—the elementary and secondary education level and the higher education level. In the area of elementary and secondary education, since fiscal 2006, we have collaborated with Tokyo Gakugei University (one of Japan's leading teacher training centers) to establish a joint research project on financial education for elementary and middle schools. Combining expertise from both sides, we are working to develop practical teaching tools and broaden the adoption of financial education. Based on the results of this joint research project, Mizuho employees visit schools and teach finance classes as guest instructors. Mizuho also cooperates with a workplace experience program by providing opportunities at its branches nationwide for elementary and middle school students to experience actual work and thereby directly learn about the significance of work. In fiscal 2012, Mizuho employees taught classes as guest instructors on 38 occasions and students were invited to experience work environments at branches 151 times. The total number of students participating in these events since fiscal 2006 surpassed 22,000. In the field of higher education, attention is being focused on creating lectures and courses on practical themes related to recent financial conditions and financial industry issues. These donated lectures and courses will be presented in six faculties at five universities. Mizuho is also engaged in a wide range of financial education activities overseas in line with the needs it has identified in individual countries. Class being taught by a guest instructor Financial education lectures at a university Promoting the Spread of Financial Education Organization of Open Lectures In November 2012, an open lecture sponsored by the joint research project with Tokyo Gakugei University was held for teachers and others interested in financial education in a seminar room of MHRI. In addition to the lecture—which discussed the relationship of financial education to the daily lives, growth, and moral awareness of children from the perspectives of money and life and money and hearts —the event included workshop sessions on the theme potentials of renewed development of practical education going forward, including sessions focused on social studies, special support education, home economics, and moral education. The event provided information on the practical use of the Let's Think about Life and Money textbook created by the joint research project in 2011 and provided a venue for participants to exchange information regarding the creation of new teaching methods going forward. Open lecture Children's Summer School Aiming to support financial education and contribute to local communities, Mizuho has held Children's Summer School sessions since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012, these sessions were held at 78 branches of MHBK in 47 prefectures and metropolises throughout Japan, enabling 970 participants centered on elementary school students to learn about finance through taking part in quizzes and games related to money and banking as well as visiting actual workplaces. Experiencing the weight of JPY 100 million worth of Counting bank notes bank notes Overseas Activities Working through its overseas bases, Mizuho also supports financial education that takes into consideration the conditions and environment in each country as well as societal needs. Working in concert with the Financial Inclusion Project promoted by the Reserve Bank of India (India's central bank), Mizuho Bank's Mumbai Branch has continued to push forward the Financial Literacy Program (FLP) since 2009. In specific terms, the Bank has impressed on over 2,000 students and youths in the Mumbai area the importance of family budget management, which includes prudent spending and putting money away for the future. At the same time, the Branch arranges tours of the Financial Inclusion Human Resource Center of the Reserve Bank of India. Mizuho has already commenced similar activities in other regions throughout India, including Bangalore. Moving forward, considerable emphasis will be placed on contributing to improved financial literacy in India. Students in a class Employee Voices We strongly believe in the importance of improving financial literacy in India. It is particularly important as a means to solve the poverty issue. With this mind, we are working to educate students on how to manage family budgets. It is not uncommon in India for people to borrow money at high rates of interest from local money lenders just to meet their daily living needs. Under these circumstances, we are endeavoring to explain the critical need to live within one’s own means. We are convinced that these lessons go a long way in improving awareness toward money among participating students. Looking ahead, we will expand the scope of our activities taking into consideration the needs of local communities. Divya Dayal Rajesh Alphanso Assistant General Manager, Corporate Social Assistant Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Team, Responsibility Team, Mumbai Branch, India, Mizuho Bank Mumbai Branch, India, Mizuho Bank Social Contribution Activities Implementing Diverse Social Contribution Activities as a Good Corporate Citizen Groupwide Efforts Delivering Yellow Badges Since 1965, Mizuho has presented first–graders nationwide with Yellow Badges, signifying traffic accident insurance coverage and calling for the prevention of traffic accidents involving children. The number of badges presented as of 2013, the 49th year of the program, totals 59,990,000, distributed in cooperation with Sompo Japan Insurance Inc., Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company, and The Dai–ichi Life Insurance Company, Ltd. The Yellow Badge Coming–of–Age Day Concert Since 1990, Mizuho has held an annual Coming–of–Age Day concert, in support of young artists and to expose more young people to classical music as part of its efforts to nurture the next generation. Performance (Photo: K.MIURA) Mizuho Volunteer Day Since fiscal 2006, Mizuho has held its Mizuho Volunteer Day, a community volunteer event involving employees and their families, and taking place at various domestic and overseas locations. In fiscal 2012, volunteer activities took place at 35 locations in 18 countries, and involved over 2,300 people, taking part in a range of activities, including preparing food for the homeless, and improving parks and gardens. Mizuho volunteers in action Mizuho's Eco–Action Declaration Since fiscal 2008, Mizuho has undertaken to donate one tree seedling for every 20 employees who pledge to be environmentally conscious in their everyday activities under the Mizuho Eco–Action Declaration. In fiscal 2012, 50,940 employees pledged to participate, and Mizuho contributed to reforestation activities by donating 2,547 seedlings in total to greenery promotion areas including the Coastal forest restoration project at the disaster–stricken areas, Tokyo's Umi–no–mori (Sea Forest) project. Currently, the cumulative total number of employees who have participated in Mizuho Eco–Action Declaration programs has risen to 153,886, and the number of seedlings donated has reached 7,692. Planting activities Eco–action declaration poster Efforts by Individual Group Companies The Mt. Fuji Clean–Up Program Aiming to help pass on Mt. Fuji to future generations in a beautifully pristine condition, MHSC has sustained its participation in the clean–up campaigns of a non–profit organization, FUJISAN CLUB, since fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2012, 44 of the company's employees volunteered for the clean-up and were able to gather approximately 900 kilograms of refuse. Participants in the Mt. Fuji clean–up campaign Implementing Community Contribution Activities at Bases throughout Japan Each of the branches of MHTB throughout Japan are engaging in one or more clean–up campaigns and other community contribution campaigns every six months. In the latter half of fiscal 2012, 524 employees posted at 35 branches nationwide undertook such activities as participation in community events and clean–up campaigns focused on areas in the vicinity of their offices. Participants in a clean–up campaign focused on a park near a branch office Comments and inquiries regarding this report should be directed to: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Department, Corporate Communications Division 81-3-5224-1111 (reception) http://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/english/ Marunouchi 2-chome Building, 2-5-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 100-8333, Japan
