Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report dünya save karbon alternatif bitkiler sürdürülebilir emisyon toplum enerji tree iklim su rüzgar korumak yenilebilir koruma ayak izi hava energy sürdürebilirlik temiz ekoloji ekosistem ürün eco bilim world kaynak orman Every new day means; new excitements, new pleasures, new happinesses, and new hopes... Each new day, with together... 4 Our Reporting Approach 6 Chairperson’s Message 8 Chief Executive Officer’s Message 10 Yaşar Holding at a Glance 12 Mission and Corporate Values Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group 14 Pınar Dairy 15 Pınar Meat 24 26 16 Pınar Water 28 18 YBP 30 32 19 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 34 Coatings Group 36 20 Dyo Coating 38 40 21 Dyo Printing Inks Tissue Papers Group 23 Viking Tissue Trade and Service Group 24 Altın Yunus 25 Desa Energy 26 Astron Governance at Yaşar Group 28 Top Management 30 Corporate Management 32 Corporate Reputation Management 34 Risk Management 36 Business Ethics Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding 40 Energy and Combating Climate Change Content 48 Energy Efficiency 52 Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives 54 Our Employees 72 Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles 80 Our Relation with Society 88 Our Studies on Management Systems 92 Support to the Development of Sectors That We Operate In 96 Our Social Contribution Projects 102 Education and Publications Content 110 Sponsorships and Recognitions 114 GRI Index and UNGC Principles Our Approach in Reporting What is Sustainability? This approach, which is of UNGC and Global Reporting the results thereof. title Corporate Profile within the inherent in our legacy as Yaşar Initiative. scope of our report. The concept of sustainability is Our Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Group, has been implemented defined in the 1987 Report of the What is GRI? Report was prepared with In addition, the report’s content systematically since 2007 United Nations Commission on the support of all relevant also includes Yaşar University, and is reported annually and GRI is a non-profit organization, Environment and Development departments of the companies founded by Yaşar Education submitted for the attention of with a large number of as the ability of man to “render of Yaşar Group and the data and Culture Foundation, Selçuk our stakeholders as of 2009. stakeholders, which works in development sustainable [by] and information gathering Yaşar Sports and Education close cooperation with United “meeting the needs of the As Yaşar Group, representing process was managed by Foundation, and Pınar Institute. Nations programmes such as present without compromising a rooted past and a body of Corporate Affairs Coordinatorship However, the data specified the United Nations Environment the ability of future generations experience of 68 years, we Department. Operating under throughout the report does Sustainability is the to meet their own needs”. pursue as our main goal to Programme (UNEP) and UN the leadership of the Chairperson not take into account these Global Compact. ability of man to In other words, sustainability is improve the quality of the life of our Board of Directors, organizations. They are covered of societies by offering highThe fundamental mission the Sustainable Development by the report merely for the render development the ability of a system to operate quality and reliable products in of GRI is to create globally Committee, Members of the purpose of information exchange sustainable meeting the under certain conditions and all geographies where we are in applicable Sustainability UNGC Reporting Team and the on activities. with certain limitations for a long needs of the present period of time. Developing the operation “For a Better Life”. Reporting Guidelines and render Carbon Footprint Teams were Visit the following addresses to it mainstream and comparable, involved in the reporting efforts. without compromising highest level of understanding Our Group signed the United access our report in Turkish and and thereby widespread, like the ability of future as to what such limitations and Nations Global Compact Determination of the English online: financial reporting. These conditions are and rendering (UNGC) in November, 2007, and Report’s Content generations to meet the system functional, or published its Progress Reports guidelines provide a framework www.yasar.com.tr for companies to prepare such a Our report covers the activities their own needs. being able to operate it, with in 2009 and 2010. Taking report on their own will and to and projects implemented in such limitations constitute our sustainability efforts one report on their environmental, Turkey between 01.01.2012 and www.unglobalcompact. sustainability. step further, our “Yaşar 2011” economic and social activities 31.12.2012. This year, there org/participants/detail/ Sustainability Report was shared For companies, the most pertaining to sustainability and are 11 companies under the 10228-Yasar-Holding-Cowith our stakeholders. general definition of sustainable development is the incorporation We are proud to share with Corporate Profile of a social and environmental you “Yaşar 2012” Sustainability perspective into corporate Report as an indicator that Company Title: Yaşar Holding A.Ş. activities in addition to Yaşar Holding, upholding the conventional, economicallyconsciousness that sustainability Field of Business: Food-beverage, coating, agricultural production, tissue, prioritized, perspective. requires constant efforts, trade-services is a keen follower of the Number of Employees: 7.200 It should not be forgotten that Our Approach to Reporting undertakings that bear its GC Member since: November 12, 2007 corporate social responsibility, signature. Address: Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 Izmir, Turkey sustainable development and sustainability are definitions that As was the case in the previous Name and Post of Authorized Person: Dilek EMİL, Coordinator, Corporate Affairs are frequently used to replace reporting periods, our report Contact Details: Tel: +90 312 294 92 00 each other. has taken into consideration the E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr sustainability reporting principles Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 4-5 Sustainability... Efficient Risk Management We continue the journey on along with it. Our efforts for sustainability will start this game which we set off by signing the carbon reduction reduce our one step ahead and as they are Global Compact in 2007. energy expenditure. proactive rather than reactive, they will strengthen their Firstly, we shared our Progress Sustainability provides for a competitive positions. Reports in 2009 and 2010. For better management of our We declared our target the year 2011, we prepared our risks. Enabling our providers For all of these reasons, but much more importantly, by for carbon reduction Yaşar Sustainability Report and to incorporate the issue of declared our target for carbon sustainability into their agendas reason of our respect for the through the activities reduction through the activities enables us, in turn, to manage society which we live in, for the we undertook within we undertook within the scope our risks in terms of legal geographies where we operate and for our planet, we develop the scope of the fight of the fight against climate aspects and reputation in a change. much better way. our sustainability reports every against climate change. year and present them to you, Sustainability is an inherent Sustainability improves our our stakeholders. part of our strategies and competitiveness. In fact, the Sincerely, an important element that European Commission proposed contributes to positive financial regulations that will require all İdil Yiğitbaşı results. In the face of the large companies above a certain Chairperson of the Board of diminishing and threatened scale to declare their economic, Directors resources of our planet, environmental and social impact sustainability creates new as a part of their annual activity opportunities. Sustainability also reports. As companies that have brings positive financial results already initiated activities on Chairperson’s Message Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 6-7 Climate Change... Is Threat of Today not Tomorrow Nobel Peace Prize Winner, not address this issue within increase in importance. which we have strengthened Dr. K. Pachauri says “Climate the scope of our legislative through the human rights While buying a product, the change is happening now, not obligations. In fact, Yaşar principle of the Global Compact consumer now wants to know in the future”. Perhaps the best Group had calculated its carbon signed by our Group in 2007. not only its price or quality response comes from Mahatma footprint on an institutional basis Furthermore, we are an active attributes, but also where, Gandhi, while we are still talking with its 10 companies before member of the “Turkey Gender how, under which conditions about reducing the rate of there was any legal obligation to Equality Task Force” brought to and by whom it has been temperature increase. “If you that effect. But the fight against the agenda by World Economic produced. Within the scope are on the wrong way, the speed climate change was the first one Forum and established under of our aim to respond to our doesn’t matter.” of our five priority fields and we the leadership of the Ministry of consumers’ request for such Family and Social Policies. According to the “Global Risks knew that we could fight against information, practices of our 2012 Report” prepared by the climate change by identifying providers with relation to quality All of our efforts are aimed at World Economic Forum, the carbon-intensive areas and and certification will play an having a better and sustainable increase in greenhouse gas undertaking improvement increasingly important role in our life with better environmental emissions is regarded to be in activities. selection of providers. conditions, by providing more the same risk group as that of possibilities for women in Another well-known fact is Although Turkey owns the 16th food shortage and terrorism. employment and through our that the environmental impact largest economy in the world, it So, it is that important. Due to value-creating social contribution of companies actually arises is at the 135th place among 155 all of these reasons, the efforts projects. through their supply chains, countries in terms of gender of individuals, organizations rather than their own activities. equality in employment. As Sincerely, and public authorities for As a matter of fact, it was stated Yaşar Group, we signed the sustainability must be continued Dr. Mehmet Aktaş during this year’s conference of UN Women’s Empowerment without any interruptions. Chief Executive Officer GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Principles CEO Statement within While undertaking our that G4 standards will be put the framework of our efforts for sustainability efforts, we do into effect and supply chains will higher employment of women, Chief Executive Officer’s Message Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 8-9 Yaşar Holding at a Glance Founded in 1945, Yaşar Group main brand “Pınar”, a very has become the first Turkish milk Dyo Coating has a factory corporate responsibility and operates in food and beverage, well-known brand with a high brand to be supported within the producing car repair and sustainability through the coating, agricultural production, market share. Pınar continues scope of the Turquality project furniture coatings in partnership publication of “Yaşar 2011” tissue papers, foreign trade, its leadership in the sector in the and to offer its products in with Spies in Egypt, as well as a and “Yaşar 2012” Sustainability tourism and energy sectors with fields of milk, spreadable cheese, European Union countries. factory producing construction Reports supported by UNGC Yaşar Holding’s a total number of 20 companies charcuterie and ready-to-serve coatings in Romania and as the backbone and taking Yaşar Holding is settled on a KEMIPEX Sales, Marketing and into consideration the Global affiliates traded at including 6 public companies, frozen meat products. While it rooted past that goes back 19 factories and facilities, 2 is active in Germany with Pınar Production Facility in Russia. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Borsa Istanbul: Foods GmbH, HDF FZCO was to 1927 in the coating sector. foundations and 7.200 directly The gross turnover of Yaşar Yaşar Group signed and thereby established in Dubai with the Today, Yaşar Coating offers Pınar Dairy (PNSUT) employed personnel. Companies 1.100 different products, 3.200 Group was realized at 3,2 billion supported the CEO Statement affiliated with Yaşar Holding, one mission to render the Pınar TL in 2012. of Women’s Empowerment Pınar Meat (PETUN) of the most important groups of brand a high-quality and reliable different types of packaging and Principles initiated by the United regional brand in the Middle East 6.000 different colour options Having signed the United Turkey, are leading organizations Pınar Water (PINSU) and notably in Gulf Countries. to its consumers and customers Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Nations and in addition, decided in their respective sectors. to participate in the “Turkey Exporting to more than 40 in the fields of construction, in November, 2007, Yaşar Group Dyo Coating (DYOBY) Gender Equality Task Force” Our Food and Beverage branch, countries and having improved industry, furniture, auto painting published its Progress Reports brought to the agenda by World Viking Tissue (VKING) one of the main branches of its activities especially in the and printing ink with its five in 2009 and 2010. Taking its Economic Forum and led by the Yaşar Group, has a wide range Middle East and Gulf Region, EU companies inside and outside the reporting systematic one step Ministry of Family and Social Altın Yunus (AYCES) of products in various categories countries, Iraq and Central Asian country and “Dyo” and “Dewilux” further, Yaşar Group showed Policies. from milk and dairy products Republics with the contributions brands supported within the its stakeholders the importance to meat and water under the of its companies abroad, Pınar scope of the Turquality project. it attaches to the issues of Food & Beverage Group Coatings Group Tissue Paper Group Trade & Service Group Foundations the most beloved flavors technological leadership environment-friendly production, superior service approach highly responsible the most wholesome products strong brands and innovative products corporate citizen the most advanced technology distrubituon network Pınar Dairy Dyo Coating Viking Tissue Altın Yunus Yaşar Education and Culture Pınar Meat Dyo Printing Inks Bintur Foundation Pınar Water Kemipex Joint-stock Co. (Russia) Yaşar Foreign Trade Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Yaşar Holding at a Glance Education Foundation Çamlı Feed and Fattening S.C. Dyo Balkan SRL (Romania) YADEX International GmbH YBP Mediterranean Trade for Paints (Germany) Pınar Foods GmbH (Germany) Co. (MTP Co.) (Egypt) Desa Energy HDF FZCO (Dubai) Astron Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 10 11 Mission and Corporate Values Our Mission We offer high-quality products and services adding value to the lives of consumers through our reliable brands. Our Consumers and Our Operational Excellence Our Human Resources Our Ethical Stand Our Environmental and Customers Come First! Social Responsibility All our business units strive The basis of our understanding Under the light of our “Science, Unity, Wherever we operate, Our production is undertaken to identify the needs of our of operational excellence is Success” torch, we believe that one we treat social, political with an approach that values consumers and internal and constituted by our effective use of the most important values in our and cultural values the environment and nature; external customers quickly and of technology in all fields, simple inventory is represented by our people, with due respect and we contribute to creating a accurately and we embrace an operational processes, wellwho are well-trained and experienced, we act with utmost better future from today. With agile, proactive and innovative defined business systematic and who possess a high sense of belonging transparency and in a high level of consciousness on Mission and Corporate Values approach to meeting their everdata-based and rapid decisionand owning, who are open to all sciencecompliance with the law social responsibility, we maintain changing expectations for a making systems. Agility is one based developments, who appreciate and code of conduct. our long-standing tradition better life. of our core competences. exchange of information and the sense We value integrity, open of supporting contemporary of unity and who have embraced communication and fair education, sports, culture and a participatory understanding of management. arts to improve the quality of life. management and success-oriented work. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 12 13 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Süt Mamülleri Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Dairy) Pınar Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Meat) Founded in Izmir in 1973 as the and improving the quality of life Turkey’s first privately owned traceability, two of today’s most first factory of modern milk and of its consumers, Pınar Dairy integrated meat facility, Pınar significant requirements, with dairy products, Pınar Dairy is a reaches its consumers with more Meat offers its consumers utmost importance. Every year, company of Yaşar Group which than 300 healthy, high-quality, healthy, reliable and tasty meat Pınar Meat undergoes an internal produced the first long-life UHT tasty and reliable products. and meat products upholding audit by Turkish Standards milk of the dairy industry of our its commitment to high quality Institute (TSE) and an external As an innovative, dynamic country and is coded at Borsa and hygiene rules since its audit by an independent food and creative company, we Istanbul. Pınar Dairy included foundation. inspection agency, i.e. SAI continue our activities as its factory in Eskişehir into its Global, to maintain the validity a company that is able to Pınar Meat enjoys a sustained facilities in 1997. Along with the of its certificates. Awarded with satisfy consumer needs and to leadership position in its sector expansion investment made the highest scores through commence flexible initiatives owing to the trust it has secured in 2011, the plant in Eskişehir such audits, Pınar Meat has in a timely and faster manner in consumers through its high reached an area of 22.000 m². proven that it duly deserves the by keeping abreast of new quality. Undertaking continued consumers’ trust in it. In addition, a decision was made technologies and developments R&D and marketing activities in 2012 to establish a plant in as one of its strategies. It is the on the basis of its vision to www.pinar.com.tr Şanlıurfa on an area of 100.000 management’s undertaking to offer its diversified products to m². Once the aforementioned satisfy the needs of its internal consumers in target countries, investment has been completed, and external customers through Pınar Meat exports its products the milk processing capacity communication, planning to various countries. of Pınar Dairy will have been and continuous development While renewing its product range Pınar Dairy Pınar Meat increased by 180 million litres. activities with the aim of in line with the current wishes, enabling the maintenance and Pursuing the principle of offering expectations and needs of growth of the organization in the its consumers tastes that agree consumers, Pınar Meat addresses competitive market of today. with their preferences, creating the issues of food safety and innovation, contributing to the www.pinar.com.tr growth of healthy generations Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 14 15 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Pınar Water) Pınar Water laid the foundation structure of water at the spring satisfaction and ensuring of the first plant for spring water and any changes in the mineral sustainable growth through its bottled in single-use packaging balance of its content. prospective initiatives in national of Turkey in 1984. Today, Pınar and international markets and its Pınar Water ensures that filling Water is a leading company that efforts to develop new products. operations are performed has reached high standards in without any touch of hands in Pınar Water serves its consumers all operational processes from filling environments, where the with a wide sale and distribution production stations utilizing the air is continuously cleaned and network comprised of 499 PC most current technologies to no air inflow is allowed, through and 168 PET branches spread logistic activities supported by its Class 100 Isolator and Clean around Turkey. The company strong infrastructure. Room technologies so that the also provides its consumers with Pınar Water reaches the appeal water is subject to physical, alternative means for ordering of consumers in Turkey and chemical and microbiological water through its 444 99 00 in more than 20 countries tests at every stage of order hotline, www.pinarsu. importing its products under the production. com.tr online order system and brand Pınar Yaşam Pınarım with smart phone application (IOS, Pınar Water is the first bottled waters collected from Madran Android). Through these order water brand of Turkey holding (Aydın-Bozdoğan), Gökçeağaç channels, consumers are able a TSE certificate and the first (Sakarya-Hendek) and Akçaağaç to order the products for future Turkish water brand to certify (Isparta) springs. dates (day and time). These its high quality by qualifying applications have enabled Pınar At facilities featuring hygienic for the US National Sanitation Water to create a difference from environments well beyond Foundation (NSF) certificate. its competitors and constituted the standards defined in the a different and innovative Pınar Water Keeping abreast of innovations sector, production activities and technological developments practice that makes the lives of are undertaken by avoiding to improve its production consumers easier. any deterioration in the natural quality, Pınar Water focuses on The essential components of increasing the market shares of the competitive advantage of its products, improving consumer Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Water are its high quality standards, its logistic power and its competence to transform both global and national trends and the tendencies and preferences of consumers into products. www.pinarsu.com.tr Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 16 17 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Yaşar Birleşik Pazarlama Dağıtım Turizm ve Çamlı Yem Besicilik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Ticaret A.Ş. (YBP) (Çamlı Feed and Fattening) The product sale and distribution subcategory of Pınar brand Founded in 1983 as a company Çamlı Feed and Fattening has of Pınar, a leading brand in the product group are transferred to producing only feed for large always embraced the principle food sector, are undertaken 150.000 sale points through YBP. ruminants, Çamlı Yem Besicilik of implementing its production by a sale organization of 4 Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. has since activities in compliance with With consumer-oriented Directorates, 9 Regions and become a leading company in ethical values and animal welfare personnel specialized in sale and 1.250 employees, as well as a the agriculture and livestock and in a manner sensitive to the 100 experienced dealers, YBP large-scale vehicle fleet, that sector with its firsts and environment. Çamlı Feed and improves its efficiency-based operate with a focus on the contributed to the creation of a Fattening invests in information, widespread distribution strategy consumer and with the support modern and highly competitive education and research by every day. of experienced and robust sector in its history of 29 years. reason of its awareness of the human resources. More than www.pinar.com.tr current prominent position Operating today on a wide 500 product varieties in the of cognitive capital in the range extending from feed information society. Having production to dairy farming, devoted itself to national from fish and turkey breeding agriculture, Çamlı Feed and to plant nutrition, Çamlı Feed Fattening will continue to strive and Fattening has become for efficient production and an Agriculture, Livestock and market development through Fishery group that is present in strong cooperation with farmers, YBP Çamlı Feed and Fattening all links of the food chain from providers, establishments and farm to fork. the retail sector. Çamlı Feed and Fattening aims Beydere Milk Establishment was at developing products, services put into full operation in 2012 and solutions that meet the and completed its transitional market demand in the fields of inspections to undertake Organic agriculture, livestock and fishery Agriculture and Organic Milk and at growing through creating Production only. a competitive advantage. With the consciousness of www.camli.com.tr Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group its responsibilities before the relevant sectors and the society, Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 18 19 Corporate Profile Coatings Group Dyo Boya Fabrikaları Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Dyo Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Dyo Coating) (Dyo Printing Inks) Having celebrated its 59th year and that exports its products to capacity of 93.000 ton per year. Founded in 1968, Dyo Printing in the coating sector, Dyo numerous countries of the world. Inks has a market share of Dyo Coating is one of the most Coating has a wide range of 40% in the Turkish printing inks Dyo Coating carries out rooted industrial organizations products. Active in the fields of sector and an annual production its production activities in of our country, but it has also construction and heat insulation capacity of 25.000 ton. It is Turkey in its plants located in appended its signature to systems, industry, furniture, the leader of the printing inks Izmir Çiğli and Kocaeli Gebze significant investments abroad. automotive and marine coatings, market of Turkey as the one and Dilovası. The Dilovası Plant is Dyo Coating has a factory Dyo Coating is the only company only company that is involved a facility that features a high producing car repair and that is involved in production in the production, marketing level of automation and is furniture coatings in partnership activities simultaneously in five and sale of newspaper and updated constantly in line with with Spies in Egypt, as well as a subsectors. magazine inks, sheet offset technological developments. factory producing construction with an indoor space of 12.000 inks, serigraphy inks, flexo Rapidly growing since its The plant produces construction coatings in Romania and m², as well as at its Colour and rotogravure inks, as well foundation, Dyo Coating coatings and Emulsion binders. KEMIPEX Sales, Marketing and Production Centre in Istanbul. as metal packaging systems. has become an international Established on an area of 65.000 Production Facility in Russia. Offering a wide pallet of company that is active not only m², the facility has a production Owing to its 42 dealers and As a first in the Turkish coating products and producing printing in Turkey, but also in Romania, capacity of 150.000 ton per year. its sales offices in 4 cities, the sector, the PTFE-supported ink and auxiliary materials for Russia and Egypt with its company is able to reach each The Çiğli Plant, on the other Teknoplast and Teknotex, the any printing technique, Dyo production and sale operations and every printing house and hand, produces furniture nano-technological coatings Printing Inks maintains its Dyo Coating Dyo Printing Inks the custom colour demands coatings and varnish, industrial of Nanoipekmat, Nanomat production activities at its new of customers are met at our coatings, automotive coatings, and Nanotex and the Dyojen, factory constructed on an area of new facility and the “Colour marine coatings and specialproduced through the hybrid 20.000 m² in Manisa Organized Production Centre” in Istanbul. purpose polyester. The Çiğli technology, occupy a special Industrial Zone (MOSB) and put Plant is among exemplary place in the product range of into operation in December 2010 www.dyoinks.com facilities in the coating sector Dyo. with its advanced technology The production of thousands of and high capacity. Installed colours at sale points has been on an area of 67.000 m², the made possible via the colouring facility is also the largest facility system titled as “Renk Pınarı” with relation to the relevant Corporate Profile Food and Coating Group (Spring of Colours). production lines of the Turkish coating sector with its production The brand “Dyo Coating” brings along the connotation of “innovation” in the sector. The first coating company holding an R&D Centre Certificate in Turkey was again Dyo Coating. www.dyo.com.tr Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 20 21 Corporate Profile Tissue Papers Group Viking Kağıt ve Selüloz A.Ş. (Viking Tissue) Established in 1969 in Izmir/ at the same time, increasing its Aliağa, Viking Kağıt ve Selüloz share in exports by emphasizing A.Ş. was the first foreignproduct sales in foreign markets. invested private paper factory www.viking.com.tr of Turkey. The company joined Yaşar Group in 1982 and has been active in both national and foreign markets and through both domestic and non-domestic channels with relation to finished and semi-finished products of tissue papers since 1996. The company’s main strategies are defined as the achievement of sustainable growth and the maintenance of its current market position by offering hygienic and practical products in line with the preferences of consumers and to make daily life easier, deriving strength from its powerful tissue paper brand and distribution channels and, Viking Tissue Corporate Profile Tissue Papers Group Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 22 23 Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Altın Yunus Çeşme Turistik Tesisler A.Ş. (Altın Yunus) Desa Enerji Elektrik Üretim A.Ş. (Desa Energy) Serving Turkish tourism since The resort serves winter tourism Established in 1996 as a 1974 in Izmir/Çeşme, Altın with its healing thermal waters company of the auto-producer Yunus Resort is one of the and health tourism with its line of Yaşar Group, Desa Energy largest facilities of Turkey with Thalasso therapeutic pool continued to serve the group its capacity of 1.100 beds featured in the Bio Venus unit, as an electricity generation and 464 rooms on an area of as well as summer tourism with company as of 2011. Natural 140.000 m². The facility acted its marina services and blue-flag gas, electricity and heat energy as a leader for Turkish tourism beach. Furthermore, it hosts generation is undertaken at by hosting various international conferences, seminars, weddings Pınarbaşı Power Plant with an organizations and contributed to and business organizations with installed capacity of 9.8 MW. the development of the sector. its conference room available all While meeting the energy year around. demand of its partners, it also provides an advantage in costs. www.altinyunus.com.tr In line with its growth target, the company conducts research on investment opportunities based on renewable resources. Altın Yunus Desa Energy Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 24 25 Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Yaşar Bilgi İşlem ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Astron) YH Information Systems the body of Astron with the aim While providing its services, (Yabim)-Astron was established of installing and disseminating Astron rapidly generates in 1982 to implement and SAP R/3’ for Yaşar Holding and solutions that will exactly meet manage the information system affiliated companies. the demands of our companies. functions of Yaşar Group. Yabim It takes due care to ensure that The Astron organization is the was operated in the fields of its products are solutions that first example in Turkey to apply hardware and software until will reinforce the operational a world-class ERP package. 1996. processes of the companies of Undertaking the first large-scale the Group and improve their On the 1st of October, 1996, the SAP project in Turkey, Astron efficiency. Astron organization was founded opened the way for and shed and Yabim incorporated into light on subsequent applications Regarding human resources in this respect. as its most important input while providing aforementioned Astron merged with all services, the company also companies of the Group in 2011 takes due care in equipping and reached the ability to meet them with the skills necessitated all information system needs of by the modern times and our companies. Today, it features aims to provide high benefits a widespread structure in Turkey to the whole of Yaşar Group and provides IT services both in by supporting team work and our country and abroad. participatory approach. Astron offers its services in line Compliance with applicable with its mission to strengthen laws, concordance with the the technological infrastructure expectations of internal and of Yaşar Group through Astron external expectations and information system technologies, harmony with the regulations, processes and methods and, decisions and policies of Yaşar at the same time, to provide Holding and our company are contributions to our companies factors that are taken into Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group to gain competitive advantage account at every step. and achieve their targets. www.astron.ws Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 26 27 Governance at Yaşar Group Top Management Yaşar Holding Board of Directors Yaşar Holding Name & Surname Title Name & Surname Title İDİL YİĞİTBAŞI Chairperson of the Board of Directors , (1) (4) MEHMET AKTAŞ Chief Executive Officer YILMAZ GÖKOĞLU Acting Chairperson of the Board of Directors(4) HİKMET ALTAN President of Finance MEHMET KAHYA Member of the Board of Directors (2) LEVENT DAĞHAN President of Financial Affairs and Budget Control NESLİHAN TONBUL Member of the Board of Directors(3) HASAN GİRENES President of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Group SERVET TOPALOĞLU Member of the Board of Directors AHMET YİĞİTBAŞI President of Coatings Group TURHAN TALU Member of the Board of Directors CÜNEYT BAŞBAKKAL Vice President of Foreign Trade MEHMET AKTAŞ Member of the Board of Directors (3) AYKUT BORA Vice President of Human Resources(1) SİNAN GERÇEK Vice President of Information Systems SENEM DEMİRKAN Capital Markets Coordinator KAMİL DEVECİ Audit and Risk Management Coordinator DİLEK EMİL Corporate Affairs Coordinator TURGUT SARIOĞLU Supply Chain and Logistics Coordinator SEÇKİN ŞENOL Budget Control and Analysis Coordinator Companies Name & Surname Title Top Management ERGUN AKYOL Vice President of Pınar Dairy(2) SERDAR ORAN Vice President of Coatings Group(2) and General Manager of Dyo Coating ÖZDEMİR BAHAR General Manager of Desa Energy TAYFUN BAŞKURT Tourism Coordinator and General Manager of Altın Yunus (1) Chairperson of Human Resources and Governance Sub-Committee YAKUP BENLİ General Manager of Dyo Printing Inks (3) (2) Chairperson of Audit and Risk Management Sub-Committee (3) Member of Human Resources and Governance Sub-Committee HASAN GİRENES General Manager of Çamlı Feed and Fattening (4) Member of Audit and Risk Management Sub-Committee GÜRKAN HEKİMOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Dairy (2) HÜSEYİN KARAMEHMETOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Water SUAT ÖZYİĞİT General Manager of YBP Governance at Yaşar Group ERHAN SAVCIGİL Pınar Dairy R&D and Investment Coordinator (2) MESUT SEZER General Manager of Viking Paper (4) TUNÇ TUNCER General Manager of Pınar Meat (2) (1) As of 21.01.2013 (2) As of 01.06.2012 (3) As of 01.07.2013 (4) As of 01.01.2013 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 28 29 Corporate Management Yaşar Holding, with its Corporate Management Manual”. There are detailed information Yaşar Holding, making a corporate structure and longYaşar Holding Chief Executive is on website of Yaşar Holding merit of applying corporate established values of 68 leading executive functions and regarding group companies management, continues to years, reflects accountable, is responsible for all executive and their business sectors and respond expectations of all its responsible, clear, transparent conduct of Yaşar Group before brands. “Investor Relations” stakeholders, to create values and fair conduct to all its fields the Management Board. Full modules covering detailed both for its group companies of operation. Considering compliance of all employees information on publicly-held and wider society and its corporate management as a to Yaşar Group Business Ethics companies are accessible. operations to maintain longcrucial element for sustainability Rules Manual is crucial. Yaşar Progress made in corporate term sustainable growth with of companies, Yaşar Holding’s Holding Management Board is management process of Yaşar contribution from its employees effective practices establishes composed of seven members Group companies is publicly and stakeholders. the basis of its created values for where of four are independent. announced through Corporate its stakeholders and society in There are sub committees Management Principles Pınar Meat and broader terms. working under Management Harmonization Reports, which Board; namely Audit and Risk are also part of annual reports Pınar Dairy with Corporate management Sub Committee and Human prepared under Capital Markets 8,87 and 8,77 structure maintained in the Resources and Governance Legislation. group companies is reviewed management continuously in line with Sub Committee. In line with In line with Capital Markets CMB’s Corporate Management rates, respectively, the Corporate Management Legislation and CMB Corporate Principles, there are also two are listed in Principles Framework revised Management Principles, Corporate Management independent management in 2005 and amended in 2011 Audit Committee, Early Risk Borsa Istanbul where several clauses of which board members in publicly-held Identification Committee companies of Yaşar Group. There Management Index. have been forceful to publiclyand Corporate Management are Investor Relations Units in held corporations. Pınar Meat Committee were established all publicly-held companies of and Pınar Dairy with 8,87 in publicly-held companies Yaşar Group in order to provide and 8,77 management rates, of Yaşar Group. Moreover, information to stakeholders, respectively, are listed in Borsa Nomination Committee and public and other beneficiaries Istanbul Management Index. Wage Committee were also in a timely, complete, accurate, established under Corporate Responsibilities of CEO and clear and equally accessible Management Committee and Management Boards of Yaşar manner. Information provision required addendums to contract Holding were separated in 2000 policy stemming from were made at Ordinary General in line with OECD corporate transparency and accuracy Meetings of Stakeholders in 2012 management principles; all was developed and publicly Governance at Yaşar Group in line with Turkish Commercial processes and responsibilities announced. Salary and profit Law no 6102 and CMB new related to both management sharing policies of subject matter Corporate Management and organizational structures are companies are also announced Principles. clearly identified in “Yaşar Group on their websites. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 30 31 Corporate Reputation Management Beginning from the mid 1980’s, achieved in terms of in-house broad participation from every The RepMan Reputation we realized the strategic need reputation management as level. Thus, we identified the Research Centre declared for establishing and maintaining result of our activities, which we priority aspects of environmentTurkey’s most reputable sectors corporate reputation so as to initiated by the establishment of oriented sustainability. and companies. According to the gain competitive advantage. aforementioned committees. research that was carried out by The sector analysis results GfK Turkey in geographic regions Corporate reputation comprises The committees carried out of the Turkish Reputation covering 15 provinces face to a general assessment of an benchmark studies on the Index are declared to the face surveys conducted among enterprise in the eyes of functioning of reputation public by RepMan (Reputation 16.243 people. Within these employees, customers, suppliers, management at diverse Management), which is carried surveys 15 industries and 155 competitors, and the public. companies. Thereby, they got out by GfK Turkey. Reputation is firms were also evaluated. The The basic point is the reputation familiar to different structures an indicator of and enterprise’s results of the research indicated results from perceptions. and developed projects “admiration” and “reliance” that “Pınar” ranked in the most appropriate for our Group. in the eyes of different At Yaşar Holding, corporate reliable firm list. The results of stakeholders. In this sense, it reputation is managed as a Yaşar Group is well-aware the research means much more than mere This accomplishment significant value that is formed that employees constitute the admiration. In the assessment of has become evidence of indicated that through long years. To that end, fundaments of any corporate reputation, following main topics our corporate reputation Corporate Reputation Management Yaşar Holding established a reputation process. Internal “Pınar” ranked are dealt with: management policies and has Corporate Reputation Committee communication plays an in the most and five separate subcommittees important role in the employees’ • Recognition motivated us to further better such policies. reliable firm list. within the scope of the participation in the corporate • Properties relating to “Corporate Reputation Project” reputation process. Therefore, governance initiated in 2010: the Committees of Corporate Communication and Corporate • Properties relating to product • Corporate Communication Values organized meetings with and service quality • Sustainable Development broad participation in order to ensure an active process • Properties relating to • Social Responsibility inclusion of our employees. employees • Corporate Governance and The Sustainable Development • Financial stability Ethics Committee established under the • Social responsibilities • Corporate Values Corporate Reputation Committee organized many workshops to • Emotional loyalty An increased awareness form a sustainability strategy Governance at Yaşar Group and consciousness level was for Yaşar Group, which enjoyed Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 32 33 Risk Management Understanding of Risk Fight Against Corruption Management Corporations have to identify, A “Corporate Risk Management”, of a better protection and All Yaşar Group companies fight measure, and manage risks a systematic process that improvement of company against all corruptions of any so that they can achieve their defines, analyses, controls, and assets, and gain a higher level type including without limitation goal of “sustainable growth”, monitors risks, is implemented of self-confidence in seizing bribery and exaction, and because under the conditions at companies incorporated by opportunities by a clearer view supports the “United Nations Risk Management Understanding of Risk Management Fight Against Corruption of the present day, it does not Yaşar Holding. This method is to risks. Declaration against Corruption suffice to focus on financial risks capable of minimizing the impact and Bribery in International On the other hand, our group in a classical understanding of of unexpected negative resulting Commercial Transactions” companies have been carrying risk management. In particular, incidents on costs and company to prevent and fight against out internal audit activities operational and strategic risks assets. corruption. The employees of at regular intervals. These are at least as important as all companies incorporated by Our companies’ studies towards audit activities bring along a financial risks in corporations Yaşar Holding have committed risk management serve following systematic and well-disciplined that incorporate different sectors themselves to work in line with purposes: approach aiming at the and different ways of business. Yaşar Group Rules of Business assessment and improvement • Analysing all companies’ fields Ethics Handbook. In our capacity of the efficiency level of risk of activity, business units, and as Yaşar Group, we follow up management and control profit centres and identifying any and support the government’s processes, and thereby lends existing risks, “Strategy for Increasing assistance for group companies Transparency and Strengthening • Establishing a risk in achieving their targets. the Struggle Against Corruption” management structure for a and any activities related to it. The efficiency assessment systematic and permanent of the corporation’s existing process, risk management and control • Providing and maintaining a processes serves following clear definition for duties and purposes: responsibilities, • Assessment whether these • Assessment of already present processes are structured and controls to avoid any risks the operated in such way that will cause and results of which are ensure the achievement of the known, corporation’s goals and targets, • Implementing an efficient, • Suggestion of proposals permanent risk management and towards the improvement of monitoring process by designing corporate activities in terms Governance at Yaşar Group new and efficient controls. of performance efficiency and productivity. Thus, we will ensure that our companies gain competitive advantage over their competitors, that our companies reassure their shareholders Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 34 35 Business Ethics Everywhere our operations are a sensitive and honest attitude following the delibrations, on located; Yaşar Group companies towards customers and 22nd November 2012 a CEO are respectful to social, consumers Anouncement has been released political, and cultural values. to change the committee • Paying utmost attention to the Our actions are transparent members accordingly. Thus, proper preparation of, keeping and in compliance with a legal today, the Ethics Committee confident, and abstaining requirements and rules of ethics. contains of one president, three from taking advantage of any In this context, we prepared the members whom are from Yaşar company information, assets, Yaşar Group Rules of Business Holding’s executive managers and records Ethics Handbook in 2009 and and one secretary general. declared said guidelines to all • Protecting the society’s According to the functioning of employees. In 2010, we printed benefits and being respectful Ethics Committee the guidelines in the form of a to the environment in all of our the Ethics Committee as defined in the Guidelines, any issue contains of guideline manual and handed activities carried out by us, as referred to the Ethics Committee over a copy thereof to each one president, employees of Yaşar Group has to be solved within one employee. Besides, the manual three members is also utilized during orientation • Adopting a lifestyle not only at week at the latest. whom are from trainings for new personnel. work, but also in our business The topics which Yaşar Holding Yaşar Group’s business ethics lives outside of the workplace, Yaşar Hplding’s that will not create any negative Ethics Committee dealt with rules are divided into eight has been one in 2009, seven in executive groups: opinion against the company and 2010, two in 2011 and three in managers and one will not contradict the rules of 2012. All the topics that have • Working in a safe environment, the society we live in Business Ethics secretary general abstaining from discrimination of been delivered to the Committee Any issue considered to be since 2009 have been subject to any kind and paying respect to incongruent to Yaşar Group’s necessary assesments and have each others’ personal rights Rules of business ethics rules been resolved accordingly. • Using company resources in an can be notified by all employees efficient manner to the Ethics Committee by e-mail, letter post, or phone • Avoiding any conflicts of call. In 2012 the members interest of the Ethics Committee • Obeying legal rules on has been reevaluated, and competition, competing with it has been decided to form competitors in such a way that an establishment that is Governance at Yaşar Group does not and will not cause any independent from the firms. In disorder of market conditions retrospect, the Executive Board of Yasar Holding Company • Attaching importance to has delibarated this idea customer satisfaction, adopting on 1st November 2012 and Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 36 37 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar Group is conscious responsibility and sustainability Corporate Values of Yaşar Group Yaşar Group attributes much of its responsibilities for a like energy efficiency, glasshouse presents full harmony with importance to carbon footprint sustainable world and continues gas emissions, energy its sustainability objectives. at corporate level and identified its operations focused on management systems and water We aim to minimize negative carbon leaders and carbon team sustainability without losing usage. impact on environment while members in its companies under any pace. Sustainability, in growing, be in close cooperation the five priority areas. The aim Group companies values all organizations, is a crucial with the local communities is to proceed by identifying the compliance with all law and strategic objective. The aim is where we operate, maintain points consuming most energy; regulations and design of their to guide the society starting information exchange among thus points of carbon emission, products and processes with from individual level and raise group companies and ensure and developing a carbon lowest possible impact on awareness on sustainability. environment. However, Yaşar active participation of all our reduction strategy. Five priority areas under employees in communication Business world, in all scientific Group is aware that its ethical As a result of all these studies, sustainability as: networks; and increase inand political platforms, values and practices mean far Yaşar Group, with social citizen consistently warns us on beyond legal arrangements. house communication with responsibility, will do its part • Energy and Combating our employees. We are keen forthcoming more social and Yaşar Group, being conscious in combating climate change; Climate Change on continuing the journey environmental problems. A series of its responsibilities before will better manage greenhouse of factors from climate change to society, became part of United of sustainability with all our gas risks and reduction • Water Usage and stakeholders; our suppliers strict regulations in developing Nations Global Compact Network being first, by strengthening our opportunities. Waste Water markets have started to change in 2007. Communications on business conduct of individuals Progress published in 2009 and communication channels. As of 2012, studies on second • Used Materials and priority area being Water and and governments. As a result 2010 have been an effective There are five priority areas Waste Waste Water, have been given a of above, Yaşar Group, playing communication channel for Yaşar under sustainability identified by an active role in industrialization Group to inform on its activities Yaşar Group and been leading its kick-off. • Health and Safety process of Turkey and pioneered beyond its financial results. actions: • Social Contribution several “Firsts” in many areas, Starting from 2011, a further • Energy and Combating Climate tries to make sustainability, with step in activities were taken and Change its social and environmental as a respect to the globe we dimensions, a part of its • Water Usage and Waste Water live on, we started to publish a business processes. With the “Sustainability Report” where • Used Materials and Waste aim of “For A Better Life“, Yaşar Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding we shared information on our Group continues its work on • Health and Safety activities touching lives of people many areas under corporate and society in general and the • Social Contribution values created by Yaşar Group. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 38 39 Energy and Combating Climate Change As been stated in Studies of Yaşar Group Water, YBP, Viking Tissue, Dyo calculations were also made with emission reduction studies, “Turkey Ecological Coating, Dyo Printing Inks, regard to EU ETS (Emissions Carbon Leaders are identified. 2011-2020 Climate Business world, more and more Altın Yunus, Çamlı Feed and Trading System). Field work and Leaders were provided necessary Footprint Report” of Change National each day, distinguishes itself as a 2012 clearly states Fattening and Desa Energy, “hot data collection processes for all training and it is ensured that holistic part of studies regarding Action Plan; “Global adaptation to continuing climate carbon spots” resulting most in companies in the study were they take active role in carbon that our present carbon footprints and carbon completed and carbon footprint footprint studies. Leaders, in warming and climate change and greenhouse gas emissions were identified. The calculations were made. The addition, contribute to the work biological capacity will change showing their reduction at scientific and not be sufficient for road map for carbon reduction data collected from emission of “Sustainable Development political levels. As Yaşar Group, impact on the world operating in a large spectrum as a result of the calculations resources identified by using Committee” which is a sub our country in case we and analyses, has been leading “Control approach” are gathered committee of “Corporate have become one of from agriculture to food, from in prioritizing “carbon intensive” at Holding level and centrally Reputation Project”. The aim maintain our carbon the very important tourism to tissue production, we intense country level areas for reducing greenhouse consolidated. This year and is to ensure utmost benefit by are aware of the possible impact issues that require of climate change on all living on gas emissions and developing in following years, in order to increasing the synergy between growth. practices for reduction. provide accuracy, completeness, carbon management studies and necessary precautions earth and of the climate change Companies continue their transparency and consistency sustainable energy management to be taken also in borne risks on our commercial conduct in framework of carbon of the data and compliance studies of Energy Committee. activities. As a result of that, we Energy and Combating Climate Change our country. Adopting continue our work in managing reduction road map resulted of the data with our aims and from calculations made. standards, work in establishing against climate change, the greenhouse gas we emit and greenhouse inventory increasing in capacity identifying our climate change The study reported in line with management quality system risks. ISO “14064-1 Specification with and putting in practice guidance at the organization both at holding and company Carbon Footprint Study levels is being continued. the necessary plans level for quantification and being prepared at Yaşar Group, with its principle reporting of greenhouse gas Carbon Leaders of “you cannot manage what emissions and removals”, utmost urgency are emissions of companies were In order to strengthen carbon you cannot measure”, completed governance at both holding and issues of importance.” its studies in calculating the calculated covering Scope 11 company levels and increase carbon footprint of its pioneering and Scope 22 emissions. In ownership in greenhouse gas brands at corporate level. In addition to ISO 14064 calculation those studies conducted for systematic, for Desa Energy Pınar Dairy, Pınar Meat, Pınar and Viking Tissue companies Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding (1) Scope 1 emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions controlled by the organisation or stemmed from resources owned by the organisation. (2) Scope 2 emissions: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions as a result of heat, electricity and steam purchased. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 40 41 In-house and Outsourced Energy Management System Improvement Studies Energy management as being In 2012 Viking Trainings Training; Conducted on the agenda of Yaşar Holding Management Board, decisions Tissue reduced its As Yaşar Holding, we were The aim of the training was It is estimated that Turkey’s carbon emissions were taken on establishment of trained on ISO 14064 and to inform the organization demand for electricity will Energy Management System. on how it can develop its increase by 6.7% to 7.5% by energy management system and 230 tonnes with certification. energy policy; form aims and 2020. This translates to 130 the completion ISO 14064 Training; processes in order to commit billion $ worth investment Carbon footprint calculation of the Leans 6 The training program covered with its policy; evaluate and requirement by 2023. The studies at corporate level have improve performance and show standing out feature of been carried on since it was Sigma Projects calculation of greenhouse gas emissions and general coherence of performance to the Turkish energy sector is its kicked-off last year. According to structure of reporting standards; standard. external dependency and thus, the data collected during carbon requirements of ISO 14064-1 energy efficiency is of utmost footprint study, below are the In line with the decisions standard, methodologies and importance. total energy consumption of 10 made by top management resources, which can be utilized companies for 2011 and 2012. of Yaşar Holding, provision More efficient use of energy, in calculating emissions at of in-house and outsourced improvement in costing and Studies in reduction and corporate level. Energy and Combating Climate Change training to company employees reduction of greenhouse gas improvement of energy Apart from outsourced training; was ensured with regard emissions are also areas of consumption are conducted Carbon Leaders delivered to establishment of Energy priority at Holding level. under Lean 6 Sigma Program; training programs for carbon Management System. Through projects are also implemented footprint team members in their those training programs, the with supply chain if necessary. respective companies. Carbon purpose was to raise awareness footprint calculations in Yaşar of employees on energy Holding companies are made by efficiency. those teams. Total Energy Consumption 2011 2012 Gigajoule Gigajoule Altın Yunus; with the geothermal energy was utilized in 2012 LGN Direct energy consumption according to Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding primary energy resource 2.524.523 2.274.265 consumption reduced by 31.000 kg. LNG saving reduced the total Indirect energy consumption according to carbon emissions by 113 tonnes. primary energy resource 498.314 376.248 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 42 43 Case Studies Case Studies YBP Micro Distribution Project Lean 6 Sigma Projects Food and Beverage Group Palette Quality Standardization Project (Lean 6 Sigma Black Belt Project) In the Food and Beverage The Micro Distribution Project and less distance was travelled Group in general, except the started in June 2010 by by 11%. The project targets to of the palette, and in the financial gains, by the projects targeting to decrease the • The number of travels decrease the amount other direction analyses were inner city distribution costs performed dropped by 853 in 2012; thanks to the changes of the timbers included made to use less number of by planning the daily inner travels; and a 6% improvement in the movement orders of in the palettes with the palettes. city distribution requests was provided in terms of the the distribution vehicles and logos of “PINAR” with the automatically in shorter number of travels. services, an amount of 40.900 As a result of the studies dimensions of 80x120 cm times and optimizing the In Ankara Region; liters/year less diesel was made, the use of the timber in used by the Pınar Food and transportation distances and • The distance of transportation consumed; an energy saving the palettes which had been Beverage Group without the loads by the use of the SAP was shortened by 67.326 km of 352.542 kWh/year was 42 dm3 was dropped to 34.5 Transportation Planning and and less distance was travelled any compromise of their obtained by the improvements dm3. The target is to make Vehicle Scheduling Module (TP/ by 7%. resistance. Çamlı Feed and of the heating losses of the the new palettes designed VS). Regional disseminations • The number of travels warehouses; and in the Viking Within the study performed as the standard palette as of Fattening reduced were completed at the end performed dropped by 364 Tissue, an amount of 360.000 by the Lean 6 Sigma January 2013. its carbon emissions of 2012. It is currently used travels; and a 4% improvement m3/year less natural gas was methodology, it was detected Energy and Combating Climate Change actively in the regions of was provided in terms of the As a result of the decrease by 185 tonnes with Izmir, Ankara, Antalya, Bursa, number of travels. used for the production of vapor. that the palettes are used of the amount of the timber realized energy Asia and Europe where Direct In Asian Region; only 4 times on the average. Çamlı Feed and Fattening used, a saving of 1.680 m3/ Distribution is made. • The distance of transportation The analyses were performed efficiency projects With the orders transferred to was shortened by 13.571 km Projects in two directions. In one year was provided. In other words, considering that the Supply Chain Management and less distance was travelled Among the process direction the dimensions approximately 2 m3 of timber System, route optimization is by 2%. improvements performed in of the palettes used were is produced by an average performed in such a way to • No significant changes the Feed Production Facility; questioned depending on ensure the shortest distances occurred in terms of the pine tree, cutting 840 pine the capacity increases of the the form of the storage, the and the highest rates of number of travels. trees in a year is prevented. extruder machines in the fish form of the transportation, vehicle loads. As a result of the In European Region; the distribution of the load feed production, starting to regional disseminations, drops • The distance of transportation on the palette and the weight use the high yield motors and have occurred in terms of km was shortened by 52.522 km transition to the multi-time and numbers of travels. and less distance was travelled YBP was awarded with that electric consumption are sample by 10%. practices. Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding project the great prize in the • The number of travels competition of productivity performed dropped by 481 In the Plant Fattening Facility, performed within the structure travels; and a 7% improvement the excess humidity of the of the Yasar Holding in 2012. was provided in terms of the raw fertilizers incoming into of time. Furthermore, with the In the one year period after live number of travels. the facility is removed by valid compost system, a fertilizer use, compared to the previous In the regions of Bursa and year; Antalya, live transfer was making them pass through the production spread through the In Izmir Region; performed in 2012, and SCM separator first, thus less diesel year independent of the seasonal • The distance of transportation will be started to be used as of consumption is ensured and they conditions is provided in a was shortened by 62.020 km 2013. are fermented in a shorter period shorter period of time. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 44 45 Our Aim Our Aim is to reduce the average carbon emissions per production unit by 15% Energy and Combating Climate Change Until 2020 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 46 47 Energy Efficiency Pınar Meat • Furl savings were achieved as planned or unplanned all pauses • Rather than use of electrical Çamlı Feed and Fattening a result of periodic and frequent in the systems will be able to be boilers, hot water generated In 2012, our overall natural According to the improvements maintenance and replacement of monitored online. through solar pannels were gas consumption of the entire which made in Quality present steam holders in steam flowed to washbasins and factory has been 4.366.284 Despite all those efforts, energy Departmant all laboratory system. thus 4kW saving on electricity Sm3, accompanied by electric consumption per unit product tracks started to keep on digital consumption was achieved. consumption 30.731.247 kWh. • Transformation project of reaised to 41,4 kWh/ton from media. With the help of this the replacing electrical heating 38,6 kWh/ton in 2012. The • 3,5 kW of electricty accuracy of the data ensured Energy consumption values are systems in the old conditioning main reason of this increase consumption was avoided by and also use of natural resources monitored monthly and crucial room with hot water and/or is the change in production assembling solar pannels before was reduced. savings in energy consumption steam heating systems was specturum. In 2012, the facility the resource. were made as a result of The energy saving can be realized. showed 12,7% growth rate in investments and improvements 2012 assembly line productivity found below in Milk, Feed, Feed more energy consuming plastic undertaken. • The mixer in the cooking rates are as follows: Fattening and Poultry Facilities products rather than low energy vessel in rendering facility was As a result of improvemets consuming carboy products. EFF. (PET) 90,2% renovated. in production processes in Sakarya Hendek Gökçeağaç EFF. (PC) 93,6% our factory throug projects In the framework of our studies, Facility implemented, a reduction of which were conducted on EFF. (PET+PC) 91,0% 2,5% was realized in our energy energy efficiency reduced carbon • Lighthening pannels were consumption in 2012 compared emmissions in 2012 by 8% when assembled and thus light bulbs Isparta Akçaağaç Facility to previous year. compared to 2010 (being the were not switched during day Energy consumption is minimized basis yer). time. by utilization of latest technology Some of our studies on reducing Energy Efficiency consumption of electrical Pınar Water • 48 being in PET area and 48 energy saving bulbs even in the energy in the framework of in carboy area, in total 96 lights process of re-build of the filling Aydın Bozdoğan Madran room in our facility. This process environmental management were switched off for 8 hours Facility will be implemented throughout programs are listed as below: and a saving of around 60kW electrical energy was achieved. or facility in time. • All forklifts were replaced with • Hot-cold water and steam chargable forklifts. systems present at the facility • All old technology bulbs were Subject of Eneryg Saving Enerj Saved were isolated and revovated. • Assembly line automation replaced with energy saving kWh project was prepared, which will ones and lighthening costs Hot water supply from sollar energy in Milk Facility 5.676 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding • Compressed air, water and Process improvements in Feed Facility 237.600 enable assembly lines to be with and energy consumption were steam leaks fixed in lines. Process improvements in Feed Fattenig Facility 43.450 lower junk and more efficient. reduced by 60%. • Heat contact faults in current Cooling systems improvement Poultry Facility 71.280 • With the use of the automation cold rooms of the facility were system all inputs, all outputs, minimized. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 48 49 Altın Yunus Pınar Dairy • Operation of compressors more Dyo Printing Inks Astron efficiently and in line with their • In building heating in March İzmir Factory • Project pool composed of • Work was planned regarding cooling power by use of glycol 2012 and in producing hot water Simple Operation Precautions, e-invoicing, e-waybill, e-book Considerable level of saving water as cooling liquid in the in August geothermal energy Process Improvement and and e-payroll in 2012 where the in electric consumption was factory was utilized. By this practice, subtitute projects was actual realization is expected to achieved as a result of; LNG consumption was reduced • Utilization of multi storey developed with contribution start in 2013-2014. by 9,4%. • Use of low energy consuming stocking system in cold stock from all employees. “Energy • Fule consumption was leds and lights in lighthenng areas Efficiency Spesific Operational • LNG saving expectation for reduced at 75.000 km by route systems, Cost Improvement Week” was 2013 is 200.000 kg, which will • Use of low level energy optimization in in-city utilization organized by Dyo Printig Inks. enable reduction of carbon • Use of idle heat in yoghurt consuming lighthening fittings of sales company vehicles. Of the 55 proposals 50% of emmissions by 40%. 40% incubation cabinets, • Replacement of sandwich those was prepared as a project. reduction in carbon emmissions • Use of electrical motors in high panels on the packaging units in as a result of LNG saving • Managerial building exterior productivity category, order to make better use of day will reduce the total carbon insulation project was realized light emmission of the facility by • Use of frequency inverter in and 15% reduction in natural 15%. electrical motors for central • Energy saving of 30% gas consumption was achieved. cleaning system per package by using large Research studies are carried out As a result of all these studies, capacity and relatively low in provision of electrical energy Eskişehir Factory 7% of saving was achieved energy consuming machinery in through alternative resources according to TEP equivalent Below are energy saving work packaging such as solar energy and wind calculation. conducted by Eskişehir Facility: Energy Efficiency energy. • Replacement of LPG forklifts Furthermore, a joint energy • End of motorway with electrical forklifts in factory Viking Tissue efficiency project was transportation between the use commenced in collaboration with Pre-heater and economizer were stock area and the factory after • Provision of condensed Yaşar University. swopped places in the steam investment in dry stock area recovery in heating processes in boiler; thus flue gas, which was • Establishment of boiler yoghurt processsing tanks previously 1600C was reduced to 1400C and the generated heat management system • Provision of heat recovery was used in heating the qualified by investment in additional Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding • Use of shuttle system reducing water leading to energy saving. heat exchanger in yoghurt use of forklifts in stocking operations processsing • Reduction of heat in folio sintering point of yoghurt filling machine Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 50 51 Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organisations and Sector Representatives In addition to mandatory Our Memberships Denmark Business Councils İzmir Provincial Red Meat Turkish Middle Eastern Business memberships to chambers, Foreign Economic Relations Board Producers Union Councils Foreign Economic Adana Commodity Exchange Relations Board stock exchanges and unions; Dubai Chamber of Commerce Kocaeli Chamber of Industry Aegean Exporter Unions governments increasingly seek Turkish American Business Dubai Turkish Business Council Manisa Chamber of Commerce and Aegean Industrialists’ and Association for participation of occupational Industry Businessmen’s Association East Anatolian Exporters Union Turkish and Egypt Businessman Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organisations and Sector Representatives chambers, work councils, Manisa Organized Industry Aegean Region Chamber of Environment Education Foundation Association product councils and associations Association Industry of Turkey in every stage of economical Turkish Feed Manufacturers’ Marine Chamber of Commerce Aegean Tourist Business and Environmental Protection and Association decision – making processes Accommodation Association Packaging Waste Recovery And Mersin Commodity Exchange Turkish Food And Beverage and work on legislation. Recycling Trust Aliağa Chamber of Commerce National Milk Board Industry And Employers Association Yaşar Holding, foreseeing this Eskışehir Chamber of Commerce American Business Councils National Red Meat Council Turkish Food Safety Association development, has been founder Foreign Economic Relations Board Eskışehir Chamber of Industry member of several associations Organic Product Producers and Turkish Industry & Business American Turkish Council Ethics and Reputation Society Industrialists Association Association for many years. Moreover, it is also keeping its membership in Ankara Commodity Exchange European Technology Platform Food Packaged Water Manufacturers Turkish Marine Environment for Life Turkey Association Protection Association already established associations. Antalya Chamber of Commerce and With all our volunteer Industry Federation of Food and Drink Paint Research Association Turkish Quality Association Industry Associations of Turkey memberships, we aim to Antalya Commodity Exchange People Management Association of Turkish Spas Thalasso and Health instigate development in relevant Foundation For Environmental Turkey Resorts Association Association of Advertisers Education Cattle Breeders’ sectors and move parallel to Poultry Meat Producers And TURKTRADE Association of Cuisine Amicable Association of Turkey developments in the world. Breeders Association Association of Infant Food Uludağ Exporters Union Foundation of Economic Researches Printing Industry Education Work of associations, also Manufacturers Union of Dairy, Beef, Food Fruit Juice Industry Association Foundation Association of Packaged Dairy Industrialists and Producers of supporting development of a Gebze Chamber of Commerce Pulp and Paper Industry Foundation Turkey Industry of Turkey common work culture, is given General Secretariat of Istanbul Romania Coatings Manufacturers World Economic Forum much importance by our Group Association of Thermal Insulation, Mineral and Metals Exporters’ Association Waterproofing, Sound Insulation as these initiatives work on and Fireproofing Material International Chamber of Romania Turkish Businessman putting long term needs of Producers, Suppliers and Commerce Association the sectors before short run Applicators Investor Relations Association The Chemicals, Petroleum, Rubber preferences of companies. Association of Turkish Construction and Plastics Industry Employers’ Occupational Chamber Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Material Producers Association of Turkey Memberships Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Istanbul Chamber of Industry Association of Turkish Travel The Turkish Paint Manufacturers Chamber Of Electrical Engineers Agencies Istanbul Commodity Exchange Association Chamber Of Food Engineers Bornova Association of Farmer Istanbul Exporters Union The Valley of Kagithane Ayazağa Chamber Of Agricultural Engineers Assets Urban Development Association Izmir Association of Businessmen Central Anatolian Exporters Union TOBB Global Standards Center Izmir Chamber of Agriculture Coatings Research Institute Turkey GULF Business Councils Izmir Chamber of Commerce Foreign Economic Relations Board Corporate Governance Association Izmir Commodity Exchange of Turkey Turkish African Business Councils Izmir Union of Aquaculture and Foreign Economic Relations Board Çeşme Tourism Hoteliers Fishery Association Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 52 53 Our Understanding of Human Rights Our Employees Our Understanding of Human Rights Our Human Resources Policy Recruitment Candidates successful in interview are offered the job Labor and Labor Force Human Resources developed following the reference control. under “Science-UnityYaşar Holding was Heading out for “placing right Candidates, who couldn’t be Success” torch by Yaşar people for the right job”, our part of this process or could not awarded for the human resources strategy is to Group, is composed of trained, succeed are informed via career experienced individuals with second time for its recruit the market’s most skilled, portal, email or phone call. In high levels of belongingness and rapid responses to qualified, creative and innovative this context, “Respect to Human” ownership, who are open to all labor force with highest Prize organized by our business applicants and the motivation and performance by developments based on science, partner Kariyer.net for the 12th value knowledge exchange value it attributes to means of fair human resources time, was awarded to Yaşar and soul of unity, commit human resources policies and practices capable of Holding for the second time for themselves to participative winning the employees’ minds its rapid responses to applicants management understanding and hearts while ensuring the and the value it attributes to and work focused on success. sustainability of already recruited human resources. In our recruitment processes, skilled employees by improving these qualities are also taken Yaşar Group companies apply their skills and enhancing their into consideration as well as he recruitment procedures in loyalty. knowledge, skill and experience line with Labor Law no 4857 required by the position. At and Yaşar Holding Personnel evaluation stage, competence Regulation. based interview techniques are Our employees are informed on applied in line with Yaşar Group Our Employees Company Personnel Regulation Basic Competencies and Work upon recruitment. Personnel Family Competencies described Regulation regulates work for each level. Applicants are conditions, rights, tasks and given equal opportunities with responsibilities of employees and no discrimination on grounds informs on applied policies and of nation, ethnic root, religion, principles. gender, race, age or marital status. Applicants can submit Our new recruits are provided Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding their applications to Yaşar Group e-based “Yaşar Group companies via Yaşar Holding Orientation Training” on their website, recruitment websites, first working day and following direct application or through that they become part of consultancy companies. In 2012, company specific “Company 43.356 women and 68.200 men Orientation Program”. applied to our companies. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 54 55 Our Understanding of Human Rights Wage Management System Child Labor Our employees may work Employment of Disabled overtime due to reasons such Wage settings or changes are According to relevant articles Employment of disabled people as the characteristics of work or done according to criteria such of Labor Law, recruitment of is provided as foreseen by the increase in production. Overtime as class of position, individual individuals under 15 is prohibited law. Rate of employment of work is considered under experience, education, location, by rule. Exception to this rule disabled individuals at Yaşar legal framework and overtime command of foreign languages, is where one fulfilled his/ Group is 2.23%. payments are done again in line assessment of position compared her 14 years and completed with the law. Statutory Rights of to similar, higher and lower basic education. These can Employees positions, positions reported by be employed in light jobs for From the very first working personnel, performance scores/ a limited working durations. day of employees, information All statutory rights of employees premiums of previous years Although the legal limit by rule is on their job descriptions are such as rest, food, paid leave, and market wage levels. In 15 years of age with exceptional provided to them and interannual leave and severance pay addition to these, participation cases where 14 years of age departmental orientations are are applied. in wage surveys is considered is also allowed in our country, conducted. Documents related in order to follow the market. Yaşar Group companies are to job descriptions are updated In case of appointment of No discrimination in identifying committed to and applies the and shared in-company via personnel to another position wage levels is applied on the principle of recruiting personnel the common system used in Yaşar Group companies, grounds of such as nation, ethnic who fulfilled 18 years of age. as required by ISO 9001. necessary actions are taken root, religion, gender, race, age Employees do have access to in the time limitations set out Involuntary Servitude and by Labor Law no 4857 and or marital status. Wage and this document. Forced Labor Personnel Regulation. Our other rights of union labor are There have been no incident personnel under Collective regulated by collective labor In all Yaşar Group companies, Our Employees referred to court on grounds of Bargaining Agreement; the agreement. working days and hours, public, involuntary servitude and forced durations stated in Collective general and weekend holidays labor. Bargaining Agreement are are defined and announced to applied. the employees. Educational Background of Employees Durational Status Percentage 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Doctorate 0,2 0,2 0,1 Graduate 3,8 3,5 3,3 Undergraduate 31,6 29,6 28,8 Associate Degree 8,4 8,9 9,1 High School Graduate 37,9 39,1 40,7 Secondary School 18,2 18,6 18,1 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 56 57 Our Understanding of Human Rights Employee Opinion Poll other company practices were Social and Cultural Activities examined. for Our Employees Yaşar Group has been implementing a yearly “Employee Employee Opinion Poll, in the In order to increase employee Opinion Poll” since 1998 under context of our environmental motivation and maintain internal the principle of “people first” and social responsibility and communication, company picnics in order to collect views of its our operational excellence and are organized every year and employees and assess their values, was prepared online several activities are planned commitment to the company. In in 2012 and sent to 3 pilot during the year. line with the results of Employee companies (Pınar Water, Yaşar • Special Day greetings Opinion Poll, action committees Foreign Trade and Dyo Printing (birthday, wedding anniversary, consisting of employees from all Inks) and Astron where been Throughout Yaşar circumcision) levels are established and these filled in online by 376 white Group, satisfaction committees prepare action plans collar employees and prevented • Dinner organizations for improvement objectives and 112 trees from being cut. As rate is 56%, conduct practices in order to of this year, Employee Opinion • Soccer, backgammon, table commitment rate is enhance personnel satisfaction Poll will be conducted bitennis and bowling tournaments 65% and general and motivation. annually and it is planned to be • Dinner organizations in implemented to all white collar evaluation rate is Employee Opinion Poll was employees in 2014 and online factories 53% in 2012. revised in 2012 by establishing • Holiday lottery West Region Directorate by blue collar employees in the a work group where literature following years. • İzmir I Go To Pınar (May 2011 review was conducted in line • Picnic and May 2012) Our Employees with needs, customers’ and Throughout Yaşar Group, • Cinema Theatre organizations implementers voice applications satisfaction rate is 56%, • Bursa, Çanakkale Personnel were conducted, meetings commitment rate is 65% and • Birthday celebrations and gift Trip (May 2012) with employees from different general evaluation rate is 53% in draws cadre and levels were held, and 2012. Marmara Region Directorate • Weekend trips • Bosporus Boat Trip (July 2011 • Fishing organizations and June 2012) Dyo Stage of Colors’ Theatre Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding East Region Directorate Group established by employees of Dyo Coating Factories in 2011 • Picnic in Osmaniye, Adana performed its first play in 2011 (August 2012) and second one in 2012. • Fun Meal in Adana (December Examples of social and cultural 2011 and June 2012) activities organized in regions by YBP in 2012 are as follows: Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 58 59 Employees’ Development Right Employees’ Development Right Training and Development Performance Evaluation Employees subject to Premium Activities System regulation are kept out of this scope. Main aim of Yaşar Group Yaşar Group Performance training programs is to enhance management system is designed Yaşar Holding employees knowledge and skills of the by premium regulation for were included in Performance employees supporting them in sale staff and by performance Evaluation System in 2011, reaching their targets as well as evaluation regulation for other which has been implemented of the Group and the companies; employees. Group has adopted at Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy, Pınar develop Yaşar Group Basic and holistic management system Water, YBP, Viking Tissue, Çamlı Work Family competencies. in order to reach its overall Feed and Fattening, Dyo Coating, Orientation training programs, objective and strategic targets. Dyo Printing Inks, Yaşar Foreign on-the-job training programs, Performance Management Trade, Altın Yunus, Bintur and personal development training System implemented since 2005 our companies abroad since programs, managerial skills focuses on parallel realization 2005. Where 545 people were training programs and expertise of company objectives and included in the Performance training programs are of the personal objectives. Performance Evaluation System in 2010, this training and developmental In 2012 a new training platform evaluation results are reflected figure increased to 662 in 2011 opportunities provided to our was established through to personal development, career and to 665 in 2012. employees. In addition, seminars e-learning methodology branded planning and rewarding/wage Infrastructure of human and conferences in order for our as “Yaşar Academy” and setting of individuals. In our resources information system employees to follow innovations introduced to use of 898 people evaluation system based on was strengthened in 2012; in different and current topics; in Pınar Dairy, Pınar Meat, Pınar Balanced Scorecard technique, Our Employees performance records of and gain an international vision Water, YBP, Viking Tissue and Critical Success Indicators (CSI) employees of Pınar Water, Viking are organized. Yaşar Holding. “Communication which are set and of which Tissue, YBP, Pınar Meat, Pınar Starts with Understanding”, targets are agreed on at the There are 11 trainers of Dairy, Altın Yunus, Yaşar Foreign Power of Creativity in Us”, beginning of each year are used. expertise areas in our group Trade and Bintur were integrated Customer Focused Relationship Target realizations are followed companies. into and are followed up through Management”, “Winning Team up via guidance and monitoring SAP system. In addition to that, there are Sale Force Management” training interviews in mid-year and various programs development programs were provided and revisions are made, if necessary. Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding of present skills in our Group. Yaşar Group Orientation Training At year end, realizations are Program was also translated to evaluated in line with targets. e-learning platform. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 60 61 Leadership Development Programs Leadership Development Programs Management Trainee Pool The program is organized in As a newly adopted application • Adaptation of sustainability Various support activities were Project (MTPP) three fold structure. with MTPP 5th Group, members issues into communication also implemented during the are also preparing personal activities program as follows: Yaşar Group, with idea of “train • Training Programs: Seminars graduation projects on improving your manager yourself”, have organized in different topics • Adaptation of sustainability • Company visits work processes in their been implementing MTPP as well as management and criteria to Critical Success departments. • Common communication since 1996. Candidates with leadership skills, personal Indicators For awareness high potential and planned to development, expertise training For awareness being raised on platform (sharing of publications • Review of successful such as articles, book being raised on be invested in from all Group programs. sustainability and sustainability sustainability reports based on summaries) sustainability and companies are selected and go being part of agendas of • Mentoring: It is the relationship GRI, determination of success under a 18 month development managers at an early date, main • Implementation of Buddy sustainability being program. established via one-to-one theme of project activities was criteria and reflecting those to in order to prepare MTPP 5th interviews between the project Yaşar Group sustainability report part of agendas set as sustainability and projects group members to project, Objective of MTPP is to know members and their self selected of managers at an were completed. • Contribution of Carbon support them all through project young manager candidates, volunteer Group managers Disclosure Project to implementation and enhance early date, main develop vision of and train (mentor). In the last group of Projects on below topics were sustainability communication with 4th Group members, monitor their career the mentoring system, being assigned: theme of project members. A member of MTPP development, ensure their implemented since 1996, 24 • Appropriate organizational activities was set participation in projects and mentors provided services to 57 • Water Footprint structure for sustainability 4th Group acts as buddy of a member of MTPP 5th Group. as sustainability activities aimed at developing mentees. • Review of sectoral practices of reporting their potential. MTPP creates fair trade and its impact on fiscal 326 people participated to this and projects were • Project Work: Members are These project topics are also opportunity for young manager and financial results program to date, of which 5th completed. candidates in getting to know expected to prepare projects on the agenda of Sustainable term was realized in 2010. 115 through group work in an area • Developing and management Development Committee and Our Employees Yaşar Group and strengthening of those are still working in the determined by top management. of supplier scorecards in view of they form the basis for future communication by gathering Group. Of the 115 still working employees in different sustainability work. in the Group, 74 were promoted. companies. Of the promoted personnel 28% are women and 72% are men. MTTP Candidates Percentage Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Period 4 Period 5 Female 25 31 25 33 39 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Male 75 69 75 67 61 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 62 63 Leadership Development Programs Manager Development In addition to that, through established, which enables sales Families of our employees Yaşar Group in general, a total Seminar (MDS) Personal Development Forms, team monitor sales targets and are important to us as well as of 72.661 hours of training with their managers they can realization of targets through themselves. In 2012, a training was conducted in 2012 where In 2011, Manager Development select the competency areas the system. Approval process program of 225 hours on training hour per person is Seminars for our promoted for personal development of premium progresses was easing exam stress, providing 16 hours. Of the total, 43% managers or new recruits as among Yaşar Group Basic designed and reflecting of psychological support to children are outsourced training, 57% managers were given a start. Competencies and competencies premiums automatically to and guidance of children by are in-house training; of the The aim of the program, being belong to their work family. salaries were also provided. right people was delivered to participants to trainings in 2012 implemented in 4 groups with With the training gained and System premium calculation 75 employees of ours and their 42% are blue collar, 53% are participation of 61 managers, developmental needs training is operational for over 400 children. non-key employees and 5% are is to develop different needs are analyzed and training employees (including Regional key employees. competencies of our managers. plans are developed. Year end Manager-Sales Manager Sales In this regard, a program evaluations, are reflected to Chief and representatives) as consisting of basic managerial Training Hours per Person performance scorecards with they being sales team. skills, personal development and defined proportions. 2010 2011 2012 expertise training is conducted. Other Training Programs In 2012, an internal training Yaşar Holding 11 22 18 Performance Management Our Group companies also program was prepared and Coatings Group System organize training programs in shared with our employees Dyo Coating 22 27 19 line with their own needs. In this Performance management in order to inform our new respect, Dyo Coating organized Dyo Printing Inks 34 46 29 system, implemented since employees, sharing of revised 2005, only covers white collar training programs on creating Food and Beverages Group areas and reminding of employees. It is aimed that the culture, 360 degrees customer Pınar Dairy 6 13 10 Performance Evaluation System. Our Employees system will be wide spread in the focus, basic finance for sales Pınar Meat 10 15 10 coming periods. 11% of white collar employees staff. Similarly, Dyo Printing Inks Pınar Water 6 30 24 were either promoted or organized training programs Percentage of White Collar employee satisfaction was aimed on such as OHSAS 18001Çamlı Feed and Fattening 9 12 9 Employees Covered by through provision of in-company/ 2007, Lean 6 Sigma Green Belt YBP 9 9 17 Performance Management inter-companies passages in and Yellow Belt, ISO 14001 Tissue Paper Group System 2012. Environmental Management Viking Tissue 16 17 17 2010 2011 2012 System, CRM feedback, general YBP Sales Premium Trade and Services Group 52 55 63 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding calibration, MSDS preparation, Automation Project Altın Yunus 4 22 28 communication skills, Check Law, and classification of waste. For Desa Energy 11 10 10 YBP Sale Premium Automation studies were finalized parallel raising awareness among our to new YBP Sale Premium employees and support their Regulation adopted in 2012, personal development, training which forms the basis for the programs on “Be Healthy, Be studies. With the project, Happy” theme are organized at a transparent system was Yaşar Holding. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 64 65 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Training Programs and work. In this scope, yearly blood Case Studies: Pınar Dairy Health Controls tests and heavy metal and Viking Tissue In 2012, Occupational Health solvent analyses every three Training programs are conducted and Safety Board was held 12 months for employees of Dyo In 2012, pace of frequency of in order to provide support times and decisions taken were Coating are done. Moreover, occupational accidents realized to our employees and their announced. lung screening and respiration 18% under the average of families with regard to illnesses. functions test are among the precedent 5 years. The main Work Permission System was Training programs on health, applied tests. reason of this drop is raised established in 2012 regarding hypertension and nutrition, awareness among our employees dangerous works. These avoiding stress, healthy and 5 days of the week, workplace through training programs on permissions are; In health controls balanced nutrition, breathing doctors and nurses provide occupational safety. exercise, flu and cold, protection health services. • Access to roof of employees from breast cancer, ergonomics, In framework of Preventing conducted in Occupational Safety • Hot areas work mother and child health, misuse Large Scale Industrial Accidents 2012, no instance of medicine, family planning, Occupational health and safety (Seveso Directive) policy • Access to closed areas food poisoning and epidemic internal regulation is applied so necessary declarations were of occupational diseases. Scenarios were written and to maintain occupational safety, recorded in Seveso Declaration diseases were avoid possible work accidents System and our company was fire drills were carried out. Health controls of employees are Deficiencies in drills were shown and done by workplace health units, and occupational diseases in considered off the scope in this our companies. With respect regard. identified and corrected. decrease in lung screening is done in the to regulation, occupational scope of combating tuberculosis, frequency of work health and safety board was porter and audiometric checks accidents and lost established. Our Employees are done, throat and stool working days were culture examinations are carried. In health controls of employees reported. In cooperation with universities, conducted in 2012, no instance of occupational diseases intern students deliver training were shown and decrease in programs addressing to pregnant frequency of work accidents and employees on nutrition in lost working days were reported. pregnancy, what to be done after giving birth and baby care; Necessary declarations were Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding and nutrition and other areas of made to Ministry of Environment special requirements for ones and Urbanization in line with with diabetics, hypertension and Seveso II in order to avoid large epilepsy. scale industrial accidents in our Coating Group Companies. There are also customized controls for specific areas of Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 66 67 Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Training of • YBP 12.014 hours Pınar Water First Aid Training Security Services Workers Employed in Heavy • Dinçtem 820 hours Training on water management, The First Aid Regulation of All security services in our and Dangerous Works • YBP-Distributor org. non-hazardous and packaging Ministry of Health stipulates the companies are provided by 5.039 hours In scope of “Communique waste management, requirement of one person of certified personnel trained on Occupational Training of Dyo Coating management of hazardous waste every 20 people being first aider especially in this area. Security Workers Employed in Heavy and and general environmental in workplaces and one person of personnel are delivered periodic Training programs such as Time Dangerous Works” prepared on topics were delivered in every 10 people being first aider training. Management training, ISO 14001 the basis of Labor Laws no 4857, order to reiterate and sustain in heavy duty workplaces. Environmental Management necessary training programs environmental awareness of our System training, TS 18001 The main aim of First Aid training were initiated in our companies personnel. OHS Management Systems is to train the personnel so to in 2012. training, ISO 50001 Energy conduct life-saving interventions, Other Work-Related Training Management training, EFQM as well as conscious actions in Programs Excellency Model training, First extraordinary circumstances Aid training, Forklift training, without feeling helpless first for Contribution to development of Fire Fighting training, We Live his/herself, his/her environment our employees is made through with Our Values training, Multiand relatives. technical training programs dimensional Leadership training, as well as through personal Advanced Excel training, Heavy Number of Certified Personnel Number of Security Personnel and managerial skills training and Dangerous Works training, programs. Training programs 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Competency Monitoring and organized in this manner are Yaşar Holding 2 2 4 Yaşar Holding 15 15 15 Collection training, IMDG Code Occupational Health and Safety, Coatings Group Coatings Group Our Employees training, Check and Note Payable Hygiene-Personal Hygiene, Safe training, Survey Development/ Dyo Coating 33 69 86 Dyo Coating 12 24 24 Use of Chemicals, Fire Fighting, Implementation Techniques Dyo Printing Inks 20 20 24 Dyo Printing Inks 8 8 8 Pesticide Control, Fire Fighting training, UFRS training and and Eviction, HACCP (Hazard Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Leadership Workshop were Analysis Critical Control Points) Pınar Dairy 87 108 94 Pınar Dairy 35 35 35 delivered. training. Pınar Meat 110 85 86 Pınar Meat 17 24 24 Dyo Printing Inks Pınar Water 5 20 11 Pınar Water 17 22 22 Case Studies: Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding YBP 12 people were trained for 168 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 31 28 16 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 24 22 23 Human Resources Directorate, hours of outsourced training on YBP 54 51 42 YBP 46 43 36 Work Management Systems adopting Energy Management Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Directorate and Technical System. Systems approach and Viking Tissue 28 37 50 Viking Tissue 11 15 15 Training Directorate provided its in-company applications are disseminated through inTrade and Service Group Trade and Service Group training to YBP, distributor and subcontractor personnel with house training. In 2012, energy Altın Yunus 11 16 16 Altın Yunus 11 10 9 total training hours as follows; management system training Desa Energy 0 0 0 Desa Energy 4 4 4 for 1.77 hours per person was Total 381 436 429 Total 200 222 215 delivered. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 68 69 Right to Association Right to Association Union and Collective Work place collective bargaining Bargaining Agreement agreement signed with Petrolİş includes below articles for Indefinite duration labor employer additional to Labor agreement is co-signed Law; with each of our employees under Labor Law no 4857. All • Employer accepts full contractors and subcontractors compliance with Occupational being our business partners are Health and Safety Regulation, obliged to insure their workers. • Employer accepts employment Our Coating Group companies of a nurse or health officer and our Food Group companies to dress wounds and make Pınar Dairy and Pınar Meat injections of workers in case of guaranteed rights of their immediate illness and injuries employees with co-signed in line with doctor advice in workplace and enterprise absence of workplace doctor, collective bargaining agreements • Employer keeps a permanent with Petrol-İş and Tek Gıda Workplace and enterprise • Occupational Health and Safety also informs the union on vehicle at workplace for Labor Union, respectively. collective bargaining agreements Board: its associate and deputy transportation of ill and injured people to hospital in case of with Tek Gıda Labor Union representatives to the board. 1Statutory articles on emergency includes below articles; occupational health and safety 3According to Article 5 of this • Transportation to health boards are applied at workplace. statute, the documents such as Our Employees facilities: Whatever the number dossiers, books consisting all 2In (15) days of the signature of workers and distance to Social activities like monthly meetings, of the agreement, in line Security Organization Units are, decisions, measures taken, with Article 3, (g) clause of employer keeps a vehicle and maintenance, control, training the subject matter statute, Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective its driver ready for the duration are subject to inspection and union informs the employer Bargaining Agreement of employment of the worker in review of branch or regional on its associate and deputy order to transport the worker branch officials when required. 2010 2011 2012 representatives to the board. to health units in emergency Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Dyo Coating 53 57 51 In the same duration, employer 4All activities of union in case of occupational Dyo Printing Inks 52 47 49 representative to board with accident. Otherwise, employer Pınar Dairy 65 64 63 regard to aforementioned duty is responsible for the worker Pınar Meat 66 70 71 are considered as actual work. not being taken to medical intervention on time. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 70 71 Case Studies Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles Yaşar Group supports cautious • Protect the balance Case Studies: Safety of Raw Materials Used Altın Yunus approach to environmental between economical needs in Processes in terms of Pınar Dairy In 2012, 3.740 kg of waste oil challenges. In other words, and preventing pollution and Environment: All varieties of and 21.600 kg of junk paper principle of “scientific uncertainty protection of environment, Pınar Dairy takes the waste of our raw and subsidiary were sent to recycling centers. cannot be used as an excuse responsibility of full compliance materials used in processes • Inherit a livable environment for not taking timely costto all environmental regulations, are transferred to chemical and In 2012, environmental cleaning to future generations for effective measures in preventing which it is subject to. For this anaerobic treatment plant with of the public land at entrance of sustainable development by harm to environment in cases purpose, Pınar Dairy set up water through sewage system; the hotel and Kalem Cape Island using environmental friendly where danger for serious and the chemicals and anaerobic treated and then transferred to were done by a team composed inputs in design of its products, irreversable harm to environment treatment plant, established İZSU channel system. of hotel personnel. exists” is adopted. • Implement policies and is implementing necessary Environmental Performance of In scope of environmental law, implying environmental procedures for collection and Besides customer satisfaction Processes: Environmental impact our permission to waste water impact assessments of new recycling of solid waste. Yaşar Group companies are assessment of all our production discharge is valid till 2016. investments, Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles conscious that environment Below parameters are taken processes and machinery and The necessary application for is borrowed from future • Establish the infrastructure into consideration when aims equipment to be procured are Environment Permission was generations and appropriate supporting necessary training, and objectives regarding conducted. Risk analyses are in made in line with new law actions should be taken planning and activities for environmental consciousness are scope of this assessment. In all and regulations and process is according to legal and corporate sustainability and improvement realized. production related departments instigated. circumstances in order to create of all facilities, of our factories environmental a more livable environment for Efficient Use of Natural impact inventory and impact Pınar Water their employees, customers, • Treat transparently in meeting Resources: In consumption of records are prepared; risky In 2012, we succeeded in suppliers and society. Keeping expectations of our customers, electricity, water, energy, steam processes are identified. examinations under TS ISOthis in mind, Yaşar Group employees and society affected as being our natural resources, Risky process are kept under EN 14000 Environmental commits to; by our operations, necessary saving measures are control and regular checks and Management System Certificate. adopted in order to reach our measurements are done. By • Efficient use of energy and • Review aims and objectives objectives defined in our yearly improvement initiatives taken in natural resources as a result of environmental management environmental activity plans. time, risky areas are secured as of applying environmental system regularly and in light of changing circumstances; and non-risky and their impact on management principles such continuously try to increase environment is decreased. as reduction at source, reenvironmental performance Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding use, recycling and avoidance; minimization of waste, waste water and emission as well as use of toxic and hazardous chemicals by a holistic understanding to control, Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 72 73 Use of Resources Use of Resources Lean 6 Sigma means throughout project life Projects are evaluated in 3 main Lean 6 Sigma practices initiated Implementation span. Till 2012, 3 Master Black groups. Distribution of projects in our Food and Beverage Group Belts were trained; in 2013 to 2010-2012 and planned for were also adopted by our other In selection of projects on 2 Master Black Belts are 2013; companies and in 2011 training efficiency and use of resources backed-up to the system. and project preparation started in our companies implementing Project Groups in Dyo Printing Inks. Lean 6 Sigma, topics such Numbers of implemented 2010 2011 2012 2013* as energy saving, customer projects and trained human Cost Operational Cost satisfaction, process design, resources by year; Enhanging 6 14 19 13 Improvement (OCI) Studies shrinkage-cost optimization Operational Number of Human Resource In Yaşar Group companies are prioritized. These projects Excellence 21 16 11 12 putting emphasis on are suggested by managers in Black Belt Green Belt Process sustainability in its strategies, parallel to company strategies, 2010 9 24 Design 6 5 6 4 OCI studies gained a new prioritized and project leaders 2011 6 29 (*) Planned perspective. Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles are assigned. 2012 8 28 Apart from long term projects, OCI projects are evaluated as During all these practices, in 2013* 4 25 short term “KAIZEN” projects sustainable ones and ones with order to support training and (*) Planned • In 2012, total of 36 projects were completed. aiming at lean work processes onetime benefit. Reflection of coaching needs with in-house and reduction of losses are savings not only in Turkish Liras resources 3 masters are trained also implemented under Lean 6 Number of Educated but also in all other possible as Black Belt. Master Black Sigma. Employees means like quantity is seeked. Belts form a bridge between Gender distribution of project Thus, it has been possible to expectations of the management 2008-2012 2013* leaders according to tasks and produce the data to be used in and project leaders, ensure Master Black Belt 3 2 project topics is as follows: our sustainability studies. coordinated and time managed activities and realization of the Black Belt 24 2 Some of the OCI projects under methodology with appropriate Green Belt 74 15 Gender Distrubution the Combating Climate Change Yellow Belt 295 84 Percentage of Project Heading are examples of our (*) Planned Leaders such work. 2010 2011 2012 2013* Female 26 30 38 28 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Male 74 70 62 72 (*) Planned Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 74 75 Water Management Water Management Water is the most important As a matter of fact, “Water Case Studies: Pınar Dairy natural resource emphasized by Management Coordination Pınar Meat By reviewing cleaning several governments, institutions Board” established by Ministry procedures, tools and and society. Increase in urban of Forestry and Water Affairs All waste water from production equipment used and work population, raise in income per discussed the issue in broader processes and social areas are instructions, satellite systems person will result in scarce water terms. One of the very important treated at our physical, chemical in cleaning are utilized in order resources in several areas of the tasks of the Board is to maintain and biological waste water to maintain more efficient use world. Today, approximately 2,5 coordination among sectors. For treatment plant located in the of water. Moreover, cleaning billion people cannot access to efficient water management. factory. Quality of waste water with less water consumption sanitary opportunities because are periodically analyzed in Yaşar Group companies is ensured by obtaining more of water scarcity. According to independent laboratories and our emphasize on less use of water pressurized water with less the World Bank Report, till 2030 own laboratories; provisions of and aim at efficient management water consumption as a result of in line with estimated population regulation are respected. of water as a unique natural attaching nozzles to water hoses. and economic growth global Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles resource. “Water Footprint” While our water consumption in need to water will go over water Pınar Water calculation is in 2013 work plan 2011 was 960.088 m3, in 2012 resources. Water demand being of Sustainable Development our total water consumption Legal applications to relevant 40% more than present water Committee. was 893.700 m3; a decrease of institutions were made and resources will make it difficult for world population to reach water. 6,9% was achieved. Our water being followed up regarding our Thus, water management at consumption per one ton of waste water treatment plant and global level will gain importance. product was 23,56 m3 where emission and discharge issues. with a 9,1% reduction it was Water of treated waste water 21,42 m3 in 2012. were used in irrigation. Dyo Printing Inks m3 2011 2012 Water Consumption 20.428 16.893 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 76 77 Packaging Waste & Solid Waste Man. Packaging Waste and Solid Waste Management Pınar Water of our Group training activities for consumers Packaging Waste Control Viking Tissue companies is founder member and municipalities on separate Regulation, Article 11 states Waste paper amount at Deink of ÇEVKO’s (Environmental collection of packaging waste at “market producers are facility of our company is 24.750 Protection and Utilization of source, recycling and recovery responsible for using the least tons. That much of paper was Packaging Waste Foundation). are delivered through ÇEVKO waste generating, most easy and recovered and contribution to Our companies handed over Foundation to which we are a economic to recycle and recover economy was made. their responsibilities in collecting member. packages after use of product”. and recycling packaging waste Packages of all product groups of Re use and recycling of packages Waste amounts for 2012 are as to ÇEVKO Foundation as the Viking Tissue are made of 100% of sold products are aimed. below. body notified by Ministry of recycle materials. Starting from design stage o Environment and Urbanization. Pınar Meat packages, packaging materials Pınar Water ÇEVKO Foundation awarded us with potential to least waste At department for meat the use of green dot. Plastic packaging weight in creation after production and use products packaging, waste junk grams continued to reduce in Our Environmental Consciousness and Principles For recycling and collection as well as with least potential to percentage in 2011 was 3,57% of all packaging waste, the harm the environment are used. 2012 as also been the case in whereas this percentage was Ministry works with notified previous years. Glass carboy reduced to 2,9% in 2012. Recycled packaging waste packaged products are included licensed firms. According to our percentages by year and 2013 Çamlı Feed and Fattening in product portfolio. packaging waste management targets for packaging materials plan prepared in line with Agreement with “EGDAŞ”, the Furthermore, by package in the market are given in table the signed agreements and firm licensed by the Ministry of improvement studies conducted below. submitted to the Ministry, Environment and Urbanization, plastic packaging weight in was signed on utilization of grams was reduced from 11,4 gr recycled waste. to 10,3 gr. Recovery Percentage Amount According to Years Waste amounts for 2012 Type of Package 2010 2011 2012 2013* kg Hazardous Waste Evaluable Waste Paper-Cardboard 37 38 40 42 Pınar Meat 44.587 3.899.650 Plastic 37 38 40 42 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 16.066 416.690 Glass 37 38 40 42 Viking Tissue 18.540 2.955 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Metal 37 38 40 42 Pınar Dairy 25.840 19.462 (*) Planned Dyo Printing Inks 136.000 413.000 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 78 79 Our Employment Data Our Relation with Society Our Employment Data Total Work Force Percentage According to Regions Employee Turnover Ratio According to Age for the Year 2012 Region 2010 2011 2012 Aegean Region 68,70 69,49 68,22 Under 18 Marmara Region 19,46 17,60 18,52 18-25 7,5 Central Anatolia Region 8,31 9,82 9,84 26-30 8,4 Mediterranean Region 2,42 2,08 2,35 31-35 5,6 Black Sea Region 0,57 0,52 0,54 36-40 6,6 South Eastern Anatolia Region 0,33 0,29 0,31 41-45 10 Eastern Anatolia Region 0,21 0,20 0,22 46 and over 10,9 Total 7,6 Total Work Force Percentage According to Employment Type Employee Turnover Ratio According to Region for the Year 2012 Type of Employment 2010 2011 2012 Key Personnel 7,6 6,9 7 Aegean Region 7,2 Our Relation with Society White Collar 48,3 45,4 44,5 Marmara Region 9 Blue Collar 41,6 45,3 45,9 Central Anatolia Region 6,3 Temporary Staff 2,5 2,4 2,6 Mediterranean Region 7,6 Black Sea Region 35,7 Personnel Turnover Ratio South Eastern Anatolia Region 6,3 2010 2011 2012 Eastern Anatolia Region 7,7 Group Wide 7,9 7,9 7,6 Total 7,6 Employee Turnover Ratio According to Gender for Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding the Year 2012 Female 9,3 Male 7,3 Total 7,6 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 80 81 Our Employment Data Employees Gender Distribution Data Gender Distribution Percentage of All Employees Gender Distribution Percentage of White Collar Employees 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Yaşar Holding 47 53 51 49 49 51 Yaşar Holding 53 47 57 43 59 41 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 15 85 14 86 13 87 Dyo Coating 27 73 27 73 26 74 Dyo Printing Inks 18 82 19 81 18 82 Dyo Printing Inks 35 65 35 65 41 59 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pınar Dairy 15 85 18 82 19 81 Pınar Dairy 32 68 34 66 35 65 Pınar Meat 12 88 15 85 16 84 Pınar Meat 25 75 26 74 27 73 Pınar Water 13 87 14 86 16 84 Pınar Water 18 82 19 81 20 80 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 13 87 13 87 13 87 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 25 75 27 73 31 69 YBP 16 84 15 85 16 84 YBP 16 84 16 84 17 83 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 10 90 10 90 10 90 Viking Tissue 20 80 21 79 20 80 Our Relation With Society Trade and Service Group Trade and Service Group Altın Yunus 16 84 22 78 17 83 Altın Yunus 21 79 26 74 21 79 Desa Energy 0 100 7 93 13 87 Desa Energy 0 100 7 93 8 92 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 82 83 Our Employment Data Gender Distribution Percentage of Team Leaders and Employees Average Age Data Superior Management Staff 2010 2011 2012 Average Age of All Employees Female Male Female Male Female Male 2010 2011 2012 Yaşar Holding 49 51 57 43 57 43 Yaşar Holding 40 39 41 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 25 75 24 76 23 77 Dyo Coating 36 35 35 Dyo Printing Inks 28 72 32 68 33 67 Dyo Printing Inksi 36 37 37 Food and Beverage Group Food and Beverage Group Pınar Dairy 29 71 30 70 32 68 Pınar Dairy 35 33 33 Pınar Meat 25 75 27 73 29 71 Pınar Meat 37 36 36 Pınar Water 19 81 24 76 17 83 Pınar Water 34 35 34 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 25 75 26 74 26 74 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 35 35 35 YBP 18 82 19 81 19 81 YBP 34 35 35 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 26 74 25 75 16 84 Viking Tissue 35 35 35 Trade and Service Group Our Relation With Society Trade and Service Group Altın Yunus 7 93 14 86 5 95 Altın Yunus 34 34 34 Desa Energy 0 100 0 100 17 83 Desa Energy 39 37 38 While proportion of female and Nations has been supported by male employees is balanced undersigning the CEO Support at Yaşar Holding, the same Declaration as well as decision balance is not seen at Group was taken for participation in companies. In some occasions, “Turkey Gender Equality Task the reason for this disproportion Group”, which was put on Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding stems from preference of male agenda by World Economic employees due to job specific Forum and led by Ministry of factors. However, because of our Family and Social Policies. With belief in necessity of increasing human resources departments women employment, “Principles of our Group, work on actions for Empowerment of Women” to realize the these principles is program initiated by United initiated. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 84 85 Our Employment Data Average Age of All Employees White Collar and Age Distribution Percentage of All Employees for the Year 2012 Management Staff Under 18 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46 & over White Collar Management Staff Yaşar Holding 0,0 0,9 13,2 18,4 25,4 13,3 28,9 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Coatings Group Yaşar Holding 40 39 38 43 41 44 Dyo Coating 0,0 10,2 18,8 22,8 24,2 16,2 7,8 Coatings Group Dyo Printing Inks 0,0 9,7 13,9 17,1 25 22,7 11,6 Dyo Coating 36 36 35 40 40 40 Food and Beverage Group Dyo Printing Inks 36 37 35 40 40 40 Pınar Dairy 0,0 14 26,2 23,6 21,2 11,1 3,9 Food and Beverage Group Pınar Meat 0,0 9,5 17,9 19,9 25,7 18,4 8,6 Pınar Dairy 34 33 32 36 36 36 Pınar Water 0,0 14,4 18,1 30,6 22,1 10 4,8 Pınar Meat 37 36 35 39 39 39 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 0,0 8,5 23,8 24,7 20,9 13,3 8,9 Pınar Water 34 35 34 37 37 38 YBP 0,0 4,3 21,9 31,3 21,4 15,4 5,7 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 35 35 33 40 40 42 Tissue Paper Group YBP 34 35 34 39 39 39 Viking Tissue 0,0 6,4 24,2 24,2 24,2 16,4 4,6 Tissue Paper Group Trade and Service Group Viking Tissue 35 35 34 38 37 39 Altın Yunus 0,0 20 21,4 17,9 15,7 14,3 10,7 Our Relation With Society Trade and Service Group Desa Energy 0,0 6,3 12,5 25 31,2 12,5 12,5 Altın Yunus 36 36 35 41 44 43 Desa Energy 39 37 33 54 55 48 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 86 87 Our Studies on Management Systems As a testament of our respect We know with the management Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP to the society we operate in, systems and various CertificaMeat Dairy Water Coating Printing Yunus Tissue Feed and Energy tion Inks Fattening our customers, employees strategies such as activity and consumers we attribute optimization, management Automotive Sector ISO 16949 and Sub-Industry utmost importance to studies on focus and disciplined managerial Quality management systems to ensure conception, it is possible to Management System that our activities are conducted reach the target of conducting Organic Farming in line with internationally appropriate practices with Entrepreneur recognized standards. highest level of quality and Certificate environmental principles. FSC-CoC ( Forest FSC Stewardship Council40-004 Chain of Custody ) 004 Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP Management System FSC CertificaMeat Dairy Water Coating Printing Yunus Tissue Feed and Energy 40-007 tion Inks Fattening US National NSF Quality ISO 9001 Sanitation Management System Foundation Food Safety ISO 22000 Our Studies on Management Systems British Retail BRC Management Consertium System Certificate International Food IFS Environment ISO 14001 Standard Management System Global Gap CFM/COC Occupational Health and Safety OHSAS National Britannia NB Management 18001 System Certificate ISO 17025 Food Safety System FSSC Test and Certificate 22000 Calibration ISO 17025 Laboratory Halal Food Certificate TS OIC/ Accreditation SMIC 1 Customer Satisfaction ISO 10002 Management Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding System Certificate Energy ISO 50001 Management System Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 88 89 Pınar Dairy Projects and Systems CRM Approval Project Annual Agreements Project Distributor KANBAN Project Increasing Customer In 2012, studies on TS 18001 Activity Management to It is a project for registration, Kanban Project or as fully stated Satisfaction Occupational Health and Safety Customer through SAP; approval, monitoring and “Distributors Stock Management System and TS EN ISO 50001 YBP reporting of all varieties of System – Kanban Dissemination • 81% of 70.000 promotional Energy Management Systems agreements signed with Project” has been used and E-Invoice Project initiatives composing of Price are completed. Certification will customers yearly or periodically implemented by pilot distributors Discount Activity, Discount be completed in 2013. E-invoice of Revenue in a year. since July 2012. Magazine Activity, Net Pricing of Administration is a nonAltın Yunus Listed Price are put under scope Sales Groups Task Management The purpose of the project mandatory application for of Automated Approval Project. Project is to decrease number Studies commenced for ISO now developed to ensure safe With this project, automatic of inventory days when 50001 Energy Management and healthy transaction of Sales Groups Task Management monitoring of promotions increasing the proportion of Systems and being Green Hotel. e-invoices between its parties in System has been initiated and according to pre-defined rules order responsiveness of our accordance to defined standards. being used at Marmara Regional Pınar Water can be done via the system. distributors. As a result of this, YBP is one of the very first Directorate in order to maintain customer satisfaction in sales Studies commenced for TS EN companies in Turkey, which put • By Automatic Approval common sales principles among processes of Pınar products of ISO 50001 Energy Management this under a project. In scope of Project, approximately 56.000 sales groups throughout Turkey our distributors were increased. Our Studies on Management Systems Systems. this project, e-invoicing among promotions are managed and bring in a common view in Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy and YBP yearly resulting in increase sales points visited. In 2013, it has been aimed to Pınar Meat and YBP’s e-invoicing with its in productivity, healthy and disseminate this project also Studies completed for TS ISO customers was aimed. In 2012, easy conduct of controls, to selected distributors in East EN 50001 Energy Management a total of 27.000 e-invoices were controlled distribution of Regional Directorate and Green Systems. Certification will be issued to some of our customers. authority and responsibility, fast Belt Project was established completed in 2013. A fast, effective and trustworthy responsiveness to customer under Lean 6 Sigma for this invoicing process was maintained needs, time and labor savings. purpose. and manual filing and archiving functions were also eased by saving invoices electronically. Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 90 91 Support to the Development of Sectors That We Operate In Support to the Promotion of Turkey Brand Pınar Institute TURQUALITY® is the TURQUALITY®’s vision • Providing intelligence support Pınar Institute was established The Institute is free of Pınar Institute takes active for Turkish companies so they in Yaşar University campus on commercial activities of Yaşar part in work of National first and only state• Developing strong global can receive action within market 1 June 2012 ans started its Food Group, is a non-profit Food Technology Platform, sponsored branding brands and increase exports, knowledge. operation under the decision making organization committed member of the Food for Life program. The gradually • Reinforcing the “Made in • Acting as a catalyst and an taken at General Assembly on to ethical values. Scientific Platform, which is one of the Turkey” image and Turkey’s 18 May 2006 with amendment Board, Management Board very important technology compelling conditions incubator for selected Turkish made to founding agreement of and Institute Directorate are platforms of the European Union. reputation through developed of competition today Brands. Turkish brands, Pınar Dairy. The objectives of main bodies of the Institute. Furthermore, the Institute also and the changing We are under the scope of the Pınar Institute are conducting It is governed by decisions of participated actively in work of TURQUALITY®’s goals in house or outside research in the Management Board with TÜBİTAK “Priority Area Calls”. It program, with our brands Pınar patterns of consumption order to contribute to healthy guidance of Scientific Board. contributed to identification of • Providing financial sources to since 2007, Dyo and Dewilux encourage companies Support to the Promotion of Turkey Brand Pınar Institute companies with a brand potential since 2008. development of the society in research areas required in food In order to guide operations of willing to be in the on their journey to be a global the scope of social responsibility, the Institute, the Management and beverage fields in Turkey. Export activities carried out to supporting research and international arena to brand, playing an accelerating Gulf and EU Countries in the education, publishing results of Board consisting of Yaşar Parallel to its mission and vision, role in branding. Group representatives and Pınar Institute carries out its create powerful brands “Food and Beverage” sector, and research and conduct facilities • Supporting companies with particularly to Asia, Europe, and academics started its work operations to contribute to which means more for this purpose. with the Chairperson and raising health individuals for strategy, operation, organization, Gulf Countries in the “Coatings” added value and more and technology consultancy sector. Mission of Pınar Institute is members. Numerical majority society, which is also one of market share. towards brand development in support scientific projects, of the members of Institute the main objectives of National While the Food and Beverage show presence in information Management Board are Health policies of the Ministry of order to create global Turkish group operates in Germany networks and conduct training academics. Thus, activities of Health. brands. throughout the Pınar Foods facilities to in order to create the Institute can be managed • Providing training for executive GmbH, HDF FZCO is established public awareness on food, health independently. branches of companies in the in Dubai, in order to make the and nutrition as well as on good program and reinforcing the Pınar brand high-quality and quality. overall human resources. trustable regional brand in the Middle East and also in Gulf • Helping to create and promote Countries. a positive Turkish image abroad Support to the Development of Sectors That We Operate In with communication and We continue our operations promotion activities. without interruption to ensure that Dyo, Dewilux, and Pınar • Increasing the brand potential brands appeal to a global and awareness of Turkish consumer group with the help of companies. Turquality® project. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 92 93 Added Value to Lives of Our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction As committed in “Integrated to its distributors of construction Altın Yunus completed 1st stage Viking Tissue produces paper YBP applies customer satisfaction management Systems Policy”, coats. Aim is to measure renovation of its Marina Apart towel brands Premia, Lily and survey in accordance with results Çamlı Feed and Fattening different sector expectations rooms in March 2012. 2nd Lily Dolgun certified as being for customers heading under targeting “Full Customer accurately and take appropriate stage renovation is planned to the first and only paper towels EFQM Excellency Model. Satisfaction” analyzes criteria to actions. Moreover, satisfaction be completed before next year in Turkey appropriate to contact Second YBP Customer measure customer satisfaction survey is also conducted holiday season. with food products. Certification Satisfaction Survey was in line with management system following regional master was done by ISEGA having the Faster and better quality services completed this year, which forms objective twice a year. training. most trustworthy independent have been provided and guest 20% of EFQM award grading. laboratory of Europe. This Communication with customers Satisfaction surveys in satisfaction is enhanced as a Survey to 1.544 YBP customers certificate guarantees maximum Added Value to Lives of Our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction is enhanced by feedback construction sector are result of increase in restaurant was applied by sealed envelope care and protection in materials from employees with direct conducted through “Dyolog” capacity, renovation works, system under the project with a used in production of paper contact with customers and (www.dyolog.com.tr), call improving physical conditions trust representation rate of 95%. towels and in production sales meetings. Furthermore, center or www.birbilenesorun. in kitchen areas and design of processes. customer satisfaction is com.tr website. Data gathered mobile bars. endeavored by procured through surveys form feedback consultancy services. basis for actions to be taken as response to changing customer Dyo Coating applies “customer expectations. satisfaction survey” to its industrial customer, Satisfaction rate of Dyo 84% “polish master survey” to Printing Inks measured via its furniture polish masters, Customer Survey was 92% 82% “implementer survey” to its in 2012. Continuation of this 80% OTB masters, “dyolog survey” level of satisfaction lies on fast 78% to its construction masters and paced training provided by 76% “distributor satisfaction survey” R&D and Technical Assistance 74% departments. 72% 70% Support to the Development of Sectors That We Operate In Distributor Modern Traditional COH* 2011 82% 78% 81% 75% 2012 81% 76% 75% 75% (*) Consumption Outside Home Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 94 95 Our Social Contribution Projects Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Yaşar Education and Culture province under framework of 45 Years with Dyo Painting Foundation has provided educational investments. Competition gratuitous scholarships to 5.445 Training was delivered to Yaşar Durmuş Yaşar, the founder of the students since its establishment, Group companies and other first coatings factory in Turkey and it support activities in organizations and institutions (1954), Dyo, has though that education, culture, and arts. at Yaşar Education and Culture undertaking an artistic function, Our foundation not only has Foundation Durmuş Yaşar as well as economic purposes, undertaken the construction Training Center every year. is a must in a country like many schools, but it also Turkey which is in a struggle for Our foundation published around undertaken the construction of development. Taking this reality 40 works in cultural publications, additional buildings, refectory, as a starting point, the decision Atatürk publications, sports and cultural facilities in to hold a painting contest to Archeological-Scientific line with the needs of existing encourage the art and the artist publications and publications in schools since its establishment. was taken in 1967, only 13 years of Tourism and Culture Mr. Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery and various other areas. It organizes Our foundation has also after the establishment of the Ertuğrul Günay and hosting of Painting Museum congresses, symposiums Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation recovered the science, language, company. Yaşar Holding Chairperson Ms. and panels aiming at wider Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery, which food technology and computer İdil Yiğitbaşı. dissemination of scientific Dyo Painting Competition was is within the body of Selçuk laboratory needs of schools. discussions on current challenges initiated in 1967, being the first Success prizes of 5 thousand Yaşar Painting Museum, the Construction of Yaşar Education in our country and in the world private painting competition in Turkish Liras and 12 thousand first private painting museum and Culture Foundation with emphasis on research and Turkey. 944 artists competed Turkish Liras in peinture were of Turkey which had opened its Autistic Children Special generating solutions. with 1585 works at the 35th awarded to 3 and 4 works, doors in the year 1985, opened Education Practice Center and Dyo Painting Competition, respectively. its doors in 1990. The Foundation continued Work Practice Center with which has been organized by financial support to Nysa As for the works who received The Foundation continued its 18 classrooms is initiated in Yaşar Education and Culture excavations in 2012 and awards and were deemed exhibitions in the year 2012 Kahramandere neighborhood, Foundation since 1993. 58 works provided a vehicle to be used worthy to be displayed in the at the gallery located on the Güzelbahçe District of İzmir were considered for exhibition at site under its commitment year 2012, they were met with bottom floor of the museum, and 7 works were awarded to promotion and protection of art enthusiasts in Istanbul. the exhibitions, Reha Yalnızcık, prizes after evaluation of the our culture and history, support The works will meet the art Atilla Atar, Gencay Kasapcı, Naile Selection Board composed of to archeological excavations, enthusiasts in Izmir, Antalya, Akıncı, Karma sergi, Mehmet Prof. Atilla Atar, Prof. Ergin İnan, publication of findings and Gaziantep, Ankara, Erzurum, and Fırıncı, Bedri Karayağmurlar, Prof. Dr. Bedri Karayağmurlar, promote both at national and Russia / Krasnodar in the year Ergin İnan exhibitions; and it Prof. Dr. Mustafa Pilevneli, Our Social Contribution Projects international levels as stated in 2013. continued its summer exhibitions Yalçın Gökçebağ and Abdülkadir its official act. at Çeşme Altın Yunus Art Gallery Günyaz. One of our important activity with Gültekin Yıldız, F. Öder Prize ceremony of the Ünsal, Ertuğrul Saraç, Hikmet is Dyo Art Competition which competition was held at Golden Çetinkaya, Ahmet Yeşil, Sabri is continued by our foundation Horn Congress Center with Akça, Fevzi Karakoç, and Varol uninterruptedly for 45 years participation of former Minister Topaç. since 1967. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 96 97 Pınar Support to Other 37 desks and chairs to Aliağa Pınar contributing to education, themes each year since 1981, Organizations and Cumhuriyet Primary School, 5 sports and protection of art was organized under the theme Institutions computers to Karabağlar Tahir and cultural assets since its of “Let’s Draw Our Dreams” and Merzeci Primary School, 10 establishment serves the social record participation was realized. Book collection campaign 23 little artists, of computer screens and printer dimension of sustainability as initiated in Yaşar Group provided for information technologies well. 23 little artists, of whom works whom works were books to 22 schools in Anatolia. were selected among 1.068.440 Our Foundation provided paint classroom of Mustafa Saadet Pınar continuously carries out works, were sent to an art selected among Alanyalıoğlu Primary School and to 13 schools; clothes to 30 corporate social responsibility camp for a week in Istanbul. 1.068.440 works, 1 PC for students at banking students under poor economic and insurance department of activities. Supporting intellectual On final day of the art camp were sent to an art conditions educated at village and physical development of the participating students of school of Doğanca village of Afyon University Sultandağı children with its products, Pınar 31st Pınar Painting Competition camp for a week in Higher Vocational School were Yeşilyurt District-Tokat province. also aims at contributing to were awarded certificates Istanbul. donated. The Foundation carried their personal development and netbooks. Moreover, one on financial and in kind support through cultural, artistic and Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Pınar student participated in Art Week to several organizations and sports activities. In this regard, was awarded and educational institutions through sponsorship Pınar Painting Competition, scholarship. in 2012. Pınar Children Theatre and Awareness research conducted Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball by GfK showed that awareness Team sponsorship stand out of 20% of Pınar Painting as continuous important and Competition in 2011 increased to sustainable social responsibility 26% in 2012. projects of our country. Pınar Painting Contest Pınar Painting Contest is being held since 31 years in order to increase the interest of basic education period children to the art of painting and to fine arts, and to raise the painters of the future. In every year Pınar Paint Contest give hundred thousand Our Social Contribution Projects children an opportunity for drawing their dreams, hopes, and their aspirations. Pınar Painting Competition taking on mission of guidance to future artists and hosting different Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 98 99 Our Other Soial Contributon Projects Pınar Children Theatre çocukistanbul. Workshops Altın Yunus Social conducted at Santralistanbul are Contribution Projects Pınar Children Theatre reaching composed of innovative tools more than three million children 1.102 pieces of housekeeping, and techniques are introduced for free all around Turkey kitchen and service equipment and a reflection of scientific continues its mission to endear were donated to Alaçatı Tourism thinking process is provided to theatre by children. Aiming at Training Center. the children through a unique making contribution to cultural group work practice. Diving organization of Karşıyaka and personal development Lions Club for Physically Disabled of children with each play Pınar UNICEF Collaboration Individuals was done at our performed, Pınar Children Under the scope of “Pınar, 3rd Traditional Dyolog hotel. A group of 50 people with Theatre also plays an important UNICEF hand to Hand to Future Fathers Day Competition various physical disabilities lived role in making several actors with Art Project” in recent years, out their first diving experience and actresses known to Turkish 3rd Traditional Fathers Day the 3.000 selected paintings in our diving school. theatre. Competition was organized by competed at Pınar painting Pınar Our Other Soial Contributon Projects Dyo Coating on 18 June-4 July Our hotel hosted the event Pınar Children Theatre, since Competition are used in original 2012 addressing Dyolog masters organized for autistic children 1987, have been performing tens size and special place mats of and salesclerks. Dyolog member free of charge this year as well. of child plays with its prominent the paintings were produced. masters and salesclerks shared staff performed the play named The income generated from the videos or slide shows they “Hurray I am Growing” in 2011 – sale of those place mats will be prepared with the children. 2012 Academic Year. utilized by UNICEF in projects supporting children. After evaluation 25 people were Awareness research conducted awarded prizes. by GFK showed that awareness For 2012 new year celebrations on Pınar Children Theatre is 20% Pınar made a cooperation with in 2012. UNICEF to donate to Primary Boarding Schools in Şanlıurfa. Mysterious Boxes Project “Mysterious Boxes” Project as an interactive workshop developed by London Science Museum in order to develop scientific thinking in children is introduced Our Social Contribution Projects to children in our country by Pınar and Informal Education/ Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 100 101 Education and Publications Yaşar University Yaşar University started to The aim of Yaşar Univesity, is to Yaşar University; provision education and training raise its students, as individuals • Has prepared its strategic during the 2002-2003 academic • Able to easily orient their plan for the period 2011-2015 year. Yaşar University, which intellectual potential to business, within the framework of an is among the 5 foundation“international urban university” supported universities of Izmır, • With high design and project vision emerged in line with the continues to provide education skills, change agenda, at Alsancak Campus (Preparatory School) and Selçuk Yaşar • Able to think in an analytic, • It adopted the basic task of “ Campus (Central Campus) systematic, and formal manner, being a high quality education • Not satisfied with what he and research institution which A total of 5.541 students has already achieved, always established the culture of science receive education at the Yaşar researching and questioning, and which contributes to the University and 364 academic 215 development of society both administrative personnel work • Sensitive to environment and locally and globally”, through within the body of the institution. to his own life, taking the competencies of the 7 faculties with 26 departments, • Able to act with a social university as a starting point. A Campus Pushing the 1 vocational higher school with responsibility awareness, Boundaries of International Since 2010-2011 period, the 11 associate programs, 1 foreign Standards! • Who participates to civil Yaşar University Altın Yunus languages Higher Education society activities held within the Student Dormitory, offers its The Selçuk Yaşar Campus is School, under Social Sciences framework of sensitivity to ethic five-star accommodation service an academic space where Institute 22 graduate and 2 of 400 bed capacity to Erasmus international standards Yaşar University doctorate level programs and and aesthetic values. Exchange students, alongside determined in terms of natural under Natural Sciences Institute Yaşar University, whose students and guest academics. environment and physical space 8 graduate and 2 doctorate corporate identity and position per student criteria are applied. programs are embodied at Yaşar Yaşar University continues is associated with the motto The ramp and lift mechanisms University. the meticulous high-quality it “Science, Unity, Success”, in conformity with the standards has made the courses Design displays in academic education, were used in order to avoid Culture, Project Culture, also in social organizations any circulation problems to be Research Culture, Human and sports and arts activities experienced by the physically Sciences, Ethics Culture, held with the participation disabled students. Aesthetic Culture, and Social of the students and makes Responsibility Project, under the an important contribution to Besides, consumption of title of Institution Basic Training the social life of Izmir. Yaşar cigarettes and tobacco products Education and Publications obligatory for all departments, University succeeded in interare strictly prohibited in both and ensured these concepts to university competitions in 2012 – outdoor and indoor areas of be adopted by the students. 2013 Academic Year with efforts the Campus, which is a first in of several of is sportsmen. Turkey. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 102 103 International Urban University University English Language International Relations Office 45% of the students enrolled at Preparatory Class has the Yaşar Univesity are benefiting As an urban university at International Relations Office honor of being the first Turkish from our different scholarship international standards, many was established in order to program accredited in the schemes. foreign students prefer Yaşar develop international point of field of English language University to continue their view and coordinate international Social Life education, through receiving CEA education by courtesy of activities of our University. Our accreditation. In this way, Yaşar Besides academic education, promotion efforts conducted Office increases international University English Language Yaşar University also supports by International Relations and educational opportunities for Preparatory Class became of the its students in social terms. European Union Center, and of our students and academics 96 English language programs Students benefit from students exchange programs and integrate campus life with enjoying CEA accreditation, and opportunities of social and ant it is an indicator of our cultures and international the nineteenth such program cultural activities, 44 active recognition in the international dimension. accredited outside USA. student communities as well platform. Students from 25 different as classical music concerts, EU Center, Erasmus Programs As for another important aspect countries like USA, UK, Amman, exhibitions, conferences and of our internationalization Our University got “Diploma Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Nigeria panels organized at the campus. strategy, it is the reflection of Supplement Label” in 2011 and Australia are full time New Investments international quality sensitivity in scope of our work in enrolled at our University and in the education to all units of harmonization with Bologna diversity of student profile at the 8 thousand 400 hundred m2 our university, and therefore to process. In 2012-2013 Academic campus provides an international of land next to Selçuk Yaşar our students. An important part Year, 58 of our students went educational experience. Campus was included in of our responsibility towards abroad under Erasmus Youth our campus, where Foreign Scholarships Yaşar University our students and our work is Program and its projects, 120 Languages Higher Education the world-class quality of the Erasmus students were enrolled Yaşar University contributes School and Vocational Higher education and the diplomas in our University. In addition, 60 to education of students by School at Alsancak Campus will we give to our students. Yaşar of our personnel lectured abroad supporting them through be moved to the new building and 75 European academics different scholarship in 2013-2014 Academic Year lectured at our University as opportunities such as Trainingconstructed on this land. With visiting academics. Education Scholarship, Academic this investment, our University Success Scholarship, Talent will have closed area of 30.000 Scholarship, Martyr and m2. Veteran Scholarship, Sheltering www.yasar.edu.tr Scholarship and International Student Scholarship. Education and Publications Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 104 105 Stakeholders Oriented Training, Meetings and Activities Pınar Meat Vocational As of 2012, 24 apprentices Pınar Newspaper additional training are provided Training Unit polished vocational skills up on personnel change, additional Pınar Newspaper is published on meat and meat products cadre and revisions for 4 to Pınar Meat Vocational Training once in every 3 months and management through master 6 days. Training programs Unit was established in 1998 distributed to 15.000 milk supply instructors in the vocational are planned monthly at the under Pınar Meat because of producers, 200-250 contracted training unit and 24 students beginning of each year. lack of an organization delivering veterinarians and producers were awarded journeyman training on meat and meat that Pınar Meat procurement certificates. Of the graduates products management, which department works with. YBP Overall Total 10 students were employed at caused challenges in finding Newspaper is a good source of Sap Additional Total Total Total Distributer Day Hour Pınar meat after training. Transition Training Distributer Day Hour trained staff in the sector. information on topics such as 2 41 43 163 1.304 As of yearend, 44 students fattening, dairy technologies and The aim of this program Pınar Water Stakeholders Oriented Training, Meetings and Activities are being trained at vocational fattening animal health for dairy being a pioneer in Turkey is Sap Additional Total Total Total training unit. 305 students were and animal husbandry farmers. to provide theoretical and Transition Training Distributer Day Hour graduated from Pınar Meat practical training to young YBP System Projects Bulletin 28 21 49 260 2.080 107 542 4.336 Vocational Training Unit since its people between 15-18 years of Dyo Coating establishment. The bulletin named “News age eager to learn a trade, who Sap Additional Total Total Total from the System” has been Transition Training Distributer Day Hour completed their basic education Yaşam Pınarım Magazine prepared and published once 8 7 15 119 952 and ready for employment. Yaşam Pınarım Magazine has in every 3 months since 2010 Following completion of this been published since 2004. It by YBP Work Management training, these young people builds bonds between Pınar and Directorate and been distributed YBP Sales Technics Training get the opportunity to be its consumers, business partners, to all Food Group. The Bulletin part of qualified intermediate As of 2012, sales techniques academic and bureaucratic informs projects continued or staff required by the country. training was delivered to our environments. Yaşam Pınarım completed by all project teams Furthermore, this training distributors and regional sales Magazine is published once in in Food Group and provides enables to maintain work personnel. In total 17 sales every 3 months and distributed vision to employees regarding discipline, develop occupational representative training programs free of change. technological innovations in the standards at national level and and 5 training programs on sector. quality standards in production; Consumption Outside Home and increase in productivity. YBP Distributor Training Channel were conducted. Training delivered on distributor SAP systems and operational processes in 2012 are listed in Education and Publications the table below. New distributors are provided a 10-day training program on SAP transition; Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 106 107 Dyo Academy Dyo Master Seminars Internship Opportunities to Nonetheless, long term High School and University internship program named Applying coat with right Master seminars were also Students “Step to Yaşar/Life (YAP)” was techniques is as much important organized in 2012, which have managed in 2012 and 6 students as quality of coat. Thus, Dyo been conducted Turkey wide and Yaşar Group provides internship were attended as project based established Dyo Academy been traditional. Information opportunities with pre-defined interns in Pınar Water and YBP training center at Gebze Campus was provided on vocational quota for high school and for 6 months. Upon demand in order to provide training development of masters and university students in order from our companies, project enabling professional coating new products were introduced for them to get to know work based internship program will be masters with occupational with participation of 7468 life and develop themselves. carried on in 2013. accreditation and competencies masters. Internship program’s objective in line with EU harmonization, is to provide on-the job Our Cooperation with Activities of Dyo Printing Stakeholders Oriented Training, Meetings and Activities inform them on new techniques internship to students while it Universities Inks and technologies and to develop enables Yaşar Group establish a Yaşar Group companies support personal competencies. The In cooperation among R&D database of qualified candidates. university students not only by training program is designed department and technical service Vocational high school students supporting their projects but also in two stages and composed departments, Marmara University spend 3 days a week at our by taking part in career days of different modules (interiorand Istanbul University Depart company to reinforce their organized. In 2012, Yaşar Group exterior coating, woodof Printing training seminars training at school and get to companies took part in career metal coating, marine coats are organized in order to share know the work environment days of 6 universities. application technologies and technical knowledge and sectoral they will possibly be working applications; and technologies of developments with distributors, post-graduation. University Furthermore, Yaşar Group thermal insulation). Successful sub-distributors, industrial clients students does internship at our hosts university students at professional coating masters and printing masters. Special company in June-September its own companies’ premises are awarded with a certificate training seminars in addition to period. Collaboration with Yaşar in the scope of “Yaşar Careers both undersigned by the Ministry collective trainng organizations University and Yaşar Education Day”. 9 students succeed in of National Education and Dyo are also carried on. and Culture Foundation is various competitions among Academy. established and their students 25 students selected and invited Activities of Çamlı Feed and enjoy special internship quota. to the program were provided 1 Thanks to Dyo Academy Project Fattening In 2012, 542 university students hour coaching sessions by Yaşar implemented in several places Business Partners Meeting were enrolled in internship Group managers. of Turkey, our 393 masters were were held on 11-13 May 2012 program. certified in 2012. with “İzmir A Page Opened to Innovation” theme; Milas Education and Publications Producers Workshop was conducted on 30 March-25 May 2012 and Kemalpaşa-Salihli Seminar on Farm Management and Biosafety in Farms was organized in July 2012. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 108 109 Sponsorships and Recognitions Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships Pınar KSK • Sponsorship to “In Search • Sponsorship to “8th Personal • Sponsorship to “11th Additional sponsorships; Of Excellence Symposium” Development Seminars” Organization Management Pınar continues its support to • R&D Center Summit, organized by KALDER in 2012 organized by Dokuz Eylül Summit” in 15 November 2012 sports through sponsorship University • Association of Turkish of Karşıyaka Basketball Team. • Sponsorship to Ege University • Sponsorship to “ Tire Milk Construction Material Producers Since 1998, the basketball team Food Engineering Faculty • National Supplier Sponsorship Symposium” organized by Ege Quality Summit, competing in Turkey Premier exterior renovation , to “Turkey, the Balkans and University Tire Kutsan Vocational Basketball League has been the World Indoor Athletics High School in 13 December • Turkey Tennis Tournament, • Sponsorship to Euro league supported by advertisements Championships” organized by 2012 Women Final Eight Organization, • Fethiye Tennis-Skiand commercials in order International Association of • Sponsorship to “Izmir Mountaineering Club to raise sports awareness in • Main sponsorship to “ National Athletics Federations International Theatre Festival children. Furthermore, around Dairy Summit, Milk and Dairy • Çanakkale Gündoğdu Village • Sponsorship to “paintistanbul” “ organized by Social Studies 1.000 children every year benefit Industries Conference” between Elementary School 2012 of Culture and Arts Foundation from opportunities to do sports 21-23 May 2012 between 7-17 December 2012 • Ege University Piri Reis at Çiğli Selçuk Yaşar Facilities. • Sponsorship to “Rixos Cup • Main sponsorship to children’s Research Ship Basketball Tournament • Sponsorship to “48th Turkish Pınar was the sponsor of the Fest organized by Boğaziçi Pediatrics Congress” at Starlight Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships “2nd Selçuk Yaşar Football University Alumni Organization • Sponsorship to “5th National Congress Center Tournament” organized by Telekom Izmir Cup Challanger Karşıyaka Sports Club Between • Sponsorship to “Safe Food Tennis Tournament” • Sponsorship to “Era of 01 December 2012-10 January Days” organized by Quality Customer Marketing Summit” 2013. Assurance of Turkey and • Sponsorship to “3th Boğazici at Lütfi Kırdar Congress and Bornova Municipality Regional Partnership Summit” Exhibition Hall Pınar Water, official between 13-14-15 December beverage sponsor of Turkey • Sponsorship to “1th National 2012 at Çırağan Palace • Sponsorship to “World Food Athletics Federation Energy Efficiency Summit” Day” organized by Food Industry organized by Ege University • Sponsorship to “3th Food R&D Employers’ Association of Turkey Pınar Water have been official Project Market” organized by beverage sponsor to Turkey • Sponsorship to “Language Aegean Exporters’ Association Athletics Federation for two Education at an Early Age” years and will continue giving symposium • Sponsorship to “Turkey Cruise support to national and Forum” organized by Seatrade • Sponsorship to “13th Pediatric international organizations and Izmir Chamber of Commerce Days” organized by Dokuz Eylül as a supplier of beverage. in 4 July 2012 University Hospital School of Nursing between 5-6 April 2012 • Sponsorship to “One Health: Sponsorships and Recognitions Workshop on Milk and Milk • Sponsorship to “Autistic Products” organized by Izmir Fest” organized by Karşıyaka Chamber of Veterinary in Municipality and Autistic Child 13 October 2012 Protection and Guidance Association Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 110 111 Trade Shows and Conventions Recognitions Pınar taking place at Yaşar National Gastronomy Meal • FAO prize to Pınar Dairy on • In Packaging Moon Stars Holding Food and Beverage Contest organized by Uludağ Contribution to Food Sector 2012 Competition organized Group stand at 81st İzmir Professional Cooks Association was awarded on World Food by Packaging Industrialists International Fair and exhibited took place at Bursa Merinos Day organized by Turkey Food Association (PIA), “Pınar Açbitir its products. Fair and Congress Center main Employers Trade Union (TÜGİS). Salami” and “Pınar Gurme sponsored by Pınar. Around 300 Pastrami” were awarded prizes Pınar participated in GULF FOOD • Dyo Printing Inks was awarded cooks/chiefs from all over Turkey under packaging materials 2012 Fair, the most prestigious 1st prize in web printing inks attended the contest. category and graphical design and highly participated fair category as a result of survey category, respectively. of Middle East taking place in Çamlı Feed and Fattening study conducted among all Dubai and had the opportunity serving to printing industry. • YBP was awarded a thank you The company attended Euro Tier of introducing its products to plate for its support in 2012 to Fair on 13-16 November with its • Dyo Coating was awarded international markets. Altınokta Education and Culture prize winning distributors; Future “Environment Prize at Large Foundation. 4th International Golden Cap Fish Eurasia 2012 on fish feed Scale Company Category” of 18th Cooks Competition organized on 07-09 June and Agroexpo on Şehabetting Bilgisu Environment • Altın Yunus Voleyball Team Trade Shows and Conventions Recognitions by Turkey Cooks Federation and cattle feed. Prize Competition organized by became the Çeşme champion Antalya Chiefs Union took place Kocaeli Chamber of Industry. in traditional sports tournament at Antalya Expo Center Fair and organized by Çeşme District Congress Center main sponsored Governorship in 2012. by Pınar. 2.500 cooks/chiefs from • Accoding to 2012 2nd quarter all over Turkey attended the results of Turkey Customer competition. Satisfaction Index (TCSI) being a joint initiative of KalDer and international research institution KA Research, Pınar, as also been in 2011, was selected the most favorite brand of Turkey in packaged water category. Sponsorships and Recognitions Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 112 113 GRI Index and UNGC Principles GRI Index Related Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of the GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report Report Indicators Report the Report Profile 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 1. Strategy and Analysis of the report 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of UNGC Chairperson’s Message 6-7 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Full Determination of 5 the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior Continued Full facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can the Report’s Content Chief Executive Officer’s 8-9 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Support Message or between organizations organization and its strategy. Statement 2. Organizational Profile 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 calculations, including assumptions and techniques 2.1 Name of the organization Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 Indicators and other information in the report 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons joint ventures for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Full Inside Back Cover Arka Kapak İ of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, methods) and names of countries with either major operations or Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in covered in the report the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 GRI Content Index 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Full GRI Index 114-118 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Disclosures in the report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 10-11 Assurance of employees, Net sales (for private sector organizations) 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking GRI G3 indicators are applied or net revenues (for public sector organizations), Total external assurance for the report. If not included in the in preparation of this report. capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, No external inspection private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or explain the scope and basis of any external assurance services provided provided. Also explain the relationship between the GRI Index 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Full Determination of the Report’s 5 reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) regarding size, structure, or ownership including Content 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Full Recognitions 113 Governance 3. Report Parameters 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Full Top Management 28-29 Report Profile committees under the highest governance body responsible 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational information provided oversight 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Full Arka Kapak İçi 120 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Full Governance at Yaşar Group 30-31 body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 within the organization’s management and the reasons for 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Full Arka Kapak İçi 120 this arrangement) report or its contents 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Full Governance at Yaşar Group 30-31 Report Scope and Boundary state the number of members of the highest governance GRI Index UNGC Principles 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Partial Our Reporting Approach 4-5 body that are independent and/or non-executive members Determining materiality, Prioritizing topics within the report, and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Full Our Reporting Approach 4-5 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 114 115 Related Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report the Report Indicators Report the Report 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Partial Governance at Yaşar Group 30-31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 48-49 recommendations or direction to the highest governance improvements UNGC 9 body EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 48-49 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Full Risk Management 34-35 energy based products and services, and reductions in UNGC 9 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Business Ethics 36-37 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Full Corporate Reputation 32-33 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 48-49 of the members of the highest governance body for guiding Management reductions achieved UNGC 9 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and EN8 Total water withdrawal by source UNGC 8 Partial Water Management 76-77 social topics EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and UNGC 7 Full Energy and 40-43 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Full Sustainability Approach of 38-39 reductions achieved UNGC 8 Combating Climate Change codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Yaşar Holding UNGC 9 Energy Efficiency 48-49 environmental, and social performance and the status of EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method UNGC 8 Partial Packaging Waste and 78-79 their implementation Solid Waste Management Stakeholder Engagement EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills UNGC 8 Full Our Environmental 72-73 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Full Collaboration with Non52-53 Consciousness and Principles Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or UNGC 8 Full Our Environmental 72-73 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Consciousness and Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Partial Collaboration with Non52-53 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage with whom to engage Governmental Organizations of transported waste shipped internationally and Sector Representatives EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of UNGC 7 Full Packaging Waste and 78-79 Economic products and services, and extent of impact mitigation UNGC 8 Solid Waste Management Disclosure on Management Approach UNGC 9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Please refer to following web EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging UNGC 8 Full Packaging Waste and 78-79 including revenues, operating costs, employee pages for Economic data materials that are reclaimed by category UNGC 9 Solid Waste Management compensation, donations and other community investments, www.yasar.com.tr Labor Practices and Decent Work retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and www.investyh.com governments Management Approach GRI Index Wage Management System 56 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Full Our Employment Data 80-81 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared UNGC 1 Partial contract, and region to local minimum wage at significant locations of operations LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age UNGC 6 Full Our Employment Data 80-81 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior UNGC 6 Full Recruitment 54-55 group, gender, and region management hired from the local community at locations of Our Employment Data 80-81 significant operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective UNGC 1 Full Union and Collective 70-71 bargaining agreements UNGC 3 Bargaining Agreement Environmental LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational UNGC 3 Full Statutory Rights of Employees 57 Disclosure on Management Approach changes, including whether it is specified in collective EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input UNGC 8 Partial Packaging Waste and 78-79 agreements materials UNGC 9 Solid Waste Management Partial 66-69 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and UNGC 1 Occupational Safety EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source UNGC 8 Full Energy and 40-43 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Combating Climate Change region GRI Index UNGC Principles EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source UNGC 8 Full Energy and 40-43 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskUNGC 1 Full Training Programs and Health 66 Combating Climate Change control programs in place to assist workforce members, Controls their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 116 117 UNGC Principles Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report the Report LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements UNGC 1 Full Union and Collective 70-71 with trade unions Bargaining Agreement LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Full Employees’ Development 60-65 employee category Rights LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Full Employees’ Development 60-65 that support the continued employability of employees and Rights assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Full Performance Management 64 performance and career development reviews System LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Full Employees’ Gender 82-85 Subjects UNGC Principles UNGC 1 employees per category according to gender, age group, UNGC 6 Distribution Data Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Employees’ Average Age 85-87 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Distribution Data LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee UNGC 1 Full Wage Management System 56 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to category UNGC 6 collective bargaining. Human Rights Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Disclosure on Management Approach Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for UNGC 1 Full Child Labor 56 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to UNGC 2 occupation. the elimination of child labor UNGC 5 Environment GRI Index UNGC Principles HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for UNGC 1 Full Involuntary Servitude and 56-57 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to UNGC 2 Forced Labour Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor UNGC 4 Security Services Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the UNGC 1 Full 69 technologies. organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of UNGC 2 human rights that are relevant to operations Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Society Disclosure on Management Approach SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed UNGC 10 Partial Risk Management 34-35 for risks related to corruption Business Ethics 36-37 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption UNGC 10 Partial Risk Management 34-35 Business Ethics 36-37 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Full Added Value to Lives of 94-95 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction GRI Index UNGC Principles Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 118 119 Report Name Period Publication Date Scope Yaşar 2009 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2008 31.12.2009 30.03.2010 The companies indicated on pages 5-8 Yaşar 2010 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2010 31.12.2010 08.04.2011 The companies indicated on pages 9-13 Yaşar 2011 Sustainability Report 01.01.2011 31.12.2011 06.07.2012 The companies indicated on pages 12-33 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 01.01.2012 31.12.2012 06.07.2013 The companies indicated on pages 14-27 Yaşar Holding A.Ş İzmir Head Office E-mail addresses for Stakeholder Feedbacks: Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 You may transmit us all your opinions, suggestions, and questions İzmir Turkey concerning the Sustainability Report printed by the Yaşar Group to the Phone: +90 232 482 22 00 (Pbx) e-mail address specified below: Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr “Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report” is prepared exclusively for informing Web: www.yasar.com.tr purposes. Sources and information believed to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by the report were used. The Istanbul Representative Office content appearing in the present report may not be interpreted as Setüstü No: 17 Kabataş 34427 a statement, guarantee or commitment, and the completeness and Istanbul Turkey unchangeableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 We express our thanks to Sustainability Reporting Team E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Members Ankara Representative Office Due to their contribution to the preparation of Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report we extend our sincere thanks to; Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı Ali Suavi Sokak No: 11 Maltepe the Sustainable Development Committee, 06570 Ankara Turkey Sustainability Reporting Team, Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Carbon Footprint Team Members, Fax: +90 312 232 01 82 232 16 73 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr And to our Carbon Leaders... Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report
