April 26, 2013 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General: Daedalus Humanitarian Incorporated was formed, in November of 2011, with a specific mission of saving lives and reducing suffering across the spectrum of humanitarian assistance activities, including Disaster Risk Reduction, Disaster Preparedness, and Disaster Response. A portion of those efforts, as reflected on our website, www.daedalushumanitarian.com, is directed toward slow-onset disasters. Our current concentration is upon the starvation taking place in the Horn of Africa, for which we have developed-----at our own cost-----nutritional supplements to help alleviate that misery. I am pleased to confirm that Daedalus Humanitarian Incorporated is committed to supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment, and anticorruption. Further, through this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence-----as we have over the past year in our work directed at the Horn of Africa. During the past year, Daedalus Humanitarian remains has demonstrated its commitment to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Additionally, Daedalus Humanitarian has made a clear statement of its commitment to our stakeholders and to the general public. In accordance with our commitment last year, Daedalus Humanitarian recognizes that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of this Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and, therefore, commit to report on progress each year in accordance with the Global Compact COP policy. Daedalus recognizes that contributions are an essential element of support. Unfortunately, the global economic turndown and our expenditure of developmental funds to help alleviate the crisis in the Horn of Africa causes us to request exemption this year, but we remain committed to contribute in successive years. We thank you for the continued opportunity to participate in the Global Compact and to advance its principles. Sincerely yours, Dr. Edward A. McCulloch President/Chief Executive Officer Daedalus Humanitarian Incorporated Post Office Box 96 Mount Vernon, Virginia 22121 703 360-5700 – www.daedalushumanitarian.com
