STORY A journey to the future, together LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2012 Vol. 04 STORY LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2012 Vol. 04 This is LS Mtron’s fourth sustainability report that outlines the company’s endeavors and plans for A journey to the future, together sustainable growth. Since the launching of the integrated sustainability management system in 2009 under the management vision of ‘Innovative Technology Partner to Create a Comfortable and Convenient World’, LS Mtron has issued its sustainability reports annually starting from 2010 to present its sustainability initiatives undertaken and plans for the following year. Reporting Scope and Period This report focuses on our Head Office and domestic business sites (Anyang/Jeonju/Jeongeup/Indong) and includes a portion of China where our overseas sites are concentrated. The reporting period spans the fiscal year 2012(Jan. 1, 2012 ~ Dec.31, 2012) and covers the last three years when trends should be identified and comparability should be ensured. Furthermore, a portion of the normal data includes achievements made in 2013. We at LS Mtron create a greener world through the warmth Reporting Standards and Principles Table of Contents felt between the hands that are held together. Our corporate This report was prepared in accordance with the ‘LS Mtron Sustainability Management Steering Wheel’ that describes the interest of our stakevalue does not originate from the mere drive to make a profit. holders and their business impact. The 2012 Sustainability Management 03 About This Report Rather, we journey together with our stakeholders to paint Steering Wheel consists of seven focus areas and 10 management issues. 04 CEO Message Furthermore, the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 guidelines were a bigger picture for a better world. presented together to help readers better understand this report. 06 Company Profile This year’s M-Story aims to take a second look at what Feature of This Report sustainability truly means so as to look back on our Book Insert(Introduction to LS Mtron Business Portfolio) As the 2nd-term sustainability management is launched at LS Mtron, this report reviewed our sustainability management initiatives undertaken 2012 sustainability management achievements and start 08 Integrated Sustainability Management over the last three years and outlined future directions for sustainability anew to plan for 2013. Meanwhile, we never cease to communicate 09 Integrated Risk Management management by 2015. This was further complemented by the establishment of DMAs(Disclosure on Management Approach) in each focus area with all those stakeholders who journey beside us. 10 Direction for the 2nd-term Sustainability Management Roadmap so as to describe stakeholder expectations and key performance indica12 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test tors as well as 2012 achievements and 2013 plans by management issue. Let us begin our M-Story, LS Mtron’s story of utmost The Special Issue sections also allow us to offer more detailed explana14 2012 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel honesty and greenness. tions of the outstanding achievements made over the past year. 15 Our Achievements in Numbers Assurance 16 Innovation Initiatives This report was assured by an independent external assurance provider 18 Win-win Partnership to ensure the reliability of the data contained in this report as well as the report content. The conclusions appear in the third-party assurance 22 Quality and Customer Satisfaction statement. 26 Social Contribution Report Publication Schedule(Published Annually) 30 Green Management Previous Report: July 2012 34 Stronger Technological Competitive Edge This Report: May 2013 38 Employee Value Enhancement Next Report: May 2014 44 Corporate Governance For More Information about This Report 45 Ethics Management 11F. LS Tower, 127 LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Gyeonggi Province 46 Introduction to LS Mtron’s Chinese Subsidiaries Sustainability Management Executive Office, Business Management & Planning Team, Chief Strategy Officer(CSO), LS Mtron Co., Ltd. 48 Key Quantitative Indication tel. +82-31-689-8232 fax. +82-31-689-8269 51 Extra Data e-mail. sm@lsmtron.com 52 GRI·ISO 26000 Index Cover Story 55 UNGC COP Report This represents our commitment for a brighter 56 Independent Assurance Statement future through a total value convergence— 58 Sustainability Management Guideline ranging from career issues to the potential that 59 Global Network is being realized within LS Mtron. All of it is in conjunction with all the stakeholders who are 60 Report Preparation/Previous Reports with us every step of the way. CEO Message Win-win Partnership We believe that our competitive edge in sustainable development originates from strengthened communication with our suppliers and endeavors for shared growth on the basis of a culture of fair transactions. The private-public joint investment technology development project, which constitutes LS Mtron’s representative shared growth program, was undertaken consisAs a global company in the industrial machinery tently with a total of KRW 13.2 billion in investments made in 18 projects under progress in 2012(9 projects in 2011). and cutting-edge component business – Quality and Customer Satisfaction LS Mtron pioneers unchartered territory Our commitment to retaining quality talent, in an aim to deliver the products and services that our customers truly need, led in sustainability management. to a 6% increase in the retainment of quality expert qualifications from 9% in 2011 to 15% in 2012 while the retainment of ISO 9001 certification examiners reached 46%. The fact that we do everything in our power for enhanced customer trust As it uniquely innovates, the whole world and convenience is demonstrated through the strengthened management of customer communication and customer contact watches with keen interest. points, including the operation of the integrated call center. Social Contribution As a company committed to the joint growth and development of local communities, we strove to ensure the systemized operation of the 2nd-term “Global Happy Village” campaign over the past year. Under this representative social contribution program, employee volunteerism was expanded and local volunteer activities were facilitated at respective business sites. Green Management and Stronger Technological Competitive Edge At LS Mtron, we address climate change through the reduction of GHG emissions, the operation of a safe, healthy and ecofriendly workplace and through the expansion of eco-friendly products and green business. We are fully committed to developing technological capabilities in eco-friendly product technology that spans the development of hybrid tractors, UC modules for hybrid vehicles and high-capacity battery packs for mobile devices. Employee Value Enhancement Our initiatives for enhanced employee value include the development of fair and systemic HR systems, consistent support for building employee capacity and work/life balance, the establishment of a trust-based labor-management culture and respect for human rights and diversity. Furthermore, HR regulations were devised for our overseas subsidiaries while training proLS Mtron’s vision is to become an Innovative Technology Partner that contributes to a convenient, comfortable and flourishing grams, the intensive leave program and the Happy Family Day program, were all improved. world for its customers through its products and services. While we have continued to grow substantially through our ceaseless efforts, we are now ready to make a lengthened stride toward sustainability management to reach even greater goals. In 2012, the 1st-term sustainability management initiatives that were fully launched in 2010 were completed. Over the past In 2012, our commitment was further strengthened to develop global top-notch products and technology. Through sustainthree years, we have built a company-wide infrastructure and a broader consensus for sustainability management, while deable innovation across the entire business spectrum, and the breakdown of limitations(by way of unshakable confidence and veloping communication systems to build closer ties with and bring satisfaction to stakeholders. Furthermore, we defined the enthusiasm in attaining the goal of becoming and the No. 1 company, No. 1 talent and No. 1 corporate culture), such a commitrequirements for eco-friendly products and integrated them in our R&D processing while developing the company-wide risk ment was readily apparent. As a result, our Tractor Division became Korea’s first in market share and the CF division laid the management system. All of these accomplishments were made possible through the company-wide Sustainability Managefoundation for future growth through the development of remarkable technology. Thanks to its stable quality, the Electronic ment Steering Group, which faithfully played a pivotal role through the 20 plus group meetings that were consistently held. Component Division also made significant achievements in generating sales from large global customers and tapping into As 2012 marks a year for launching the 2nd-term sustainability management at LS Mtron, we have set the goal to strengthen the export market. It is quite impressive that such sustainable growth and the creation of economic value was possible, even our leadership in global standards on the basis of our stakeholder communication capabilities that were built over the years in the face of challenging business conditions. At LS Mtron, sustainability management is recognized as the most important and on the development of a competitive edge to focus on the overseas market more intensively. Furthermore, we will further business principle that enables us to deliver new customer value and stakeholder satisfaction while preventing and managing integrate the respective functions of sustainability management and elevate the level of implemented tasks in order to generate both financial and non-financial risks. Specifically, 2012 was a year when tremendous endeavors were put into establishing substantial stakeholder values while establishing a more detailed risk management system. integrated sustainability management. This was done to ingrain sustainability seamlessly into the entire business spectrum, Everyone at LS Mtron is committed to sincerely advancing sustainability management through the deeper understanding of all which includes daily operations and decision-making. our stakeholders that is based on proactive communication. We are determined to lead our industry peers through best practices in business innovation in the global machinery and component industry. I would like to ask for your continued interest Innovation Initiatives in our fourth M-Story and your honest feedback will be greatly appreciated. In 2012, the 2nd-term innovation initiatives were launched under the goal of “performance-driven innovation” and customized Thank you. innovation initiatives produced substantial outcomes. This translated into the financial results of KRW 19 billion(KRW 18.7 billion in 2011) through the fostering of 44 additional innovation talents(41 in 2011) and the completion of 198 innovation tasks(176 in 2011). Jae-Seol Shim _ President & CEO 04 05 Company Profile LS Mtron was established in 2008 as a manufacturer of industrial machinery and state-of-the-art Our Efforts toward Sustainable Business in 2012 Increases/decreases from the previous year components with a world-class competitive edge and strengthened expertise under the LS Group. R&D Purchasing are shown in ( ) We have overseas business sites in China, Brazil and the U.S. and employ 3,600 people across · R&D investment: KRW 32.8 billion(6.7 ) µ · Direct investment in shared growth initiatives: KRW 2.77 billion(1.06 구) the world. · Eco-friendly R&D investment: 57% of total(7구) µ µ · Public/private joint investment development projects: · Open Innovation1): 26 initiatives(Newly launched) · Patent applications: 191 cases(21 구) µ 18 projects(9구 ) µ Company Overview · Full cash or cash-equivalent payments made to suppliers: 100%(Same as the previous year) Gross Sales KRW 923.8 billion Company Name LS Mtron Co., Ltd. (K-IFRS consolidated basis) (KRW 1.6322 trillion) Support Production LS Tower, 127 LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Operating Profit KRW 40.5 billion Address · Participation in social volunteer programs: · Investments in the Environment, Safety Gyeonggi Province, Korea (K-IFRS consolidated basis) (KRW 46.8 billion) and Health: KRW 1,007 million(218 ) µ µ 2,019 hours(929구 ) µ Date of · Innovation tasks: 198 tasks(22구 ) · GHG emission intensity2): 0.15%(0.1구) July 1, 2008 Total Asset KRW 1.1519 trillion µ Establishment · Sustainability management practical training: · Retention of ISO 9001 certification 277 trainees(84구 ) examiners3): 46% CEO Cha-Yol Koo, Jae-Seol Shim Debt(Debt ratio) KRW 555.7 billion(93.2%) µ · Complaints received and handled through: 5(10구 ) µ · Occupational injury rate: 0.13%(0.07구 ) µ Type of Business Manufacturing Capital(Capital adequacy ratio) KRW 596.2 billion(51.8%) Tractor, Injection Molding, Caterpillar, Copper Foil, Credit Rating NICE Investors Service A+, Main Products Antenna, Connector, Automobile Rubber Hose, FCCL (Company stock) Korea Investors Service A+ Recycling Sales/Marketing (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate), UC(Ultracapacitor) Number of Employees 1,683 / 3,636(Including subsidiaries) · Customer satisfaction: 3.7 points(0.5▲)µ As of December 31, 2013, K-IFRS basis · Share of eco-friendly products in total sales: 44%(9 구) µ · Regulatory violations regarding customer information, Management Philosophy Vision advertising/marketing(Same as the previous year) · Recycling of waste: 84%(3 구) µ · Cases handled through the call center: 141(In)/1,015(Out)(Monthly average)(Newly launched) Greater value together! Green and comfortable world 1)National/commissioned project contracts signed, 2)Tco2eq/KRW million, 3)Measured against the company-wide personnel in charge of quality issues lue Togeth Sales and Operating Profit Distributed Economic Value at er Va er! e Head Office Head Office Gr al Perspective (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) lob 2015 Management Goal KRW 4 trillion in sales, G Category 구구 2010 2011 2012 Category 2010 2011 2012 Care 10% of operating profit t Management Principles Sales 7,649 8,887 9,238 Total 7,844 7,829 7,837 R e sp Tru st ec ( ) Stronger global Deliver global top-tier Region Korea 5,692 6,199 5,945 Purchasing expenses(Suppliers) 6,579 6,357 6,290 competitive edge products and technology Integrity 구구 Overseas 구 1,957 2,688 3,293 Labor expenses(Employees) 1) 1,099 1,288 1,345 Break through limitations ( ) Taxes and utility charges(Governments) 55 58 54 2) Break through Business Machinery 구 4,662 5,348 5,628 with unlimited confidence limitations Division 구 Components 구구 3,027 3,539 3,610 Donations(Local communities) 3) 3 6 4 and passion LS is a faithful and reliable business partner, Collaboration with LS people leads to greater success No. 1 Mtron people ( No. 1 company, No. 1 talent, No. 1 culture ) Operating profit Net income from continuing operations 구구구구구 291 414 535 361 405 315 Interest expenses(Creditors) 1) Sum of wages, retirement payments and benefits 108 120 144 Net Income from discontinued operations 구구구구1101) 634 38 2) Sum of taxes, utility charges and corporate taxes 3) Including other social contribution activities(such as the in-house volunteer group) Organizational Chart Net income구구구구구 401 995 353 In 2013, the Machinery Business Division was newly created in order to generate synergistic effects and ensure the efficient operation of our * K-IFRS basis 1) The Air Conditioning Division was transferred in May machinery division. Another new addition to our organizational structure was the Production Technology Center which was established under 2012 Sales and Purchasing expenses(Head Office) our technological R&D division in a bid to strengthen our core platform technology. Moreover, our Tractor Division, CF/FCCL Division, AutoOn a Consolidated Basis Sales Purchasing Expenses motive Component Division and Quality Management Team were further reinforced to improve our competitive edge in product quality. (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2010 2011 2012 Region Sales Percentage Region Purchasing Percentage CEO expenses Sales 8,092 15,007 16,322 Korea 5,945 65% Korea 4,674 74% Business Division Staff Division Operating profit 388 573 468 Asia 1,288 14% China 764 13% Net income from continuing operations 168 203 192 North 1,234 13% Electronic Automotive America Europe 398 6% Machinery Business Division CF CFO CSO CHO CPO CTO Net Income from discontinued operations1) 151 621 38 Component Component Europe 579 6% Japan 367 6% Quality Internal Audit Net income 319 824 230 Injection Special Innovation Chinese Others 192 2% Others 87 1% Tractor FCCL UC Management & Consulting Molding Business Team Headquarters Team Team * K-IFRS consolidated basis 1) The Air Conditioning Division was transferred in May 06 07 China(Wuxi) China(Qingdao) China(Yantai) China(Dalian) USA Polish branch LSMW LSMQ, LSEQ YTLS CASCO Co., Ltd. LSTA Global Network China(Qiangdao) Daesung Electronics Co., Ltd. Japan(Tokyo) LS Mtron’s global network Daesung Electric Brazilian Branch Japanese branch is operating actively Chinese Headquarters (Shanghai branch) at the present time. China(Wuxi) Daesung Electronics Co., Ltd. India Daesung Electronics Co., Ltd. Indonesian branch Anyang Brazil Seoul LSMB Head Office, Electronic DELTECH Co., Ltd. Component, UC, Sales Department, R&D Center Ansan Daesung Electric Co., Ltd. Jeonju Indong Tractor, Injection Molding, Automotive Component LS Mtron/Branch Special Business Jeongeup Subsidiary Jeongeup CASCO Co., Ltd. CF, FCCL Sub-subsidiaries Location • Jeonju site(Wanju-gun, North Jeolla Province) • LSMQ(Qingdao, Shandong Province, China) Tractor Division Introduction to Business Divisions | • LSMB(Santa Catarina, Brazil) • LSTA(North Carolina, U.S.A.) We move the world through a differentiated Message from Major Customers • General farmers and trusted farming businesses global competitive edge Senior Executive Vice Presicent Tractor Product Line-up • Plus series(70~100hs): Cozy interior space! Operator-oriented specifications and affordability • U series(55~75hs): High durability! Chassis design that enables the use of various agricultural implements • R series(40~55hs): Unbeatable compact tractor brand! Excellent maneuverability in confined spaces The key to succeed in the future market lies in the constant gathering of the expectations and requirements of customers and other stakeholders and the • J series(20~30hs): Small but strong! All-powerful tractor that enables wide-ranging operations proactive integration of such feedback into business operations, products and services. At LS Mtron, sustainability management is advanced through stakeholder communication and satisfaction, as well as through the integration of sustainability management into the respective functions of each business division. This, in turn, sets the course for our corporate strategy that aims to prevent financial and non-financial risks, while we take a leap LS Mtron’s tractors rank No. 1 in the Korean forward in leading a global company. 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans market and are exported to more than In 2012, our Tractor and Electronic Component Divisions aggressively tapped into the overseas market and experienced a 22% growth increase that • No. 1 in market share in the Korean tractor market • Hold a groundbreaking ceremony at the LSMB(Brazilian was posted in the export market. This was achieved in spite of the shrinking domestic demand and the global economic downturn. Moreover, sus• Rapid growth in overseas sales(up 33% from the previous year) manufacturing subsidiary) plant, start mass production(August) 25 countries around the world tained R&D investments enabled us to develop eco-friendly and energy-saving production technology capabilities that satisfied customized needs. • Increased production capacity • Launch a new model equipped with a Tier4 engine Our tractor division is growing into a world-class We also laid the foundation to accelerate our endeavors to tap into the global market through the establishment of the Indonesian (1,000 units > 1,400 units per month) • Develop fuel-saving and eco-friendly tractors total agricultural machinery brand with core technoland Brazilian subsidiaries, in addition to the tractor production facilities in Brazil. • Expanded markets through the development of localized products • Strengthen competitive edge of our localized models in China and Brazil ogy developed through continued R&D efforts and In 2012, we provided sustainability management training to establish and disseminate sustainability management proactive overseas marketing programs. LS Mtron at each business division, while risk prevention and management manuals were developed to ensure integrated risk management. tractors are prominent in the North American and At our overseas subsidiaries, the status of regulatory compliance was verified to ensure the compliance with local regulations and European markets for their top-notch quality and to prevent key risks in the areas of employment, labor and the environment. Meanwhile, checklists were developed to design, which is demonstrated in the $100 million conbe used year-round. In 2013, the Machinery Business Division was created to generate synergistic effects among machintract that was awarded us in the U.S. Moreover, the diviIntroduction to Main Products ery business divisions and ensure efficient organizational operations. Meanwhile, the Production Technology Center sion is posting a more than 30% growth rate every year in • Enhanced safety and durability through the application of automatic 4WD hydraulic brakes and cerametallic clutches was added to the organizational structure to strengthen key platform technology in the technology development area. • Convenient installation of various implements through 10 external hydraulic output ports the overseas market. Our Jeonju site and Qingdao subSuch efforts were further complemented through the extensive organizational reinforcements regarding tractor, CF/ • Improved operational convenience through front/rear wheel electro-hydraulic LSD sidiary in China are capable of producing 20,000 units FCCL, automotive component and quality management operations, in a bid to enhance our competitive edge in qual(limited slip differential) per year. Sustained investments, including increased ity. At LS Mtron, we are determined to retain global top-notch products and technology through relentless innovation • Maximized transmission efficiency through the optimization of power transmission pathways facility investments and nurturing talented individuals and to maximize synergy among domestic/overseas sales, production and strategic service bases. We believe that such • Best-in-class hydraulic lift force with technology development capabilities, help put LS actions will enable us to build upon on our global competitive edge in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge com• Environment-related improvements Mtron on a track toward becoming a world-renowned ponent business. Significantly improved output, torque and fuel efficiency through the installation of turbo chargers and intercoolers tractor manufacturer. Your support and participation in LS Mtron’s journey towards a brighter future will be greatly appreciated. Remarkable savings in fuel cost thanks to direct-injection engines Kwang-Won Lee _ Senior Executive Vice President Plus series(PS100) Injection Molding Location • Jeonju site(Wanju-gun, North Jeolla province) Location • Jeonju site(Wanju-gun, North Jeolla Province) Special Business Introduction to Business Divisions | Introduction to Business Divisions | • LSMW(Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China)) Major Customers • Defense Acquisition Program Administration(DAPA), combat mobility Division Major Customers • Samsung Electronics, Hyundai Mobis, Hanil E-Wha, PT.YASUNLI, etc. equipment manufacturers, overseas defense companies, etc. Division Injection Molding Special Business Product Line-up • Electric injection molding machine(30~550 ton): Clean molding, high response, ultra high-speed molding Product Line-up • Tank/Armored vehicle/Self-propelled artillery caterpillar: K1A1, K2, etc. demonstration, different colors/material quality • Revetment-Kit: Protective walls for military aircrafts • Hydraulic injection molding machine(80~4,500 ton): Maximized productivity, high efficiency, low operational cost • Toggle-type injection molding machine(68~730 ton): Excellent reproducibility, exceptional power-saving feature Provide eco-friendly, highly productive injection Take a leap forward to become a global industry 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans molding systems for the plastic injection leader, based on advanced technological • Completion of the electric upgrade(LGE-III) series line-up • Secure ultra precision electric injection molding technology • Development of caterpillars for TNMBT(Turkish National Main • Advance into large global caterpillar markets molding industry • Development of the hydraulic mid-to-large size upgrade Improve the reproducibility and performance of electric injection Battle Tank), the world’s heaviest tank, and export of the (U.S., Middle East) and generate visible outcomes capabilities in caterpillars (LGH-MII) series molding products technology • Initiate the full-fledged mass production of caterpillars Since its inception in 1969, LS Mtron’s Injection Ever since its R&D efforts to develop the domestic • Establishment of overseas subsidiaries Advance into the fine pitch connector, mold frame and light guide • Received the DAPA Commissioner’s citation for next-generation tanks(K2) Molding Division has led the Korean injection moldcaterpillar technology were initiated in 1975, LS Mtron (Indonesia, Poland, Brazil) plate market segments (Chosen as a top-performing DAPA supplier in 2012) ing industry into becoming a total manufacturer that • Received the Presidential Bronze Award at the Quality • Develop extra large hydraulic upgrade(LGH-SII) series has been a reliable provider of top-quality caterpillars boasts a wide spectrum of product line-ups. The diviManagement Awards Replace the LGH-S series: A total of five models to Korea’s military forces for more than three decades. sion exports more than 60% of its products through Focus on reducing load on oil pipes and enhancing assembly Caterpillars support both tank loads and combat moits outstanding technological competency and R&D features bility equipment, while securing mobility under rough capabilities, integrated production systems and its 32 road conditions. The year 2006 was a turning point for sales and SVC networks established in 25 countries. Introduction to Main Products Introduction to Main Products LS Mtron to expand by considerable quantities into the Moreover, our Chinese subsidiary was created with • Enable high speed molding operations through the application • Achieve 30% energy savings through the application of the P, Q •60-ton grade high strength available • Component-specific improvements in • Designed to respond to improved vehicle overseas market and our sales have been growing ever more than 20 sales offices and service networks based of high-power, high-response AC servo motors variable control system •Designed to respond to high mobility strength stability performance since. We believe that the development of new prodacross the nation, which were made possible through • Enable energy-saving(60% against hydraulic models), low-noise • Improve on oil leak issues as well as productivity through requirements • Significantly enhanced durability life • Improved durability of rubber pads ucts that are based on cutting-edge technology and the combination of China’s well-established infraand clean molding operations precision honing and special solid sealing •Development of high-durability rubber • Exceptional affordability • Scalability into other vehicles in the same ambitious initiatives to advance into overseas market structure/investment conditions, and the division’s materials vehicle family was taken into account will enable LS Mtron to emerge as a global top caterexceptional technological capabilities. Furthermore, pillar manufacturer, while it simultaneously leads the this division is capable of developing, manufacturing development of state-of-the art technology in the deand selling systems that enable shortened cycle times fense industry. on precision injection molding. Because of this, LS Mtron’s Injection Molding Division is establishing itself as a world-class injection molding brand. Small electric model(LGE-II) Extra largehydraulic model(LGH-S) K2 caterpillar K55A1 caterpillar K1A1 caterpillar CF Division Location • Jeongeup site(Jeongeup City, North Jeolla Province) Location • Anyang site(Anyang City, Gyeonggi Province) Electronic Component Introduction to Business Divisions | Introduction to Business Divisions | • LSEQ(Qingdao, Shandong Province, China) Major Customers • LG Chem, Samsung SDI, LG Innotek, Doosan Electro-Materials, DAEDUCK GDS, Panasonic, Sony, BYD, etc. Major Customers • Samsung Electronics, LG Display, LG Electronics, ZTE, etc. Division CF Electronic Component Product Line-up • Circuit copper foil(LSU-ST): Used for general electronic devices Product Line-up • B2B(Board to Board) cell phone connector: Top quality wide-ranging product line-ups • Flexible PBC copper foil(LSB-FX): Highly flexuous copper foil for flexible PCBs • m-USB cell phone connector: Capacity to develop customized connectors and high-speed transmission technology • Battery copper foil(LSB-ST): Used for anode collectors of lithium ion batteries • FPD connector: Leading smart electronic component technology that includes high-speed transmission connectors • Cell phone antenna: Diversifying the customer base through the development of new products, such as the LTE MIMO(Multi Input Multi Output) Core material that leads the electronic circuit and Global electronic component maker with best2012 Achievements 2013 Plans 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans the secondary battery segment in-class quality products and in-house R&D • Development of ultra thin6㎛ battery copper foil • Develop battery copper foil to respond to next-generation • Secured sales base for large global customers, including • Expand the customer base(including Samsung Electronics and • Development of double-width long-distance technology anode materials Samsung and ZTE businesses in Greater China) capabilities Our CF Division’s circuit copper foil(LSUST) is • Development of high-strength battery copper foil • Develop low-light circuit copper foil for package applications • Strengthened relationships with existing captive customers • Develop subminiature B2B connectors and low-profile card deployed in printed circuit boards(PCB) that are Starting as a connector manufacturer back in 1987, • Develop 4㎛ ultra high strentgh copper foil • Developed customized products and adopted innovative mass connectors mounted in every electronic device—from TVs and comthe division has presently grown to produce and production processing technology • Relocate to Anyang Hi-tech Center puters—to mobile phones. Our copper foil(LSB-ST) is sell connectors and antennas for cell phones and also used for flexible PCBs whose flexuous features are display devices. Our Electronic Component Divirequired—either to allow circuit boards to move(as sion is Korea’s only connector producer that posin the case of cell phones or digital cameras)—or to sesses the R&D capabilities necessary to produce insert or structure components. Battery copper original in-house products. Based on the cutting-edge foil(LSB-ST) is primarily used for batteries that are Introduction to Main Products Introduction to Main Products global manufacturing network in Korea and China mounted in smart phones, notebook PCs and other IT • Mounted on CCL(copper clad laminates), • Used for flexible PCBs, covering smart • Used for anode collectors of secondary Connector Antenna that was created through top-notch quality, price devices. One of our CF Division’s recent achievements raw material for printed circuit boards phones and digital cameras batteries mounted in notebooks, cell • B2B products to connect main boards and various modules • Available in the broadband frequency operating range for competitiveness, diverse product line-ups and customwas the successful development of the world’s first • Physical and chemical properties are • Electrolytic copper foil that is highly phones and electric vehicles • Designed to respond to smaller mounting areas required by 4G services ized development capabilities, the division delivers created through surface treatment flexuous and low in surface roughness • Electrolytic copper foil, which is glossy customers due to high-capacity smartphone batteries • Technology to enable a more efficient use of limited spaces 6㎛ ultra thin battery copper foil. This achievement is differentiated value to major global customers, including processing on both sides • Standard: Width 2.5mm, Height 0.8mm in order to ensure form factor freedom in designing antennas attributed to the outstanding technological capabiliLG Electronics, LG Display, Samsung Electronics, for smartphones that are increasingly thinner ties of our CF Division. and ZTE. Circuit copper Flexible PCB foil copper foil Battery copper foil Automotive Location • Indong site(Gumi City, North Gyeongsang Province) Location • Jeongeup site(Jeongeup City, North Jeolla Province) FCCL Division Introduction to Business Divisions | Introduction to Business Divisions | • YTLS(Joint venture, Yantai, Shandong Province, China) Component Division Major Customers • GM, Hyundai Motor Company, Renault, Nissan, etc. Major Customers • LG Innotek, STEMCO(Samsung subsidiary), etc. Automotive Component FCCL Product Line-up • CAC(Changed Air Cooler) hose: Eco-friendly hose that improves fuel efficiency while reducing gas exhaust Product Line-up • Display(COF) FCCL: Used for high resolution signal & video connection devices, covering TVs, notebooks emissions and monitors • Brake hose: Used as the key component connecting hydraulic brake pedals with brake lines • FPC FCCL: Designed to respond to microcircuits and slim devices, covering smart phones and medical devices • Power steering hose: Maximized driver convenience through enhancing driver’s steering power • Flexible solar cell(CIGS) Mo Film: Used for eco-friendly thin film substrates, which are deployed to generate electricity from solar energy Automotive rubber hose that guarantees top Key material that leads the display industry 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans quality and safety • More than 20% growth in sales from 2011 • Diversify product line-up with the launching of the automobile • FCCL approved by Samsung Electronics(December) • Hold a groundbreaking ceremony at the LSMB(Brazilian Our FCCL(flexible copper clad laminates) are used as Established in 1998, LS Mtron’s Automotive Compo• Became a CAC hose supplier for Hyundai Motor Company air conditioning hose • Ranked No. 2 in global market share manufacturing subsidiary) plant, start mass production our key LCD panel material for TVs, notebooks and • Secure blow molding technology • Secured semi-additive manufacturing technology (August) monitors. LS Mtron is the world’s third business to nent Division manufactures wide-ranging high and low • Initiate full operation of Chinese sites as a manufacturing hub • Launch a new model equipped with a Tier4 engine pressure hose assembly components that are mounted successfully launch the mass production of FCCL and • Acquire new global customers • Develop fuel-saving and eco-friendly tractors on vehicles for the transmission of fluid and hydraulic in 2013 it ranked second in the world, in global market • Strengthen competitive edge of our localized models pressure. To respond to market requirements for more shares. With a wide-spectrum of product line-ups, the in China and Brazil eco-friendly and efficient automobiles, the division dedivision is expanding its business scope activities to veloped ultra low expansion brake hoses and successinclude double-plated products for cell phones, semifully expanded its production line of CAC(Charged Air additives for micro circuits, flexible display materials, Cooler) hoses that fully comply with EURO V standards, Introduction to Main Products medical device materials and RFID, which are based on Introduction to Main Products our core technology of roll-to-roll thin film manufacturthe most stringent environmental standards in the • Delivers the hydraulic pressure of brake fluids when the driver • Consists of sputter seed layer and copper-plated layer upon polyimide film • Supply charge air that is supplied through the turbo charger world. With its remarkable product quality and safety, applies the brakes • Environment-related improvements: Thin film surface treatment technology was used ing. In so doing, the division is emerging as an industo the intercooler engine as well as to the engine combustion the division is determined to become the world’s No. 1 chamber • Highest security grade is required(among other finished vehicle to prevent wastewater discharge and air pollution try leader specializing in miniature thin film materials. automobile hose segment producer by 2015. • Serve as a core component to improve engine combustion components that are directly related to driver ergonomics and • Product Features efficiency, leading to increased engine output and reduced safety) and thus outstanding durability, as well as customer FCCL for LCD application: Used as materials for display driving circuits and the availability gas exhaust emissions requirements regarding high pressure and low expansion, should of an ultra fine 10㎛ circuit width be satisfied Smartphone FCCL: Replace the existing COG technology to improve on heat dissipation issues caused by increasingly larger smartphones CAC hose Brake hose UC Division Location • Anyang site(Anyang City, Gyeonggi Province) Introduction to Business Divisions | Major Customers • Global companies in the wind power, solar power, electricity and vehicle industries Ultracapacitor Product Line-up • LSUC: Used for wide-ranging applications such as the UC cell that boasts world-class voltage performance and reliability • LSUM: UC module that provides high-voltage systems deployed for wind farm generators and vehicles in one single package LS Mtron’s ultracapacitor that leads the next 2012 Achievements 2013 Plans generation energy market • Secured products to solidify customer base through the • Secure automobile monitoring and thermal radiation analysis LS Mtron’s ultracapacitors are used as an energy development of modules specialized for electricity modeling technology and photovoltaic applications • Improve productivity in an innovative manner through the source in a variety of areas covering reserve power • Participated in UC development projects launched by European/ development of new coating technology in preparation for outages that require high-energy Japanese automobile makers • Strengthen production capacity with the relocation efficiency, power density and long-term reliability, as of the production site to Anyang Hi-tech Center well as auxiliary power and instant power. We work with major companies both in Korea and overseas to develop customized products, while strengthening our partnerships with our client companies. As part of our advance research initiatives, the division also works Introduction to Main Products with leading research institutes and Korean companies • Global top-level low resistance both domestically and overseas on national projects to • High reliability with a greater than 10 year lifespan develop UC modules for hybrid vehicles, heavy equip• All ultracapacitor products are used in the new and renewable energy sector including improved energy efficiency, ment, and special-purpose vehicles, which in turn, wind power and solar power and are eco-friendly and do not contain hazardous substances paves the path to welcome future growth engines. Integrated Sustainability Management(SM) Integrated Risk Management It is our belief that SM should be advanced in such a way as to establish a framework to identify both To ensure sustainable development, it should be the aim of risk management to take balanced action company-wide risks as well as opportunities in the intertwined relationship among the economy, sociin addressing economic, social and environmental issues, thus ensuring that non-financial values are ety and the environment. This is why we at LS Mtron have established various systems and decisionnot comprised by an excessive focus on financial performance. To this end, risks are identified and making bodies that ensure the integrated management of SM initiatives and plans. Specifically, our SM addressed within the overarching framework of SM at LS Mtron. In 2012, manuals were developed Steering Council, which we have been operating bi-monthly since 2010, serves as an integral venue for to respond to potential business risks and Chinese local regulatory trends, as well as the regulatory decision-making that promotes balanced growth for all stakeholder values. compliance of our Chinese subsidiary, were reviewed. Integrated Sustainability Management System Development of Risk Response Manuals SM Executive Office SM Steering Council SM Subcommittees As part of our commitment to expand SM across our entire business spectrum, each of our divisions developed risk manuals in 2011, with the Tractor Division taking the lead. In managing risks, we strove to select and focus on frequently arising issues that came with grave rippling Integrated management and support, Control Tower(Make decisions, set directions and monitor) Take action(collaboration) and Planning, Execution support/identify new SM agenda and effects in regards to loss and to build integrated response systems. By utilizing our own manual development process and development tools, operation of the SM Steering Council, Management submit agenda items to the SM Steerthese manuals were developed in such a way as to bring operations back to normal within the shortest-possible time frame, with the least stakeholder engagement, development Division Team Major Function and evaluation of SM KPIs, SM training ing Council as a consultation body that amount of loss when risks did occur. Relevant work-flow and implementation measures were designed to ensure risk prevention and manageand support Under the Quality Management Quality, customer satisfaction discusses details of the decisions made Direct by the council ment efficiency as well as application to actual operations. Our 2013 plan includes the further supplementation of these manuals as to make Innovation Innovation initiatives them more applicable to daily conduct and to undertake year-round response activities and training to ensure swift risk response. • Operation: Year-round under the Control of the CEO Quality and customer satisfaction Management & Planning Team Internal Audit & Consulting Ethics management (Quality Management Team) CSO Management & Planning Integrated management, risk Social contribution (Business Support Team) CTO Technology Management R&D, eco-friendly products Manual Development Process Win-win Partnership (Corporate Collaboration & Human Resources HR Prosperity Team) 1. Create an issue pool 2. Select major risks 3. Develop scenarios 4. Define work flow 5. Develop action plans HR Development Training, labor management Green management Operational status between 2010 CHO (Green Management Team) Make a list of each possible issue From the pool of issues identified Develop expected scenarios in three Define stage-specific initiation criteria Describe detailed action plans regardand 2012 Green Management Environment, health/safety that may occur in relation to business through management surveys and varidifferent stages in consideration of and completion criteria, specify working target tasks and execution tasks, SM Steering Council met 19 times Eco-friendly products operations, including quality claims, ous workshops, select the frequentlypossible situations where loss inflow between responsible teams and define data sources, completion Business Support Social contribution (Technology Management Team) raw material shortages, prolonged occurring issues that have grave creases, either due to the passage of collaborating teams, define target periods, reporting teams and reportSM subcommittees met 29 times * Three SM reports have been global economic slowdown, serious rippling effects in regards to loss and time or because of unexpected factors tasks and execution tasks ing levels Corporate Collaboration & Eco-friendly supply chain legal violations, natural disasters and define such issues under more detailed and then set stage-specific response published CPO Shared growth (Quality Management Team) Prosperity occupational injuries conditions targets and designate which teams will • Operation: Bi-monthly • Supervision: CSO • Operation: Quarterly be in charge of them Summary of selection Issue Pool Summary Manual outcome sample Manual outcome sample Manual outcome sample outcomes Quality HR/Labor Product defects Key Agendas of the Sustainability Management Steering Council in 2012 Production Environment Fire InterSales Health/safety Foreign exchange Council Meeting Agenda Reporting and Discussions Follow-up Results nals fluctuations Legal affairs Finance/accounting Review performance and report plans • Report team-specific achievements and 2012 action plans • Interim review of 2012 progress(16th review) Possibility 13th meeting Purchasing Product safety (Jan. 2013) SM Report 2011 • Set timelines and directions • Report content was planned and prepared intensively(~ Mar.) (Each responsible team drew their own plans) • Review and support by the SM Executive Office(~ May) Market Competitor Division-specific operational risk response • Set directions to prepare manuals • A total of 24 manuals were developed including six in the Customer Dealer 14th meeting manuals Tractor Division(Oct.) exterInvestor Environment Top 10% (Mar. 2013) SM Report 2011 • Report team-specific planning directions and report content • Final content was approved by executives in charge(May) nals risk issues • Sustainability Report was issued(Jun.) Supplier Media/NGO Build eco-friendly supply chain management • Supplier-integrated environmental management system • Participating in the 2012 Large Business-SME Green PartnerGovernment Local Community 15th meeting systems development roadmap ship(government-led project) program(to be completed agency Size of losses (May 2012) by 2015) (Financial+non-financial) CHO division’s operational risk response manual • Report progress and set directions for manual development(Share • Management manuals were created to handle ten risks risks by department(HR, environment, safety and promotion) and (negative media coverage and environmental safety 16th meeting by function) accidents)(Aug.) (Jul. 2012) Interim progress review of SM • Report team-specific progress made against initial plans • 2012 final review(20th review) Local Compliance Review at the Chinese Subsidiary SM Report 2011 • Introduce stakeholder group-specific guidelines for distribution • 93% were distributed(As of Dec. 2012) 2nd SMroadmap • Prepare to gather KPIs based on SM materiality test outcomes • Ad-hoc meeting was held and reported(18th meeting) At LS Mtron, 2012 was a year to initiate SM on a global scale. Thus, our SM initiatives were 17th meeting CHO division’s operational risk response manual • Final reporting by team/function • Risk management manuals was developed expanded to our overseas subsidiaries. The first step was to identify local regulatory trends (Sep. 2012) Advance SM roadmap at overseas subsidiaries • Set directions(Develop processes to systemically respond to local • Target regulations were chosen: 11 regulations including in China and review our compliance status so as to prevent any possible risks that may occur regulations regarding SM) the Labor Contract Law(Jun.) • Diagnosis of regulatory status in China was completed(Oct.) due to regulatory violations. Eleven administrative regulations and provincial regulations in • Improvement F/U: To be made from 2012 China, including the Labor Contract Law(2008), were chosen and check-lists were developed, 18th meeting 2nd SM roadmap • Redefine the SM vision and the meaning of stakeholders • 2nd vision and stakeholder definitions were redeveloped both in Korean and Chinese, to examine the status of our legal compliance. The results demad-hoc • Develop plans to undertake implementation tasks and KPIs • Major KPIs were modified and supplemented (Oct. 2012) onstrated that our Chinese subsidiary complied with the majority of these regulations and • Create SM slogans • December management meeting report(Dec.) that our working-level employees were highly knowledgeable about such regulations as well. 2nd SM roadmap • Report measures to undertake implementation tasks as well 19th meeting as KPIs • 2nd SM roadmap was developed Our top priority in 2013 is to discover ways to address upcoming regulations that will take (Nov. 2012) Materiality test regarding SM in 2012 • Share stakeholder expectations and requirements for improvement • Integrated into team-specific operational plans for 2013 effect in the future, such as expatriate worker employment standards. and their top interest areas regarding company information • Reflected in the table of contents of the SM Report 2012 Check list of Chinese regulations 08 09 Direction for the 2nd-term Sustainability Management Roadmap As the 1st-term SM roadmap(2010~2012) came to an end, we developed the 2nd-term roadmap to Development of Four Implementation Strategies and KPIs in the Seven Respective Focus Areas chart our SM initiatives until 2015. While the 1st-term roadmap focused on the establishment of We set the following four implementation strategies to meet our ‘2015 target’: adhere to global standards to establish new systems and action frameworks and the integration of sustainability into business operations, the 2nd-term programs that take global requirements into account, create stakeholder values to further advance the implementation tasks that have been achieved under the 1st-term roadmap, manage risks to minimize any possible negative impacts we may create, and communicate in a way as roadmap aims to elevate the level of risk management performance to those of global standards and to pursue substantial improvements in stakeholder relationships. to strengthen communications with stakeholders, as to generate substantial values. In order to undertake these implementation strategies, our teams that participate in the SM Steering Council developed implementation measures and KPIs for respective strategies. The first strategy of complying with global standards, which is the key strategy under the 2nd -term roadmap, was specifically identified on the basis of such global standards and guidelines as ISO 26000, GRI, EICC, and UNGC, as well as regulations that are directly related to our industry. Furthermore, we ensured that each KPI could be quantitatively evaluated so that it was 2nd-term Vision Structure possible to internally verify their level of completion. Particularly, major KPIs will be assessed through C/M, which is LS Mtron’s company-wide At LS Mtron, we set the ‘Establishing Global Standards’ target under the 2nd–term SM roadmap. In other words, we will proactively comply schematic used to build consensus on targets and measure performance. with the standards and regulations that are required of corporate citizens doing business in the global market environment. Under this vision structure lie LS Mtron’s four unique implementation strategies and seven focus areas, which are founded upon LS partnerships, the LS Group management philosophy and its ethics management. Comply with Global Create Stakeholder Manage Communicate Standards Value Stakeholder Risks Green and Comfortable World Corporate Vision | Innovative Technology Partner Challenge Area!! Positive Area!! Negative Area!! Communication Area!! Respond to international stanStrengthen links between existMinimize any possible negative Communicate in a substantial 2015 Target | Establish Global Standards dards and major regulations ing operations and stakeholder impacts resulting from our busimanner to improve operations including ISO 26000 expectations ness conduct Disclose performance/Feedback Focus on new systems to be Advance the level of 1st-term Identify risks Supplement R&R Gather opinions/Feedback Slogan | A journey to the future, together introduced implementation tasks Build stronger capacity to Encourage the advancement of Improve competitiveness in shared address emergencies corporate culture growth Enhanced Stakeholder Trust Four Implementation Comply with Create Stakeholder Manage Strategies Communicate Global Standards Values Stakeholder Risks Win-win Quality and customer Stronger technological Employee value Innovation initiatives Social contribution Green management Partnership satisfaction competitive edge enhancement Quality and Stronger Employee Seven Focus Innovation Win-win Social Green customer technological value Areas initiatives Partnership contribution management satisfaction competitive edge enhancement KPI-based Performance Management Ethics Management Details on KPIs are presented on the first page of each focus area Executional Foundation LS partnership® Review of the 1st-term Sustainability Management Initiatives 2nd-term Sustainability Management Roadmap and Slogan 1st-term Roadmap Major Activities by Year • 2010 SM Steering Council and SM Executive Office were newly Advance SM infrastructure and make alignment created 2nd-term Roadmap 2nd-term Slogan with existing operations First-ever SM report was published We developed the 2nd-term roadmap that defines We defined the 2nd-term slogan in order to demonstrate direc• 2011 SM C/M indicators were operated(Division, staff) annual operational plans in order to reach SM objectives tions for the 2nd-term SM initiatives as well as to build a broader Subcommittees were under operation/company-wide employee training was provided under the roadmap. consensus. 2010 2011 2012 • 2012 Risk management systems were developed in business Build implementation Establish implementaExpand SM across divisions and the support division Establish Global Standards A journey to the future, together systems tion systems the company SM was introduced to overseas subsidiaries Build management Develop evaluation Align with risk systems systems management (In response to regulatory risks) 2013 2014 2015 Develop baseline plans Build stronger executional Introduce SM to overseas Lay the foundation for Strengthen Establish and LS Mtron’s employees consider customers and all other stakeholders as capacity subsidiaries External Awards Given in Relation to SM responding to global executional capacities internalize global valuable business partners and aim to build relationships that are based on • 7th SM Awards: Excellence Award in the large business sector standards to comply with global standards communication and cooperation. • 2010 Korea SM Conference Develop strategies standards Set business divisionImprovements to be Made :(Korea Sustainability Index) No. 1 in the electric/electronic,(Korea and KPIs Reinforce evaluation/ specific strategies As an Innovative Technology Partner that leverages toward a more convenient • Approach to international issues addressed by global standards and comfortable world, LS Mtron is committed to creating a sustainable future Reader’s Choice Award) Excellence Award in the first publication sector Improve communication monitoring Expand global • Communication with stakeholders and integration of the feedback into channels Expand global standards throughout with its stakeholders. • 5th SM Awards: Grand Prize in the first publication sector business operations initiatives the entire value chain • 7th LOHAS Management Awards: Excellence Award in the telecommunication, electronic 10 11 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test An organization’s sustainability originates from fulfilling its responsibilities in meeting stakeholder Materiality Test expectations. We at LS Mtron ensure that stakeholder expectations are reflected in the following The materiality test is conducted annually so as to enable us to prepare SM plans for the following year. SM issues to be addressed in 2013 were year’s operational plans in accordance with their business impacts. Once determined, these plans identified in consideration of various internal/external business conditions. Stakeholder surveys were also performed so as to pinpoint stakeholder interest levels in the issues while opinions of top management and employees were gathered to understand their business impact. are reviewed through the SM Steering Council and the year’s achievements and plans for the The outcomes were then divided into High, Medium and Low categories and used in developing SM strategies for 2013. following year are presented to stakeholders through sustainability reports. • Issues Considered in Conducting the Materiality Test Our Definition of Stakeholders Development of the Stakeholder Engagement Model We define stakeholders as anyone who interacts with us, directly Our stakeholder engagement model was established in order to • LS Mtron’s vision and mid-term strategy • GRI(G3.1), ISO 26000, UNGC principles and etc. • Management meeting reports and decisions made internal external • Opinions made by SM advisory groups or indirectly. With the initiation of the 2nd-term sustainability manstrengthen communications with stakeholders. This model presat the SM Steering Council • Trends of competitors and industry leaders agement, we re-developed our definition of stakeholders through ents a virtuous cycle of creating values that satisfy stakeholder • SM principles and regulations • Customer’s CSR check list index and questions raised the analysis of global trends and stakeholder expectations. At interest, while identifying and addressing risk on the basis of com• Completion of implementation task targets set in the previous year by external organizations LS Mtron, key stakeholders are defined as customers, employees, munication activities. This then serves to seamlessly contribute • Team-specific strategic indicators • Issues addressed by the media in relation to LS Mtron suppliers, global/local communities, and earth/ecology and gento achieving our corporate vision and reinforce our organizational eral stakeholders are defined as central/local governments and competitive edge. shareholders/investors. • Collection of Stakeholder Expectations in 2012 Create values/address risks • Supervision: SM Executive Office /In ve sto r C us • Level of Interest on Company-wide Management Issues by Stakeholder Group ho l de r tom er • Period: Aug. 2012 ~ Sep. 2012 ar e Sh Ce ntr • Method: Online/Offline survey Customer Supplier al /L Quality and customer satisfaction Win-win Partnership • Survey Target oc al G Rank Issue Page Rank Issue Page E m plo ye e Customers: 80 people General ov ern m e nt Gather opinions & feedback Gather opinions/identify risks 1 Competitive edge in quality 23~24 1 Competitive edge in quality 23~24 Core Employees: 730 people 2 Technological competitive edge 34~37 2 Development of new business 34 Communicate Suppliers: 183 people 3 Customer relationship management 25 3 Fair trade 20 E ar Community/Environment: 32 people lie r t h/ olo Ec pp Su 4 Eco-friendly products/facilities 31, 33 4 Customer relationship management 25 gy Glo b • Survey Item 5 Development of new business 34 5 Feedback gathering 12~13 al/L oc al Co m m u nity Disclose achievements & feedback Business impact evaluation by issue Global/Local Community Interest level evaluation by issue Employee Social contribution Employee value enhancement Earth/Ecology Green management Expectations by stakeholder group Rank Issue Page Rank Issue Page Outcomes of Re-defining Stakeholders under the 2nd-term Roadmap Level of satisfaction with 2011 M-Story 1 Technological competitive edge 34~37 local 1 Job creation 39, 49 comm2 Competitive edge in quality 23~24 unity 2 Social contribution 26~29 Global/Local Addition of global community: Our role as a global corporate citizen was expanded with expanding overseas markets and 3 Employee health/safety/benefits 32, 43 3 Management of GHG emissions 31 overseas business sites, Global social contribution programs were initiated from 2011 ▶ Stakeholder expectations that were identified are enviroExpanded scope of local community: The scope of the local community was extended—from areas that benefit from our 4 HR systems 39 nment 4 Eco-friendly products/facilities 31, 33 presented on the first page of each focus area social contribution programs—to schools, research institutes and technology cooperation partners in an aim to improve 5 Support for employee training 40 5 Energy/Resource management 31 technology management and secure R&D personnel NGO Reorganization of NGOs: NGOs were re-classified into earth/ecology in the environment sector and into global/local community in the social sector by their purpose of establishment in order to more clearly designate responsible teams Earth/Ecology Extended scope of earth/ecology: All stakeholders who are focused on the environment • Materiality Test Matrix • Changes in Top Priority Issues in 2011/2012 Business Impact Medium area High area Measured 2012 against the Teams in Charge of Communication Activities • Competitive edge in quality ① Issue Rank Communication Process • Management of GHG emissions ⑨ • Technological competitive edge ② Previous Year by Key Stakeholder Group • Support for employee training ⑩ • Development of new business ③ 1 Competitive edge in quality 1▲ • Innovation initiatives • Business performance ④ Stakeholder Team in Charge Definition: An organization The key factor in • HR systems(Evaluation/Compensation) • Customer relationship management ⑤ 2 Technological competitive edge 6▲ Choose Choose Identify this communication Customer Quality Management that serves as a control tower representative communicati• Fair trade ⑥ 3 Development of new business New issue communicaprocess lies in Team in creating values for communication topics and tion channels 4 Business performance New issue concerned stakeholders on on channels targets identifying stakeLow area Medium area Employee HR Development Team Supplier Corporate Collaboration a company-wide level as a holder expectations, • Job creation • Support for suppliers • Employee health/safety/benefits ⑦ 5 Customer relationship management 2▼ & Prosperity Team member of the SM Steering as well as tasks we • Management of labor relations • Anti-corruption/anti-bribery programs ⑧ Council could initiate, in 6 Fair trade Global/Local Business Support Team • Climate change adaptation • Development of SM systems Integrate Technology Management Communicate order to generate • Management of pollutants • Eco-friendly products/facilities 7 Employee health/safety/benefits 7▲ Role: Operate and manage outcomes into Team the improveoperations and Communicate values aligned with • Social contribution programs • Feedback gathering stakeholder communication 8 Anti-corruption/anti-bribery programs New issue Earth/Ecology Green Management Team ments made make improvebusiness operations • Revitalization of local economy • Energy/Resource management channels ment 9 Management of GHG emissions 8▼ Stakeholder Interest 10 Support for employee training 12 13 2012 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel Our Achievements in Numbers Since 2010, LS Mtron has been using the SM Steering Wheel pictured below to outline SM focus Focus Area Issue 2010 2011 2012 areas and management issues in each area on the basis of the annual materiality test outcomes. Financial value created through KRW 21.3 billion KRW 18.7 billion KRW 19 billion Our 2012 Steering Wheel consists of seven focus areas and one general area in addition to 21 manageinnovation initiatives ment issues. Together, they serve as the overarching framework in organizing our sustainability reports. Innovation Initiatives No. of innovation tasks implemented1) 235 176 198 No. of innovation talent secured1) 178 146 183 No. of innovation activities proposed2) 30 per person 21 per person 21 per person Integrated Risk Management Direct investment in KRW 1.63 billion KRW 1.71 billion KRW 2.77 billion Win-win Partnership Win-win Emplo ol d e rs y e e, C u st o Partnerhsip Number of supplier employees receiving job training 105 180 131 akeh mer ir e St , Su E nt pp l ier Number of suppliers chosen as Q-partners 32 34 33 ent sM a n agem Custo mize , E thic d Inn ovat Number of private-public joint investment projects 3/KRW 1.15 billion 9/KRW 3.35 billion 18/KRW 8.32 billion ance ion o vern Init iati te G ves rp o ra Customer satisfaction 3.0 points 3.2 points 3.7 points Co (On a scale of one to five) Innova ra l Area ti o n In it Su Quality and Customer e Ca ene om pac i at i al G G ves Satisfaction ust ity, rowth ove logu Cre Retention of ISO 9001 certification examiners4) 22% 35% 46% ared G e, E ate r nm ,C S tr mp AH In Sh eng ent loye lier app Retention of Quality management engineers 4) 7% 9% 15% Edge Fac i the eH ier ppliers eal en t r Wo t ive pp th ith Su /Loc er, C An rkp p e ti nt dS la c on W nt r a l af e e me Total hours of social volunteering 330 1,080 2,019 om icati n ce Wi a l/ L o ty nC nw mun ploye nha ee, Ce d Di a Social Contribution in P om c al G o ger Em nt An ue E Employ a rt n e te C lita d Str o n agem e e Val v e r n m en t No. of volunteering employees 83 301 369 r s hi p Global HR, Buil Employee Eng E m pl o ye Integrated Investment in social contribution programs KRW 297 million KRW 570 million KRW 351 million Sustainability Share of eco-friendly products 24% 35% 44% Local Commu Mid/long-term (Against the total sales) ec h n tisf a cti o n Recruit/Foste S tr o n g er T Techno l r Outsta Management er S a peti tive Ed ge vern m ent Green Management Environmental investment and expenses KRW 402 million KRW 599 million KRW 787 million Serv In Q u nity(un tom ality, c al G o Recycling of waste 83% 81% 84% ogica nding ol o g ices a That or e l Com Cus 0.16% 0.14% 0.15% nf i ca l Im pre Intensity-based GHG emissions(tCO2eq/KRW million) on Edg ivers al/Lo ati ss Cust tio and a v Com omers ity/R nd no ty Cen Number of national/commissioned 14 28 26 Fou pe n tr Com nI ali nd Inte ese titi e nt he pe Qu ee sA ure p pl project contracts signed5) ld t ve uct arc ge m eO Sec ier, loy grat Bui h In c rod Stronger Technological nt, van eP r, S a na mp ed R Tale vid d stit Gre u Competitive Edge e, A ti o n Pro R& D en me kM Edg )| e isk M an tr ib u sto No. of patent applications 80 170 191 Con tive age m u te Ris Ma S o c ial peti Ad ent Cu No. of Strategic Labs chosen6) 9 dre yee ed nag ss plo Cli ma e Em s rat em te C rag itie cou han un eg en Gl ge, , En mm Share of newly hired female employees 16% 18% 18% gy ams Int ob Exp Ope ogr l Co lo t and ratio a al/ n Pr o c Loc Eco -frie n of Advan nt ribut io ppo rt L /E co (Against the total female employees) ndly ced ESH cial Co u al C Prod Sites Operate So ge A nd S Ea rth om ucts , Enga mu Volunte e r is m oy ee, nity , Em ,E m pl Employee Value ploye unity Enhancement Training support KRW 1.439 million P.P. KRW 1.749 million P.P. KRW 1.55 million P.P. e, Eart omm h/E cology Globa l/Local C Benefits expenses KRW 17.7 billion KRW 21.1 billion KRW 22.7 billion Occupational injury rate 0.12% 0.21% 0.13% No. of employees who received sustainability training7) 198 277 Changes from 2011 to 2012 1) Declines due to the disposal of the Air Conditioning Division in 2011 2) Including office workers from 2011 In 2012, the number of focus areas increased from the previous six, to seven. This came with the addition of a stronger technological competi3) Business support consulting, purchase-conditional projects, private-public joint investment technology development projects, etc. tive edge that was needed to undertake stronger SM initiatives in the technology development division(CTO). Management issues to ensure 4) Measured against employees in charge of quality issues on a company-wide level a stronger technological competitive edge included the advancement of open innovation, recruitment and the fostering of outstanding R&D 5) Contract management is based on the actual number of contracts signed from 2012(2012 number stands at 42 when the 2011 criteria are applied) personnel and a stronger competitive edge in patents. Moreover, creating a more harmonious workplace was added as a new management 6) Strategic Labs work with LS Mtron in undertaking projects, signing MOUs or interacting through training or seminars, thus requiring strategic partnership issue under the employee value enhancement focus area. 7) Practical training for office workers to prepare for ISO 26000 and to expand employee consensus 14 15 Innovation Initiatives Changing our course to move into unchartered territory is what we call innovation at LS Mtron. To take a step higher through relentless growth, we continue to build a culture of creative innovation. Customized Innovation Initiatives  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Big Y program was undertaken for executives in the Staff Division ● • Provide company-wide training to integrate 3Cs that define Jun. • Productivity management system was improved by resetting standard time ● innovation behaviors into business operations • 44 innovation talents were fostered ● • Undertake 10 TRIZ tasks Dec. • TRIZ implementation system was established and five pilot projects ● • Undertake 12 ‘Break Through Limitations’ tasks to build technological Dec. were undertaken competitive edge • Six rounds of innovation training as well as 22 rounds of task guidance ● • Ensure stability by strengthening innovation initiatives in daily ◎ were offered at overseas subsidiaries operations(Participated by all employees) 1) Problem-solving expert certified by LS Mtron 2) TRIZ(Teoriya Resheniya Izobretatelskikh Zadatch, Theory of Inventive Problem Solving): Creative problem-solving methodology SPECIAL ISSUE – Outcomes Generated through Customized Innovation Initiatives LS Mtron has undertaken innovation initiatives since 2009 to build Completion of Innovation Tasks in 2012 (Unit: Number of tasks completed) our own differentiating capabilities and competitive edge based on inBreak through novation and change. 2012 was a year when we overcame limitations category 6Sigma LPS 1) VE2) TRIZ3) total through customized innovation initiatives based on the capabilities delimitations veloped over the years. By ‘thinking outside of the box’, the Electronic Green 25 28 6 Belt through customComponent Division successfully resolved some technological issues Black 74 198 that our competitors hadn’t noticed and this earned us the title of No. 26 18 21 Belt ized innovation 1 vendor. The CF Division became the world’s first to mass produce total 51 46 27 74 198 6㎛ battery copper foil, which is being supplied to leading global cominitiatives panies. Such accomplishments are attributed to the continuous inno1) LPS(LS Mtron Production System) 2) VE(Value Engineering) Mtron 6 Festival 2012 vation undertaken on the shop floor. In 2012 alone, these initiatives 3) Including daily tasks generated the financial outcome of KRW 19 billion and 198 innovation Productivity Gains Financial Outcomes Declaration Communication Channels Directions tasks were completed. What’s more, diverse innovation programs are Generated Unit: % Unit: KRW 100 million Unit: % currently under operation: employees are rewarded for the proposals LS Mtron will act as a key driver in creating economic and • Meeting with CEO(Monthly) • Create new business value through creative Labor Facility Financial Contribution social values by establishing a culture of innovation that • CEO MBWA(management by wandering innovation and financial outcomes they generate, financially supported for their outcomes to operating ushers in a new future through customized innovation around) (Quarterly) • Build strong business capacity through innovation activities and encouraged to participate in quality circle profit competitions. In so doing, they benefit from innovation outcomes and 97.5 93.1 187 190 43 initiatives that generate substantial outcomes. • Gathering of innovation officers(Quarterly) challenging and proactive innovation 85.7 88.1 • Mtron6 Festival(Annually) • Lay the basis for voluntary innovation through are encouraged to be part of innovation initiatives. In 2012, the ‘2nd33 • Innovation initiative bulletin(Year-round) the establishment of a free and progressive term innovation initiatives’ will be launched in full to ingrain innovation culture of communication into our corporate DNA and the culture at large. These initiatives will lead our sustainable growth, based on the core values of ‘Challenge, Creativity, Communication’. 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Fostering Innovation Talent and Undertaking Innovation Tasks  Innovation 1st-term Review(2009~2011)  2nd-term Innovation Directions(2012~2015) We continue to foster innovation talent at LS Mtron. In 2012, 44 new innovation experts were made Support to Facilitate Innovation Initiatives ready for positions and currently there are 183 such experts. These experts actively undertake in( Against operating 2011 0.9% (K RW 490m illion) 1st-term Innovation “Innovation for Stronger Organizational Capability” 2nd-term Innovation “Innovation that Leads to Better Performance” novation tasks within their specialty areas(covering the Six Sigma, LPS and VE) while enhancing 영업이익 대비 profit (지원금액) 2012 1.1% (K RW 460 m illion) 2009 2010 2011 innovation capabilities by completing 198 tasks in 2012 alone. (Support expenses) Innovation Target Innovation Theme Innovation Culture Establish an operational model Undertake innovation initiaEstablish LS Mtron’s unique Lead to business performance Expansion of innovation 3Cs that define innovative to re-define innovation tives that generate substantial way of doing business Innovation customized initiatives behaviors to LS Mtron Introduction of TRIZ, the Creative Problem-solving Methodology Lay the basis for innovation outcomes Establish customized innovation Creative value innovation Challenge, Creativity Launch customized innovation Challenging capacity Communication With our R&D Center in the lead, TRIZ was introduced to help our employees learn more about initiatives innovation creative problem-solving skills. Basic and practical training was provided to 82 and 9 employees respectively, while five pilot TRIZ projects were undertaken. Our TRIZ certification program spans  Major Achievements in 1st-term Innovation  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) from Level 1 to Level 3, through the conformity review of other Belt certification programs. Within the first year of introducing TRIZ, 77 employees became Level 1–certified. Category Details Category KPI Team in Charge Improved business • Reduced opportunity cost Innovation capacity index based on the dissemination Innovation capacity • Increased production capacity of innovation culture to overseas subsidiaries, Mtron 6 Festival 2012 Create Stakeholder subsidiaries and suppliers In December 2012, ‘Mtron6 Festival 2012’ was held at LS Miraewon. LS Mtron’s innovation leadImproved innovation • Culture of voluntary participation capability • A pleasant and encouraging workplace Values Capacity index based on upward-standardization of Innovation ers, suppliers and Korean and overseas subsidiaries gathered together to share the outcomes of • No. 1 in innovative execution capacity in ‘Diagnosis of Competitive Edge function-specific business capacity in Sustainable Growth’(MK Economy) successful innovation initiatives undertaken by respective divisions over the last year. In 2012, Basic TRIZ training Communication facilitation index Innovation Financial performance • 2012: KRW 19 billion(2008: ) eight competitive tasks and two special tasks were presented. Communicate Completion of culture innovation tasks that aim to Innovation Talent development • Innovation talent in 2012: 183 employees(2008: 28 employees) establish a culture of communication 16 17 Win-win As we are not fully complete on our own, our journey is taken ‘together’. Through the firm grip felt between hands held Partnership Strengthened Competitive Edge in Shared Growth together and the trustful eyes that meet ‘eye to eye’, we see a bright tomorrow filled with hope.  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Private-public joint investment technology development projects: ● • Private-public joint investment technology development projects: Dec. 18 projects, KRW 8.31 billion 10 projects, KRW 6 billion • Customized support for stronger competitiveness: 45 suppliers, ● • Customized support for stronger competitiveness: 30 suppliers, Nov. a 15% year-on-year increase in capacity index a 10% year-on-year increase in capacity index • SRM system1) improvement ● • Maintain the SRM system(Stabilization of indicators) ◎ • LS Win-win Partnership Fund: 20 suppliers, KRW 3.5 billion ◎ • Operate the LS Win-win Partnership Fund and maintain 100% full ◎ in operation cash-equivalent payment • Support the Large Business-SME Green Partnership program ◎ 1) SRM(Supplier Relationship Management): Payment order data is shared in real time in accordance with changes in production plans SPECIAL ISSUE – Expansion of Private-Public Joint Investment Technology Development Projects Private-public joint investment technology development projects, launched in 2010 to assist suppliers in strengthening their R&D caStrengthened pabilities, constitute our representative shared growth program. This program provides technologically-competitive SMEs with 75% of the supplier R&D total R&D expenses(government 2: large companies 1, up to KRW 1 bilcapabilities will lion in cash for three years) through a fund created by the government and large companies. We signed an agreement with the Small & Mepave the way for dium Business Administration(SMBA) and the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation in 2010 to invest KRW 20 billion in the fund shared growth (contributions made by the government and LS Mtron) and KRW 13.4 Inaugural ceremony of the private-public joint Performance-sharing supplier event in 2012 billion has been spent as of the end of 2012. Major 2012 projects ininvestment technology development project clude the development of eco-friendly engine moving systems in the Declaration Communication Channels Directions Tractor Division and the development of automated automobile brake hose assembly facilities in the Automobile Component Division. PresLS Mtron is determined to establish a virtuous cycle • Gathering of VOS(Voice of Supplier) • Build sustainable partnerships through ently, a total of 18 projects are under progress. Thanks to our endeavors of mutual cooperation, where we can grow together with • Regular discussion meeting with suppliers shared growth in identifying outstanding project tasks, we received the Task Discovour suppliers, on the basis of a fair trade culture and (Business presentation) • Expand the value chain to secure our competiFund Performance ery Award at the 2012 Large & Small Business Technology Cooperation Unit: Investment(number of projects) build competitive capabilities to thrive in the • Performance-sharing supplier event tive edge in the global market Awards held by SMBA on September 6, 2012. Such exceptional tasks global market. • Survey on the level of ethics management • Expand supplier participation in and execution 2010 KRW 1.55 billion(3) were also internally rewarded at the performance-sharing supplier event at LS Mtron of sustainability management held in 2012. 2011 KRW 3.35 billion (9) • Survey on supplier’s expectations of sustainability management Example of Outstanding Project Task 2012 KRW 8.31 billion (18) Project Name FCCL 20㎛-grade optical automated external  Supplier Expectations Identified in 2012  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) defect inspection technology Expected Benefits Development Organization ONETECH (n: 183 suppliers, changes in ranking from the previous year) Category KPI Team in Charge Total Development Expenses Accelerate the development KRW 399 million(KRW 99 million) of new products/technolSupplier and dealer satisfaction with our level of ethics Corporate Collaboration (LS Mtron’s contribution) 1 Expand channels to gather feedback 15.0% LS Mtron ogy, reduce costs and *Fair operating practices-Anti-corruption 6.6.3 & Prosperity, Development Period Jun. 2011 ~ May 2012 Internal Audit & nurture top performing 2 Operate the SRM system 1) 14.4% new Financial Outcomes Monetary value of actual products warehoused at Comply with Consulting suppliers Global LS Mtron through the project Government 3 Provide consulting/training support 12.5% ▲ ▲1 Standards Completion of the task to help suppliers build a stronger Corporate Collaboration LS Mtron’s investment Secure R&D funding, enhance Support to build competitive edge in quality 12.5% ▼ ▼2 (ISO 26000) competitive edge(consulting/training) through & Prosperity Supplier Expected Benefits 1. Enhanced trust in quality from client companies technological capabilities, VOS gathering 1, 3 2. Respond to the shipment of No Stiffener & Strengthen advance into new business Improve payment conditions 10.8% ▼ ▼2 * Fair operating practices Promoting social responsibility 500mmW plating FCCL national sectors and secure markets in the value chain 6.6.6 ESI2) activity 9.1% new 3. Reduced cost of losses for customers competitive edge Reduction in inventory through the systemized SRM Corporate Collaboration Increase the number of Q-partners 7.0% ▼ ▼2 Create Stake operation 2 & Prosperity holder Values Number of submitted RFPs for private-public joint Corporate Collaboration Investment technology development projects 5.6% ▼ ▼1 What is the private-public joint investment technology development project? investment technology development projects & Prosperity • Purpose Foster suppliers with a technological competitive edge by providing R&D funding Operate LS Win-Win Partnership Fund 4.8% Distribution of sustainability reports Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity • Details The government and investor companies jointly create a support fund(cooperation fund) to invest in technology Others 8.3% development projects undertaken by SMEs. Sustainability management surveys Business Management 1) SRM(Supplier Relationship Management): Payment order data is shared in real time in Communicate Investor companies(large companies) in need of developing their own or new technology(new products) create a fund in & Planning accordance with changes in production plans conjunction with the government ahead of time to provide R&D funds to SMEs to ensure shared growth. 2) ESI(Early Supplier Involvement): Suppliers participate in the early stages of the product Regular discussion meetings with suppliers Corporate Collaboration development process & Prosperity If SMEs succeed in developing and commercializing technology, investor companies purchase products to help SMEs secure market. Key performance indicators were set in consideration of stakeholder expectations and LS Mtron’s business impact 18 19 Facilitation of Communication with Suppliers Q-Partner Program Our Q-partner program aims to identify and maintain partnerships with outstanding supplier. In Win-win Partnership Model  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans 2012, 33 Q-partners(eight Platinum Partners and 25 Gold Partners) were chosen. Q-partners are “Pursue shared growth through strengthened ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity strategic partnerships ” entitled to 100% full cash payments and opportunities to work with us, including Win-win Partner2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline ship programs and innovation initiatives. Our current Q-partner assessment criteria include some Q-Partner • Improvement of the integrated purchasing system ◐ • Improvement of the integrated purchasing system Jun. sustainability management issues concerning environmental organizations, safety management, • Various offline communication channels: Under operation more ◎ • Operation of various offline communication channels ◎ than 30 times (Quarterly in each division) regulatory violations, injury management and labor management. The criteria will be gradually Key supplier • Sustainability management surveys: 183 suppliers ● • Sustainability management surveys Sep. built upon to disseminate sustainability management to suppliers. Expertise/Specialty LS Mtron’s Commitment to Enhanced Ethics Management Outstanding supplier(by type/function) SPECIAL ISSUE – Performance-sharing Supplier Event 2012 In order to check ethics management levels and strengthen business transaction fairness, annual Performance management ethics management surveys are conducted. Our suppliers are asked to anonymously assess our New IN General OUT Exit Our annual performance-sharing supplier event serves as a repreimprovement in ethics awareness, their satisfaction with our ethics management, the ethics level sentative supplier communication channel. The event aims to build of our staff and our fairness in business transactions. The outcomes are analyzed to raise the Seeking shared consensus on mutually-beneficial relationships through the Q-partner • Definition of Q-partners ethics mindset among our staff and to make improvements through training. Special contract certification ceremony, where outstanding suppliers are recognized as Q: Quality on a company level growth through Q-partners and successful innovation initiatives and examples of winterms for ethical business behaviors were also introduced in 2010 to pursue mutually-beneficial Partner: LS Mtron’s partner sustainability management and take the lead in establishing fair transaction practices. • Certification Level: Platinum Partner / Gold Partner communication win cooperation are shared. 2012’s performance-sharing event com• Selection Criteria: Transactions worth more than menced with CPO’s welcoming remarks with a progress report, followed KRW 300 million and more than 10 transactions made by innovation initiative presentations, the Q-partner awarding ceremoper year SRM Operation • Target: Raw material suppliers, outsourcing processing ny and a banquet dinner, with executives from 33 Q-partners and maOur SRM(Supplier Relationship Management) aims to promptly share information with our supcompanies, product suppliers, facility companies jor suppliers in attendance. The progress report presentation enabled pliers and strengthen our trust-based relationships with them. Payment request data generated • Assessment Details participants to share diverse activities to strengthen their competitive 1st assessment: Q, C, D(Quality, Cost, Delivery) edge in shared growth from the LS Win-win Partnership Fund, a win-win from the development and modification of production plans is shared with them in real time, while quantitative assessment cooperation in health and safety with the Green Partnership program. 2nd assessment: Technical expertise, quality our performance in complying with commitments made to them is shared. In so doing, we aim to Specifically, presentations on the private-public joint investment techassurance, financial status, sustainability management, prevent lost business opportunities and minimize management resource waste. etc. nology development project, LS Mtron’s representative shared growth program, as well as supplier quality circle improvement activities and productivity gain activities garnered immense attention from supplier Payment Conditions Win-win Partnership Programs executives. Special awards were given to Daechang Industrial Co., Ltd., Since October 2010, 100% full cash equivalent payments have been made to our suppliers, of Daesong Co., Ltd., Namkwangenc Co., Ltd. for their efforts to promote Financial LS Win-win Partnership Fund, P-CBO Performance-sharing Supplier Event 2012 which our major suppliers have been paid on a half-monthly basis. In addition, 100% full cash paysupport 100% cash-equivalent payment Win-win Partnership. ments are available for Q-partners and transactions worth under KRW 5 million. This is just one of Win-win Partnership growth programs the many ways we demonstrate our efforts to help suppliers operate more stably. • Receiving the Special Award Capacity building Customized support to build Located in the Wanju Science Industrial Complex, anyone in this particular industry. In addition, 100% cash payments building competitive edge support Innovation initiatives undertaken Namkwangenc has been forging a close relation-relation (only available for certified Q-partners) substantially support our LS Win-win Partnership Fund Feed together ship with LS Mtron for over 15 years. We manufacsuppliers. This leads to improved payment conditions for tier 2 suppliOur LS Win-win Partnership Fund(worth KRW 5 billion) has been operating since 2010 through the back Win-win Partnership in ture door and cover devices for injection moldmold ers and lays a firm basis for mutually-beneficial supplier relationships. agreement signed with Jeon Buk Bank. Another KRW 5 billion was added to the fund in conjunction Gatherhealth and safety ing machines, which constitute LS Mtron’s The long-established trust allowed us to participate in the new injecing Technology Private-public joint investment with the Industrial Bank of Korea in 2012 to further expand the fund. Since 2010, this prime rate major product. In 2012, we were chosen as the tion molding machine design model development projects. We sindevelopment technology development projects program allowed a total of 27 suppliers to take out loans amounting to KRW 8.35 billion in order to support Platinum Partner. Our current success is attribattrib cerely hope that LS Mtron will continue to support us in making up for financially support suppliers in need of operational funds for facility investments. Strengthened Supplementation and utable to immense consulting and innovation any shortcomings as a supplier. With this support, we can be a reliable quality improvement of quality managesupport offered by LS Mtron, ranging from partner and instrumental for the company in satisfying its ambitious cooperation ment systems production, quality to general management. goal of becoming one of the World’s Best Top 7 in the injection moldCustomized Assistance for an Improved Competitive Edge systems Quality Partnership Day Quality management signing ceremony These endeavors truly put us on the map ing industry. We, too, will be fully committed to reaching this goal. Our major suppliers are subject to annual capacity evaluations based on the Q-partner assessment as an expert that competes on a par with criteria. The 2011 evaluation outcomes revealed a significant gap in capacity levels among suppliHak-Beom Kim, President, Namkwangenc Co., Ltd. ers and we provided customized assistance to them. They were able to independently analyze such Evaluation Outcomes of Customized outcomes and improve while setting and undertaking improvement plans. Such endeavors led to Support Programs a 15% year-on-year improvement in capacity levels in the 2012 evaluation. 82 2011 2012 Expansion of Direct Dialogue with Suppliers In 2012, a total of 30 discussion meetings and business presentations were held to allow each Win-win Partnership Programs 71 business division to engage in dialogue with its suppliers. Such direct interactions allow us to 62 The joint overseas market partnership program and the Win-win Partnership SME exporter pro1st share market conditions and manufacturing plans, along with introducing our Win-win Partnerassessment gram were introduced at the end of 2012 with the Export-Import Bank of Korea, to assist our suppli74 ship programs. Furthermore, we directly visit suppliers to ascertain the status of manufacturing ers suffering from poor financial conditions. While the former aims to provide direct/indirect fundactivities, quality improvements and shop floor improvement activities, while we explore overall ing to suppliers who advance into overseas markets with us, the latter endeavors to offer financial 2nd 77 ways to promote mutually-beneficial initiatives. In so doing, we aim to gather real-life situations assessment support to produce export products, in addition to a performance guarantee to SME suppliers. 85 that challenge our suppliers and to develop a culture of mutual cooperation that helps us meet Total evaluation score (45 suppliers) their expectations through communication. Discussion meeting with suppliers 20 21 Quality and We put ourselves in the customers’ shoes and listen to their concerns as to ensure that our services deliver the greatest-possible satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Secure Competitive Edge in Quality Our top priority is to seek sustained quality improvements and provide better services.  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Retention of quality experts(quality management engineers): 15% ● • Retention of quality experts(quality management engineers): 30% Jun. • Retention of the ISO 9001 certification examiners: 46% ● • Retention of the ISO 9001 certification examiners: 60% Dec. • Operation of quality training courses: 7 courses ◎ • Fostering quality internal examiners: 50% ◎ • Sustained activities to secure competitive edge in quality ◎ • Development of environmental hazardous substance ◎ : Product quality improvement activities and management system management systems diagnoses: 56 cases • Initiatives to secure competitive edge in quality ◎ : Division-specific system improvement and optimization: 27 cases • Operation of quality training courses ◎ : Supplier quality diagnoses and improvement guidance: 71 cases : Support for quality improvement for overseas subsidiaries: 23 cases SPECIAL ISSUE – Fostering Quality Talent(Quality management engineers / ISO 9001 certification examiners) There is no doubt that an edge in quality constitutes an essential prerequisite in a company’s ability to become competitive. At LS Mtron, our strategy to improve quality and build capacity is centered around our investment and trust in the lives of Competitive real ‘people’. It is obvious that product quality is enhanced when the producers of such products truly care. Therefore, we consistently work to foster quality experts so as to secure a competitive edge in quality. In addition to providing basic comedge in quality munication and problem-solving capability training to help our employees build the core capacity required in their workplace originates from and play a central role in quality innovation initiatives, we encourage our employees to become certified quality management experts and ISO 9001 examiners so as to develop practical capabilities applicable to daily operations. Our quality managecompetent ment engineer training courses consist of basic statistics, reliability management, experimental planning methodology and quality management. To ensure efficient training, both online and offline courses are provided simultaneously. Specifically, individuals offline courses offer intensive training support to assist employees in obtaining certificates by inviting external lecturers to Tractor dealers from the North American region visiting our Jeonju site training camps that are held at the in-house HR development institute. Our ISO 9001 examiner training courses target employees who will play an essential role in making sustained improvements of quality systems. Trainees learn the basic requirements of quality management systems through in-house courses, while Declaration Communication Channels Directions external training camps are provided by outside training organizations to help employees become certified examiners. QualLS Mtron is committed to delivering products that satisfy • Customer satisfaction survey • Secure global competitive-edge in quality ity experts are responsible for taking the lead in various innovation initiatives so as to strengthen internal quality and diagcustomer requirements through sustained quality improve• Gathering of VOC(Voice of Customer) • Secure core quality capacity by fostering nose quality management systems, while offering external improvement guidance for overseas subsidiaries and suppliers. ments and through providing a truly impressive customer • Product presentation(Product exhibition) talent LS Mtron consistently provides opportunities to its employees in capacity and career development in order to reinforce its experience with our best-in-class services. • Survey of customer expectations on • Expand customer contact points and quality capabilities. sustainability management strengthen services • Quality Innovation Festival • Strengthen customer health, safety and • Vision-sharing dealer meeting data privacy Retention of Quality Management Engineers Retention of ISO 9001 Certification Examiners * Against employees working in relation to quality issues * Against employees working in relation to quality issues on a company-wide level on a company-wide level 2010 7% 2010 22% 2011 9% 2011 35% 2012 15% 2012 46%  Customer Expectations Identified in 2012  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) * Quality management engineers _ The quality management engineer certification is a national technical certification program certified by the (n: 80 client companies, change in ranking from the previous year) Category KPI Team in Charge Human Resources Development Service of Korea. It was launched to meet the demand for professional technical personnel who are capable of actively introducing and expanding quality management systems 1 Secure competitive edge in quality 17.8% Integrated harmful chemicals management system run Quality Management, with suppliers through the Large Business-SME Green Green Management, in satisfying shifting customer requirements. Secure technological competitiveness 14.9% ▲2 Partnership program(government-led project) Corporate Collaboration Comply with * Consumer issues Protecting consumers' health & Prosperity 2 Handle customer complaints swiftly 14.5% ▼1 global and safety 6.7.4 3 Expand systems to gather customer standards Number of customer evaluation meetings held to Quality Management feedback 13.4% ▲1 (ISO 26000) Improvement on Quality Failure Cost differentiate the quality of services for tractors and 4 Reinforce after-sales activities 11.6% ▼2 injection molding machine consumers 2, 3, 4 At LS Mtron, we use the ERP system to monitor quality cost in real time. The entire organization, * Consumer issues Consumer service, support, and including respective teams,is included in the scope of quality cost management and targets are Expand quality management of suppliers 5.8% ▲4 complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.6 set to reduce quality failure costs at the start of each year. In order to reach these targets, each Expand quality management systems 5.4% Create stakeholder Retention of quality management engineers 1 Quality Management business division selects sub-tasks to improve on product quality failures and meetings are held to values Retention of the ISO 9001 certification examiners 1 Quality Management Strengthen product safety guarantees 4.7% ▼2 monitor progress. The outcomes of such endeavors are reported to the CEO regularly. Distribution of sustainability management reports Quality Management Expand eco-friendly technology/products 4.7% Sustainability management surveys Business Management Communicate Others 7.2% & Planning Customer satisfaction surveys Quality Management Key performance indicators were set in consideration of stakeholder expectations and LS Mtron’s business impact 22 23 Provide Products/Services that Impress Customers Quality Improvement Initiatives(Product/management systems) To improve product quality, we offer guidance to suppliers to help them with quality improvePerformance in Securing a Competitive  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ment, while diagnosing major manufacturing processes to strengthen management systems and Edge in Quality ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity Unit: Number of cases improve continually to supplement vulnerable processes and ensure their efficient operation. Activity 2010 2011 2012 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline Included in major improvements are the stabilization of the CAC hose manufacturing process • Continuous customer satisfaction activities undertaken by each business ◎ • Launch activities to provide differentiated service quality that Oct. Improve product quality failures 14 7 56 quality in the Automotive Component Division, the development of work-standard management division: 116 may be truly felt by customers in the Tractor Division Improve quality management • Customer monitoring and special CS training ● • Conduct customer satisfaction surveys Dec. systems in the Injection Molding Division and the operation of the TFT to provide the quality 26 38 27 systems • Customer satisfaction surveys ● • Undertake customer satisfaction activities in each business division and ◎ assurance of battery copper foil length direction in the CF Division. Support overseas subsidiaries 14 23 strengthen the management of customer contact points Diagnose suppliers and help 49 100 71 Optimization of Quality Management Systems them improve At LS Mtron, quality management activities are systematically complemented to satisfy both cusSPECIAL ISSUE – Improvement of Customer Satisfaction tomer requirements and internal targets. Our ISO 9001 and ISO/TS 16949 quality management systems are subject to annual examinations by authorized certification bodies. Meanwhile, process Our annual customer satisfaction surveys aim to contribute to deliverResults of Customer Satisfaction Surveys diagnoses are performed and issues are identified to make continuous improvements and develop ing customer-driven services and enhancing quality by comparing and (Company-wide total) Unit: On a scale of one to five 5, Impressive assessing where we are in relation to our competitors from a customn: 112 people quality management systems that are optimized for distinctive features of each business division. Quality Survey Item ers’ perspective so that we can identify and improve upon our shortcustomer expericomings. In 2011, customer satisfaction surveys were conducted for 2010 2.9 • Satisfaction with quality • Efforts to improve on Quality Improvement Support for Overseas Subsidiaries ences originate seven divisions on the issues of: quality, marketing, after-sales services quality 2011 3.2 Korean experts were sent to the LSMQ, (Tractor Division’s overseas subsidiary), to provide quality Quality management system certificates and deadlines. In 2012, such surveys were expanded to include the all • Technological capability training, service support and assistance for the quality improvement of major components. Our from customer eight divisions. Customers and dealers(who sell only LS Mtron’s prod2012 3.6 • Sample quality ucts) were surveyed indirectly through e-mails and faxes. plan is to continually improve on our quality assurance systems by fostering local experts so that feedback. In 2012, the company-wide total score was 3.7 points on average, up 0.5 Marketing such support activities enable the LSMQ to diagnose quality and improve independently. Our points from 2011. While the Tractor Division’s marketing department 2010 3.0 • Corporate image Injection Molding Division transferred its knowledge and long-term expertise to the Chinese local scored 3.4 points in design, up by 0.8 points from 2011, the Injection • Product design • Variety in Product plant operated by its Chinese subsidiary, LSMW. The division also sent inspection experts three Molding Division gained the lowest score of 3.1 points in handling cus2011 3.2 line-up times to the subsidiary to help local inspectors build stronger inspection capabilities and improve tomer complaints in the after-sales services and deadline category. Our • Price 2012 3.7 plan for 2013 is to conduct customer satisfaction surveys as part of our detection rates. In the beginning of 2012, the Electronic Component Division discussed ways to strategy to differentiate the service quality customers experience and to promote quality collaboration with the LSEQ, its Chinese subsidiary in Qingdao. Chinese local inAfter-sales service, Deadline • Handling of customer fully commit ourselves to improving customer satisfaction. complaints spectors received guidance from the division’s Korean experts to improve their detection capabili2010 3.0 • Technological response capability ties and efforts were made to secure quality regarding the transfer of mass production. 2011 3.3 • Provision of technical data ISO 9001:2008 ISO/TS 16949:2009 • Compliance with 2012 3.8 deadline Strengthening Quality Cooperation Systems We believe that our supplier’s competitive edge is a direct lead-in to our own competitive edge. This is why we consistently make both regular and special diagnoses to help suppliers supplement and improve their quality management systems. As such, Taesan Technology, a supplier Strengthen the Management of Customer Contact Points of the Tractor Division, was offered assistance to ensure stable product quality. Also, the ElecWe constantly manage customer contact points to deliver customer satisfaction and enhance our tronic Component Division held Partnership Day in February 2012 with 10 suppliers in attendance. brand image over the long haul. In 2012, basic and professional advanced sales/service training was provided to help employees build stronger qualifications and capacities as professionals. Quality Training Courses Specifically, our overseas subsidiaries are given consistent CS training and service support. To To continuously strengthen quality capabilities, employees in each division, along with those in the ensure the systematized management of customer contact points, our call center is operated areas of development, production and quality assurance, participated in regular quality training through the integration of functions that were previously performed by dealers under respective programs that included two basic and five professional courses. Furthermore, practical inspection divisions, sales employees and engineers. Call center data consists of positive feedback as well as courses and ERP quality module courses were provided to assist employees who, either through an customer complaints gathered through the representative phone number. Both are considered in organizational reshuffle or recruitment, became members of the newly created Quality Assurance assessing customer satisfaction levels with our products and services. Advanced training for CS employees at Team. ERP quality module training used actual cases as teaching materials to provide customized overseas subsidiaries courses and invited in-house instructors who were internally trained. Responsible Marketing We provide a complete suite of product-related information to prevent any misuse of our products Protection of Customer Safety through the Eco-friendly Supply Chain and to improve customer convenience. In addition to product guides and user manuals, regular At LS Mtron, designated staff members work to ensure that relevant regulations are analyzed and direct invitations are sent to customers to present and exhibit new products. management systems are systematically supplemented to promote sustainable production and Practical inspection training course consumption while delivering safer and more eco-friendly products. Our commitment to fulfilling Protection of Customer Information social responsibility within our sphere of influence was demonstrated through our participation in All employees at LS Mtron consider the protection of a customer’s personal information a top the Large Business-SME Green Partnership Program that was organized by the Ministry of Knowlpriority and principles and policies are up and running to protect consumer privacy. We also have edge and Economy, in 2012. Under this program, we plan to lay the foundation for shared growth designated personal information officers to improve relevant processes, while all employees are by establishing system-based hazardous chemical management schemes in conjunction with encouraged to raise their awareness of data privacy and related training is provided consistently. suppliers and transferring relevant managerial skills to suppliers for the next two years. Visit to the CNH 24 25 Social Contribution It is with deep affection that we look at the less privileged. We are never hesitant to lend a helping hand to whoever needs our love. We will become a light corridor, sincerely shining a bright light into the darkest reaches of our society. Facilitation of Employee Volunteerism (Community engagement and support )  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Volunteer activities undertaken on a company-wide and by four regional ● • Strengthen support to facilitate employee volunteerism Dec. volunteer groups • Affiliation activities for villages and schools in local communities ◎ • Support for volunteerism(Awards, campaign, volunteer training) ● • Expand sponsorship for culture/arts/sports in local communities as well ◎ • Support to foster next-generation young farmers, local stream clean-up ◎ as employee participation initiatives and other community affiliation activities • Sponsorship for local cultural/arts/sports activities including the Jeonju ◎ International Film Festival, the Jeonju World Sori Festival SPECIAL ISSUE – LS Mtron’s Community Volunteerism Our employee volunteer initiatives that had been undertaken separately by respective business sites until 2011 were integrated and evolved to LS Mtron grows create a company-wide volunteer group. While site-specific volunteer activities remain in their informal format to ensure both spontaneity hand-in-hand with and autonomy, operational systems were built and the Social Contribulocal communities tion Subcommittee was created to systematically support and operate volunteer activities. Our company-wide volunteer group consists of 400 employees working at the four business sites in Jeonju, Anyang, Jeongeup and Indong. This group is happy with the less-formal atmosphere that welcomes the participation of both employees and their families. Company-wide Volunteer Group LS Mtron Global Happy Village Campaign Sarang Nanumhoe(Love Sharing Team) in Jeonju Sarang Silcheonhoe(Love Practicing Team) in Anyang Member Composition: Employees in the Tractor Division, Member Composition: Employees at the Head Office, Electronic Injection Molding Division, Special Business Division Component Division, UC Division, sales departments and R&D Major Beneficiary: Da Ae Community/Chudong village Center Declaration Communication Channels Directions Activity: Donate money and supplies, help make kimchi, Major Beneficiary: Yanji House(Rehabilitation facility forpatients support construction and hands-onactivities and with cerebral palsy)/Gyeonggi office of Child Fund LS Mtron is determined to fulfill its social responsibility • Consultation with local government agencies • Improve LS Mtron’s reputation by developing experiences Activity: Help bathe regularly/clean/dining education, donate as a corporate citizen and go the extra mile to pave a path (Anyang City, Wanju-gun Office) a unique corporate brand through representamoney and supplies where everyone lives in harmony through proactive com• Cooperation with NGOs(Partners in social tive social contribution programs munity development and growth initiatives and the spirit contribution programs) • Maintain close and trust-based relationships Sarang Silcheonhoe(Love Practicing Team) in Huimang Nanumi(Sharing Hope Team) in Indong of employee volunteerism. • One Company One School affiliation, One with local communities Member Composition: Employees in the Automotive Component Jeongeup Company One Village affiliation • Improve employee mindsets regarding Member Composition: Employees in the CF Division and Division • Cooperation with local cultural/arts/sports corporate social responsibility and expand Major Beneficiary: Shelter of Love(Local short-term care facilities FCCL Division for those with mental disabilities), Gumi Elementary School organizations employee volunteer activities Major Beneficiary: Welfare facilities for the disabled Activity: Help bathe regularly, offer regular support for children Activity: Help repair homes for elderly people living alone • Surveys of community expectations • Promote shared growth with and economic and those from broken homes, care for long-term from broken homes, help deliver briquettes development of local communities patients, offer field trips to children from broken homes  Community Expectations Identified in 2012  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) Promotion of Local Culture/Arts/Sports (n: 32 people, Changes in ranking from the previous year) Category KPI Team in Charge We sponsor annual cultural, arts and sports events to help develop local culture and improve the Number of operations of social contribution programs Business Support quality of life for local people. Specifically, we have been an active sponsor of the Jeonju Interna1 Welfare for vulnerable populations 30.8% that directly engage employees in local communities tional Film Festival and the Jeonju World Sori Festival, two representative cultural festivals held 2 Environmental protection 26.9% in Korea as well as overseas 1, 2 * Community involvement and development in North Jeolla where our Jeonju site is based, since 2008. Our staff directly participates in these 3 Promotion of culture/arts/sports 23.1% ▲1 Comply with global – Community involvement 6.8.3 events. We also sponsor the International Sculpture Exhibition to contribute to the local cultural standards Job creation and fostering of future talent 19.2% ▼1 (ISO 26000) Support to promote culture, arts and sports in local Business Support industry and the Korea Cycle Federation to promote daily sports and public health. communities where LS Mtron business sites are based (Monetary value) 3 * Community involvement and development Community Engagement through the Fostering of Local Talent and Product Donations – Education and culture 6.8.4 Included in our endeavors to contribute to the local community where we are located, are the Create stakeholder Volunteer hours per employee Business Support donation of tractors to the farming group in Chudong village with which we forged ties under the values One Company One Village program to help foster next-generation young farmers and the donation Sustainability management surveys Business Management & Planning of tractors for experimental and practice purposes to the College of Agriculture & Life Sciences at Communicate Distribution of sustainability reports Business Support Chonbuk National University. Furthermore, various industry-academia-research institute cooperaKey performance indicators were set in consideration of stakeholder expectations and LS Mtron’s tion programs are underway including the completion of Mtech Workshop, a practical training site business impact to advance agricultural machinery technology at the Iksan Campus of Korea Polytechnic College Tractor donation ceremony held at Cheonan Yonam College and the signing of industry-academia agreements for technical training. 26 27 Representative Social Contribution Programs  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • 2nd Global Happy Village campaign in 2012(Vietnam) ● • 3rd Global Happy Village campaign in 2013 Year-round Vietnam : Employee volunteers were sent to help educate children and construct • Operate representative domestic social contribution programs: Local Year-round a new school building volunteer activities undertaken by We Love Farming Village volunteers • Representative domestic social contribution program(We Love Farming ● Schedule: Twice a year Village Volunteer Group) Venue: North Jeolla, North Gyeongsang : 50 employees helped elderly people living alone to take self-portraits Details: Help seniors with taking self-portraits and getting haircuts, and home repair Support elderly people living alone Participation: Informal members and employees of site-specific volunteer groups SPECIAL ISSUE – LS Mtron’s Global Happy Village Campaign 1. Overview Volunteers: 12 LS Mtron employees(From different divisions, Dates: June 20 ~ June 26,2012 age groups and job categories) LS Mtron’s Place: Banfu Village in Tuyen Quang Province, Vietnam (Highland areas N.W. Hanoi) 2. Programs Episode | The target area for our volunteer activities was in the highland d areas of the northwestern part of Vietnam, which Global Happy Target: Banfu Elementary School students and teachers, The ‘Happy Village Campaign’, LS Mtron’s representative is one of the most underdeveloped regions and populated by ethnic ic minorities. On numerous occasions, we could not use veVillage Campaign local people global social contribution program, is performed in the differhicles due to heavy rainfall or poor road conditions and on onee occasion, our volunteers even had to walk several kilometers Programs: Volunteer activities(Student education, physical ent phases of preliminary education, volunteer activities and in the scorching sun with temperatures of over 40 to reach their students because the vehicle had gotten stuck in n the mud. volunteer activities and enlightenment education), support sustained volunteer engagement so that the spirit of volunteeractivities(Help construct a new school building and provide ism is integrated into the fabric of each employee’s daily life. In The weather, poor road conditions and general local conditions posed such challenges to our volunteers. Yet, we were able school supplies) this way, it becomes natural for them to share their experiences to finish the campaign with a smile and a great sense of satisfaction in the end. with others and spread the ‘volunteer virus’ to the wider world. Jong-Sig Kim _ Campaign leader  Physical volunteer activity Preliminary Education Volunteering in Vietnam Physical volunteer activities included fence construction and wall painting. The fence was built along with local teachers and murals were painted on  Local information and language the left and right sides of the wall. Learn about the general condtions in Vietnam, the target beneficiary of volunteer activities, including its politics, culture, society and religions.  Music education  Program training Music education is hardly a part of the regular All the programs to be undertaken in school curriculum in Vietnam and it is even more Vietnam are practiced in detail with difficult to obtain the musical instrument that the leaders who are selected in is needed to study it. LS Mtron volunteers were  Sports day each program to lead it. aware of such local conditions through preliminary Sports day programs that are typically seen at research and found content suitable to teach music school sports day in Korea such as relay races and Disbanding Ceremony and Volunteering easily and help students stick with their learning. treasure hunts were also provided in Vietnam. Volunteers became members of each class and  Participation in domestic volunteer activities bonded with the students while playing games Participation in domestic volunteer activities and sports. In November, Global Happy Village volunteers took part in volunteer activities in Korea.  Art education Children were encouraged to draw the visions of their future dreams on T-shirts. Volunteers first shared their dreams and then introduced a variety of existing jobs in the world to the students. 28 29 Green Management Toward a future where forests are filled with greenness, the earth breathes freely and everyone dreams of a tomorrow filled with overwhelming hope, our endeavors at LS Mtron never cease in developing eco-friendly green products. Response to Climate Change  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Completion of the calculations of GHG emissions at each business site ● • Build GHG emission monitoring systems Jun. • Completion of the revision of GHG management regulations and inventory ● • Build GHG and energy IT systems Sep. • Selection of employees in charge of GHG issues at respective sites ● and training SPECIAL ISSUE – GHG·Energy Management We work with others to respond to climate change and to fulfill our environmental responsibility as a global company. Since our company-wide GHG inventory was built in 2010, we have set strategies to reduce GHG emissions and have our perforFulfilling our mance verified by a third-party company. In 2012, facility operations grew more efficient and high-efficiency facilities were environmental introduced to this end. Specifically, our Jeongeup site(which accounts for a whopping 75% of our company-wide GHG emissions due to its indirect emissions) is more proactive in making regular energy diagnoses and investment plans. In 2012, responsibility our company-wide GHG emissions amounted to 101,915tCO2eq, which consist of 8,315tCO2eq tons of direct emissions caused by stationary and mobile combustion(Scope 1) and 93,600tCO2eq of indirect emissions caused by the purchase of on a global level electricity(Scope 2). Specifically, 774tCO2eq of emissions were reduced through the integrated operation of freezers, the operation of high-efficiency lighting devices and the replacement of motors. In addition, load factor control(through the installment of invertors and the deployment of power saving freezer devices) enabled us to save 283tCO2eq of emissions annually. Staff in charge of respective sites and relevant team members are trained to strengthen our capacity to manage GHG emissions and develop GHG management processes, leading to a more systemized management of GHG emissions. Furthermore, a taskforce team is up and running to reduce emissions while daily remote meetings are being established as an operational routine. These include video conferencing systems to minimize the need for business trips, which in turn leads to Tractors in perfect harmony with nature(Excellence Award at the Tractor Photo Competition 2012) GHG emission reductions. We plan to set company-wide climate change strategies to respond to the introduction of emission trading schemes through the calculation and evaluation of major performance indicators. In 2013, GHG/energy management IT systems will be launched to manage company-wide emissions in a more systemic manner. Declaration Communication Channels Directions LS Mtron aims to become a global leading green company • Environmental policy presentations • Adapt to climate change through the GHG Emissions between 2010~2012 GHG Emissions by Site in 2012 GHG Emissions by Source in 2012 in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge component by central/local governments reduction of GHG emissions (Intensity) industry, through sustained endeavors to reduce energy • Discussions with environmental NGOs • Expand the scope of eco-friendly products consumption and GHG emissions, along with the support and environmental engineer councils and green business Unit: tCO2eq, (tCO2eq/KRW million) Unit: tCO2eq Unit: tCO2eq to expand the scope of green business. • Green company information disclosure • Operate a safe and healthy eco-friendly • Local Agenda 21 in Anyang workplace Jeonju 11,901(11.7%) Mobile combustion 1,225(1.2%) 101,915 • Industrial Health and Safety Committee Stationary and committee meetings Anynag/Indong/Others combustion 99,415 7,090(7.0%) • Surveys of expectations regarding 13,186(13.0%) sustainability management Jeongeup Indirect emissions 96,297 93,600(91.8%) 76,828(75.3%) (0.15) (0.14) (0.16) 2010 2011 2012 total 101,915 total 101,915  Stakeholder Expectations Identified in 2012  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) (n: 32 external stakeholders in relation to the environment, Category KPI Team in Charge changes in raking from the previous year) 1 GHG management 22.2% Management of GHG emissions 1, 2 Green Management * Environment – Climate change mitigation and adaptation Support for Suppliers in Building Low Carbon Management Systems 2 Conservation of resources and energy 18.9% Comply with 6.5.5 global standards Our participation in the Green-Carbon Partnership, a government-led national project, aims to ad(ISO 26000) Share of eco-friendly products in total sales (In accordance Technology vance mutually beneficial green management with suppliers by taking detailed actions to develop 3 Development of eco-friendly products 12.2% ▲1 with LS Mtron’s eco-friendly product development criteria) Management, Improvement of eco-friendly facilities 11.1% ▼1 * Environment – Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 3 Division a low carbon supply chain for 20 suppliers. A kick-off workshop was held last December to share Create stakeExternally verified carbon labeling 1, 2 Green Management background information and project directions. Meanwhile, energy-saving measures are under deReduction of pollutants 11.1% holder values velopment through the establishment of GHG inventory and environmental management systems Management of hazardous chemicals 7.8% Sustainability management surveys Business as well as the diagnosis of energy consumption based on field diagnoses of suppliers. In addition, Management & Reduction of water consumption 7.8% new Communicate Planning training for working-level employees with our suppliers will be provided so as to lay a firm foundaExpanded operation of EMS 4.4% ▼1 Distribution of sustainability management reports Green Management tion for green management within the supply chain. Compliance with environmental regulations 4.4% Key performance indicators were set in consideration of stakeholder expectations and LS Mtron’s business impact Briefing of Launching the Green Carbon Partnership 2012 ▲1 30 31 Operation of Advanced ESH Business Sites Expansion of Eco-friendly Products  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Risk management support given to Chinese subsidiaries ● • Identify major risks at Hi-tech Center and integrate them into Aug. • R&D investments in eco-friendly products: KRW 18.9 billion ● • Develop strengthened systems to manage eco-friendly products Apr. : Diagnose fire prevention activities and prepare for emergency scenarios internal regulations • Sales/share of eco-friendly products: KRW 403.5 billion/44% ● • R&D investment in eco-friendly products: KRW 20.2 billion ◎ • Development of localized ESH management systems for overseas ● • Support overseas subsidiaries in building systems and diagnosing fire Sep. • Share of eco-friendly products in sales: 47% ◎ subsidiaries prevention activities : Workshop training for environmental safety officers at Chinese • Foster environmental safety officers at overseas subsidiaries Sep. subsidiaries • Secured transparency in disclosing corporate environmental data ◎ : Completion of the verification of disclosed environmental data SPECIAL ISSUE – LS Mtron’s Eco-friendly Product Management Systems and Accomplishments We believe that the development of eco-friendly products will provide us with a shortcut in fulfilling our environmental SPECIAL ISSUE – Support for Overseas Subsidiaries with ESH Management responsibilities, by delivering new values to customers and minimizing the environmental impacts of the manufacturing The development processes. In order to facilitate the development of such eco-friendly products, we at LS Mtron have independently defined the scope of eco-friendly products and introduced eco-friendly design processes since 2010. Every year, our internal criteLSMQ, LSEQ and LSMW were subject to safety diagnoses in 2012 to of eco-friendly ria is used to include those products whose basic design factors were improved or which satisfy the eco-friendly business improve their fire safety and prevention capabilities. Specifically, highproducts is requirements according to our definition of eco-friendly products. Furthermore, great efforts are being put into developing Global initiatives functional thermographic cameras were used to check heating areas eco-friendly products and expanding their sales. In 2012, an eco-friendly tractor diesel engine was developed through the use for strengthened to prevent electric fires while major risk factors of electric fires were a shortcut to our own technology and a hybrid tractor is under development with the goal of reducing exhaust gas by 90% and fuel conclosely examined. Firefighting facility inspections were made and sumption by 20% to that of the existing engine model. In addition, our Injection Molding Division is focusing on developing safety capacity firefighting training scenarios were developed or modified for a swift fulfilling our a mid-to-large size electric model that minimizes GHG emissions and saves more energy. The entire antenna and connector response to fire accidents. Random firefighting training helped our overcomponent models that have been launched into the market satisfy the RoHS criteria and are halogen(F/CI/br/At)-free. Furseas subsidiaries build a more stable training system while workshops environmental thermore, we are committed to building technological capacity for eco-friendly products in the energy storage device sector. were held to foster local staff with improved fire safety awareness to responsibility This includes the development of UC models for hybrid vehicles, high-capacity battery packs for mobile devices and copper encourage these subsidiaries to take the initiative in fire prevention. Our Briefing of diagnostic outcomes of overseas foil with the slim form factor. support will continue to help them maintain fire safety and prevention subsidiaries practices. Status of Eco-friendly Products Eco-friendly Design Process Unit: KRW 100 million, % : Operate eco-friendly design verification procedures as part of the overall Category 2010 2011 2012 product development process * GR(Gate Review) Sales 2,211 3,283 4,035 Determine  GR1  GR2  GR3 ● Improvement of Eco-friendly Processes and Management of Pollutants Share 24 35 44 whether it Select core ecoSet eco-friendly Review whether meets ecofriendly design design goals the goal was The reverse osmosis devices deployed in 2012 helped us reduce water consumption while the friendly product factors attained and replacement of old precipitators and the additional installment of scrubbers improved the envirequirements handle remainShare of Eco-friendly Products in R&D Investment ing issues ronment near our business sites. In 2012, the total waste discharge rose by 19%(on an intensity (Number of projects) Unit: %(Number of projects) basis) from the previous year but our recycling was up by a 3% increase through the thorough Eco-friendly Product/Technology Development Plan Category 2010 2011 2012 management of recyclable materials. Our plan for 2013 is to establish an eco-friendly supply chain : Operated while developing mid-term technology development strategies Reduced GHG emissions 14(4) 4(8) 3(2) to proactively respond to domestic and overseas environmental regulations. Stage 1  Stage 2  Stage 3  Stage 4 ● Reduced hazardousness 70(25) 68(29) 73(29) Environmental Development of Briefing for Briefing of midResource saving 16(10) 28(19) 24(20) analysis of roadmap W/S executives term technology Improvement of Environmental Safety Computing Processes products/techdevelopment total 100(39) 100(56) 100(51) nology strategies Our computing processes regarding advance environmental safety examinations and work permits were improved to prevent risks related to environmental safety risk evaluations and construction Signboard hanging ceremony to celebrate the re-designation undertakings. Environmental safety was aligned with construction order awarding processes to ensure that environmental safety reviews become a mandatory step in the entire process. In addition, Major Eco-friendly Products in 2012 electrical fire prevention reviews were added to minimize the risk of accidents. Business Division Category of Eco-friendly Product Product Model Major Features(Achievements) Re-designation as a Green Company and Local Environmental Protection Campaigns P/U/R/I/J/G models for North America • Reduced emission of pollutants and increased engine efficiency Tractor Reduced hazardousness Our Jeonju site was re-designated as a Green Company in November 2011. This recognition distinand Europe • 10% drop in fuel consumption(g/kWhr) guishes it from other sites for its sustained efforts in improving the surrounding environment and Injection Molding Reduced GHG emissions Hydraulic ME/SE models • 25%, 45%, and 25% increase in efficiency compared to previous models(D/M/S) for its preventive environmental management practices. Other company-wide initiatives to fulfill Special Business Resource saving K-55A1 caterpillar • Increased service life compared to the previous model(7 years  12 years) our social responsibility include the One Company One Stream campaign, the Green Industrial Electronic • Respond to RoHS requirements Reduced hazardousness All products Component • Halogen(F/CI/Br/I/At)-free, Be-free Complex campaign and environmental technology support for SMEs. CF Reduced hazardousness TM-treated products • Elimination of arsenic during the plating process The Development of Environmental Safety Operational Systems for the Hi-tech Center Automotive • Components that satisfy Euro V requirements(Regulations on automotive Reduced hazardousness TCI/Brake/Power steering hose Component exhaust gas emissions) Major environmental safety risks were identified for the Hi-tech Center that was built in Anyang in • Applied to the eco-friendly energy sector including electric vehicles, wind power February, 2013 while inspection and improvement was made accordingly. We will establish ESH UC Eco-friendly business All products generators and ISG vehicles One Company One Stream campaign work standards and ensure that the center grows in harmony with the local community. 32 33 Stronger Technological To be a driving force that leads the global era – Our mission is to build an innovative and specialized R&D domain and strengthen our Competitive Edge Advance Open Innovation technological competitive edge. We take a leap forward in the technological capabilities that few other companies can match.  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Signing of the MOU between LS Group and UNIST for industry● • Sign one MOU for industry-academia cooperation ◎ academia cooperation • Undertake 30 national/commissioned projects ◎ • 26 national/commissioned projects undertaken ● • Select 17 Strategic Lab.s aligned with core platform technology ◎ • Selection of 9 Strategic Lab.s1) aligned with core platform technology ● 1) Strategic Lab.: Strategic Lab’s work with LS Mtron in undertaking projects, signing MOUs or interacting through training or seminars, thus strategic partnership is required SPECIAL ISSUE – LS Mtron Chosen to be a Supervisor of the Strategic Core Materials Technology Development Project Led by the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy We were chosen as a supervisor for the strategic core materials technPhase-specific Targets ology development project led by the Ministry of Knowledge and Econ Developing global omy to develop ultra high-strength electrolytic copper foil for lithium-io 1-phase(2012. 11. ~ 2016. 10.): Pilot Production leading products n batteries and PCBs between 2012 and 2019. The first phase of this • Develop electrolytic copper foil processing technology to project(Nov. 2012 ~ Oct. 2016) alone will demand a total of KRW 15 bilachieve ultra high-strength through open lion in investment. We will develop core technology in conjunction with • Develop plating thickness and surface profile simulation technology government-invested research institutes including the Korea Institute innovation of Industrial Technology and the Korea Institute of Materials Science, • Develop winding tension precision control and web-handling technology along with universities such as Seoul National University and Hanyang University and five other companies. The project agreement meeting, held at our R&D Center last November, was attended by representatives and working-level staff from respective participating organizations to R&D Center completed in 2012 discuss the timetable of core technology development and cooperation measures. We will capitalize on this project to further facilitate the open Declaration Communication Channels Related to Directions innovation of core platform technology and strengthen our network LS Mtron will recruit and foster outstanding R&D experts Technology Development with academia and research institutes for technological cooperation. in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge component • External Channels _ Cooperation with • Facilitate R&D capacity-building and industry, undertake open innovation initiatives and develop industry-academia cooperation partners a corporate R&D culture Wide-ranging Industry-Academia-Research Institute Cooperation Programs eco-friendly products in a bid to deliver Leading Solutions (universities) Cooperation with • Strengthen the industry-academia-research to its customers. university labs(Lab.) institute partnership At LS Mtron, numerous national/commissioned projects are undertaken in cooperation with exter• Internal Channels _ Change Agent initiative • Lay the foundation for building a mid/longnal partners. In addition, industry-academia cooperation projects are being operated under close Job level-specific discussion term technological competitive edge relationships with top-notch universities(Seoul National University, Yonsei University and Hanyang University) in the tractor, injection molding and CF business. In the first half of 2012, 30 Strategic Lab.s were chosen within domestic universities to develop 14 core platform technologies and seven cooperation contracts(commissioned/advisory) were signed and are currently in progress. In the second half of the year, strategic relationships were forged with a total of nine labs and R&D  R&D 1st-term Review(~2012) and 2nd-term Directions(~2015)  Key Performance Indicators(KPI) activities are underway to identify further Strategic Lab.s. 1st-term “Strengthen fast follower 2nd-term “Prepare to advance into Category KPI Team in Charge Technology Center kick-off meeting Category Join the Polymer Nano Convergence Materials Processing Technology capacity” toptier (First Mover)” Development of training systems to help with stronger R&D Technology • Define and lay the basis for core • Enhance the level of core platform Comply with capacity building and career development, satisfaction with Management, We are a corporate member of the Polymer Nano Convergence Materials Processing Technology Secure a global platform technology technology global standards training courses HR Development Center recently launched through the consortium of 20 professors in the polymer processing field technological competitive • Defensive IP strategies, install and stren• Offer close support for division (ISO 26000) * Labour practices Human development and training in the gthen a production technology unit -specific key tasks workplace 6.4.7 and 22 resin and injection molding companies. The membership allows us to build a stronger edge • Expand source/core patents Number of MOUs and research projects undertaken to Technology technological competitiveness by forging closer relationships with upstream businesses in the • Develop next-generation products Strengthen the and new technologies strengthen industry-academia-research institute partnerships Management injection molding industry. This helps us in developing organic response capabilities to address foundation for • Identify essential tasks • Strengthen divisional research infuture growth stitutes and build overseas R&D Ratio of outstanding R&D personnel recruited in advance Technology injection molding-related field claims from the machinery and polymer perspectives and in collectcapabilities Create stake Management holder values ing R&D information on industry leaders and research institutes in Korea and abroad. • Select universities and Lab.s that Organizational capacity index and organizational activity Technology • Appoint the CTO, lay the basis serve as a major base index in the R&D job category Management Build R&D • Forge relationships with universities • Strengthen an industry-acade (Establishing a great research institute) Expert Technology Seminars capability that serve as a base for open mia-research institute network innovation • Introduce development systems, Number of C.A. activities undertaken Technology In 2012, we hosted a number of technology seminars by inviting experts in respective fields: a innovation and TRIZ Communicate Management seminar on trends and the future development of precision farming in Japan and China in relation Foster No. 1 • Diversify recruitment channels to tractors in January 2012, a seminar on the material processing injection molding technology, Expert Technology Seminar • Strengthen training for each job research • GWP, introduce innovation initiatives rheology and energy storage materials in May, a seminar on building the foundation for reliability levels and research areas institute • Strengthen GWP activities assessments and FMEA implementation in July, and a seminar on rechargeable battery market trends and metal anodes(as well as the development of Li-Air batteries) in October. 34 35 Recruit and Foster Outstanding R&D Talent Build the Foundation for a Mid/long-term Technological Competitive Edge  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Improvement of the company-wide industrial scholarship system and ● • Select industrial scholarship students and retain outstanding and ◎ • Advance response for patent issues(Address IP risks of developed ◎ • Win the patent lawsuits(Protect the domestic market from being ◎ overseas recruitment system experienced workers products)1) canalized by overseas companies) • Selection of industrial scholarship beneficiaries ● • Reinforce lab-tours and overseas recruitment ◎ • Protection of IP of R&D outcomes(Identify core patents and protect ◎ • Be the first to secure future technology through the identification of Dec. : Three overseas and two in Korea • Build a R&D training system and offer course development leadership ◎ expertise) essential patents • Introduction of the R&D degree program and the selection of two ● training • Improve patent training(Build stronger capacity for the R&D department) ◎ • Improve the application grading system(Improve the quality of patents) Dec. beneficiaries • Develop and implement a corporate culture facilitation program for the ◎ • Five TRIZ pilot projects undertaken by the R&D Center ● • Undertake six TRIZ projects Dec. • Five discussion meetings with the CTO ● material technology group 1) IP(Intellectual Property) SPECIAL ISSUE – Elevate the Treatment of Industrial Scholarship Students to the Nation’s Highest Level and Introduce SPECIAL ISSUE – Endeavors to Address the IP Risks of Developed Products the R&D Degree Program We believe that our sustainability as a company is secured only through How to Recruit Outstanding R&D Talent To preemptively handle the risks of global patent disputes that are exthe retainment of exceptional and talented individuals. Our industrial pected to occur due to our preparation to advance from a fast follower Recruiting and • Industry-academia cooperation, advance recruitment, Addressing IP into a global top tier company, we at LS Mtron are undertaking widescholarship program was improved in 2012 to recruit outstanding R&D StratR&D degree program ranging patent activities. In 2012, a total of 18 patent analysis projects fostering talent in advance. A key part of this improvement concerned improved egy • Differentiated culture/strengthened value risks through an were implemented with external research companies and newly distreatment for beneficiaries. While the previous system merely focused outstanding on providing tuition support, the improved system offers financial • Recruit in advance through strengthened industryadvance response closed competitor patents were monitored. This helped us identify the academia cooperation patents that may function as a barrier to our developing products, as well learning support with specified benefit periods. Moreover, the level of Key • Diversify recruitment channels R&D talent such support rose significantly from 50% of the industrial average to Task • Reinforce internal talent development to IP issues as how to design around these patents and secure data to assert their the highest available percentage in Korea. Such improvements led to an • Improve working conditions invalidity, thus preventing possible patent disputes before they occur. In enhanced awareness about us and a strengthened competitive edge in addition, annual patent training is provided, which also helps to elimirecruiting talented individuals. This system also eliminated cost-related nate patent dispute risks concerning our developing products and allow Government-led R&D patent strategic project briefing risks caused by the unlimited financial support required for prolonged us to design around them. The first-ever patent training was launched in doctoral programs. 2012. This expanded training opportunities for our researchers. In 2013, In addition, our R&D Center launched the R&D degree program under our goal is to introduce the ‘IP-driven technology acquisition project’ led which researchers are sent to universities and other research institutes by the Korean government within a broader spectrum of our business Status of Patent Training to earn their PhD in second half of 2012. Designed to build internal and integrate its outcomes across the board. In so doing, we will be technological capabilities and strengthen industry-academia cooperaable to ensure advance response to ‘barrier patents’, utilize R&D patent tion, this program targets doctoral courses offered by universities and other research institutes that serve as a base for industry-academia technology information and identify core and essential patents. Trainees (completion rate) ( 2011 2012 93 0.9% 237 (43%) (85%) cooperation. This program will help our researchers build stronger capacity while improving employee satisfaction. Global talent recruitment presentation Application for Core Technology Patents To protect our core technology and 36 patents whose remarkable patentability and technological/ Status of Patent Application Interviewer Training business feasibility was proven and managed as key patents, we created 191 patent applications Our interviewer training program was launched for the first time in order to strengthen our ability in 2012. Six applications were also made for ‘essential patents’ that will lead the market within the Category 2010 2011 2012 Status of Training Course Operation in 2012 to recruit the right people. The training consisted of systemic theory courses and mock interview next five to 10 years. In 2013, we will be fully committed to applying for such essential patents. Essential patent 6 practices and enabled us to conduct more organized interviews through the introduction of new Course Name Training Purpose and Details Trainees Core patent 17 31 36 tools that included interview scenarios, questionnaires and assessment forms. Basic DOE1) Statistical data analysis Introduce TRIZ, Creative Problem-solving Methodology Total patent applications 80 170 191 47 course techniques and others TRIZ was fully launched as a way to solve problems creatively, thus enabling us to innovate our Basic TRIZ Learn basic knowledge about Strengthen Overseas Recruitment course TRIZ 82 R&D capabilities. Basic training was provided to researchers in March and 77 of those researchers Our overseas recruitment practices were improved—from the traditional open presentations—to 1) DOE(Design of Experiment) became certified in Level 1. This allowed us to build the basis for improved problem-solving capacmajor-specific seminars. Target universities and majors were studied in advance to prepare the ity, through the identification and application of diverse ideas. Task guidance was offered between overseas recruitment status data, which was then used to recruit talented individuals in a more Expansion of a Corporate Culture through the April and October: five tasks were found, various ideas were explored in accordance with the TRIZ systemized manner. We searched for and selected candidates from target Lab.s, which resulted in GWP Initiative process, and the results with proven applicability were shared. the recruitment of five exceptional R&D employees that we hired in advance through the overseas Category ~ 2012 2013 ~ 2015 recruitment in the U.S.(1st half) and Japan(2nd half) in 2012. Expand Facilitation of C.A. Develop and share vision Strengthen Functionality on the Basis of Reliability communiJob level-specific Project unit-based We are establishing reliability in our business conduct by building a stronger reliability function, as cation discussion communication W/S Flexible Time Program for the R&D Center one of the specialized technological areas, that is required in becoming a global top-tier company. Work/life Flexible Time Review the work-at-home The flexible time program is under operation at our R&D Center to help researchers focus on their balance Refresh leave system The machinery business will be the first target for strengthened reliability and this will further be work and to provide a creative research environment. While mandatory work hours are from 10 profesExpand video Define R&D Center’s role expanded to include the components/materials business. To this end, new business units, as well TRIZ Kick-off sion pride conferencing Facilitate and strengthen a.m. to 4 p.m., employees can use the one and a half hours before and after regular operation Business Trip Culture the compensation as a professional analysis labs equipped with SEM, EDS and other analytical tools, were created. hours flexibly so that they may arrive and depart as they wish and plan their own work schedImprovement TF for project outcomes ules. In 2012, The Flexible Time Program was used by 40 employees. This translates into a 50% Exchange Family photo exhibition Encouragement events utilization rate. 36 37 Employee Value With the belief that each and every employee is the owner at LS Mtron, our top priority is to create a pleasant workplace. Enhancement Global HR Our corporate value is enhanced by the participation and communication that engages everyone.  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Diversify channels to recruit top talent: strengthen overseas recruitment/ ● • Improve the promotion system for office workers Jun. industry-academia alignment, introduce the internship program • Improve HR systems(recruitment, assessment) Dec. • Establish common HR regulations for overseas subsidiaries while ● • Support overseas subsidiaries(LSMB, Brazilian subsidiary) Dec. reflecting country-specific features • Strengthen the fostering of candidates for expatriate positions ◎ • Improve the office worker assessment system for increased fairness ● • Recruit top talent in a timely manner for growth in the business sector ◎ • Establish LS Mtron’s unique technical worker HR system(on-going in 2013) ◐ and R&D • Establish a HR risk management system: six issues completed ● SPECIAL ISSUE – Develop a HR Regulation System for Overseas Subsidiaries To accelerate our development into a global company, the HR infrastrucHR Regulations for Overseas Subsidiaries ture for overseas subsidiaries was recently established. While heads of Improving the respective overseas subsidiaries previously used the HR regulations of Operational Provide common guidelines for all overseas subsidiaries(while taking national the Korean head office for their operation, our own unique HR regulation HR system to system for overseas subsidiaries was developed to take nation-specific direction specificities in to account) become a global features into account, on the common platform of regulations that were Category Regulatory Scope defined by the head office for all overseas subsidiaries. Our overseas company HR regulation system covers all HR-related categories and we did our Recruitment • Determine personnel plans • Specify recruitment approval regulations utmost to reflect specificities resulting from nation-specific legal regula• Develop a goal-based performance managetions and customs in regulations concerning compensation, as well as Evaluation and ment system and make alignments between welfare and benefits. For instance, the HR regulations for our Russian promotion assessment outcomes and compensation subsidiary ensure the consideration for the nation’s legal requirement • Specify promotion approval regulations Mentoring ceremony in 2012 that stipulates that employees should be paid at least twice a month. In • Specify compensation approval regulations Compensation Basis for wage increases and bonus Indonesia, our employees whose children get circumcised can take a payment Declaration 구 Communication Channels Directions leave of absence to celebrate the occasion. Such instances demonstrate • Expenditures for congratulatory and our respect for the diversity of national traditional customs. Our overbereavement occasions, business trip LS Mtron recognizes employees as an important • Engagement and Cooperation Enhancement • Advance the HR system to the level of global Welfare and seas HR regulations took effect at all our subsidiaries in August 2012 benefits expenses, education, vacation, meal stakeholder and a main initiator behind the creation of Council companies and will be subject to constant revisions in the upcoming years. expenses, communication charges corporate value. We respect the human rights of each • Labor-management working-level consulta• Develop a corporate competitive edge through individual employee and assist them in building capacity, tions and meetings/Labor-management the sustained efforts to build stronger while creating a corporate culture that encourages discussions employee capacity participation and dialogue. • Grievance Resolution Committee • Strengthen trust-based relationships between • Employee communication meetings labor and management as well as respect for • Organizational capacity surveys the human rights of employees • Cyber Ombudsman • Create a culture of trust and communication Diversify channels to recruit top talent • Sustainability management expectation • Operate a safe, healthy and eco-friendly Diversified recruitment channels help us hire the best and brightest in advance, through the expansurveys workplace sion of the industrial scholarship program and the introduction of the internship program. The number of beneficiaries in these two programs will gradually increase to retain outstanding human  Employee Expectations Identified in 2012  Key Performance Indicators (KPI) resources. In addition, free notes that outline our corporate overview and welfare and benefits programs were distributed to ten domestic universities to improve awareness about us. (n: 730 employees, changes in ranking from the previous year) Category KPI Team in Charge Operate a counseling office to address employee grievances HR Development 1 Fairness of the HR system1) 14.7% ▲2 Improve the Office Worker Evaluation System for Increased Fairness * Human rights Resolving grievances 6.3.6 2 2 Expand sys. to promote work/life balance2) 12.8% ▼1 Establish a job category-specific capacity training system 4 HR Development Our SPCM(Strategic Performance & Competency Management) system aims to evaluate the per* Labour practices Human development & training in the formance of the entire staff and assist them with capacity building. In 2012, the employee evalua3 Expand welfare and benefits programs 12.2% ▲1 Comply with workplace 6.4.7 global standards tion system was revised to improve on organizational operation issues that resulted from perform4 Expand job training 9.5% ▼2 (ISO 26000) Operate in-house childcare facilities for children of employees HR Development * Labour practices Conditions of work and social protection Team / Business ance assessments, while maintaining the performance-driven HR policy to increase the fairness Expand global capacity training 9.3% 2, 3 Support of our HR system. To ensure that organization-level, short-term performance does not affect an Expand key talent training 8.8% Zero-injury, zero-accident rate(occupational injury rate) Green individual employee’s long-term HR career, individual performance indicators were given in equal * Labour practices Health and safety at work Management Promote health/safety 8.7% ▲1 ratios to those of division-level performance in performance evaluations. Company-wide evaluaIntroduce an intensive leave program for recharging and HR Development Create staketion audits were also strengthened to prevent any performance-related distortions. Improve leadership of team leaders 8.6% ▼1 increase the utilization rate 2 holder values Organizational adjustment of new recruits 6.5% Support for overseas subsidiaries in building HR systems 1 Developing the HR Risk Management System Sustainability management surveys Business Others 8.9% Our HR risk management system was designed(with the minimum-possible cost) to protect our Management & Communicate Planning 1) Recruitment talent, assessment and compensation assets and business execution capabilities from the broader negative impacts caused by business 2) Family-friendly management Employee communication meetings HR Development operations. A total of six cases were identified as major HR risks and case-specific scenarios were Key performance indicators were set in consideration of stakeholder expectations and developed. The number of such risk cases to be handled will increase even further. LS Mtron’s business impact 38 39 Build Stronger Employee Capacity Deliver a Pleasant Workplace  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Fostering coach-type leaders through team leader leadership/candidate ● • Strengthen a caring program for new recruits Jun. • Introduction of the intensive leave program to help employees recharge ● • Support for employee childcare ◎ nurturing programs • Establish a job category-specific common training system and develop/ Sep. • Operation of the site-based counseling office to handle employee ◎ • Establish the intensive leave program to help employees recharge ◎ • Revision of talent-fostering regulations and detailed rules in consideration ● operate courses grievances: 228 employees of employee capacity building and requirements • Strengthen the leadership capacity of executives and team leaders ◎ • Celebration of LS Mtron Happy Family Day ● • Development of the training roadmap based on job category/job-specific ● capacity mapping SPECIAL ISSUE – Introduction of the Intensive Leave Program SPECIAL ISSUE – Fostering Coach-type Leaders The introduction of the intensive leave program ensures that our employees enjoy a higher level of satisfaction, with increased job efficiency, through the right work/life balance. The program encourages employees to take leave for at least three to five Leadership courses for team leaders The 2011 organizational capacPursuit of work/ days every six months(with their paid annual holidays combined). Executives and division heads used the program actively ity survey demonstrated that the leadership capacity for team leaders Fostering coachwas relatively low, compared to that of the CEO and executives. Our life balance to make it more available for other employees. When the program was first launched back in 2012, about 75% of the eligible solution was to provide two rounds of two-day leadership courses to employees took intensive leave and our goal for 2013 is to increase this figure to 100%. We are committed to developing the type leaders to every team leader at LS Mtron to help them improve their performance program as part of our unique corporate culture that strives for a pleasant workplace through the development of the job back-up system and the launching of various promotional activities. establish global management capacities and strengthen their staff interview/coaching skills. The 2012 organizational capacity survey(conducted after the leadership training) showed a four-point increase in the category of ‘leadership capacity of team leaders’. This demonstrated the substantial improveWelfare and Benefit Schemes ment in the performance management and team member management To help our employees promote the right work/life balance and respect their right to diverse soSummary of Welfare and Benefits Programs team leaders. cial engagements, as well as economic, social and cultural rights, we provide a wide-spectrum of Leadership training for team leaders Type Details welfare and benefit schemes. These include pension funds, expenditures for congratulatory and Team leader candidate-fostering program Our team leader candidate-fostering program was reinforced to respond to the Medical/health Comprehensive check-ups, medical expense bereavement purposes, tuition support, awards/mementos for long-term tenured employees, growing importance of the leadership capacity of team leaders in maximizing organizational performance. A key talent pool support, group term insurance, fitness center, that consists of team leader candidates was created and final candidates were chosen based on the succession plan, who were housing loan support, meal expense support, medical check-ups, medical expense support for counseling office then trained in people/performance/organization management for three months. employees and their families, resort facilities, and bonus payments for those who work on national Education Tuition support for the children of employees holidays. (junior high and high school, university), financial support for internal/external training Opening  1st month  2nd month  3rd month  Closing ● Long-term Prize money, holiday and vacation gift certificates Diagnosis & seminar People management Performance management Organization management Diagnosis & guidance Handling of Employee Grievances and the Gathering of Feedback employment/ for long-tenured employees, congratulatory and Advance diagnosis of Motivation Goal setting Goal setting Post capacity diagnosis congratulatory condolence support Grievance handling procedures are posted on our internal online bulletin board so that all emand condolence capacity Empowerment Operation management Team building ployees can easily understand and use them in addressing any grievances they may be facing. Our support Housing fund support, dormitory facility support Jeonju and Jeongeup sites operate a counseling office, which handled 228 employee grievances in Housing (Jeonju/Jeongeup /Indong) New Entry Training 2012. In addition, annual organizational capacity surveys and employee satisfaction surveys are Accommodation facility support, picnics, informal conducted of office workers and researchers. Survey results are then feedback to the respective diLeisure support, training center Our new entry training assists new recruits in developing ownership and a spirit of challenge and Jump Program adjusting to their new career life. Those who join us directly after graduation take one-year Jump visions to help enhance organizational capacity and activity while various improvements are made Welfare cards, bus rides for commuters and Others hometown visits on national holidays, meal Program courses(Group introduction, LS Mtron introduction, mentoring, overseas training, Work Group introLS Mtron to increase the satisfaction for those survey items that received low ratings. expense support, safety equipment Mentoing Smart, QA, and vision development courses) and those who join us with previous work experience duction introduction (Three months) (Two weeks) (One week) take the Group introduction, LS Mtron introduction, and mentoring program. These courses help LS Mtron Happy Family Day g new hires adapt to our corporate culture as quickly as possible and acquire job knowledge. This To celebrate the Korean month of family in May, a ‘painting Paintin on titi compe h training system helps strengthen job capacity through career and technical management. competition for LS Mtron employee children’ was held at it filled w iles Vision develWork Smart/ Overseas sm the Gwacheon National Science Museum to encourage our bright opment QA training training Job Capacity Reinforcement Training (Two days) (One week) (One week) employees to build stronger relationships with their family LS Mtron has been offering common courses for sales representatives annually since 2011. In members. Held under the theme of ‘family and our company, 2012, all our sales staff took more than two courses per person out of the nine courses available: LS Mtron’, the competition was attended by 300 children accounting principles, cost analysis, bond management, basic legal knowledge(fair trade law), to demonstrate their remarkable painting skills and enjoy practice of trade, information collection and analysis, improvement of customer satisfaction mindvarious programs such as, hand-printing, making relieves set, sales presentation and improvement of customer relationship skills. Our goal for 2013 is to on copper plates and other recreational activities. The comdevelop training systems and provide courses for other job categories. petition served as an invaluable opportunity in enabling the participants to recognize the fact that close family ties are the Key Talent Training cornerstone of corporate growth. Award-winning paintings Our mid/long-term and global training aim to nurture key talents into next-generation leaders. were used to make the 2013 calendar. LS Mtron will take the In 2012, six mid/long-term training courses(covering MBAs, evening graduate courses, advanlead in creating a great workplace through such events that ced marketing strategy courses and global training courses in intensive English/Chinese) promote communication. were offered. LS MBA 40 41 Employee Engagement and Dialogue Employee Health and Safety  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans  2012 Achievements and 2013 Plans ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity ●: Completed, ◐: Partially completed, ○: Not completed, ◎: Continuous Activity 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline 2012 Major Achievements Evaluation 2013 Major Plans Deadline • Support for Chinese subsidiaries in developing labor management ● • Operate communication channels for employees ◎ • Investigation of and improvement on musculoskeletal risk factors ● • Operate anti-smoking programs and an anti-smoking fund Feb. policies and information sharing • Operate programs to facilitate the organization ◎ • Identification of and improvement of risky sites to build a stronger fire ● • Improve the operation of environmental safety risk assessment Apr. • Operation of various systems to comply w/ regulations on human ◎ prevention capacity • Foster fire prevention experts Dec. rights protection and labor issues • Regular preventive diagnosis of electrical fires ● • Meeting w/ the CEO: 9 meetings, Dialogue w/ division heads: 52 occasions ◎ SPECIAL ISSUE – Build Stronger Fire Prevention Capacity SPECIAL ISSUE – Assistance for Chinese Subsidiaries in Improving Labor Relations Our electrical safety manuals for respective business sites were developed through the electrical fire prevention taskforce Recently, labor conditions in China have radically changed. Greater attention is being put on closing the increasing income team, while the R&R regarding fire prevention were revised and regular internal audits are performed. The development of gap, shifting the economic system to a domestic demand-driven one, fulfilling corporate social responsibility and protecting Endeavors for tools to classify and diagnose the major causes of electrical fires helped us make company-wide inspections and suppleEstablishing employee rights. These all lead to the growing importance of stable labor relations. LS Mtron provided training and workshops ment relevant systems. To reduce the damage caused by sandwich panels(which are a main culprit for the spread of fire), on numerous occasions for all expatriate workers and HR managers in charge of recruiting local employees in China. We did an injury-free, value-driven this in order to build value-driven labor relations through engagement and dialogue with local Chinese employees on the basis sandwich panels were replaced with flame-retardant ones. Moreover, an environment conducive to fire prevention is being accident-free created through the development of various guidelines for fire prevention and the implementation of training courses. Work labor relations of global standards that require our compliance with human rights protection and legal regulations. Various systems were guidelines were set to handle fires caused by fire sparks, the advance approval system was created for the use of electrical created to increase employee value and their success stories at the Korean head office were introduced, along with the sharing workplace heating devices and standards were developed for the installation and purchase of multi-sockets. Furthermore, the fire safety based on of major details regarding Chinese labor regulations. The systems that could be localized were immediately launched and are qualification system was newly launched to ensure that fire prevention management becomes ingrained into our daily operacurrently under operation in China. Such training courses and workshops will be held regularly and communication channels tions, through the acquisition of professional knowledge and voluntary employee participation. global standards will be supplemented and improved so that we can continue to explore ways to expand dialogue with our employees. Protecting Employee Human Rights Safer Workplace and Support for Suppliers We work in various ways to protect the dignity of all our staff and improve their human rights. We We provide danger prediction training constantly to prevent injuries. In 2012, 211 injury risk facfully comply with labor regulations(as well as the Labor Standards Act and ILO regulations) includtors were discovered and improved. Labor-management joint inspections are conducted(more ing the prohibition of child labor and forced labor, which are stipulated in our rules of employment. than once every quarter) to check work conditions and the compliance with health and safety We also guarantee the three labor rights(the right to organize, the right of collective bargaining and regulations on the shop floor. Private-public joint firefighting training and education ensure that we the right of collective action) that are stipulated in the Korean Constitution to promote free labor deliver a safer workplace. As part of our mutually-beneficial cooperation initiatives, we signed the union activities. HR departments at each site are responsible for the constant monitoring for any health and safety mutual cooperation program with 50 suppliers and undertook regular improveviolations of employee human rights. Systems are up and running to report and handle such violament directives to prevent injuries. In 2013, we will assist major suppliers in building a stronger tions through the Cyber Ombudsman program, grievance handling offices and counseling offices. fire safety capacity and creating an injury-free, accident-free workplace. Fire extinguishing training We provide childbirth and childcare leave to protect the maternal right of our female staff to be with their children, in addition to wide-ranging welfare and benefit schemes for non-regular workers, so Detailed Management of Employee Health and Risk Factors as to deliver a discrimination-free workplace. In response to the growing occurrence of work-related musculoskeletal diseases, musculoskeletal risk factors were investigated through ergonomic assessments of the work environment where Establish a Corporate Culture of Communication employees perform simple repetitive work or bear excessive workloads. The outcomes were used Diverse communication channels are up and running to establish a culture of communication that to identify processes that require improvement and our improvement activities will continue in enables employees to accurately recognize corporate visions and goals and to present their ideas the upcoming years. Furthermore, major cancers were included in the annual medical check-up freely to top management. Meetings with the CEO provide a venue of free communication between screening to increase employee satisfaction with medical check-up services. the company CEO and the staff, while quarterly discussion meetings held under the supervision of division heads, help share the vision and philosophy of the top management, while gathering Improve the Environmental Safety Risk Assessment Health and Safety mutual cooperation program agreement grievances and proposals raised by employees and followed with prompt feedback. The environmental safety risk assessment system allows us to identify and eliminate potential risks and establish voluntary safety practices. Improvements will be made to ensure the organic impleBuild Value-driven Labor Relations mentation of risk factor improvement measures. Meanwhile, the publication of an environmental We ensure free labor union activities and comply with international standards(related regulations safety white paper as well as rewards awarded in accordance with environmental safety assessand ILO regulations). We had 628 unionized members(41.8% of the total employees) as of the end ment results will encourage employees to take the initiative in safety management. of December 2012, and these members have the right to vote. Our top management and labor union leaders share the status on business operations and business strategic directions through Anti-smoking Program and Fund annual collective wage bargaining and the Engagement and Cooperation Enhancement Council. Our anti-smoking program aims to improve employee health and create a pleasant work environThey also ensure that they are mutually cooperative to improve work conditions and their ecoment. To further encourage employees to participate in such anti-smoking initiatives, the antinomic and social status. At each site, labor-management discussions and working-level meetings smoking fund was created to increase the success rate of quitting smoking. Once the initiative is Operation of the anti-smoking program are held to discuss and address pending issues that cover work conditions. Furthermore, monthly, completed, the remaining fund will be donated to volunteer organizations. department-level, labor-management trust council meetings are held to handle employee grievDialogue with division heads ances and consistently improve the work environment. 42 43 Corporate Governance Ethics Management Since the launching of the LS Group as a holding company, LS Mtron has continued to establish At LS Mtron, we believe that integrity is an essential factor that lays the ground for us to generate corporate governance that is led by professional executives and the board of directors. This ensures performance. To comply with the principle of fair operating practices proposed by ISO 26000 for the the independence and transparency of corporate governance. Presently, LS Mtron remains upcoming 2nd-term of sustainability management, relevant systems are under operation and constant a non-listed company. endeavors are being made to reinforce our communication with our stakeholders. Board of Directors(BOD) • Authority and Responsibility of the Auditor Communication with Stakeholders Ethics Management Systems In accordance with the corporate articles of association, there is Our board of directors(BOD) consists of three inside directors and • Continued Promotional Activities • Cyber Ombudsman System one auditorat LS Mtron. The auditor is responsible for performing one auditor. The BOD is the highest decision-making body in the Case studies and messages related to ethics management are The Cyber Ombudsman and the Ethics Counseling Office are under audits on accounting and business practices to ensure the transcompany and directors should fulfill their duty of care and loyalty as shared through the internal ethics management bulletin board to operation on our corporate website. Furthermore, informant proparency and legality of business conduct. To this end, the auditor managers in good faith, in conformity with commercial laws. Direchelp employees voluntarily raise ethics awareness and encourage tection programs are provided to ensure that stakeholders(such as may request the directors to brief them on business operations and tors are compensated in accordance with relevant compensation stakeholder participation. employees, customers and suppliers) feel free to report any issues investigate the company’s operations and asset status, whenever regulations within the limit approved at the general shareholder that they may have. Such programs include confidentiality, identity the need arises. meeting. In addition to financial performance, the BOD assessprotection and exemptions. Ethics Management Promotional Activities between 2010 and 2012 ment includes social and environmental performance. Category Internal postings External official documents Shareholder Issues Submitted and Handled through the Cyber Ombudsman Composition of the BOD(As of March 1, 2013) Number of cases 21 6 As of the end of 2012, LS Mtron’s issued shares stood at 9,000,000 Category 2010 2011 2012 Name Title Position Gender Experiences Duty in number and they are wholly owned by LS Corporation. Number of Issues 13 15 5 Cha-Yol CEO Chairman Male • Business management CEO • Standards Training for Employees Koo (chairman of major at Korea University the board) • Former director at LG Since the company-wide training was provided to improve our International Corporation Composition of the Shareholders(As of December 31, 2012) ethics management capabilities, regular and year-round training is • Clean Company System • Former vice president at offered and new recruits(with or without previous work experience) In order to establish a corporate culture of integrity, the Clean ComLG Investment & Securities Type of Number of Value Stockholding Shareholder are obligated to take introductory courses in ethical standards. pany system encourages employees to voluntarily report any bribes Jae-Seol CEO President Male • Mechanical engineering CEO Stock Stocks (KRW million) Ratio Shim major at Hanyang University that were accepted. This also promotes the voluntary reporting of LS Corporation Common stock 9,000,000 45,000 100% • Former vice president at • Assessment of Ethics Management any bribe-taking that occurred inevitably. LS Cable & System As LS Mtron is not a listed company, we are not subject to cumulative, paper or electronic At LS Mtron, ethics management assessments are made annually Sung-Wook Director CFO Male • Accounting major at CFO voting, nor are we subject to attend the events for the rights of minority shareholders. through our suppliers. Specifically, significance and satisfaction Yoon Chonbuk National University Bribe-taking Cases Submitted and Handled • Former head of the finance assessments were performed regarding the sustainability manageteam at LS Mtron ment of our suppliers since 2011. In 2012, our overseas subsidiarCategory 2010 2011 2012 Soo-Hong Auditor Male • Electrical engineering Auditor Management and Responsibility for ies in China were equally subject to ethics management assessNumber of Issues 3 2 1 Lee major at Seoul National Sustainability Management ments, in order to expand the scope of ethics management. University • Former professor at Hoseo University At LS Mtron, the Sustainability Management Steering Group super• Ethics Pledge Ethics Management Assessment Outcomes between 2010 and 2012 vised by the CSO(Chief Strategy Planning Officer) has been serving (On a scale from one to five) All our employees are obligated to sign the ethics pledge. In addias the top decision-making body since 2010. The group is also retion, special conditions that specify the implementation of ethical Major BOD Activities Category 2010 2011 2012 sponsible for managing sustainability management principles and practices were included, along with the general conditions in all Head Office 4.28 4.39 4.56 Date Agenda Decision Attendance operational regulations. the transactions and contracts made with suppliers. This helps us Overseas Subsidiary 4.43 Approval of the 4th-term financial statement/ institutionalize ethical standards in our business conduct. Feb. 1, 2012 Approved 100% business report and two others * Calculation: Average of ethics awareness improvement, satisfaction with ethics management, employee ethics awareness, fairness in business transactions, occurrence Approval of the establishment of the Brazilian Approved 100% Communication with the Top Management of bribe-taking and the reception of unjustified gifts or entertainment Feb. 13, 2012 tractor production subsidiary Revision of the HR management regulations for The monthly Meeting with the CEO is held regularly to ensure Mar. 16, 2012 executives and two others Approved 100% that the management directions and the messages of the CEO Compliance with Fair Trade Principles Approval of the purchase of the Indong plant for are delivered directly to the employees and that they have the opApr. 10, 2012 the automotive component business Approved 100% portunity to freely present their opinions to the CEO. The quarterly To advance and monitor ethics management appropriately, we unParticipation in the paid-in capital increase CEO MBWA(management by wandering around) aims to allow the dertake programs to comply with laws regarding monopoly regulaJun. 11, 2012 Approved 100% at Casco Co., Ltd. and one more voices on the shop floor to be heard and ensure instant and rapid tion and fair trade, as well as unfair competition. In 2012, our sales Jul. 18, 2012 Approval of the mid-term strategy for 2012 and Approved 100% decision-making. Furthermore, quarterly discussions with division employees were trained to share and prevent unfair subcontract two others practices and price-fixing. In addition, all the latest policies that are heads are held under the supervision of respective division heads, Sep. 12, 2012 Report of the third-quarter business results Approved 100% to enable them to share employee ideas and grievances. introduced by the Fair Trade Commission are constantly monitored (forecast) in 2012 and shared. Dec. 11, 2012 Approval of the business plans for 2013 and five Approved 100% others ※ There were no changes that occurred in relation to LS Mtron’s type of business or major business areas during the reporting period. For other issues regarding business ※ For the full version of the LS Mtron ethical standards, please visit the following URL. operations, please refer to our business report 2012. (http://dart.fss.or.kr) : http://ethics.lsmtron.co.kr/rule/law.asp 44 45 Introduction to LS Mtron’s Chinese Subsidiaries At LS Mtron, we consider China as a strategic partner in being able to ‘strengthen global competitive Innovation Initiatives Our Chinese subsidiaries developed basic-level innovation capacities and laid the basis to generedge’ which constitutes our management principle for 2013. Since our first entry into the market in Innovation Capacity Training ate substantial outcomes. With the assistance from the Innovation Team at the head office, basic 2004, production/sales subsidiaries were established and are currently under operation in four business innovation training for new recruits, quality circle leader training, KL training, and ‘Immediate PracCategory Name of Training Course Completion areas. In 2012, sustainability management initiatives at these overseas subsidiaries were undertaken tice’ training for team leaders was provided at respective subsidiaries. Such endeavors enabled LSMW Quality circle leader training 12 rounds the production team at LSMW receive the Presidential Silver Medal at the National Quality Circle LSEQ KL training 7 rounds through the function-specific support offered by the Sustainability Management Steering Group at the ‘Immediate Practice’ training for Competition held in Korea. Meanwhile, LSEQ participated in the Mtron 6 Festival, held at the head LSMQ 3 rounds head office in Korea. Our Chinese subsidiaries, however, will establish and operate their own sustainoffice in Korea, to share their success stories of innovation. team leaders Common Basic innovation course for new recruits 2 rounds ability management systems in the upcoming years. LSMQ Improve Quality and Build Stronger Customer Satisfaction Capacity (LS Machinery Qingdao Co.,Ltd.) All the sites run by our Chinese subsidiaries are building their quality management evaluation • 2010 Completion of the plant schemes and boosting their year-round improvement and optimization activities. Furthermore, • 2012 Development of the K-model LSMQ, LSEQ various capacity-building activities were undertaken for improved customer satisfaction. LSMW (55hs economical model) (Qingdao) • 2012 Establishment of the office for the focused on the IQC/OQC area(together with the Quality Management Team at the Korean head northeastern region office) to strengthen its detection capability while undertaking measures for increased product • 2013 Entry into the U.S. market YTLS (Yantai) quality. At LSEQ, issues that resulted from the transfer of mass production were identified and improved. Furthermore, LSEQ sites were audited by their client(Samsung Electronics) and became a LSMW certified supplier. These sales employees also visited their major customers for direct observation (LS Machinery Wuxi Co., Ltd.) • 2005 Completion of the plant and practice. LSMQ strengthened the phone call system at the call center and hired more opera• 2010 Development of the ultra super large tors to shorten customer wait time. Furthermore, ‘360° Heart Service’ training was launched to 3,200ton size ensure more efficient customer services. • 2012 Expansion of the component warehouse and the painting line Attendance at the 19th Yangling Agricultural Machinery Exhibition • 2012 Completion of the product line-up Create a Safe and Pleasant Workplace of five electrical models To create a safe workplace that meets global standards, annual fire prevention and production LSEQ safety training is provided at our Chinese subsidiaries. While fire prevention training was previ(LS Electronic-Devices Qingdao Co., Ltd.) ously offered to some of the local employees in conjunction with the Green Management Team at • 2006 Completion of the plant the head office, all local employees were trained in 2012. The training program included directives • 2012 150 million RMB in sales • 2013 Expansion of the 2nd plant to be taken in the hypothetical scenario of onsite fires. These included the method for distributing • 2013 300 million RMB in sales(forecast) the warning, evacuation, and early-stage extinguishing activities using internal firefighting equipment. Furthermore, the training was videotaped and analyzed to review both the fire-extinguishing activities and the rescue system. New recruits were educated on production safety and regular safety inspections were made of the production facilities and dormitories to be prepared against YTLS fires. Our Chinese subsidiaries will be fully committed to building proactive capabilities to prevent (YanTai Leading Solution Auto Parts Co., Ltd.) • 2005 Completion of the plant fires, safety accidents and other unexpected emergencies. • 2007 Approval granted as a Mazda supplier and the J61 contract awarded Mock firefighting training LSMW Chinese Develop Advanced HR Systems • 2007 SGM S308 contract awarded • 2008 Capital increase/change in equity ownership (Wuxi) Headquarters Our Chinese subsidiaries believe that top-notch HR systems are the driving force behind the sus(50:50 between LS Mtron and Yantai Asia Victory Automation Co., Ltd.) (Shanghai branch) tained improvement of business outcomes in China and are working proactively to establish such • 2012 FCC D009 new vehicle contract awarded • Established in 2010 systems. We responded actively to the HR and labor regulations that were revised or modified in • Support business operations in China 2012 and HR workshops were held twice at our Shanghai office to improve the HR and promotion systems at Chinese subsidiaries. LSMQ became the first Chinese company to introduce the Category LSMQ LSMW LSEQ YTLS HR system. In addition, HR consulting projects were undertaken through the assistance of the Chinese Business Support Team while a HR management system was developed that reflects both Location Qingdao, Shandong Province Wuxi, Jiangsu Province Qingdao, Shandong Province Yantai, Shangdong Province Korean corporate culture and Chinese local conditions. This system was shared at the LS Mtron Year of Establishment 2007▲ 2004 2006▲ 2005 HR seminar held in China. Type of Business Production/sales Production/sales Production Production/sales (joint venture) Capital(KRW million) $267 million구 $215 million 구 $65 million RMB 22.5 million Deliver a Happy Workplace HR workshop held in China Equity Ownership 100% 100% 100% 50% At our Chinese subsidiaries, diverse programs are under consistent operation to promote a more Product Tractor Injection molding Connector, antenna Automobile hose harmonious workplace. This, in turn will secure future growth engines and a strengthened competSite Area(m2) 구 82,927m2 구 70,661m2 구 13,780m2 18,000m2 itive edge. Included in such endeavors undertaken in 2012 are: mountain climbing, spending recreational time at an amusement park . These activities encouraged employees to develop a sense ISO 9001: 2009 ISO 9001: 2008 ISO/TS 16949: 2006 Certification ISO 9001: 2010 of loyalty to the company and boosted the morale among employees. LSMW provided medical ISO 14001: 2010 ISO 14001: 2008 ISO 14001: 2011 check-up services to both the employees and their children and LSMQ offered entertainment and Total Employees(male/female) 153/31 209/53 ▲ 52/339 38/4 sports activities through the installation of various sports facilities, including ping-pong tables, a New Recruits in 2012(male/female) 44/5 41/10 ▲ 12/95 12/11 basketball court and the screening of movies free of charge in the auditorium. LSEQ gave bags and Employees in or above school supplies to the children of employees as a gift to mark the beginning of a new semester and 17▲ ▲ 30 ▲ 8 11 managerial positions Gifts offered to the children of employees practiced family-friendly management. at the start of a new semester 46 47 Key Quantitative Indications  Economic Data  Social Data(As of December 31, 2012) (As of December 31, 2012) LS Mtron Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Note Summary Financial Statement Total employees No. of persons 1,669 1,649 1,683 Including non-regular workers and excluding day laborers (Unit: KRW million) Regular/non-regular employees No. of persons 1,497/172 1,514/135 1,547/136 Category 5th-term(As of Dec. 31, 2012) 4th-term(As of Dec. 31, 2011) 3rd-term(As of Dec. 31, 2010) Jeonju No. of persons 706/65 663/79 689/98 Current Assets 472,942 399,186 386,271 Jeongeup No. of persons 180/36 236/11 222/3 Non-current Assets 678,966 603,281 509,915 Anyang No. of persons 238/28 228/35 230/32 Total Assets 1,151,908 1,002,467 892,186 Indong No. of persons 87/17 115/2 127/1 Current Liabilities 345,908 259,883 275,793 R&D No. of persons 89/3 94/1 100/1 Non-current Liabilities 209,802 166,488 139,278 Sales departments No. of persons 110/5 69/5 80/1 Total Liabilities 555,710 426,372 415,071 Head Office No. of persons 87/18 103/2 99/Capital 45,000 45,000 45,000 Employee by age group No. of persons 1,669 1,649 1,683 Paid-in Capital in Excess of Par Value 426,066 425,887 425,894 20’s No. of persons 175 259 258 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income -1,588 -1,551 -2,057 30’s No. of persons 636 647 670 Retained Earnings 126,720 106,758 8,278 40’s No. of persons 451 411 398 Total Capital 596,198 576,095 477,115 50’s No. of persons 382 314 341 Total Liabilities and Capital 1,151,908 1,002,467 892,186 Over 60’s No. of persons 25 18 16 New recruits No. of persons 296 346 263 Male/Female No. of persons 255/41 281/65 214/49 Summary Income Statement Female employees No. of persons/% 74/4.4 97/5.9 99/5.9 (Unit: KRW million) Employees with disabilities No. of persons/% 36/2.2 40/2.4 32/1.9 Category 5th-term(Jan. 1, 2012~Dec.31, 2012) 4th-term(Jan. 1, 2011~Dec. 31, 2011) 3rd-term(Jan. 1, 2010~Dec. 31, 2010) Training expenses KRW 1,000/person 1,439 1,789 1,550 Sales 923,783 888,712 764,855 Training hours by job level No. of hours/person 109 New indicator introduced in 2012 Operating Income 40,466 53,537 41,451 Executives No. of hours/person 127 Half-yearly Income from Continuing Operations 31,468 36,079 29,129 General managers No. of hours/person 76 Income from Discontinued Operations 3,845 63,409 10,996 Deputy general managers No. of hours/person 117 Net Income 35,313 99,488 40,095 Managers No. of hours/person 103 Assistant managers/assistants No. of hours/person 96/139 Employees who took childbirth leave No. of persons 7 4 LS Mtron and its Subsidiaries Employees who took childcare leave / Reinstatement: As of the reinstatement year after childcare leave No. of persons/% 1/3/100 Summary Financial Statement reinstatement (Unit: KRW million) Employees who used counseling No. of persons 315 228 Newly established in 2011(Jeonju, Jeongeup, R&D Center) Category 5th-term(As of Dec. 31, 2012) 4th-term(As of Dec. 31, 2011) 3rd-term(As of Dec. 31, 2010) office services Unionized employees/ratio No. of persons/% 616/36.9 630/38.2 628/41.8 Ratio: Measured against the total employees Current Assets 838,046 749,999 494,380 Dialogue with the top management No. of occasions 24 28 52 Meeting with the CEO, dialogue with division heads Non-current Assets 834,821 729,104 506,292 Participation and Cooperation Total Assets 1,672,867 1,479,103 1,000,672 No. of meetings held 8 8 8 Enhancement Council Current Liabilities 786,539 619,834 364,182 Labor-management working-level consultations No. of occasions 22 20 25 Non-current Liabilities 331,034 312,057 170,545 and meetings(company-wide/Jeonju) Total Liabilities 1,117,573 931,891 534,726 Labor-management discussion meetings No. of meetings held 5 5 10 Equity Ownership of Controlling Shareholders 554,694 547,212 465,946 (Anyang/Jeongeup/Jeonju) Equity Ownership of Non-controlling Shareholders 600 Industrial Health & Safety Committee No. of meetings held 20 16 20 and committee meetings Total Capital 555,294 547,212 465,946 Retired employees/ratio No. of persons/% 78/4.7 63/3.8 92/5.4 Total Liabilities and Capital 1,672,867 1,479,103 1,000,672 Employees working at subsidiaries No. of persons 2,498 1,863 1,953 in Korea and abroad Summary Income Statement Occupational injury ratio % 0.12 0.21 0.13 (Unit: KRW million) Category 5th-term (Jan. 1, 2012~Dec.31, 2012) 4th-term (Jan. 1, 2011~Dec. 31, 2011) 3rd-term (Jan. 1, 2010~Dec. 31, 2010) • Other issues to note The fixed pay rate is applied equally to all employees in the same job level regardless of gender difference. Sales 1,632,170 1,500,727 809,234 Our new recruits are guaranteed the legal minimum wage regardless of their gender difference or location. Operating Income 46,819 57,390 38,835 When unionized members are transferred to other sites or departments or changes occur in business operations, including the relocation of production facilities, Half-yearly Income from Continuing Operations 19,189 20,309 16,775 both the labor union and union members are notified in advance. Income from Discontinued Operations 3,845 62,114 15,159 Net Income 23,034 82,423 31,934 48 49 Extra Data  Environmental Data  Legal Compliance (As of December 31, 2012) Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Note Category 2010 2011 2012 GHG emissions tCO2eq 96,297 99,415 101,915 Recalculated by excluding the Air Conditioning Division Penalties and non-financial sanctions imposed due to the violation of environmental regulations None None None Jeongeup tCO2eq 72,626 73,717 76,828 (whose operations were transferred in 2011) in Legal actions taken due to unfair competition and monopoly practices(price-fixing, etc.) None None None Jeonju tCO2eq 12,511 13,232 11,901 accordance with the Korean government’s GHG Regulatory violations regarding product-related customer safety and health None None None Anyang/Indong/Head Office tCO2eq 11,160 12,466 13,186 verification criteria Violations of product-related information disclosure regulations(labeling, .etc.) None None None GHG emissions by source tCO2eq 96,297 99,415 101,915 Violations of marketing and communication regulations None None None Indirect emissions tCO2eq 89,723 91,904 93,600 GHG intensity was calculated on the basis of Regulatory violations regarding customer’s personal information protection None None None Stationary combustion tCO2eq 5,146 6,181 7,090 emissions measured against sales Violations regarding product supply None None None Mobile combustion and others tCO2eq 1,428 1,330 1,225 Violations regarding the prohibition of discrimination None None None GHG intensity tCO2eq/KRW million 0.16 0.14 0.15 Violations regarding the infringement of the rights of local residents None None None Energy consumption TJ 1,846 1,906 2,076 (including direct/indirect consumption)  Awards Electricity TJ 1,704 1,743 1,894 LNG TJ 99 120 137 Others TJ 43 43 45 Date Name of the Awards Host Organization Details ESH expenditures and investments KRW million 761 789 1,007 March GM Supplier of the Year Awards GM Chosen as an excellent supplier(Automotive Component Division) Environment KRW million 239 522 590 Excellence Award(Injection molding production team, CR production team, June Quality Circle Competition in the North Jeolla Province North Jeolla Province Climate change KRW million 163 77 197 LSMW production team) Health and safety KRW million 359 190 220 June Green Company Council Best Practice Presentation Green Company Council Environment Minister Award(Jeonju site) Primary raw materials – Copper Ton 13,893 14,676 9,901 October Korea’s 100 Great Workplace Awards GWP KOREA Grand Prize in the manufacturing sector Primary raw materials – Carbon and rubber Ton 931 1,436 1,651 November Sustainability Management Awards Ministry of Knowledge and Economy KSA President Award(Korean Standards Association) Primary raw materials – Synthetic resin Ton 101 94 121 One Presidential Silver Medal, two Bronze Medals(LSMW production November National Quality Circle Competition Korean Standards Association team, injection molding production team, CF production team) Water is sourced from the Han River, the Mangyeong River Water consumption Ton 598,772 589,469 728,484 Joint Rechargeable Battery Workshop Knowledge and Economy Minister Award and the Nakdong River November Korea Battery Industry Association (knowledge economy technology innovation project) Kyung-Nyung Woo(Senior Vice President) Industrial water Ton 522,943 507,540 639,332 December One Heart Volunteer Conference in Wanju Wanju-gun Office Chosen as a top-performing organization in the volunteer activity segment Residential water Ton 55,643 65,246 81,613 Underground water Ton 20,186 16,683 7,539 Emission of air pollutants – Dust kg 4,790 12,106 11,544 Discharge of water pollutants – COD kg 7,378 8,131 15,315  Government Subsidy Discharge of water pollutants – SS kg 4,271 4,904 7,326 In 2012, net government subsidies amounted to KRW 2.21 billion and technology expense redemptions amounted to KRW 350 million. Discharge of wastewater Ton 330,925 334,618 506,306 Recalculated due to the modification of calculation Water recycling/recycling ratio Ton/% 485,082/58 457,045/56 418,605/43 criteria at the Jeoneup site  Membership Waste generation – General waste Ton 4,225 3,958 4,542 Waste generation – Designated waste Ton 344 352 266 Waste recycling ratio % 83 81 84 Economy Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea West Area Defense Industry Security Association, Reduced due to the transfer of the Air Conditioning Wanju Industrial Complex Promotion Association, Ministry of Knowledge Economy Association Korea Agricultural Machinery Industry Ozone depletion substances – HCFC kg 12,760 3,000 3,000 Division operations in 2011 Cooperative, Korea Management Association, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Printed Circuit Association, Korea Intellectual Property Association, Korean Standards Association, Korea Synthetic Resin Processing Machinery Industry Cooperative • Other issues to note Society Korea Industry Safety Association, Reserve Forces Commanders Association, Wanju Industrial Complex Safety Supervisor Association Fair All out-sites, both in Korea and abroad, are not located in areas that were designated as water protection areas, special management areas or biodiversity preservation areas. Competition Federation, Korea Fire Safety Association In 2012, there was no significant leakage of hazardous substances and we fully comply with the Basel Convention on the ‘Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal’. Environment Wanju Industrial Complex Fire Safety Supervisor Association, Wanju Industrial Complex Environment AssociationGreen Company Council, Korea Environmental Engineers Association Sustainability United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) Management 50 51 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ●: Fully Reported, ◐: Partially Reported, ○: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable ●: Fully Reported, ◐: Partially Reported, ○: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable Application Application GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Page note: ISO 26000 GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Page note: ISO 26000 level level Profile ECONOMIC Disclosure on Management Approach Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 1.1 ● 4~5 EC1 ● 7 6.8 / 6.8.3 / 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 and Analysis organization and its strategy 6.2 Performance donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 4~5,9~11 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ● 31 6.5.5 Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization ● 6 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ◐ 41 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 6,inside booklet EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● 51 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ● 49 6.4.4 / 6.8 2.3 ● 6, 59 6.2 and joint ventures EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 7 6.6.6 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations EC7 ● 46 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major inside booklet of significant operation 2.5 ● operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 46~47,59 Indirect Economic 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.3 / 6.8.4 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 44 Effect EC8 ● 26~29 / 6.8.5 / 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / commercial, in-kind, or probono engagement 2.7 Markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● inside booklet 6.8.9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 6~7, 48 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.6.7 / 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● 6, 44 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts ● 18~21 6.7.8 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 51 6.8.6 / 6.8.7/ 6.8.9 Report 3.1 Reporting period ● 3 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ● 3 ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 / 6.5 3.3 Reporting cycle ● 3 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● 3 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 50 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 3, 12~14 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 50 3.6 Boundary of the report ● 3 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 50 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● 3 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 50 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and / or between organizations ● 3 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 31 6.5 / 6.5.4 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations ● 6~7 EN6 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 31~33 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy 3.10 ● 50 EN7 ◐ 31 for such re-statement requirements as a result of these initiatives 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods ● 44 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 50 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 52~55 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● 50 7.5.3 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 50 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 56~57 Governance, Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for Bio Diversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 4.1 ● 44 EN11 N/A Commitments, and specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight value outside protected areas Engagement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 44 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of EN12 N/A For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5 / 6.5.6 4.3 ● 44 that are independent and/or non-executive members EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body ● 44 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives ● 44 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, EN15 N/A 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 44 by level of extinction risk Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 31, 50 4.7 ● 44 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Effluents, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 31, 50 6.5 / 6.5.5 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 31 4.8 ● 58 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ● 50 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 6.2 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 50 4.9 ● 8, 44 economic, environmental, and social performance EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 50 6.5 / 6.5.3 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 50 4.10 ● 8, 44 environmental, and social performance EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 51 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 9, 30 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 ● 50 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 4.12 ● 51, 55 organization subscribes or endorses Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 N/A 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.5.6 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 4.13 ● 51 which the organization Products EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 33 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 / 6.7.5 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 12~14 and Services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ○ 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.7.5 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 12 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with EN28 ● 51 6.5 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 12~13 environmental laws and regulations Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 13, 18, 22, Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s 4.17 ● EN29 ● 32 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 26, 30, 38 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 50 6.5 52 53 ●: Fully Reported, ◐: Partially Reported, ○: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable ●: Fully Reported, ◐: Partially Reported, ○: Not Reported, N/A: Not Applicable Application Application GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Page note: ISO 26000 GRI G3.1 Disclosure Items Page note: ISO 26000 level level LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 / 6.4 / 6.3.10 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 / 6.6 / 6.7 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● 46, 49 Customer Health Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and 22~23, 6.4 / 6.4.3 PR1 ◐ LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 49 and Safety percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures 32~33 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / 6.7 / LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations ● 41 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 Labor/ 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / PR2 ● 51 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 42, 49 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Management 6.4.5 / 6.3.10 Product and Service Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and Relations Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective 6.4 / 6.4.3 / PR3 ◐ 22~25 LA5 ● 49 Labeling services subject to such information requirements 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 / agreements 6.4.4 / 6.4.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that PR4 ● 51 LA6 ● 49 6.4 / 6.4.6 information and labeling, by type of outcomes Health and help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 6.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 / 6.7.6 / Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region ● 49 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 22~25 6.7.8 / 6.7.9 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their 6.4 / 6.4.6 / 6.8 / 6.8.3 / Marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including LA8 ● 41, 43 PR6 ● 25 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.6 / families, or community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.4 / 6.8.8 Communication advertising, promotion, and sponsorship LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 32, 43 6.4 / 6.4.6 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Training LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● 49 6.4 / 6.4.7 PR7 ● 51 6.7.9 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● 51 6.7 / 6.7.7 LA11 ● 40 6.4 / 6.4.7 / 6.8.5 Education assist them in managing career endings Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 39 6.4 / 6.4.7 PR9 ● 51 6.7 / 6.7.6 of products and services Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / LA13 ● 44 • EN27, HR1, HR10, SO1, SO2 : The possible negative impact and direct/indirect relevance with the company is low regarding the issue of concern and performance measurement Equal group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.4 / 6.4.3 processes are not sufficient Opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 49 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 Employment LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 49 6.4 / 6.4.3  GRI Application Level Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 / 6.3 Our '2012 Sustainability Report' contains each of the criteria to qualify for GRI-G3.1 Application level A+ and therefore, we make a self-declaration Investment Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have 6.3 / 6.3.3 / HR1 ○ Level A+ for this report. The entire report contents and reporting process were reviewed by an independent external assurance provider. We did not and undergone human rights screening 6.3.5 / 6.6.6 apply the GRI G3 Sector Supplements to this report as the requirements cover only a small portion of our business activities. Procurement 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.5 / HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ◐ 20 Practices 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 6.3 / 6.3.5 HR3 ● 45 Nonoperations, including the percentage of employees trained 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / UNGC COP Report HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 51 Discrimination 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 Freedom of We joined the UN Global Compact on September 2, 2011 and comply with 10 principles in the four areas of 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 / Association Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. All employees and executives at LS Mtron will take HR5 ● 42 6.3.8 / 6.3.1 / 0 / and Collective significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 the lead in creating a fair and transparent society by complying with the UN Global Compact on the four areas, Bargaining and fulfilling duties and actions required for a corporate citizen. Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR6 ● 42 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / elimination of child labor The Ten Principles LS Mtron policies page Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute HR7 ● 42 6.3.5 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.1/ 0 Compulsory Labor to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Human Rights Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR8 ○ 45 6.3 / 6.3.5 / 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally • Code of Conduct, Chapter 2: Basic Ethics of Employees rights that are relevant to operations proclaimed human rights; and. • Employment Regulation Introduction 38~43 Indigenous Rights 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ● 51 6.3.8 / 6.6.7 Labour Standards Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments ◐ 51 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / 6.3.5 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective • Collective Agreement Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ● 41, 45 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / 6.3.6 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Code of Conduct, Chapter 5: Corporate Responsibilities for Employees Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Employment Regulation Introduction 38~43 Society Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 / 6.6 / 6.8 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / SO1 ○ communities, including entering, operating, and exiting 6.8.7 / 6.6.7 Environment Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ○ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Green Management Policy SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 45 6.6 / 6.6.3 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Clause 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing environmentally friendly products Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Clause 3. Building safe and healthy environment as well as preventing hazards) 30~33 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 45 Clause 4. Win-win green management and corporate social responsibility) Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N/A 6.6 / 6.6.4 / 6.8.3 • Code of Conduct, Chapter 6: Responsibilities for Country and Society Behavior SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country N/A Anti-Corruption Anti-Competitive SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes ● 51 6.6 / 6.6.5 / 6.6.7 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance w/ laws and regulations. ● 51 6.6 / 6.6.7 / 6.8.7 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including • Code of Conduct extortion and bribery. Chapter 3: Fair Competition(with Competitors) Community SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A 6.3.9 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 / Chapter 4. Fair Business Transaction(Subcontractors) 45 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts 26~29, 6.8.7 / 6.6.7 Chapter 6. Responsibilities for Country and Society SO10 ● on local communities 31~32 • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract 54 55 Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development(BISD), led by the Korean Chamber of Commerce & Industry(KCCI), was commissioned by LS Mtron to perform the assurance engagement of the ‘LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2012’(the ‘Report’ hereafter) and presents its conclusions as follows. Purpose Major Assurance Procedures Materiality Recommendations This assurance statement aims to verify if this report contains any BISD did not participate in stakeholder activities and assured this Does LS Mtron include material issues that affect stakeholders in BISD presents the following recommendations in a boundary that significant errors or prejudices and to present the conclusions report through the review of the interviews conducted of LS Mtron the entire spectrum of sustainability management in this Report? does not affect the assurance conclusions. through an independent assurance engagement of the issues and employees, as well as related documents provided by LS Mtron. • LS Mtron used the materiality test process to finalize major performance regarding the sustainability management conducted Major assurance procedures undertaken are as follows: sustainability management issues. • LS Mtron has been sincerely undertaking the process of at LS Mtron. • LS Mtron identified major issues through a separate process establishing targets for major issues and taking concrete steps to • Review the application of LS Mtron’s internal sustainability of gathering opinions on stakeholder expectations(by stakeholder reach them through the Sustainability Management Steering reporting standards group) as part of the materiality test process. Group and subcommittees. BISD believes that this process plays Responsibility and Independence • Review the data contained in the Korean version of the Report as • BISD is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from an essential role in LS Mtron’s actions to undertake various This report outlines the endeavors, achievements and future plans well as the process of gathering such data the materiality test process. sustainability management initiatives and is also related to concerning the sustainability management of LS Mtron in 2012 and • Review the report content, corporate policies and systems related numerous activities described in the Report. Therefore, it is the responsibility related to the preparation of this report lies with to the materiality test and material issues Responsiveness recommended that LS Mtron report how this process is LS Mtron. • Verify environmental/safety data and interview the employees Does LS Mtron appropriately respond to stakeholder issues? continuously being operated and improved for stakeholders so in charge(Head Office) • LS Mtron ensures that major sustainability management issues as to improve its sustainability management system even In conducting the assurance engagement of this report and present• Interview employees in charge of sustainability management that were identified through the materiality test process are further. ing assurance conclusions, BISD has no interest in any business opoperations, report preparation and editing(Head Office) reflected in the key performance indicators in relevant segments • BISD believes that it would be meaningful to develop direct erations of LS Mtron that aim to generate profits other than serving so as to appropriately address the issues that interest communication channels(including stakeholder dialogue) so as as a third-party assurance provider in a bid to maintain its indepenstakeholders. to gather feedback from stakeholders. Specifically, venues to dence and autonomy. Opinions • BISD is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsivedirectly interact with stakeholders that allow their genuine BISD performed the assurance engagement in accordance with the ness in LS Mtron’s response to major sustainability opinions may be heard, in addition to surveys, will be helpful to procedures described in this assurance statement and the Report management issues or of sustainability management perforLS Mtron’s sustainability management. Assurance Standards and Limitations was modified when and if deemed necessary. BISD is not aware of mance that is described in this Report from the perspective • While maintaining the consistency and completeness of sustainBISD performed the assurance engagement in consideration of the any significant errors in this Report as a result of its assurance enof significance. ability management data, LS Mtron would benefit from enhancing three accountability principles of AA1000AS(2008)(inclusivity, mategagement. the alignment of the reported data through an analysis of the riality and responsiveness) as well as the reporting principles promeaning behind such data. Likewise, it is recommended that posed by the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 guidelines. The opinions of BISD produced as a result of its assurance engagethe company integrate the outcomes of such analyses into its ment and in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability stanfuture plans. The scope of the assurance was limited to the performance in dards, are explained below. • LS Mtron needs to secure the validity of the report content 2012, and therefore excludes any data before 2012. In conducting through a balanced perspective. This can be achieved through the assurance engagement, physical inspections were made of the Inclusivity the inclusion of both positive and negative views regarding the Head Office located in Anyang out of LS Mtron’s business sites in Does LS Mtron adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement major issues that affect the company in the Report. While the Korea and abroad and online data was not included in the assurance in order to ensure a responsible and strategic response in advancReport does contain some negative issues, the company needs scope. Furthermore, financial and GHG data that has already been ing sustainability management? to consider whether to include more detailed strategies to verified from another third-party organization was excluded from the • LS Mtron is gathering major concerns and opinions from address such issues that may cause risks in the upcoming years. assurance engagement. customers, employees, suppliers and local communities through • LS Mtron’s sustainability management organization needs to be diverse stakeholder communication channels. reinforced to ensure a more proactive response to shifting • BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were conditions related to sustainability management. omitted from the process of gathering sustainability management issues through LS Mtron’s stakeholder communication channels. April, 2013 Tae-Jin Park _ President 56 57 Sustainability Management Guideline Global Network I. Purpose 7) Integrated Risk Management: SM Executive Office  LS Mtron  Subsidiary The Sustainability Management(SM) Principles and Action Guidelines cover 8) Corporate Governance: Business Management & Planning Team basic principles to ensure systemic implementation of our SM initiatives and 9) Ethics Management: Internal Audit & Consulting Team Korea Korea lay the foundation to provide stakeholders including customers with the best 6. Operation of Sub-committee value as a global leader in the machinery and component business. Head Office 11th Fl. , LS Tower, 127 LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Daesung 31, Sandan-ro, Danwon-gu, Ansan City, Sub-committees were created to boost executive capabilities in each SM II. Integrated SM Management System Focus Area and to encourage proactive participation of each business Gyeonggi Province Tel. +82.31.689.8288 Electric Co., Ltd. Gyeonggi Province Tel. 031.494.1141 1. Establishment of Policy division and they should report progress made and future improvements to Jeonju site 886 Gwahak-ro, Bongdong-eup, Wanju-gun, Casco Co., Ltd. 24, 1-gil, 3-sandan, Buk-myeon, Jeongeup City, 1.1 Integrated SM Framework the SM Steering Group. In order to ensure systemic implementation of sustainability managment, North Jeolla Province Tel. +82.63.279.5114 North Jeolla Province Tel. 063.570.6114 6.1 SM Sub-committee and Supervising Department the Sustainability Management Steering Group, a Board of Directors and top 1) Green Management: Green Management Team Jeongeup site 2. 2-gil, 3 Sandan, Buk-myeon, Jeongeup City, management level body, serves as a top decision-making group and compa2) Eco-friendly Product: Technology Management Team North Jeolla Province Tel. +82.63.530.4114 Overseas ny-wide SM management responsibilities lie with managers in charge within 3) Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity: Corporate Collaboration & the company. Prosperity Team Anyang site, Hi-tech center, 116 LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, 1) SM Steering Group LSMQ(LS Machinary(Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) 4) Social Contribution: Business Support Team sales department Gyeonggi Province Tel. +82.31.8045.0400 This is an enterprise-wide consultative group to deploy SM Yu-Huangling Industrial Area, Xiazhuang, 5) Customer and Quality Management: Quality Management Team initiatives and its main roles are as follows. Indong site 238, 2-ro, 3-gongdan, Gumi City, 6) Eco-friendly Supply Chain: Quality Management Team Chengyang District, Qingdao,China 266109 (1) Discussing directions and strategies to practice SM (2) Identifying company-wide SM issues and discussing ways to III. Stakeholder Dialogue and Fulfillment of Promise North Gyeongsang Province Tel. +82.54.710.5702 Tel. +86.532.8096.5618 improve each SM issue 1. Stakeholder Dialogue R&D Center 124 Gongdan-ro, Gunpo City, Gyeonggi Province LSMB(LS Mtron Brasil) (3) Publishing SM Reports and holding dialogue with Regular and official dialogue opportunities created by building dialogue Tel. +82.31.450.8114 Rua Vereador Klaus Lennertz 2103, Palmital, stakeholders channels with core stakeholders and setting annual dialogue plans are uti(4) Supplementing SM-related policies and systems lized to review SM Focus Areas, determine future implementation directions, Garuva, SC, Brazil, 89248-000 2) Sustainability Management Executive Office add more Focus Areas and modify existing ones and promote participation Tel. +55.47.3422.4563 The SM Executive Office is the supervising body for SM initiatives and in writing SM Reports. its main roles are as follows. LSTA(LS Tractor USA, LLC) 1.1 Identification of Core Stakeholders and Responsibility (1) Setting SM directions, strategies and education plans  Overseas Office PO BOX 70. 6900 Corporation Parkway, to Respond (2) Diagnosing and evaluating company-wide SM activities Battlebord, NC 27809, U.S.A. Stakeholders are identified through analysis of social interest and (3) Supervising the SM Steering Council Shanghai Office 31st floor, Great Wall Building, No. 3000 impact on LS Mtron’s business and the following roles and Tel. +1.252.984.0700 (4) Publishing SM Reports responsibilities to respond to them should be performed. (Chinese Business North Zhongshan Road, Shanghai (200063) (5) Creating and managing SM-related policies LSMW(LS Machinery(Wuxi) Co., Ltd.) 1) Customer: Customer satisfaction, increased customer Support Team) Tel. +86.21.5239.1273(8008) 1.2 stipulation of relevant policy responsibilities(product quality, productliability, customer safety LS Industrial Park, Xin Mei Road, National SM-related operation policies, systems and issue-specific implementation and etc.) and etc. Japanese Office DNI-Mita Bldg 11F, 3-43-16 Shiba, High-tech Industrial Development Zone. policies must be stipulated and actively disseminated to ensure their compa2) Business partners: seeking win-win growth through partnership, Minato-ku, Tokyo (105-0014) Wuxi city, Jiangsu Province, China 214028 ny-wide application and deployment. enhancing fair trade relationship and etc. Tel. +81.3.3457.8331 3) employee: building employee capacity and improving their working Tel. +86.510.8299.3888 1.3 regular review and improvement conditions, protecting their human rights and complying with labor Brazilian Office Avenida Moema 300, Cj 106/107 Moema, Policies set in relation with SM must be reviewed on a quarterly basis and LSEQ(LS Electronic-Devices(Qingdao) Co., Ltd.) regulations and etc. Sao paulo, SP revised if their modification and supplementation is needed. Yu-Huangling Industrial Area, Xiazhuang, 4) Global/Local community: Engaging and developing local Tel. +55.11.5052.1052(7897) 2. SM Materiality Test communities, social philathropic activities and etc. Chengyang District, Qingdao, China 266109 The SM Executive Office, in charge of practical SM matters, performs SM 5) Earth/Ecology: managing and reducing impact of products and Polish Office Legnicka 17/7 Wroclaw Tel. +86.532.8096.2200 materiality tests every year through stakeholder engagement in order to unprocesses on the environment, promoting eco-friendly products Tel. +48.713.709.360 derstand stakeholder interest and business impact, which form the basis for and services, responding to climate change and controlling GHG YTLS(YanTai Leading Solution Auto Parts Co., Ltd.) building SM strategies. emissions and etc. Indonesian Office Menara Palma 8th F #03, JL.H.R Rasuna said, No.79 Changjiang Road, Development Zone 3. Regular diagnosis and monitoring 1.2 Improvement of Stakeholder Dialogue Block x2 Kav6 Kuningan, Jakarta selatan (12950) of YanTai, Shandong Province, China LS Mtron’s in-house SM diagnosis model, which includes all SM-related As for annual plan to hold dialogue with core stakeholders, the first phase is Tel. +62.21.5795.7552 Tel. +86.535.695.5701 global standards, is utilized to conduct regular diagnosis once a year and to gather information on expectations and requirements of stakeholders, the continued monitoring is carried out by the SM Steering Group. second phase to set goals and detailed plans and then stakeholder dialogue is conducted via direct dialogue or surveys, which is followed by the results 4. Company-Wide Education and Consensus Building summarized and incorporated in setting next year’s directions and plans. Company-wide education plans are set and includes every year to promote sustainability management and to build consensus among employees. 2. Expansion of SM Disclosure In addition to publishing the SM Report every year to fulfill promises with 5. SM Reporting Framework stakeholders and provide critical information, more information is to be Team leaders and their working-level employees with those departments in disclosed on the company’s financial and nonfinancial performance on the relation with SM Focus Areas identified through materiality test are obliged corporate website. to report progress made and improvements to be made to the SM Steering Group via business-division level cooperation in order to ensure appropriate IV. Management of Non-Financial Risks Jeonju site Anyang site(Hi-tech center) response to and improvement of SM issues. LS Mtron strives to systemically manage and respond to not just financial risks but Also nonfinancial risks including SEE(Social, Environmental, 5.1 LS Mtron SM Focus Area and Relevant Departments Ethical) risks. Every SM Focus Area is considered as a core risk issue and 1) Integrated SM Management: SM Executive Office company-wide response is ensured through the integrated risk management 2) Economic and Social Value Creation: Win-Win Partnership Team, framework of the SM Steering Group. Quality Management Team, Innovation Team 3) Social Contribution: Business Support Team Apr. 1, 2013 (The fourth edition) 4) Green Management: Green Management Team, Technology Management Team, Production Technology Group 5) Employee Value Enhancement: HR Team, HR Development Team 6) Stronger Technological Competitive Edge: Technology Management Team, Patent Manegement Team Head Office(LS Tower) Jeongeup site Indong site 58 59 Report Preparation For More Information This report was prepared under the supervision of the Sustainability For further information on LS Mtron, please refer to the following Report Editorial Meeting which consists of the Sustainability Manwebsites: agement Steering Group and the Sustainability Management Executive Office, in accordance with LS Mtron’s sustainability management reporting system, with the support offered by business division. General Management LS Mtron www.lsmtron.co.kr Chief Strategy Officer(CSO) Tractor Division www.lstractor.co.kr James Kim(Senior Vice President) Business Management & Planning Team Injection Molding Division www.lsinjection.co.kr Sang-Min Lee, Sung-Beom Kim, Jong-Hyun Park Special Business Division www.lstrackshoe.co.kr Sustainability Management Executive Office Electronic Component Division www.lscomponent.com Mark Myung-Hoon Yoo, Ho-Sung Cho UC Division www.ultracapacitor.co.kr Participating Employees LS Mtron’s business report dart.fss.or.kr Staff Information on the LS Group www.lsholdings.co.kr Internal Audit & Consulting Team Eui-Jae Yoo, Yong-Sang Lee Technology Management Team Jong-Dae Byun, Min-Won Kwon, Jae-Min Seo Green Management Team Chul-Eung Jun, Ki-Young Lim Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team Gill-Sang Lee, Bong-Seok Jeong Business Support Team Previous Reports Maeng-Kyoo Sung, James Lee, Na-Rae Choi Human Resources Team Chang-Woo Lee, Chan-Jin Park Sustainability Reports Human Resources Development Team Myoung-Ho Park, Hong-Keun Park, Byung-Jun Kim Chinese Business Support Team Goo-yun Chung, Xiang-Lan Jiang Patent Manegement Team Byoung-Kwang Lee, Min-Seok Yoon Quality Management Team Hee-Jung Park, Dae-Sung Oh Innovation Team Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2011 Hyun-Kyu Park, Soo-Mi Chae, Sung-Pyo Cho Environment Reports Business Division Tractor Division Deok-Gu Kim, Ji-Tae Kim, Dong-Joo Hwang, Mo-No Lee Injection Molding Division Jai-Kwan Seo, Jeong-Ho Ahn, Jin-Jeong Kim Special Business Division Gun-Wook Hwang, Sung-Kwang Yu CF Division Sun-Ik Hwang, Dong-Jin Cho, Jae-Cheol Boo Environment Report 2002 Environment Report 2005 Electronic Component Division www.fsc.org Hyeong-Ju Lee, Min-Tack Seo FSC™ C011053 Automotive Component Division Jeong-ill Choi, Sang-Woo Ahn LS Mtron’s 2012 Sustainability Report was printed on FSC Mont Blanc paper produced by Hansol Paper Co., Ltd.. The FSC Mont Blanc paper contains the FSC certification that is only awarded to products manufactured from environmentally developed and managed wood. As elemental chlorine-free FCCL Division Date of Publication: May 2013 pulp is utilized in the processing, the paper is also environmentally-friendly. Furthermore, the report was printed with soy oil ink which massively Gyu-Mun Kim, Byeong-Kil Song Publisher: Jae-Seol Shim reduces air pollutants that may be emitted from an FSC-certified printing house during the printing process. UC Division Publishing Company: LS Mtron Co., Ltd. Kwon-Yong Yoon Design: Design 207 60
