CSR Report 2012 Report target period Jan 2012 to Dec 2012 Report publication date Apr 2013 RUBYCON CORPORATION Contents Messages from the top of Company 2 CSR Plan in Rubycon 3 Organization Governance 3 Consumer Issues Rubycon products contribution to society 7 Security of Product Safety 8 Participation in Community 9 Fair Business Practices 10 Environmental Measures 11 Human Rights 13 Creation of Comfortable Workplace 15 Major activities in 2012 17 Summary 18 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact «Human rights» Principle 1 ： Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 ： make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. «Labour» Principle 3 ： Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 ： the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 ： the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 ： the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. «Environment» Principle 7 ： Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 ： undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 ： encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. «Anti-corruption» Principle10 ： Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 Messages from the top of Company 2012 is the momentous year celebrating the 60th anniversary of foundation of our company. I deeply thank customers, partners, shareholders, retired and current employees, as well as people in the society of our business locations, because I owe the prosperity of the company all to their support. In the recent years, global recession started from Lehman's fall, the Great East Japan Earthquake, the flood in Thailand as well as prolonged appreciation of the yen and financial crisis in the Europe..., there have been many risks having deep impact on the activities of the company. In such circumstances, we, at Rubycon, have been working on responding to the various requests in the global societies, by expanding our main product lines, improving efficiency of our production lines and advantage of Rubycon and its supply chain. In the year 2013, we are going to address to the company-wide CSR activities with customer satisfaction first, on the slogan Concentrate the wisdom of the 60 years to overcome the difficulty of the situation. In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Shuichi Katsuyama President and C.O.O Rubycon Corporation The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact In October 2011, Rubycon Corporation expressed the support for the universal principles about Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption upheld by United Nations, and officially joined the UN Global Compact. Rubycon Corporation contributes to society thru business activities, by supporting 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. 2 CSR Plan in Rubycon Organization Governance CSR Policy Rubycon's CSR System to accomplish corporate social responsibility is shown below. Decision-making is performed referring to the vision, the employees motto and the Global Compact, on the basis of the foundation spirit. All of these support us to remain a reliable company to stakeholders such as customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community, and to drive steady CSR activities. 3 Foundation Spirit and Employees' Motto Company Creed: Let's be the No.1 in Japan in all aspects ! A phrase of company song: Tradition and enterprise, endeavor and study, faith and trust Our mission is to contribute to the society through manufacture. The word all aspects includes sales, profit and treatment of employees as well as quality. The company song says to keep enterprising mind for considering things favorably and to work together for establishing brilliant tradition. For the purpose, endeavor and study is essential. Faith is necessary to win trust. A company is built upon management-labor cooperation. A phrase of the company song says to advance with great hope. The founder Hideo Tonouchi (the current chairman) established the company song in 1961 and the company creed in 1962. The times changed greatly since then. But Rubycon is going to open the way to the future with the mind to value others. Employees' Motto 5 Corporate Philosophies 1. Be honest and faithful in daily living 2. Work and live properly 3. Be loving in all aspects 4. Self examine today's deeds and be grateful of no regrets 5. Believe in yourself and believe in hopes 4 Rubycon Group Code of Conduct The purpose of Rubycon Code of Conduct is to define business activities of the employees complying with laws and observing environmental responsibility and corporate ethics, under safe labor environment. << Human Rights and Labor >> << Fair Trade and Ethics >> 1. No forced labor 1. No corruption or bribery 2. No inhumane treatment 2. No abuse of dominant bargaining position 3. No child labor 3. No improper advantage 4. No discrimination 4. No anticompetitive act 5. Reasonable wage 5. Provision of accurate information on product 6. Working hours and service 7. Right to organize of employees 6. Respect to intellectual property 7. Appropriate export control << Safety and Health >> 8. Disclosure of information 1. Machine Safeguarding 9. Prevention and early detection of irregularity 2. Workplace safety 3. Workplace sanitation << Quality and Safety >> 4. Occupational injury and illness 1. Security of product safety 5. Emergency preparedness 2. Quality management system 6. Physically demanding work 7. Facility safety and sanitation 8. Health of employees << Information Security >> 1. Safeguarding for threat to computer network << Environment >> 2. No leakage of personal information 1. Product content restrictions 3. No leakage of confidential information of 2. Chemical materials to be used in production process customers and third parties 3. Environmental management system 4. Minimal impact on environment (e.g. << Social Action >> waste water, sludge, exhaust gas) 1. Contribution to society and community 5. Environmental permits and administrative approval 6. Effective utilization of resources and energy (3R) 7. Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 8. Waste reduction 9. Disclosure of environmental preservation activities 5 CSR Promotion System CSR activities are positioned as the business itself, and awareness of all employees to CSR is raised under instruction of the president. Each of the conferences and councils is regularly held, and decisions are penetrated into the whole group including divisions and affiliated companies to share problems. CSR management is promoted, emphasizing interaction with customers, partners, stockholders, employees and the community. We are securing compliance under the spirit that a corporate is a public institution. We provide proper feedback of requests from stakeholders. 6 Consumer Issues Rubycon products contribution to society << Rubycon products contributing to society with the keywords of energy creation, energy saving and energy storing >> Global urgent themes are energy issues facing to societies, especially after the east Japan earthquakes occurred. Rubycon continues contributing to improvement in efficiency, life time and miniaturization by suggesting capacitors, our main products, for the use in various power conversion devices with the keywords of energy creation, energy saving and energy storing. << New energy area >> Rubycon capacitors are used in the applications of PV power converters and inverters for wind power generation. For Photovoltaic power generation For Wind energy generation VXG Series MXG Series LSU-SM Series << Next-generation Lighting area >> Lighting takes up 20% of the world energy consumption, the energy saving in the lighting applications is becoming extremely important as one of the countermeasures of global warming. Aluminum electrolytic capacitors are the key component that impacts the life in the LED lighting products diffusing into the societies. Rubycon introduced in 2011, a evolutional capacitor series realizing twice as long life as conventional, whose high reliability is greatly noted in the industry. << Energy harvesting area >> Energy harvesting (environmental energy generation) is a technology to harvest and reuse the minor energy around everybody’s daily life. It’s gathering people's attention. Capacitors have an important role as energy storage elements and are required to have low leakage performance, miniature & large capacitance values and long life performance. Rubycon suggests PMLCAP, thin film polymer stacked capacitors and Electric Double Layer capacitors for use in there. 7 Security of Product Safety We, at Rubycon, closely check compliance and non-use of banned substances in planning phase of product development, in order to secure product safety. We also describe safety instructions in our catalog and delivery specifications. We perform reliability tests with various processes to secure safety of products to be manufactured. Reliability tests are performed in planning stage of production development to confirm adequacy of designed materials, in process design stage to check production conditions, and in mass production to secure process reliability with additional safety items, so as to maintain reliability of Rubycon products. We are striving to supply safe and reliable products. << COC： ：Claim 0 Campaign >> We, at Rubycon, accept every complaint from customers with sincerity in order to improve customer satisfaction and quality related with product safety. We have started quality improvement activities as the manufacturer responsible for our products, so as to attain our goal Claim 0. << Improvement of Customer Satisfaction >> Rubycon has the quality policy of manufacture to win customer satisfaction that provides customers with relief and trust through 5 pillars of organizational power, cooperation power, analyzing ability, quality control ability, small group activities. We are addressing Customer Satisfaction through quality to contribute to the society and the future. We conduct customer questionnaire every year including cost, delivery and service as well as quality, so as to improve customer satisfaction. 8 Participation in Community Social Action Program << Acceptance of Internship >> In the view of social service and youth development, we accept the requests of internship for students of junior high-school, high-school and university, businesspeople and disabled people as mush as possible. Such requests are increasing year after year, and we are going to accept to the utmost extent. << Participation in Clean-up Activity around Tenryu River Area >> We are participating in clean-up activities around Tenryu River Area (Tenryu River Environmental Picnic) every year to cooperate with community residents, as a part of Local Beautification Activity. The activities work as parent-child communication, as children of employees participate in them. << Road Clean-up around Company >> We perform road clean-up activity around our headquarters in time with monthly company clean-up activity, so as to cooperate with Local Beautification Activity. << Promotion of local firefighting activities and Japanese Red Cross Service activities >> We, at Rubycon, promote cooperation with and participation in community activities. Local firefighting activities and local Red Cross service activities are especially important for local active disaster prevention and local welfare. We treat absence due to participation in such activities as paid holidays. << Local Services >> As a part of the 60th anniversary of foundation, we donated 1 million yen to the hometown Ina City. For local service and supporting youth development, we donated a projector to elementary 40 schools, junior high schools and high schools of high needs at places of education to each school. << Participation in Ina-matsuri Festival >> We participate in Ina-matsuri Festival every year with a dancing team. The dancing team performs powerful dance in gratitude for the community, in order to encourage the festival. << Voices >> Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival / Haruki Yajima, Information System Center Young employees including me, who entered the company 4 years ago or later, built a dancing team and did exercises of dancing without an instructor. Then we had good communication and enjoyed the festival. I'm going to participate in the team of young employees in the future to communicate with persons in other companies and to contribute to the community. 9 Fair Business Practices Compliance of the subcontract act (Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors） ） Recent economy has been stagnant such as economic recession due to the Great East Japan Earthquake and high yen in Japan, and dull market in China and the Europe. Even in such circumstances, we have penetrated the applicable laws and regulations to the relevant departments and group companies to practice the responsibility of compliance as the parent company, while no revision of them was made in this year. We will keep cooperating with our customers and partners so as to develop each other. Compliance of the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Law and the Tariff Act as AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) We fulfill corporate social responsibility as one of authorized economic operators (79 special importers, 241 special exporters and 41 authorized traders across the country as of February, 2012), so as to pursue smooth trade operations. 4 years have passed since we were authorized in December, 2008. We have had no troubles in these years. Considering enforcement of mutual approval system with Korea in October, 2011, and with Canada in November, 2012, we will maintain the current condition to advance smoother trade. Risk Management We held meetings of Risk Management Working Group every other month (6 times) in 2012, so as to reduce risks based on the risk map prepared in the first. The risk reduction rate (internal calculation) as of the end of September, 2012 is 56.1% in money, which revealed a certain effect. However considering new risks arising out of high yen and stagnant economy since the latter half of 2011, we have strengthened the risk reduction activities. On the other hand, we have had many inquiries about BCP (Business Continuity Plan) from customers fearing disruption of supply chain due to earthquake or tsunami. Then we have been addressing to integrated risk management. Protection of Intellectual Properties (Measures against Counterfeit Products) We, at Rubycon, have participated in the Project 3 of IIPPF (International Intellectual Property Protection Forum) for eradicating counterfeits, so as to address to counterfeit eradication activities cooperating with various entities and companies. We are providing counterfeit information on the website of Cybernet for Counterfeit (https://global-cybernet.com/cybernet/portal/index.php). We will proactively utilize this website to advance the activities. Protection and Control of Information Misuse of information important to corporate management will have significant impact on relations of trust with partners and their management. We have established security policy and privacy policy recognizing importance of information assets. We give the first priority in risk management to the policies. We are protecting and controlling information assets through education of employees and various security measures and activities. 10 Environmental Measures Reduction of Environmental Burden << Power Saving and CO2 Emission Reduction >> Rubycon has been designated as a specific proponent according to the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in 2010, and have been addressing Power Saving in Lighting, Air Conditioner, Compressor, and Measures for Production Facilities to annual energy saving rate more than 1%. Test run status of circulating roof spray system << CO2 Reduction >> We are addressing to Reduction of greenhouse gas over 5% by March, 2015 against 2009 as the medium-term target. CO2 emission in 2011 (April, 2011 March, 2012) was 5,745t, which was 1% lower than the amount in 2009. Total emission increase-decrease rate is ±0%, since the emission in 2010 (April, 2010 March, 2011) was increased by 1%. We achieved size & weight reduction and performance improvement of our products through R&D to respond to customers requests. We continue further improvement in size reduction to reduce CO2 emission and contribute on energy conservation. << Promotion of Recycling >> Waste Plastics: We maintain 100% recycling of waste plastics. Waste Products: We maintain 100% recycling of waste products. Paper: We segregate paper from combustible waste to pass on 50% of combustibles to recycling. Miscellaneous: We are addressing to recycling to establish Zero Waste Emission. << PRTR（ （Pollutant Release and Transfer Register） ）>> We prepare annual report according to the PRTR Act. The achievements in recent years are as follows: 2010: 76,375kg transferred 2011: 83,350kg transferred 2012: 0.7kg transferred *Objective substances changed with great reduction in 2012 result. 11 << Control of Banned and Hazard Substances >> We have specified our Banned and Abolished Substance List for banned and hazard substances, and continually update it according to customers' requirements of green procurement including RoHS and REACH regulations, so as to reflect them to our commitment to such requirements. We have a check system for RoHS regulated substances in material reception stage through regular XRF analysis for samples and inspection of high-precision analysis data. We also have a material tracing system to prevent reception, incorporation and contamination of banned and abolished substances. In the system, barcode is used to identify all materials under cooperation of suppliers to establish material traceability, and we have a database to trace material information within 24 hours to prevent environmental defects from discharging. We are continually striving for preserving the environment with the catchphrase I preserve the globe. Environment Clean-up Activity We, at Rubycon, are operating research, development and production in natural blessings. As expressed with our environmental catchphrase I preserve the environment, we are continually striving for cleaning of our premises preserving nature, in order to make visitors comfortable. We have Environmental Preservation Section dedicated for daily premises maintenance, and all employees clean up the premises in the early morning every month. << Voices >> Participation in Environment Clean-up Activity / Konomi Urano, Production Section 1 I felt delight in working surrounded by nature and importance of nature, so that I grew up with the consideration to the environment through arrangement, putting in order, and trash separation. I am going to keep environment preserving mind to make my job comfortable. 12 Human Rights Respect of Human Rights Our employee working regulations specify equal opportunity such that employees aren't discriminated by their nationality, religion, sex or social position. The regulations also specify strict compliance of prohibition of forced labor , prohibition of inhumane treatment , prohibition of child labor , restriction of dangerous and harmful work and restriction of dangerous and harmful work for pregnant stipulated by laws. We are further addressing to control of working hours to prevent overwork. Child-raising and Nursing Care << Establishment of Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation >> We have Child-raising and Nursing Vacation Regulation complying with the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act. Many of our employees use child-raising vacation to return to work. To support child-raising, employee raising a child up to the first grade of primary school can select working hours 2 hours shorter than regular at most. << Establishment of Healthcare Vacation >> Healthcare vacation system is our original one to accumulate annual paid holidays not used up to 10 days for a year with the retention of 2 years at most. This system helps need of long cure due to accident, injury or disease. << Hourly Paid Holiday >> We also have an hourly paid holiday system in which an employee can have hourly holiday up to 2 days in a year. It is useful for late attendance or early leaving due to going to a hospital for one's own or a family's sake. 13 << Acquisition of Kurumin Mark >> We have been addressing to the next-generation development support, and approved Kurumin Mark by Nagano Labor Bureau on August 29, 2008 according to the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. << Mothers' Meeting >> We gather female employees in child-raising vacation and working raising children, so as to exchange child care information. It is a good opportunity to consult childcare problems. << Voices >> Participation in Mother Meeting / Toshie Osawa, Electrolytic Capacitor Design Section I was very grateful to hear information about childcare support systems in the company and the community. I communicated with mothers in other sections who are fighting childcare and housekeeping as well as work, and was encouraged very much. I was very pleased at talking with staff in general affairs section about my requests and questions. I thanks very much for understanding of and support to childcare. 14 Creation of Comfortable Workplace << Safety and Health >> Employees are company's resources. We wish them to be health and safe in work and to be happy. For the purpose, we are pursuing various activities as follows. ・ Safety and Health Patrol (Twice a year) ・ Patrol of Health Representative (Weekly) ・ KYT Activity(Once a year) Kiken Yochi Training meaning the foreseeing danger situations training. ・ Hiyari-Hatto Proposal Activity (Once a year) ・ Factory Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Plant Environment Survey (Twice a year) ・ Risk Assessment The risk assessment for workplaces and jobs, so as to address to improvement activity. ・ Young Drivers Club In the national safety week and the national labor health week, members of Young Drivers Club inspect fastening of seat belt and call for safety driving. ・ Disaster Drill We performs company-wide disaster drill in the national labor health week. ・ Safety and Health Education We provide safety and health education to members of safety and health committee as well as fresh recruits, so as to enhance awareness of safety and health through the committee members. << Address to Mental Healthcare >> As described in the section of professional training, we provide mental healthcare training with external instructors. We take appropriate actions for persons of mental disorder in cooperation of personnel section, company nurse and company doctor. << Health Consultation >> Company nurse picks up 3 to 4 persons every month from long-hour workers and employees with findings in medical check, to consult company doctor on monthly visit. 15 Relation with Labor Union << Labor-management Council >> We have labor-management council with labor union of the company, for the common purpose of development of company and happiness of employees. The council is held as appropriate including in Spring Labor-management Negotiation in every spring, to find resolution through discussion. << Summer Festivals >> We co-host summer festival together with the labor union, in the time of Ina-matsuri Festival in August. Section members sell Yakisoba noodle and shaved ice to employees. It is helpful to communication between employees. << Rubycon Ball Games >> We co-host ball games (softball and mallet golf) in every September together with the labor union, for the purpose of friendship promotion. Group employees gather from all over Japan to enjoy the day. After the games, participants clean up the surrounding to express appreciation of community residents. << Activation of Internal Circle Activities >> Rubycon Baseball Team participated in the Central Japan Inter-city Baseball Tournament held in Gamagori, Aichi, as the representative of Nagano, and won second place. Team members are working out in order for further success in the coming season. 16 Major Performances in 2012 and Goals and Plans in 2013 Major Item Minor Item Goal and Plan in 2012 Major Performances in 2012 page Goal and Plan in 2013 Submitted COP to the headquarters of UN Global Corporate CSR Management Support of 10 rules of UN Global Compact on May 7, 2012 (expedited about 6 months). Compact, and develop them to Top Message Promote priority themes in the group Interaction with business activities Declared support of 10 rules of UN Global Compact on Stakeholders Rubycon 60th Anniversary Website. Governance Made out CSR Report 2012 and published on our Corporate Governance Transparent management CSR Promotion System Creation of CSR report and publication on our website website. Respect of Human Performed human rights education in fresh recruit Promotion and continuance of human rights Rights / No Promotion of human rights enlightenment training (April) and fresh recruit follow-up training Respect of human rights enlightenment activity Discrimination (November). Performed Chinese courses (basic and application courses) and English courses (basic and advanced courses) once a week. Performed young employee training (4-5th-year), Class 1 employees training (mid-level, 7-8th-year), first grade Human Resources supervisors training and first grade managers training Improvement of employee training Improvement and performance of training program Development over the year. Brought 3 employees into telephone manners contest, Human Resources and one of them won the outstanding performance Development award. 2 employees further tried videotape contest and one won the contest. She advanced to Shin-etsu Finals. Continued employment according to Human Rights / Labor Practices Continuance of extended employment system (master motivation and ability of each retired Continuance of extended employment system Support to Work and adviser) employee Diversity Work equalization by multiskilled Performance of training Promotion of multiskill workers Health consultation Measures for lifestyle diseases Continuance of measures for lifestyle diseases Mental health care Risk assessment (monthly review by safety and health committee) Promotion of safety and health in workplace Safety and health patrol in the National Labor Health Creation of comfortable workplace Week, indoor environment clean-up activity, fire drill, Continuance of workplace safety and health activity Safety and Health of sheet-belt use rate survey (Oct. 1-) Employees Rubycon Baseball Team participated in the Central Activation of internal circles Japan Inter-city Baseball Tournament and won second place.（Nov. 9-12 in Aichi) Enactment of childcare/nursing leave regulations Support to childcare and Support to childcare and nursing care Mother meeting Continuance of support to childcare and nursing care nursing care Continued approval of Kurumin Participation in Ina Matsuri Festival (Aug. 4) Social service activities Holding of Rubycon Summer Festival (Aug. 4) Cooperation with Labor Promotion of joint events with labor Holding of Rubycon Group Softball Tournament and Mallet Golf Tournament (held on Sep.8 with 350 Continuing promotion of joint events with labor union Union union employees including group companies and sales Interaction with labor union locations) Holding of labor-management council Environmental Continuing approval and compliance of Maintenance all over the group ISO14001 approval status Maintenance all over the group Management ISO14001 Chemicals control WG (every 2 months) to penetrate Management of banned Management of banned substances instructions into the group Continuing management of banned substances and substances and hazardous and hazardous and toxic materials hazardous and toxic materials and toxic materials Environment Instruction of Green Procurement to suppliers Environment-friendly Reduction of industrial waste and Attained 100% recycle of industrial waste D Reduction of industrial waste and promotion of Business Process Promotion of recycling promotion of recycling Attained 55.7% recycle of industrial waste A recycling Energy saving plan Goal: Reduce Environmental burden Energy saving plan Goal: Reduce energy per energy per capacitor by 5% by March, Reduced 1% in 2012. reduction program capacitor by 5% by March, 2015 against 2009 2015 against 2009 Marketed HXG Series for high ripple current in EnvironmentLaunch of compact and energy-saving inverter filtering use and long life LLE Series Upgrade Social service with products Development of environment-friendly products compatible Products products compatible with environment for LED lighting. Estimated reduction of critical risk rate by 56% (self Risk Management Risk reduction activities Continuance of risk reduction activities calculation). Fair Business Practices Compliance in transactions with Fair Competitions and Compliance with the subcontract act Continuing compliance in transactions with suppliers suppliers Trades Compliance in trading Reviewed AEO Manual. Continuing compliance in trading Fair business practices Promotion of information security Information Protection Reviewed security control regulations and performed control (critical in risk management Continuing promotion of information security control and Control training and measures. items) Participated in the Project 3 of IIPPF (International Protection of Promotion of brand protection and Continuing promotion of brand protection and Intellectual Property Protection Forum), and started Intellectual Properties counterfeit measures counterfeit measures disclosure of counterfeit information. Performed training of design staff on product safety Design considering capacitor safety Product safety security Development of risk map on safety/risk evaluation security. Improvement of product quality/safety Promotion of improvement in Improved and maintained facilities in Ouchi Plant, Akita Continuing promotion of improvement in production ― production facilities in Rubycon Group Rubycon, in order to increase capability. facilities in Rubycon Group Consumer Issues Held briefing for suppliers on chemicals control and material failure reduction activity. Product Compliance with Consumer Products Action plan for product Continuing compliance with Consumer Products Accident/Failure Plan Safety Act Started Claim 0 Campaign (COC). Participated in Useful accident/failure Safety Act Life Workshop held by a third party to prevent failures in product life. Conducted a questionnaire to major customers on Improvement of Improvement in customer Customer satisfaction survey quality, time of delivery, price and service. Attained 95% Continuance of customer satisfaction survey Customer Satisfaction satisfaction of customer satisfaction in quality (86% in 2011). Conducted cleaning within the premises and around the Participation in Community / Community Environmental Clean-up company every month, as a part of environmental Promotion of social service in each Activity clean-up activity. location Continued public exhibition of Tonouchi Memorial ― Museum. Social Service Program Promotion of local fire fighting activity Handled all of the activities as special paid holidays. and Japanese Red Cross activity Continuing promotion of social service activities in Accepted 75 persons (including students, business each location Acceptance of internship people and handicapped) for internship. Social service Donation of memorial goods to local Donated 1 million yen to Ina City, projector to each of governments, schools, fire stations, Development 40 elementary schools, junior high schools and high 60th Anniversary Event financial institutions, partners and schools and like, flat-screen TV set to the fire station. customers as well as to employees Received the person of merit award. and their families 17 Summary I really appreciate the persons who gave advices or opinions to us on the publication of Rubycon Group CSR Report 2012. We will make use of them as valuable guidance. We, at Rubycon Group, have started new activities with the group slogan Concentrate the wisdom of the 60 years to overcome the difficulty of the situation. In CSR/Environmental Activities, we re-realize the starting point of the foundation and are addressing to various programs to seek Rubycon's originality and to establish ground design for future businesses. We are conscious of improvement in financial status, responsibility to shareholders and investors, improvement in customer-valuable quality, utilization of human resources, cooperation with partners, co-creation with the community and concentration into environmental products as a developing field, all of which are expected by stakeholders. In order to strengthen the communication with all stakeholders, we will select and concentrate themes to appeal Rubycon's originality, and address to improvement in web convenience for persons interested in this report as well as easy understanding of cumulative progress of each theme. Akio Oba, Executive Secretary 18
