Sustainability at LGT Report 2010 to 2012 LGT Group “The family-managed, simple and stable ownership structure of LGT allows us to pursue a long-term and thus sustainable corporate strategy, and at the same time to make decisions quickly and independently.” H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein, Chairman LGT Group Contents Intergenerational thinking and acting 5 Our understanding of sustainability  Doing business sustainably  6 Measures in the economic area Transparent corporate governance 9 Sustainable investment How we enable sustainability investing by our clients 10 Measures in the ecological area Our engagement for the environment and climate 16 Measures in the social area Our engagement as an employer 24 Our social engagement 26 Our memberships For a sustainable economy and financial industry 30 Facts and figures Sustainability performance indicators at a glance 32 Risk note/Disclaimer 34 Intergenerational thinking and acting “Only cut as much wood as can regrow!” This was how the Saxon mining administrator Hans Carl von Carlowitz, as the very first person, formulated the principle of sustainability almost 300 years ago. In the meantime, sustainability has become a blanket term. In essence, it is about leaving our children and grandchildren the legacy of a sound ecological, social and economic order. As a global financial company, LGT Group makes an important contribution in this area. On the one hand through our range of sustainable investment products, into which the Princely Family invests and which we also make available to our clients, and on the other hand through specific measures aimed at ensuring the sparing use of resources in our banking operations. Last but not least, assuming social responsibility and supporting less advantaged people is an essential part of our corporate culture. To this end, we established LGT Venture Philanthropy in 2007. Today, it is a leading impact investor effectively fighting world poverty. In the following pages you can find out how we implement sustainability and what progress we have made over the past three years. This report has been prepared for the first time and is based on the “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)” – an internationally recognized standard for sustainability reporting. Going forward, we will be reporting every two years on our sustainability performance. H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein (left) and H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein (right) We wish you an interesting read. H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein Chairman LGT Group CEO LGT Group Editorial 5 Doing business sustainably Driven by the financial and debt crisis, traditional values As a family-managed company, we have the great adsuch as security, stability and reliability are regaining vantage of being able to think intergenerationally and their importance. Long-term planning and sustainnot having to focus primarily on optimizing short-term ability are key to the future viability and success of profits. This allows us to build strategic projects over a every business. longer time horizon and let them grow sustainably. Long-term corporate philosophy Sustainability for us is not simply an objective that has As the world’s largest Private Banking and Asset Manto be achieved; it is an incentive to think ahead and to agement group wholly owned by an entrepreneurial critically question the effects of our actions on clients, family, it is our philosophy to conduct our activities in a business partners, employees, the environment and socially responsible manner and with a view to the long society, as well as on our own company – fully aware term, and to make a positive contribution to healthy that as a corporate entity we play a central role in the economic and social development. economy and in society. Economy Ecology Core business n Climate and environmental protection n Responsible investing n Sparing consumption of energy and use of n Sustainable investment products renewable energy Governance Social issues n Good, transparent corporate governance n Employee development and promotion including risk management n Employee involvement n Social engagement 6 Our understanding of sustainability Sustainability management at LGT and sparing use of energy through to sustainable mateOur sustainability initiatives are based on a three-pillar rial procurement. In the social area, people and our model consisting of the areas of economy (core busicommitment to society are the center of our focus. ness and governance), ecology and social issues. In our core business, it primarily means responsible investing In 2010, we established the LGT Sustainability Board. and thereby creating solid, long-term added value – In consultation with the Group CEO, it sets our stratefor both our owner family and our clients. The area gic direction and defines our sustainability objectives. of governance includes good, responsible corporate Private Banking and Asset Management as well as all management and controlling, which ensure our busirelevant Group functions are represented on this interness activities comply with applicable laws and regulanational steering committee. Sustainability Management tions and risk management is functioning effectively. implements the measures in cooperation with the In the area of ecology, we focus on minimizing our relevant departments. impact on the environment: from waste separation Our understanding of sustainability 7 LGT Group CEO Senior Management Board as LGT Sustainability Steering Committee LGT Sustainability Board Group Sustainability Manager Representatives from Private Banking, Asset Management, Human Resources, Real Estate & Supply Management, LGT Venture Philanthropy, Communication, Compliance Milestones achieved by 2012 Economy Ecology Social issues Core business Governance ■ Developed proprietary Adopted revised Code of ■ Achieved CO2 neutrality ■ Launched Employee analysis system for Conduct for LGT employees for LGT Group by purchasVolunteering Program integrated evaluation ing emission certificates ■ Launched idea manageof ESG criteria and ■ Increased use of ment for employees fundamental data renewable energy ■ LGT Venture Philanthropy ■ Successfully launched ■ Sensitizing employees established as leading our sustainability funds to energy efficiency impact investor ■ Established Cleantech measures Private Equity Program ■ Systematically collected environmental performance indicators ■ Introduced purchasing guidelines for sustainable material procurement Objectives by 2015 Grow sustainable assets Maintain strict compliance Reduce CO2 emissions by Further develop programs under management with laws and regulations ten percent by implementing and employees’ awareness various measures of sustainability initiatives 8 Our understanding of sustainability Transparent corporate governance We inform clients, employees and the public about Principles guiding our conduct our business activities in a transparent manner in Classical virtues and values such as reliability, respect order to maintain and strengthen confidence in our and integrity are firmly anchored in our corporate corporate group. culture. These principles apply especially in our dealings with clients, with those with whom we work and other LGT Group is managed according to the principles of stakeholders. They are enshrined in our Code of Conseparation of powers (Board of Trustees, Group Execuduct, which was substantially revised in 2012. The Code tive Committee, Executive Boards of the companies) is not simply a set of rules, but an integral part of our and of checks and balances. Although our bank is strategy. Our employees are required to read, underfamily-owned, we follow international standards for stand and comply with the Code at all times. They also publicly listed companies in the disclosure of financial receive regular training to raise their awareness of and other material information. compliance with existing regulations, rules and laws. We are committed in particular to our owner family Further information on corporate governance can be and the corporate objective that it has set for con­ found in the Annual Report 2012 of LGT Group on ducting successful long-term, sustainable business page 8. activity. The corporate governance bodies ensure strict compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and rules. We do not tolerate any violations. Corporate management has efficient risk management and controlling systems in place. Measures in the economic area 9 How we enable sustainability investing by our clients As an internationally active company, we can influence We also draw on our long-standing expertise and in our core business the extent to which investments strengths in the classical structuring of portfolios, flow into sustainability-oriented countries, companies investment managers and securities. Our clients can and projects. It is important to us, group-wide, not to also invest their assets in these sustainable investment invest in any companies involved in the manufacturing, products. storing or delivering of controversial weapons such as nuclear bombs, land mines, cluster bombs or munitions, Multi-stage selection and integration process biological or chemical weapons. Portfolio construction for our sustainable investment products is based on a two-stage process. In a first Soundly based investment process for step, we use a selection process to eliminate illiquid sustainable investments stocks and bonds, as well as companies that generate The Princely Family of Liechtenstein, the owner and their earnings from tobacco, gambling, arms or porlargest client of LGT, invests a portion of its wealth in nography or are involved in child labor. our sustainable investments. For these investments, we employ a dual approach whereby both ESG (environFor government bonds, we eliminate countries that have mental, social and governance) criteria and fundamennot signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) tal company data are analyzed. We have developed a and the international conventions banning landmines proprietary analysis system for this, the aim of which is and cluster munitions, or that seriously violate human to identify companies that contribute to a sustainable rights. In addition to this, we analyze the level of improvement in human well-being and also to longcorruption in a country using data from Transparency term, financial value creation. International. 10 Sustainable investment In a second step, we use a transparent, comprehensible Our portfolio managers use an active management set of ESG indicators to identify investment opportuni­ approach for constructing portfolios. On a daily basis ties (cf. “ESG indicator set” box on page 12). LGT has they verify that the investment funds are invested in a developed a special analytical process to enable comway that is consistent with the strategy, are moving parison of companies from different sectors and regions. within the defined range and are not violating any This allows us to eliminate the worst companies by ESG investment restrictions. score from the investment universe and concentrate on the positive investment opportunities. The integration process combines a fundamental analysis with an in-depth sustainability analysis to identify long-term investment opportunities. The resulting stock selection forms the basis for our sustainability funds. Global investment universe Selection Process of elimination by negative criteria Focus on positive investment opportunities Sustainable investment universe Integration 1. Fundamental analysis Sustainable value drivers selection 2. ESG performance contribution and risks Portfolio construction Portfolio Sustainable investment 11 Our sustainability funds Fund of the year Launched in November 2009, the sustainable equity, LGT’s sustainable bond fund was named Fund of the mixed and bond investment funds showed a total Year 2011 by ECOreporter.de, Germany’s leading volume of CHF 914 million as at the end of 2012, online portal for ecological and ethical investments. representing an increase of around 400 percent in the In 2012 the fund was awarded a 4-star rating by last three years. Morningstar. Sustainable investments 2012 2011 2010 Volume of sustainable investments (CHF m) 914 505 229 ESG indicator set For sustainable investments, we use an investment For country selection, we focus on social and ecological approach that includes evaluating securities according indicators: to the following ESG criteria: n Social development: standard of living, equality, n Environmental (E): resource management (waste innovation, international cooperation and inter­ reduction, recycling), reduction in emissions (e.g. generational financial justice greenhouse gases) and product innovation n Conservation of natural resources: energy mix, n Social (S): employer quality, occupational health CO2 emissions, biodiversity, water pollution and and safety, education and training recycling n Governance (G): governance structure (e.g. sepa­ ration of chairman and CEO functions) and inde­ pendence of audit and compensation committees 12 Sustainable investment Cleantech Private Equity Program LGT Group ranks among the world’s leading private equity specialists. The consideration of ESG factors is an integral part of our manager due diligence process, which follows the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI). In 2010, we launched a cleantech fund of funds for a state pension fund in Sweden. This fund of funds invests in private equity funds, which in turn invest directly in carefully selected European companies involved in clean technologies. To date, the fund of funds has invested in 17 companies, among them a biomass producer, various wind turbine operators, providers of environmentally friendly solutions, a solar energy manufacturer and waste management companies. Cleantech includes all goods, services, processes and business models across all industries and all valueadded steps that contribute significantly to a sustainable economy. Sustainable investment 13 Sustainable investing: Portfolio manager and client adviser in conversation “Sustainable investments are absolutely competitive!” Many investors wish to contribute to a better world. Does this mean having to forego returns? A portfolio manager and a client adviser tell us. Ms Kundert, you manage a sustainable bond fund for LGT. and thus open up positive investment opportunities to invesIs it just your profession or is it also your calling? tors. We also conduct a traditional financial analysis of each inSusanne Kundert: Both. I have been looking at the issue of dividual debtor. Like the managers of traditional bond funds, we sustainability for over 20 years now. While studying at the Unilook at fundamental criteria such as long-term earnings power, versity of St. Gallen, I specialized in environmental economics. liquidity or the potential of a company’s business model. This I started out my career, how­ combination of financial ratios ever, in the traditional econoand sustainable indicators has my, in the area of mergers and “It is still widely believed that had a positive impact on our inacquisitions as well as in clas­ sustainable investments yield vestment decisions. For exam­ sical fund management. When I ple, since the launch of the got the chance over four years lower returns even though there fund, we have focused, in terms ago to help build up the area of are various studies that show of corporate utility bonds, on sustainable investment at LGT, the opposite to be true.” hydropower instead of nuclear it was a wonderful way to comenergy, and have excluded Susanne Kundert bine my professional experience Greek sovereign bonds due to and my interest in sustainable high levels of corruption. economics. How big is investor interest in sustainable investments? What are the investment objectives of the fund Yves Brunschwiler: In a recent survey of our private clients, as you manage? many as 46 percent indicated that they were interested in the Susanne Kundert: The fund has dual objectives. The first obissue of sustainability; and one third wished to receive concrete jective is to achieve an attractive risk-return ratio. The difference information from us. This level of interest is undoubtedly do to to many traditional bond funds lies in the second objective: the with the fact that many of our clients are typically long-term investments in the fund, i.e. the underlying companies and states oriented and do not necessarily want to assume much risk or to should contribute to an improvement in human well-being. chase “fast money”. The demand is therefore there. My task as a client adviser is to respond to this interest and show my clients What does this mean in concrete terms? the opportunities that exist to invest in a sustainable way. Susanne Kundert: Figuratively speaking, we filter our investments through an ever-finer sieve. We completely exclude ethiWhat role do returns play? cally controversial investments. This includes companies that Yves Brunschwiler: Basically, the return is always important. earn their money with arms, tobacco, gambling, child labor or Even though the demand for sustainable investments has inpornography, as well as states that systemically violate human creased, at the end of the day the client wants to invest in a rights, exhibit high levels of corruption, or do not accept improduct that yields a return comparable to that of traditional portant arms embargoes. We analyze the remaining universe of investments. The client’s perception is often asymmetrical: as companies and states under the aspects of environmental, social long as the return is positive, how high it is in absolute terms and corporate governance. The debtor should contribute to equi­ is secondary. And this is where I see sustainable investments table development and the conservation of natural resources, coming in. They are suitable for investors who would like to 14 14 Finding that ever more investors are interested in sustainable investing: Yves Brunschwiler and Susanne Kundert. generate a continued positive performance – without large upculture of LGT and the values of our owner, the Princely Family. swings or downswings – but who at the same time would like However it’s still the client adviser’s task to raise the client’s to be certain that they are investing in socially acceptable and awareness of this issue. sustainable value creation. And what does the portfolio manager say? Can sustainable “Sustainable investments are investments compete with traditional investments? suitable for investors who would Susanne Kundert: It is still widely believed that sustainable like to generate a continued positive investments yield lower returns even though there are various studies that show the opposite to be true. In a meta study of 36 performance.” studies by the UNEP Finance Initiative and Mercer, a consulting Yves Brunschwiler firm, over half of the studies exhibited a positive relationship between sustainability and returns, while under ten percent of the studies showed a negative relationship. Sustainable investments are absolutely competitive! As a return benchmark for our sustainable funds we have therefore consciously selected classical indices in the respective asset classes, irrespective of whether it is a share, bond or mixed fund. Susanne Kundert (40) is responsible for the portfolio management Will the demand from your clients continue to rise? of the sustainable bond fund of LGT. Yves Brunschwiler: Yes, I’d definitely say so. And also because Yves Brunschwiler (47) is a client adviser and team leader at I believe that the notion of sustainable investment goes hand in LGT Private Banking. hand with the long-term and sustainable strategy and corporate 15 Our engagement for the environment and climate Environmental and climate protection are among the Business travel greatest challenges of our time. This is why we want to The CO2 emissions generated by business flights have ensure that we significantly reduce the burden on the increased by around 21 percent since 2010. The increase environment and climate from our business activities is primarily attributable to the expansion of our interand conserve natural resources. national business activities, and since 2011 to more precise data collection. LGT Group is climate neutral LGT Group has been CO2-neutral since 2010. The Group Electricity consumption offsets its carbon consumption by purchasing emission We have been purchasing energy-efficient electrical certificates. To this end, we work together with South appliances for many years now and this has a positive Pole Carbon Asset Management Ltd. – one of the effect on our electricity consumption. Thanks to in­ world’s leading emission reduction companies. Through creased use of electricity from renewable energy, CO2 the purchase of Gold Standard certificates – the indepenemissions were reduced by more than seven percent dent label distinguishes high-quality climate protection between 2010 and 2012. projects and the related emission reduction certificates – we are supporting the modernization of 98 small LGT uses the national energy mix (including nuclear hydropower stations in south-western China and at power) for its locations in Liechtenstein, while LGT Bank the same time helping to improve the quality of life of Switzerland mainly uses electricity from renewable the people who live there. To date, 800 000 tonnes of energy sources and completely stopped using electricity CO2 emissions have been saved through the project. generated by nuclear power in 2012. LGT’s CO2 emissions 2012 2011 2010 CO2 emissions energy in tonnes 1 897.9 2 298.2 2 828.1 CO2 emissions flights in tonnes 1 033.5 913.3 855.7 Total CO2 emissions 2 931.4 3 211.4 3 683.8 CO2 emissions in kilograms per FTE 1 676.6 1 885.7 2 039.3 16 Measures in the ecological area Origin of electricity LGT location Year Energy mix Liechtenstein Headquarters in Vaduz Since the construction of building I in 1960 and National energy mix including nuclear power building II in 2003 Service Center Bendern Since the construction of the building in 1996 National energy mix including nuclear power Switzerland Basel Since the establishment of the branch in 2004 National energy mix including nuclear power Since 2012 National energy mix without nuclear power Berne Since the establishment of the branch in 2004 National energy mix including nuclear power Since the second quarter of 2012 100% hydropower Geneva Since 2007 100% hydropower Lausanne Since 2007 90% hydropower, 10% green power Lugano Since 2010 88% hydropower, 12% national energy mix including nuclear power Since 2012 100% hydropower Lucerne Since the establishment of the branch in 2004 National energy mix including nuclear power Since 2012 100% hydropower Zurich Since 2008 Glärnischstrasse, Bleicherweg 1, Stockerstrasse: 100% hydropower Since 2008 Bleicherweg 2: 92% hydropower, 8% solar power A positive trend in direct energy consumption has been observed since 2010: by the end of 2012, it had fallen by 24 percent in absolute terms and by 21 percent per full-time employee (FTE). Thanks to lower energy consumption, our CO2 emissions fell from 2828.1 tonnes to 1897.9 tonnes over the same period. Direct energy consumption 2012 2011 2010 Electricity in megawatt hours 10 592.4 10 198 11 341.5 Heating energy in megawatt hours 3 343 5 260.2 6 981.7 Total energy in megawatt hours 13 935.4 15 458.2 18 323.2 Total energy in megawatt hours per FTE 8 9.1 10.2 Measures in the ecological area 17 Building management building. The exhaust air is used to temper the supply To improve the energy efficiency of our locations and air; thus the supply air can be heated at cold times of conserve natural resources, we conducted analyses of the year and cooled during the summer months. the buildings at our locations in Liechtenstein and Switzerland (Pfäffikon) and defined corresponding measures. Since October 2011, we have been using 100 percent bio gas for our locations in Liechtenstein. In 2012, at our Since 2009 we have had solar panels on the LGT Sermain building in Vaduz we replaced the old combined vice Center in Bendern, which produce around 50 000 heat and power installation with a modern cooling kilowatt hours of thermal energy per year, correspondunit, which is used in winter as a heat pump and saves ing to around eight percent of the building’s annual us 2008 megawatt hours of natural gas per year. We requirement. also use the waste heat from our server rooms to heat the building. Owing to these measures, the use of Our buildings in Liechtenstein are equipped with heat heating energy from renewable energy sources at our recovery systems. These help to significantly reduce locations in Liechtenstein has risen to 100 percent. In energy consumption, pollutant emissions and, not Switzerland, our Zurich branch has been using 30 perleast, heating costs. Here the stale air is extracted from cent bio gas since 2011. The share of renewable heatthe rooms and passed through a heat exchanger, which ing energy in Switzerland thus stands at four percent. transfers its warmth to the fresh air coming into the Promotion of climate protection measures Since May 2012, the Swiss Climate Foundation and the LIFE Climate Foundation Liechtenstein have engaged in cross-border collaboration. Through this cooperation, funds for climate protection are available from the Swiss Climate Foundation for small and medium-sized enterprises in Liechtenstein, too. Acting as the repre­ sentative for the Liechtenstein banks, LGT Group sits on the Board of Trustees and the Advisory Board of the Swiss Climate Foundation. In 2012, the Swiss Climate Foundation supported four Liechtenstein companies, providing total funds of CHF 143 400. 18 Measures in the ecological area Heating energy 2012 2011 2010 Gas in megawatt hours 2 818 4 972.9 6 912.2 Heating oil in megawatt hours 10.9 10.4 13.2 Bio gas in megawatt hours 444.7 203.7 Solar energy in megawatt hours 69.4 73.2 56.4 Total heating energy in megawatt hours 3 343 5 260.2 6 981.7 Total heating energy in megawatt hours per FTE 1.9 3.1 3.9 Water consumption LGT’s water consumption is limited to sanitary facilities, building technology and cleaning and maintenance. Since 2007, to save water we have been using flow restrictors on the water taps at our locations in Liechtenstein and Switzerland. 2012 2011 2010 Total water consumption in cubic meters 38 665.8 36 116.6 43 071.1 Total water consumption in cubic meters per FTE 22.1 21.2 23.9 Measures in the ecological area 19 Socially and environmentally responsible Use of recycled paper procurement We are increasingly transitioning to computer-based, LGT follows a long-term-oriented product and procurepaperless work processes. We print documents on both ment strategy, taking sustainability criteria into account. sides of the paper (double-sided printing) and raise our For example, we purchase office material that is pro­ employees’ awareness about saving paper. All brochures duced in an environmentally friendly and socially reare printed carbon neutral on FSC-certified paper. sponsible way and require the manufacturer’s certificate Since April 2012, we have been using 100 percent of compliance. It is important to us that the products, recycled paper for internal documents. Manufactured from their manufacturing through to their disposal or carbon neutral and chlorine free, the paper bears the recycling, are in line with our sustainability principles. “Blue Angel”, a recognized seal of quality for particuThese include the adoption of high occupational health larly environmentally friendly products. It is made from and safety standards, the observation of human rights, recycled fiber won from recovered paper. the sparing use of natural resources and the prevention of corruption. The procurement guidelines, which were set out in 2011, are gradually being integrated into the contracts we have with our business partners. 20 Measures in the ecological area Paper consumption 2012 2011 2010 Paper consumption in tonnes 95.7 82.6 101.9 of which FSC paper 100% 100% 100% of which 100% recycled paper 61% 0% 0% Total paper in kilograms per FTE 54.8 48.5 56.4 In 2012 paper consumption increased by around 16 percent compared to the previous year due to various special effects. Against 2010, however, it was six percent lower. Waste statistics 2012 2011 2010 Waste at locations in Switzerland/Liechtenstein in tonnes 198.4 221.4 174.5 Extrapolated across LGT Group in tonnes 258.1 276.5 232.1 Total waste in kilograms per FTE 150 160 130 We have precise statistics on waste generation only for our locations in Liechtenstein. In Switzerland, we are generally not the sole tenant in a building. The data in the table therefore represent estimates or extrapolations for the whole Group. The increase in waste in 2011 primarily reflects the clearing of the site in Lausanne (Pully) and partial renovation of the LGT Service Center in Bendern. Measures in the ecological area 21 LGT is CO2-neutral More power, better harvests – and clean, healthy air LGT compensates for its carbon consumption by purchasing emission certificates in accordance with the Carbon Standard. By doing so, it can support a project developed by South Pole Carbon, a Zurich-based company, which aims to cover the rising energy requirements in China’s mountainous south-west region by promoting the construction of run-of-river hydro plants. “Before I visited Nujiang in Yunnan Province for the first time, and improved living conditions. But to achieve this worthy I had no idea how different the economic and social conditions goal, it has been proposed that enormous dams be constructed were in China”, Li Yin is still surprised to admit. For the last four along the Salween, one of the last free-flowing rivers in China. years, Li Yin, the project manager for South Pole Carbon, who grew up in Beijing, has made regular visits from China’s capital to the picturesque, untamed mountainous region of Nujiang in “If one takes a short-term perspective, the south-west of the country. South Pole Carbon is an interit’s certainly more expensive to bet on nationally active company, which develops innovative, climatefriendly projects to reduce carbon emissions. sustainable energy sources.” Until recently, wood was a major energy source. Meals were usuMax Zeckau, media spokesperson for South Pole Carbon ally cooked on an open fire, and electricity was obtained from dirty and inefficient diesel generators. The steadily increasing demand for power led to deforestation and soil erosion, which The Salween is one of the largest watersheds in the Himalayas. in turn sharply increased the danger of landslides. Mountains covering six climatic zones – from 760 to 6740 meters above sea level – soar over the river’s swirling water. Along its More than ten ethnic minorities live in this poor region, and no course, scientists have found 173 animal species, 417 bird and one would begrudge them the right to economic development 59 reptile species, of which 79 are in danger of extinction. On account of this abundant biodiversity, ten years ago UNESCO declared the western slopes of the Gaoligong mountain range a World Heritage Site. Almost 800 000 tonnes of carbon saved Within the scope of a carbon reduction project in Nujiang and throughout the entire south-western mountain range, around 100 small and micro power plants are being installed, which use water flowing over natural height differences to generate sustainable electrical energy. Because they operate without dams there are no negative effects on the flora, fauna and landscape. Emission-free power generation and the long-term security of the project are supported with the proceeds from the emission certificates. Consequently, in just the last two years almost 800 000 tonnes of carbon emissions were saved. A welcome side effect is the reduction in respiratory illnesses thanks to healthy Training on the ground: Farmer Li Sancai (right) benefiting from Li Yin’s tips. air, especially inside homes. 22 22 Nature conservation: The Salween, one of the last free-flowing rivers in China that is not obstructed by dams. The project is an example of how certificates to reduce carbon “We also learned how the market functions and how we can emissions can be used to promote environmentally and socially contribute to the economic development of the region”, added sustainable development. “If one takes a short-term perspecLi Sancai. “Those are the most important building blocks that tive, it’s certainly more expensive to bet on sustainable energy will help us to increase our income and reduce poverty in sources”, explains Max Zeckau, media spokesperson for South the region.” Pole Carbon in Zurich. “If it weren’t for the internationally traded carbon certificates, more coal-fired power plants would be built The generation of sustainable power contributes to this develto meet the rising demand for power.” Coal-fired power plants opment. “By modernizing existing hydro plants, we are helpare cheaper than the emission-free hydroelectric plants. These ing to preserve the wonderful nature of the Nujiang region”, funding shortfalls can be overcome with the certificates that enenthused Li Yin, who is a passionate hiker. “If this region can able companies such as LGT to become CO2-neutral. be opened up for tourism in the future, that will also provide a further economic boost.” An integral part of the project, which is subject to the strict criteria of the Social Carbon Standard (see box), involves the Social Carbon Standard training of local farmers and setting up a library with agri­cultural The Social Carbon Standard is a standard that was develbooks and training DVDs. New farming methods are also taught oped over ten years ago by the Brazilian Ecologica Institute. in seminars and workshops. “In the workshops I learned more In addition to reducing carbon emissions, projects certithan just new techniques for improving farming methods and fied in accordance with this standard must offer long-term increasing harvests”, said Li Sancai, a local farmer. Qia Fulin, social and economic added value for the project region. To ensure that the social projects meet the needs of the local community, local people are involved in the evaluation and “We also learned how the market development of them. Regular assessment and monitorfunctions and how we can contribute ing of the projects forms an important component of the Social Carbon Standard. “For example, we not only have to the economic development to prove how many people took part in our agricultural of the region.” training programs, we also have provide exact documenLi Sancai, farmer tary evidence of their learning success”, explained Max Zeckau of South Pole Carbon. another farmer, benefits from livestock breeding research. For further information: www.socialcarbon.org and “What I learned in the workshop helps me in my daily work”, www.southpolecarbon.com she is pleased to say. 23 Our engagement as an employer Assuming social and environmental responsibility is an Foundation) offers our employees various programs integral part of our corporate culture. It is important to in the area of holistic personality development, i.e. for us that our employees identify with our values and wish the integrated development of the mind and body. to undertake a long-term commitment to our clients. Every year around 180 employees take advantage of the programs on offer, which we are continuing to A responsible employer develop further. We offer our employees an attractive and inspiring working environment and encourage their developIdentifying and nurturing talented individuals ment. We invest around CHF 2000 per person per year early on in education and training. The training of the next generation is a long-established and important part of our employee development. As a Since 2010, our private bankers have been developing certified training bank (in accordance with guidelines their advisory skills and expertise on a Master’s program issued by the Swiss Bankers Association), we are comthat has been specially developed for LGT – a kind of mitted to providing young people an entry into working internal university for client advisers. By the end of life that is based on practical experience and is varied. 2012, around 70 participants had successfully graduOur programs address the professional and personal ated from the course. LGT has decided to supplement development of young people, as well as the social this demanding program with an internal certification aspects of vocational training. We employ around 90 procedure and to certify all our client advisers in Liechpercent of our apprentices after they have completed tenstein, Switzerland and Austria by the end of 2014. their apprenticeship. Being successful in business requires more than exper­ Every two years we offer ten university graduates an tise – and with this in mind we place a particular em­ 18-month training course which allows them to develop phasis on developing the personality of our employees. their personal skills and knowledge for a specific funcEstablished in 1995, the LGT Academy Foundation tion. Around 30 trainees have participated in the pro(since 2010 renamed the Liechtenstein Academy gram since it was started in 2008. 24 Measures in the social area Work-life balance Ideas@LGT: fuel for sustainable growth LGT has been a member of Profawo, a not-for-profit Ideas are an important driver of innovation for making organization that provides childcare services and advice, structures, processes, products and services even more for a number of years. We try to accommodate any sustainable. Introduced in 2012, our idea pool enables employee who requests to work part-time. our employees to make suggestions and actively participate in the successful development of LGT. Every year the Group Executive Committee selects and rewards the best ideas. Headcount statistics of LGT Group 2012 2011 2010 Headcount Headcount (FTEs) 1 748.4 1 703 1 805.4 Full-time headcount 1 587 n.a. n.a. Part-time headcount 161.4 n.a. n.a. Apprentices 30 29 28 Graduate trainees 9 10 10 Bank entry at high school graduate level 7 7 7 Key performance indicators Average years of service in years 8.6 8.6 n.a. Average age in years 41.4 41.2 41 Diversity and equality of opportunity Number of nationalities 49 44 54 Share of women in total workforce 36.6 36.2 35.7 Measures in the social area 25 Our social engagement Many of our employees volunteer their services to the The Employee Volunteering Program was launched in community in which they live and work. To encourage 2011 with the “Bicycles for Africa” campaign, together voluntary work we set up the Employee Volunteering with our partner organization Gump& Drahtesel. Program, which enables employees to get involved in Some 30 employees collected over 500 old bicycles. We assisting selected partner organizations in their leisure held another collection in 2012 and over 600 disused time. The program ranges from sporadic assignments bicycles were brought in. Gump& Drahtesel shipped to long-term support of projects. the bicycles in containers from Basel to Africa, and in particular to Burkina Faso, Ghana and Zimbabwe, where Partner organizations bicycles are a vital means of transport for the people. Educational/social n Gump& Drahtesel, www.gump-drahtesel.ch To date, over 50 LGT employees have been involved in n Infoklick.ch, www.infoklick.ch the Employee Volunteering Program, which is also part n Procap Schweiz, www.procap.ch of our training for apprentices and graduate trainees. n Heilpädagogisches Zentrum des Fürstentums Liechtenstein, www.hpz.li Environmental n Stiftung Umwelt-Einsatz Schweiz (SUS) and Pro Natura, www.umwelteinsatz.ch n Bergwaldprojekt/Caritas-Bergeinsatz, www.bergwaldprojekt.ch 26 Measures in the social area LGT Venture Philanthropy Experience philanthropy Everybody should be able to live in dignified circumAt our “House of Philanthropy Solutions” in Zurich, we stances and have a fair chance for development. show innovative solutions that organizations we support LGT Venture Philanthropy was established with this have developed, namely in the following areas: educamission in mind by H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu tion, water, health, nutrition, renewable energy, resource Liechtenstein in 2007. The foundation supports 26 management and markets for social investments. or­ganizations in Latin America, Africa, India, Southeast Asia, Europe and China and through them improves iCats Program the sustainable quality of life of around seven million Expertise and knowledge transfer are particularly imless advantaged people. portant to the organizations that we support. As in the private sector, social organizations depend on efficient LGT Venture Philanthropy applies the principles and processes, transparent financing models, professional approach of venture capital and private equity to the management and well-functioning IT systems. Through area of philanthropy (so-called impact investing). It its iCats Program, LGT Venture Philanthropy places makes long-term direct investments in young, strongly people who can bring professional experience and growing organizations that take an entrepreneurial expertise to the organizations, providing on-site team approach to creating social or ecological added value support for a period of eleven months. To date, 72 exfor less advantaged people. perts from 16 countries have provided their assistance at the portfolio organizations. In particular, it provides them with capital and expertise, on-site advice and access to key investors and networks. Further information on LGT Venture Philanthropy can The foundations, impact investment funds and advisory be found at: www.lgtvp.com services – originally based on professional and entre­ preneurial principles and designed for the philanthropic involvement of the Princely Family of Liechtenstein – are in the meantime also used by clients who wish to make a positive impact. The Princely Family invests USD five to ten million per year in the portfolio orga­ nizations of LGT Venture Philanthropy. Measures in the social area 27 Employee Volunteering Program Head of Human Resources steps into a different role Gustav Stendahl draws on his many years of professional experience to coach unemployed people. And together with employees from LGT he has collected over 1000 bicycles for Africa. Bank for the employee volun­ teering program. Gump& Drahtesel accompanies unemployed people and offers them various coaching and training programs that should help them to reintegrate into the working world. The organization also runs recycling workshops where unemployed people repair old bicycles. From frustration to success The coach for LGT employees became a coach for the unemployed for two weeks. “Many have lost their jobs due to the financial and economic crisis,” he says. Among them, young people who were unable to finish their apprenticeship and Lending a helping hand: Gustav Stendahl takes part in LGT’s campaign to collect for “Bicycles for Africa”. older people who can’t find a job because of their age. “The longer someone is out of work, “I’m actually a socially-oriented person. Even so, I’ve had little inthe harder it is to get them back into work,” comments the volvement in social projects in the past,” says Gustav Stendahl, 56-year-old human resources expert. Many of the unemployed who has been Head of Group Human Resources at LGT since also have limited language skills and little training. Helping 1999. Family, friends, other commitments and, not least, my them get out of their desperate situation is, therefore, no easy job have always had priority. “As I’ve got older, I’ve thought more and more about getting engaged socially,” adds the Swede. “I’ve been lucky in my life, and now I’d like to help others.” “Many have lost their jobs due to the financial and More can be achieved by joining forces. With this in mind, toeconomic crisis.” gether with a project team he developed a so-called employee volunteering program – a kind of platform for voluntary work Gustav Stendahl at selected partner organizations. LGT employees were to be given the opportunity to do charitable work with the support of task, according to Stendahl. His recipe for success? “There’s the Bank. Stendahl, who had already planned a sabbatical for no simple recipe – coaching has to be as individual as the perthat year, took the opportunity to do a stint himself at Gumpson and their circumstances.” Most important of all is that they & Drahtesel, the first social organization to be selected by the have to keep up their motivation, no matter how difficult the 28 28 situation. Stendahl also demands of them that, “they have to want to get a job and be prepared to work hard to find one.” One of the aims of the Gump& Drahtesel coaching program is to provide encouragement to the unemployed. But good will alone is not enough. This is why practice job interviews are frequently held and analyzed, and job application documents are checked and optimized in a personal talk. During his assignment, Gustav Stendahl could draw upon his own experience – his know-how as a human resources expert and over 30 years of professional experience in the field at various companies in Germany, Italy and Switzerland – to give tips to the unemployed and to provide advice and support to the Gump& Drahtesel coaching team. The bicycles collected by LGT are a vital means of transport in Africa. Generally, up to 40 unemployed people take part in the twomobilize LGT employees but also his own family: his 20-year-old month program. The success of the program speaks for itself: daughter and 25 year-old-son both took part in the Bank’s first after completing the program, around 80 percent of the particibicycle collection, and his wife in the second. pants find a job. Others, though, remain unemployed long term. Gustav Stendahl undertook a vol“There’s a fine line between frus“It’s like being part of untary assignment at Gump& tration and success. The course a big family – everyone Drahtesel again in 2012. In future, brings some stability to the life he intends to provide support as helps each other.” a coach to the unemployed once of the unemployed,” he says. “It’s like being part of a big family – Gustav Stendahl or twice a year. And, of course, everyone helps each other,” adds he will also be taking part in fuStendahl, who grew up as one of five siblings in Stockholm. ture collections organized by the Bank’s Employee Volunteering Program. Together with other employees – and undoubtedly Gustav Stendahl discovered Gump& Drahtesel’s “Bicycles for again with his family. Success also motivates people outside Africa” campaign during his stint of voluntary work. He worked the Bank. with unemployed people, helping them to collect old bicycles. Together they repaired them in the organization’s bicycle recycling workshop, getting them ready for exporting to Africa. In selected countries such as Burkina Faso, Ghana and Zimbabwe where there is often a lack of affordable transportation, the bicycles are then sold locally at very reasonable prices by local partners. Enthused by the idea, Stendahl organized a bicycle The joy of helping others together collection in 2011. It also marked the launch of the LGT EmWith the Employee Volunteering Program, the LGT Group provides its ployee Volunteering Program. Around 500 bicycles were colemployees with the opportunity to get involved in assisting selected lected by both employees and the local population and brought organizations in the areas of education, environment and society in to the LGT Service Center in Bendern. On one Saturday in the their leisure time or during their vacation. The program ranges from fall, over 30 employees prepared the bicycles for transport to sporadic assignments to long-term support of projects. It was set up in Africa. Another collection was held the following year and over 2011 as part of the Bank’s sustainability concept. Over 50 employees 600 disused bicycles were brought in. “It was a resounding suchave been involved in the program to date. cess,” remarks Gustav Stendahl, who has managed to not only 29 For a sustainable economy and financial industry LGT Group is also involved in numerous international European Sustainable Investment Forum (Eurosif) associations, organizations and networks, in order to Europe-wide network and think-tank. Its mission is to make a contribution to sustainable development. The develop sustainability through European financial marmost important memberships are: kets. Members include institutional investors, financial service providers, academic institutes, trade unions and UN Global Compact non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The United Nation’s corporate social responsibility net­ www.eurosif.org work and a voluntary initiative to promote the social engagement of businesses. Companies commit themselves to recognizing, supporting and implementing the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. www.unglobalcompact.org Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (FNG) This sustainability report from LGT serves as a progress Industry association promoting sustainable investment report under the United Nation’s Global Compact. in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. www.forum-ng.org Eurosif, jointly with FNG, awards the transparency logo for sustainable mutual funds, among them LGT’s sustainable investment funds. 30 Our memberships Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) Profawo This independent, non-profit organization promotes the The aim of this non-profit organization is to provide implementation of sustainable corporate governance professional childcare service solutions to complement practices in companies and authorities throughout Asia family-based care and offer advice when needed to and supports the long-term development of Asian eco­ its members about balancing family and career. nomies and capital markets. www.profawo.ch www.acga-asia.org The Swiss Climate Foundation UNPRI The Swiss Climate Foundation unites various major serThis network of international investors promotes responvice enterprises from Switzerland and since 2012 also sible investment and supports incorporating principles from Liechtenstein. It has supported 128 SME projects to of exemplary corporate governance into portfolio the tune of CHF 5.5 million since being established in construction in accordance with ESG criteria. 2008. Since 2012 LGT has donated its net gains from rewww.unpri.org distributed CO2 levies to the Swiss Climate Foundation. www.klimastiftung.ch Carbon Disclosure Project This independent, non-profit organization champions the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable water use by businesses and cities. www.cdproject.net Our memberships 31 Sustainability performance indicators at a glance 2012 2011 2010 Economic (page 9 ff.) Sustainable products Investment volume of sustainable investments CHF m 914 505 229 Financial indicators Assets under administration CHF m 102 118 86 932 86 079 thereof client assets under administration CHF m 99 448 84 486 83 547 thereof LGT’s Princely Portfolio CHF m 2 670 2 446 2 532 Total operating income CHF m 957 709 883 Group profit CHF m 216 70 148 Appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m -150 1 -75 -75 Group equity capital after appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m 3 345 2 932 3 084 Total assets CHF m 27 192 26 252 24 388 Ratios Tier 1 % 21.5 17.5 19.3 Cost/income % 64 75 2 703 Rating4 Moody’s Aa3 Aa3 Aa3 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Ecological (page 16 ff.) Total energy consumption MWh 13 935.4 15 458.2 18 323.2 Electricity MWh 10 592.4 10 198 11 341.5 Heating energy MWh 3 343 5 260.2 6 981.7 Paper consumption Tonnes 95.7 82.6 101.9 of which FSC paper % 100 100 100 of which 100% recycled paper % 61 0 0 Waste Tonnes 258.1 276.5 232.1 Water consumption m3 38 665.8 36 116.6 43 071.1 CO2 emissions Tonnes 2 931.4 3 211.4 3 683.8 Social (page 24 ff.) Headcount (FTEs) 1 748.4 1 703 1 805.4 of which women % 36.6 36.2 35.7 Part-time headcount 161.4 n.a. n.a. Number of apprentices 30 29 28 Average years of service Years 8.6 8.6 n.a. Training costs per employee CHF 2 010 1 936 1 786 1 Proposed 2 Excluding charges in connection with the sale of LGT Bank in Liechtenstein & Co. OHG 3 Excluding payment to German authorities in 2010 4 LGT Bank Ltd., Vaduz (formerly LGT Bank in Liechtenstein Ltd., Vaduz) 32 Facts and figures Illustrations of scallops Studies of natural objects have been a favorite with collectors since the 16th century. Besides being an objective, most naturalistic representation of the subject, these works always have considerable aesthetic charm and artistic value, just like the watercolor series of sea shells and sea snails by Franz Anton von Scheidel. © LIECHTENSTEIN. The Princely Collections, Vaduz–Vienna The illustrations in this brochure are details from “Illustrations of scallops after Johann Carl Megerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840)”, before 1801 Note on data collection The environmental performance indicators mentioned in this report are collocations in Liechtenstein and Switzerland, where three-quarters of LGT lected in accordance with the requirements of the German Association for Group employees work. We use this data to extrapolate consumption across Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (VfU) all our locations. (2010) and ecoinvent Centre (2007). Concrete data is available for our Risk note/Disclaimer This publication is for your information only and is not intended as an offer, expert. Investors should be aware that the value of investments can fall as solicitation of an offer, public advertisement or recommendation to buy or well as rise. Positive performance in the past is therefore no guarantee of posell any investment or other specific product. Its content has been prepared sitive performance in the future. The risk of price and foreign currency losses by our staff and is based on sources of information we consider to be reliaband of fluctuations in return as a result of unfavorable exchange rate movele. However, we cannot provide any undertaking or guarantee as to it being ments cannot be ruled out. There is a possibility that investors will not recocorrect, complete and up to date. The circumstances and principles to which ver the full amount they initially invested. We disclaim without qualification the information contained in this publication relates may change at any time. all liability for any loss or damage of any kind, whether direct, indirect or conOnce published, therefore, information shall not be understood as implying sequential, which may be incurred through the use of this publication. This that no change has taken place since its publication or that it is still up to publication is not intended for persons subject to legislation that prohibits its date. The information in this publication does not constitute an aid for decisidistribution or makes its distribution contingent upon an approval. Any peron-making in relation to financial, legal, tax or other consulting matters, nor son coming into possession of this publication shall therefore be obliged to should any investment or other decisions be made on the basis of this inforfind out about any restrictions that may apply and to comply with them. mation alone. It is recommended that advice be obtained from a qualified 34 Spitzmarke “For us, sustainability means conducting our activities in a socially responsible manner and with a long-term, holistic view.” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT Group Notes to the Group Accounts 35 LGT Bank Ltd. LGT Bank (Switzerland) Ltd. Herrengasse 12 Lange Gasse 15 FL-9490 Vaduz CH-4002 Basel Phone +423 235 11 22 Phone +41 61 277 56 00 info@lgt.com lgt.ch@lgt.com LGT Bank Ltd. LGT Bank (Singapore) Ltd. Zweigniederlassung Österreich 3 Temasek Avenue, #30-01 Centennial Tower Bankgasse 9 Singapore 039190 A-1010 Vienna Phone +65 6415 3800 Phone +43 1 227 59-0 info@lgt.com lgt.austria@lgt.com LGT Bank (Hong Kong) Suite 4203, Two Exchange Square 8 Connaught Place, Central, Hong Kong Phone +852 2868 0201 info@lgt.com LGT Group Foundation Herrengasse 12 FL-9490 Vaduz Phone +423 235 11 22 lgt@lgt.com 50036en 0613 5H BVD www.lgt.com LGT Group is represented in more than 20 locations in Europe, Asia and the Middle East. A complete address list can be seen at www.lgt.com
