2012 Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2 Atresmedia Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04 This Annual Report was approved by Antena 3 de Televisión, S.A. Board of Directors on 27th February 2013. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3 Letter from the President 4 Message from the CEO 8 Main figures of Atresmedia 12 The year’s highlights 14 Atresmedia 24 Atresmedia Televisión 52 Atresmedia Radio 74 Atresmedia Cine 84 Atresmedia Digital 88 Atresmedia Publicidad 97 Human Resources 112 Society 130 The Environment 151 Annexes 162 Continuing the policy introduced in 2009, this report offers a unified approach to the disclosure of both the financial and non-financial (social, environmental and corporate governance) aspects of Atresmedia. This is another example of the commitment made by the company to fully integrate corporate responsibility into its business model. Throughout the report all the information on Corporate Responsibility has been highlighted in green. Moreover, and in keeping with this approach of transparency and accessibility of information, Atresmedia has created a specific microsite for the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report, hosted on the corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com, which allows all the information in this report to be accessed and downloaded. This new communication channel has for the first time removed the need to create a printed version of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report and this has reinforced the Company’s commitment to the efficient use of natural resources. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4 Letter from the President ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Letter from the President 5 In its 23 years of existence, this Company has demonstrated that it is [ In 2013 capable of overcoming the transformations that the media business Antena 3 is constantly undergoing, be they technological, social or legislative. attained In the last few years, the economic crisis and, consequently, that of advertising too, has significantly added to this constant process of audience metamorphosis being experience by the audiovisual market. And, leadership, once again, we have exceeded in surmounting the obstacles and atsomething taining the objectives which we had set for ourselves. which has not occurred in Change, innovation and growth were, in short, the foundations on the last seven which the Company has constructed its own history. For a long time we have been much more than a television channel. Today, if we anyears. ] alyze the volume and capacity of all our activities, we may state that we are the leading media group in Spain. Atresmedia, our new corporate identity, not only gives its name to this road that we have traveled along since Antena 3 TV was formed in 1989, but rather it underpins our firm wish to soundly remain at the helm of the media industry in Spain. As the leading communications Group in Spain, we directly manage seven television channels, three radio stations, a powerful film production company and, for many years, we have been at the forefront of the new digital media. To this, we must add our leading role in the advertising business. Atresmedia is, without doubt, undergoing a marvelous moment. 2012 was, with taking into account the economic crisis, the best year in the Company’s history in relevant terms. Important milestones took place, including most notably the process of integration of laSexta into Atresmedia Televisión, following the announcement, at the end of the preceding year, of the merger. The integration of laSexta, together with its complementary channels, took place in record time. Never has such a complicated process been carried out in such an apparently simple manner. The reason: we know what we want and how to carry it out. We have reinforced the personality of each of the channels giving rise to an extremely rich and varied television offering, providing each channel with the required elements in order to guarantee its individual development, but, in turn, sharing attributes such as the quality and talent comprising the essence of Atresmedia Televisión. In short, a leading offering of seven television channels which complement and satisfy the demands of spectators and advertisers like never before. The model drawn up is functioning efficiently, to the point that Antena 3 had attained audience leadership in January 2013, something which has not occurred in the last seven years. And laSexta, for its part, has reported its best data since the merger. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Letter from the President 6 Personally, I feel very satisfied, because our courageous pledge for [ Today we will a varied, respectful and quality television model, focusing on talent be harvesting and drive, is today the trademark not only of Antena 3 but also of our our fruits and whole television offering. Today we will be harvesting our fruits and we note with satisfaction that another manner of understanding and we note with making television was not only possible but necessary. I am proud of satisfaction our team of professionals, which has demonstrated that we can conthat another tinue to grow in terms of audience and, in turn, successfully perform manner of a merger at a particularly adverse moment due to the crisis and the understanding decline of the advertising market. and making But as I was saying Atresmedia gives its name to a Company which television extends its influence beyond television. If I previously stated that 2012 was not only has been the best year in our history, without taking into account the possible but economic context, it is because we have also experienced significant necessary. ] and highly relevant growth in our other business areas. Atresmedia Radio, with its radio stations Onda Cero and Europa FM, continues to win new listeners, year after year, in a sound, unstoppable manner, demonstrating that its formula is, definitively, synony[ I am proud mous of success. Onda Cero, with its own plural and balanced style, of our team of is undeniably the radio station which sets trends. Meanwhile Europa professionals, FM continues to climb the ladder to leadership and does not seem to which has have found its limit. demonstrated that we can Atresmedia Digital, on the other hand, continues to beat its own brands, exponentially boosting our communication capacity as a continue to group and exploring with top marks new means to reach the audigrow in terms ence through innovation. of audience and, in turn, The influence of our Company extends to the whole audiovisual busisuccessfully ness and here the activity of Atresmedia Cine plays a significant role. perform a Once again, and this has been the case for several years, the Commerger at a pany has been a fundamental pillar in the cinema industry in Spain, demonstrating that good films can be made which attract spectators particularly to the cinemas, without relinquishing profitability. adverse moment due to Atresmedia Publicidad has once again been able to respond to the the decline of circumstances. Knowing how to reinvent itself, without a fear of the advertising change, and exploring all the possibilities offered by a market expemarket. ] riencing so many difficulties, it was once again the motor that we needed to reach the objectives that we had set ourselves. Accordingly, in an environment in which very few communication companies are obtaining profit, Artresmedia closed the year as one of the Companies which has best resisted the crisis. Net Profit amounted to €31.9 million, while Gross Operating Profit (EBITDA) was €39.5 million. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Letter from the President 7 Likewise, Atresmedia maintains its commitments to its shareholders [ In 2012, the and will pay most of the Net Profit obtained as a Dividend, quite a Company milestone in the current economic circumstances. completed the On another matter, in 2012, the Company completed the implementaimplementation tion of the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan complying with 97% of the Corporate of the shares envisaged. It has been a success of great magnitude beResponsibility cause this Plan, which has guided Atresmedia in the last three years, Master Plan has converted us into the leading Company of the sector in this area. complying with 97% of Furthermore, Atresmedia’s commitment to society was reflected with the entering into of new collaboration agreements with orgathe shares nizations such as the Food Bank, Unicef, or WWF-Adena as well as envisaged. ] with the permanent support to the UN Global Compact principles. It is a question of continuing to contribute our main value, the ability to reach the audience to influence it, to sensitize the society to the significant problems of our time, such as food wastage, the protection [ We have of children’s rights and climate change. I am aware that this is a task played an of great significance and dimensions, which motivates us even further to continue working in this line. active role in the defense of This year drives were also performed for young people through the audiovisual Antena 3 Foundation, such as the first edition of the competition Te industry in Toca! aimed at young people finding the solutions to certain probSpain when it is lems. Furthermore, Corporate Responsibility initiatives such as Ponle most required. ] Freno, El Estirón or Hazte Eco are still more alive than ever with new campaigns. The soundness and strength of Atresmedia has become clear one more year. As a communication group we have consolidated, in the worst circumstances, our position as a benchmark in all areas of activity. But I do not wish to finish this annual balance without highlighting that thanks to that ambition to grow and exceed ourselves, we have played an active role in the defense of the audiovisual industry in Spain when it is most required. 2012 was a great year for us. And we are working to ensure that 2013 is better. José Manuel Lara ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8 Message from the CEO ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the CEO 9 2012 was a decisive year for the Company. For yet another year, the [ Today economic recession endeavored to mark our activity and, one year Atresmedia more, we have faced all the challenges we had set for ourselves. Once is the biggest again, we have been reinforced. media group All the companies forming the Group, now under the name Atresmewith the dia, have reported positive data, and all of them have proven their greatest capacity to excel in such an adverse climate as the present one. communication capacity in Atresmedia Radio maintains its sustained growth; Atresmedia Digital Spain. ] has nearly ten million users every month; Atresmedia Cine is a clear reference in cinema production in Spain; and Atresmedia Televisión has integrated laSexta and shaped a comprehensive offering, capable of satisfying audience and advertiser demands. To the foregoing we must add Atresmedia Publicidad, which has once again known [ We are one of how to take advantages of all the possibilities offered by a market the Companies clearly in recession, opening new commercial doors and, consequentwhich is best ly, playing a decisive role in all our activity. resisting the Today Atresmedia is already, as a whole, the biggest media group pinch of the with the greatest communication capacity in Spain. We are one of crisis, all without the Companies which is best resisting the pinch of the crisis, all withrelinquishing out relinquishing the ability to continue to grow. The integration of the ability to laSexta and of its group of channels has represented an additional efcontinue to fort for the Organization. Now the doubts have disappeared and, with grow. ] the results in our hands, I can only define this experience as excellent: both the spectators and the advertisers have clearly benefited. Atresmedia Televisión’s offering covers an extensive range. Each one of our channels maintains its publishing lines, and the new channels from laSexta have reinforced their personality. They are in the organization to join forces. Integration does not mean extinction, rather to form part of a large media Company, complementing with new approaches within a single large brand. The positive evolution experienced by Atresmedia Televisión in recent years is not a coincidence, it has been a constant feature month by month in all the channels. It is the success of a proven model, of a way of understanding television as entertainment and also as a business. The crisis has made things more difficult for us, but it has not pushed us to inactivity. Quite the opposite. In the same way, the results that we are obtaining tell us that we are on the right road when we decide to boost laSexta’ s attributes: information, humor programs and international fiction The response of the public has been highly positive and surprising in a very limited time: the young channel ended December with 5.5%, its best data ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the CEO 10 since September 2011. And in February 2013, it became the absolute [ Integration leader in its segment. Since the merger, we are also working to open does not mean the channel to new genres which attract larger audiences. extinction, Antena 3, for its part, has successfully consolidated its own model. rather knowing After climbing to second position in 2012, one month later, in January how to form 2013, it was already the preferred channel by the public versus the part of a minimums of its main rivals. large media Company, These historical results were obtained thanks to the backing of our complementing offering in all time slots, from Espejo Público or La Ruleta de la Suerte, to the success of our betting programs, including most notably with new Formula 1 (with its best data in four years), the competitions Tu Cara approaches me Suena, Ahora Caigo and Atrapa un Millón or series such as El Sewithin a single creto de Puente Viejo or Con el Culo al Aire. large brand. ] We consider innovation to be the lever to progress. Atresmedia Televisión succeeded yet another year in obtaining the highest percentage of success in its television market premieres, setting trends and creating new formulas to attract the spectator. The best example [ Atresmedia is Tu Cara me Suena, a program created at Antena 3, which has not Televisión only been a success in Spain, but has also become the most seen and succeeded yet sold format in the world at this present time. another year in obtaining This model, based on a richness of genders, quality and respect for the highest the audience, is extendible to the remainder of our family of channels. Furthermore, its growth and consolidation: Neox, Nova, Nitro, xplora percentage and laSexta3TODOCINE have excelled their direct rivals. In Decemof success in ber they were, as a whole, the leading theme television offering. its television market The television results are extendible to Atresmedia Radio. Onda Cero, premieres, has one year more, grown in terms of listeners. In accordance with setting trends the General Media Study, the channel’s programs were followed by and creating 2,615,000 listeners, 161,000 more than in 2011. This rise was preceded by increases in previous years, which reinforced our radio proposal new formulas based on continuity, balance and respect for different opinions which to attract the has and does hit the nail on the head. spectator. ] We can state the same with respect to Atresmedia Digital, the perfect complement for our communication model, which grew in terms of users by 10% to near 10 million; or Atresmedia Cine, four of whose programs figure among the 10 most seen programs and which raked in 20% of the Spanish cinema box office takings. Atresmedia Publicidad also gained excellent marks in the year. With income above market figures and, despite the fact that advertising investment fell by 16% in 2012, it has succeeded in vindicating the value added of the product we offer, together with the richness of our supports, notably improving commercial efficiency. Furthermore, it has effectively taken advantage of the integration with laSexta, genATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Message from the CEO 11 erating a new commercial offering based, on the one hand, on the [ Atresmedia principle of maximum coverage and, on the other, on that of maxiPublicidad mum affinity. has taken Consequently, Atresmedia obtained Profit of €31.9 million after sucadvantage of ceeding in reducing by half the impact of the advertising crash: meanthe integration while the market experienced a fall of 16% in 2012 and the Company’s with laSexta in a Net Revenues diminished 8% to €741.2. highly efficient manner, thereby These results are the fruit of the work performed by a team which generating a has not spared any efforts and which has gone beyond the expected, contributing ideas and contributing decisively to the creation of a new commercial responsible and successful communication model which is now recoffering. ] ognized and respected. We also continue making progress on Corporate Responsibility. We are aware that our stakeholders demand greater accountability and transparency in the non-financial aspects of the company. As a result, throughout the year we have held regular meetings with associations of viewers and listeners, academics and corporate accountability forums. All of Atresmedia’s efforts in this area have been welcomed by society and Antena 3 has been recognised as the leading television company in the social responsibility ranking for the public and commercial broadcasters in Spain. Corporate Responsibility forms part of the culture of our company, and corporate volunteering is also fully integrated into it. In this regard, I would like to thank all of Atresmedia’s employees for their cooperation and efforts in the volunteering activities the Company has organised to support different social organisations and groups. We succeeded in achieving our objectives in a year which once again looked complicated. The crisis has been an obstacle but it has also strengthened and stimulated us. With this impulse, considering that the best is yet to come for Atresmedia, we are facing new stages with the certainty of being prepared to overcome the challenges facing us in the future. Silvio González ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12 Main figures of Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Main figures of Atresmedia 13 The following table compiles, by way of an executive summary, the main results of Atresmedia grouped into three approaches: economic, social and environmental. ECONOMIC 2010 2011 2012 Total Net Revenues (€million)* 807.7 805.2 741.2 EBITDA (€million)* 156.9 124.4 39.5 Net profit (€million)* 109.1 93.4 29.5 Distributed Economic Value (€million)* 558.6 638.1 618.3 Economic aid received from the Government (€million) 10.8 11.6 2.5 Advertising efficiency ratio (adults) 1.81 1.81 1.71 Advertising efficiency ratio (individuals) 1.80 1.81 1.72 Number of advertisers 17,998 17,964 18,105 Average viewing share Antena 3 Televisión (%) 11.7 11.5 12.5 Average viewing share Neox (%) 2.2 2.7 2.60 Average viewing share Nova (%) 1.5 1.5 1.60 Average viewing share Nitro (%) – 1.4 1.58 Average viewing share laSexta (4th quarter 2012, %) 5.45 Average viewing share xplora (4th quarter 2012, %) 1.49 Average viewing share laSexta3 (4th quarter 2012, %) 1.40 Onda Cero Share (%) 19.0 20.3 19.3 Europa FM Share (%) 7.7 8.1 10.5 No. of listeners Onda Cero 2,323,000 2,454,000 2,615,000 No. of listeners Europa FM 1,455,000 1,579,000 2,121,000 No. of videos provided www.antena3.com (monthly average millions) 26.3 52.9 56.8 No. of videos provided www.lasexta.com and www.xplora.com (monthly average 11.5 in millions 4th quarter 2012) * Note: the economic data include the results of LASEXTA since October 2012. SOCIAL 2010 2011 2012 No. of hours broadcast of children's programs 1,689 2,509 3,337 No. of hours of accumulated subtitles 7,196 10,491 29,940 No. of employees 1,942 1,849 1,784 Investment in training (€) 333,923 424,858 395,700 No. of hours training per employee 34 29.5 30 Income of the Foundation contributed by Atresmedia (€) 500,000 360,000 500,000 Non-compliance with Self-regulation Code 3 2 0 Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free television spots for social advertising (€) 3,715,759 8,300,820 Opportunity cost of the broadcast of free radio slots for social advertising (€) – 1,735,430 1,652,155 ENVIRONMENTAL 2010 2011 2012 Consumption of white paper (sheets) 6,595,000 6,117,500 5,672,500 Consumption of toner and print cartridges (units) 886 791 742 Consumption of florescent lights (units) 1,673 1,695 1,301 Urban solid waste (tons) 363 352 325 Gas consumption (m3) 12,442 10,270 12,579 Consumption of heating gas oil (liters) 520,878 420,040 419,643 Consumption of electricity (Kwh)** 19,716,406 19,400,980 29,070,214 Water consumption (liters) ** 52,449 46,856 50,553 Greenhouse gas emissions (equivalent tons of CO2) 2,095.06 2,680.31 1,373.35 Environmental investment (€thousand) 105.30 148.54 25.67 ** Note: The data include the S.S. de los Reyes Center, A3TV Offices and Onda Cero offices., not reported in previous years. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14 The year’s highlights ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 15 Financial Results Atresmedia obtained very sound results in an economic climate of decline in the advertising market and weakness at macroeconomic level. σσ Atresmedia’s Net Revenues amounted to €741.2 million (as compared with €805.2 million in 2011). σσ EBITDA amounted to €39.5 million, which represents a sales margin of 5.3%. σσ Net Profit totaled €31.9 million. σσ The Distributed Economic Value reached €618.3 million. 741.2 €M 39.5 €M 31.9 €M 618.3 €M Net Revenues EBITDA Net Profit Distributed Economic Value Television Division The Television Division of Atresmedia attained sound results, exceeding the market in a year in which TV advertising fell approximately 19%. σσ Net Revenues were €638.8 million. σσ Gross profit from operations amounted to €27.4 million, which represents a sales margin of 4.3%. 638.8 €M 27.4 €M Net Revenues EBITDA Radio Division Onda Cero continued to reinforce its position in the Spanish radio market. In 2012 it increased its number of listeners by 161,000. Europa FM, reaches for the first time in its history two million listeners. σσ In 2012 the Company reported Net Revenues of €82.8 million. σσ Its EBITDA amounted to €11.0 million (sales margin of 13.2%). 82.8 €M 11.0 €M Net Revenues EBITDA ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 16 2012 Milestones Success in the integration of laSexta On 1 October, the merger took place between Antena 3 and laSexta, a successful process in which the former laSexta shareholders take an initial stake of 7% in the new company and an additional stake of up to 7%, phased in gradually and in function of compliance during the 2012-2016 period with a series of objectives related to the results of the new Group. With the incorporation of the television offering of laSexta, Atresmedia Televisión adds to its outstanding presence in other markets (radio, advertising or cinema) a leading proposal in the television business: in total eight channels (Antena 3, laSexta, Neox, Nova, Nitro, xplora, laSexta3TODOCINE and Gol TV, the latter under a lease arrangement), which consolidates the Company as the leading communication group. Antena 3, the best year of its history Since the birth of Antena 3 until the present, the Company has been expanding and consolidating its business areas. Probably 2012 was the best year in the Group’s history despite the highly complex economic climate in which it has had to operate. Its family television model, based on quality and variety of contents, was applauded by the audience, by the audiovisual industry itself and by the advertisers. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 17 Antena 3 climbs to second position Tu Cara me Suena, El Hormiguero 3.0 In 2012, Antena 3 attained second position among the audience and was the only and Con el Culo al Aire. leading television channel which succeeded in expanding in the year, to 12.5% of the share, as compared with the annual minimums reported by its main rivals, Telecinco (which fell 0.3 points) and La 1 (which fell by 2.3 points). This historical data was the result of the backing of its emblematic programs such as Espejo Público, La Ruleta de la Suerte; the consolidation of programs premiered in recent years, Tu Cara me Suena, Karlos Arguiñano en Tu Cocina, El Hormiguero 3.0; and the establishment of its evening offering, with El Secreto de Puente Viejo, the end of Bandolera, the competitions ¡Ahora Caigo! and Atrapa un Millón. Likewise, its leading proposals in terms of fiction, Con el Culo al Aire, El Barco, Pulseras Rojas; its cinema library, with Multicine and El Peliculón and the broadcast of Fórmula 1 led 2012 to be an overwhelmingly successful year. The highest success rate among the premieres For yet another year, Antena 3 has obtained the highest percentage of success among its premieres (53% when the normal rate is 20%), which ratifies its television model. Con el Culo al Aire, Luna, El Número Uno and Pulseras Rojas are a few examples. Furthermore, it broadcast the most watched film of the year Breaking Dawn, Part 1, and heads the ranking of the most-closely followed cinema of the private offering. As for Tu Cara me Suena, the channel’s own invention, it has become the most seen and sold program in the world. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 18 Growth and consolidation of afternoon and evening viewing Antena 3 Noticias, World Fórmula 1 and Antena 3 was the channel which grew the most in 2012, (1.7 points), in the time Susanna Griso. slot from 16:00 to 21:00 hours from Monday to Friday thanks to its fictional programs, Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo, and its competitions, ¡Ahora Caigo!, which led in December, for the first time in history, with a monthly maximum (18.2%), and Atrapa un Millón. Absolute leader of morning viewing Throughout the whole of 2012 Antena 3 was the leading morning television channel, a position obtained thanks to the result of its established programs, notably Espejo Público, which obtained the most viewers in its history (470,000 spectators), and its highest market share in the last three years (16.3%). It is accompanied by Karlos Arguiñano en Tu Cocina, which increased by 2.2 points in the year, and the leading morning program La Ruleta de la Suerte. Antena 3 Noticias 1, leader in the private offering in 2012 and laSexta|Noticias overtake Cuatro Antena 3 Noticias 1 was the leading private news program, both from Monday to Sunday (14.3% and 1,910,000), and from Monday to Friday, with an average of 14.1% and 1,901,000 spectators. In 2012, the 15.00 program with a lead of 1.6 points over Informativos Telecinco from Monday to Sunday overtook the whole of the private offering. In 2012, laSexta|Noticias succeeded in overtaking Cuatro’s news program with its best annual data: 7.1% and 777,000 spectators, as compared with the averages of the Cuatro programs of 6.4% and 685,000. The best World Formula 1 in four years Antena 3 attained an average of 39.1% and 4,175,000 spectators with the broadcast of the World Formula 1, obtaining the best data since 2008 and more spectators than the last time Fernando Alonso won the World Cup (2006, 4,111,000). Five series figure among the ten most watched Antena 3 continues as a reference in fiction and places five of its series among the ten most watched in 2012, year in which it married the continuity of its successful series with wise decisions in its new pledges (Con el Culo al Aire, Fenómenos, Luna, El Misterio De Calenda, Gran Hotel and El Barco). ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 19 laSexta, audience rises since the merger El Intermedio, Pesadilla en la Cocina laSexta continues to rise since its integration in Atresmedia Televisión, and ended and Jordi Évole. December with 5.5%, its best data in 15 months, since September 2011. Noteworthy is the fact that programs with laSexta’s own seal achieved their best results since the merger: Salvados broadcast its most successful season with an average of 13.3% and 2,726,000 spectators. Furthermore, this program became the most viewed program in the history of LaSexta. El Intermedio obtained a monthly record in December with 9.7% (+0.6 with respect to October) and 1,931,000 spectators, and reported growth in 2012 of 1.3 points as compared with 2011, to reach an annual average of 7.4% and 1,409,000 spectators. Likewise, in October, the first month of the merger, laSexta lived its best entertainment premiere (2,802,000 spectators and 13.7%) of its history with Pesadilla en la Cocina, the program revelation of the year. Atresmedia Televisión’s theme channels overtake their direct rivals Atresmedia Televisión’s theme channels, Neox, Nova, Nitro, xplora and laSexta3TODOCINE managed to overtake their direct rivals in 2012. Furthermore, in December they were the leading theme channel offering with the best data since the merger, (9.2% as opposed to the 8.6% of Mediaset Spain’s theme channels). Shareholder remuneration of approximately 70% of Net Profit Despite the economic and advertising crisis, Atresmedia continues to maintain its remuneration policy to shareholders, and will pay almost 70% of Net Profit through a Dividend. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 20 Atresmedia Radio Presentation of Onda Cero’s team In the same line as recent years, Onda Cero and Europa FM will ended 2012 with 2012/2013 and Europa FM programs. significant increases in audience figures. Onda Cero continues to grow In accordance with the General Media Study, the Onda Cero’s programs were followed by 2,615,000 listeners, 161,000 more than in 2011. This rise was preceded by previous growth -66,000 listeners more than in 2010 and 131,000 in 2011and reinforces a radio proposal based on continuity, balance and respect for different opinions. Europa FM exceeds two million Europa FM has beaten all records in its still short history. For the first time, according to the data of the latest General Media Study of 2012, Europa FM exceeded two million listeners 2,121,000 to be exact -, and was the music channel which has grown most in the last wave (177,000) and also in the last program seasons. Atresmedia Publicidad takes the lead over the market In 2012, advertising investment dropped by 16% with respect to 2011. The fall was widespread for all media, including Internet which, after reporting significant increases, began to experience fall-offs towards the middle of the year. Despite all the foregoing, Atresmedia Publicidad stood firm in its determination to defend the value of the product and the richness of its support, thereby widening the gap with respect to its competitors, and improving its commercial offering versus the market offering. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 21 Film posters: Tengo Ganas de Ti, A Roma con Amor, Luces Rojas and XP3D. Atresmedia Digital about to reach ten million Atresmedia Digital, through antena3.com, closed the year with an average of 9,700,000 single monthly navigators, up 10% on 2011. November particularly stands out since it was the month in which 12 million users were registered, a historical record which coincided with the end of the World Formula 1. Atresmedia Cine, rakes in 20% of the whole spanish 9,700,000 cinema box office takings Single monthly navigators through Atresmedia Cine is conscious that it is not enough to make good cinema, it is necantena3.com essary, moreover, to know how to connect with the public. Under this premise, it succeeded in placing four of its productions among the first top ten of the Spanish cinema and, in turn, has obtained the recognition of the critics and professionals at Spanish and international festivals. 20% of the box office takings for the whole of the Spanish cinema relates to five of the Company’s productions over the year. The implementation of the 2010-2012 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan was finalised The CR Master Plan has implemented specific measures to improve the relationships of trust between the Company and its stakeholders. Thanks to these trans20% Atresmedia Cine, versal lines of actions in areas such as children’s rights, responsible advertising, rakes in 20% of the ethics in information management or the commitment to society, Atresmedia is whole spanish cinema being widely acknowledged in the area of Corporate Responsibility and has bebox office takings. come a reference for the Spanish audiovisual industry. In 2012, the Company finalized 97% of the measures envisaged and will continue to implement the remainder until it completes all its planned objectives. Recognised by Society Atresmedia’s firm commitment to providing a responsible and high quality media service has been publicly acknowledged. In 2012, Antena 3 led the Social Responsibility ranking for public and commercial broadcasters in Spain, according to a report by the Fundación Compromiso Empresarial. Furthermore, Antena 3 obtained the highest rating among the media companies in the Reporta 2012 Report, which assesses the quality of the information provided by listed companies, and it is the television station most highly rated by the Spanish public according to the GECA 2012 index. The “Employer Branding” report by Randstad also cites Atresmedia as one of the most attractive companies to work for. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 22 Collaboration agreements with the Food Bank, 4th race Ponle Freno, adena wwf and unicef El Estiron campaign and Te Toca! awards ceremony. Faithful to its commitment to society, during 2012, Atresmedia entered into new collaboration agreements to perform long-term projects with NGOs. Such projects include, most notably, those entered into with FESBAL (Spanish Food Bank Federation), ADENA-WWF and UNICEF, to perform joint initiatives which contribute to resolve social problems such as food wastage, the prevention of forest fires, or the protection of children’s rights. New initiatives against child obesity, road safety and protection of the environment Atresmedia’s various corporate responsibility campaigns have continued to be carried on with the start-up of new initiatives. Accordingly, Ponle Freno collected more than 100,000 signatures supporting the placement of radars to save lives and not for collection purposes, El Estirón acknowledged the schools participating in the fight against child obesity, and Hazte Eco devoted itself to the fight to Save the Artic and the fight against forest fires. First edition of the competition Te Toca! The Antena 3 Foundation celebrated the first edition of the competition Te Toca!, a listening and participation project for young people which aims to involve them in the quest for solutions to certain social problems. 700 young people between 12 and 16 participated in the first edition devoted to the Environment and responded to the question How to generate less rubbish? ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The year’s highlights 23 Corporate Volunteers. Pledge for corporate volunteers Corporate Volunteers is completely integrated in Atresmedia’s corporate culture and is one of the most highly valued initiatives among employees. In 2012, the number of volunteer activities rose. In this connection, the Company has joined the VOLUNTARE platform to promote corporate volunteers and signed a collaboration agreement with the “Madrid Volunteer Foundation”. We listen to employees The Group performed the Third Consultation Process with Employees to ascertain their opinions on matters which affect them directly, such as the Company’s Human Resources policy, safety, occupational health, or professional development within the organization. Following this dialogue process, important conclusions were reached which will be considered in future procedures aimed at improving the employment situation. Greater commitment to combat climate change Atresmedia participated in the questionnaire of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), to inform its stateholders on the policies and actions performed by the Group with respect to climate change. The CDP represents a major commitment to combat climate change since it is a voluntary initiative which encourages transparency and change towards company sustainability throughout the world. New stakeholder communication channels Transparency and permanent dialogue with the stakeholders is one of the cornerstones of the company’s Corporate Responsibility policy. To facilitate this dialogue, Atresmedia has strengthened its communication channels and has updated its corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com. This is a more visual and dynamic website that allows investors, shareholders and the main stakeholders to access financial, legal and sustainability information on the company. In keeping with this policy of transparency and accessibility of information, Atresmedia has created a specific microsite for the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report, which has for the first time removed the need to produce a printed version of this document. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24 Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 25 Mission, vision and values Mission Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality news and entertainment offerings that respond to our stakeholders in order to win their trust and thereby ensuring the leadership position and sustainability of the Group. Vision To be the reference multimedia communication group with a valuable and positive contribution to the society in which we operate. Values Commitment: We strive to make a valuable contribution to the Company creating corporate sensitivity campaigns which resolve problems and generate a positive change. Quality: We work on the ongoing improvement of our activities, developing excellent products with regard to their form and content, aimed at the needs and expectations of the spectator. Creativity: We boost the creative development of employees, promoting artistic freedom and freedom of thought, respecting the Company’s democratic and cultural values. Long-term vision: We work on the creation of a leading corporate project in the audiovisual sector which endeavors to move closer to the future by creating it. Innovation: We boost the creation of new ideas, products, services and practices which contribute value to the Company and to society. Leadership: We motivate and address our collaborators to encourage their development and that of the organization, transmitting energy and inspiring confidence to help the organization to achieve its business objectives. Teamwork: We encourage a culture based on the establishment of the relationships of trust and respect between the employees and the Company. We develop their autonomy and participation in decision-making, based on the principles of delegation and responsibility. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 26 Shareholder structure Antena 3 Televisión has been listed on the Spanish Stock Exchange since October 2003, and its main shareholders are leading communication companies both in Spain and Europe. Planeta de Agostini Group This group is the fruit of the strategic alliance between the Planeta Group and De Agostini. Its objective is to consolidate its leadership in the publishing world, in new sectors of the economy and, very especially, in the area of audiovisual media. Planeta Group: The Planeta Group is the leading Spanish multimedia communication and publishing group in the production of contents in the Spanish-speaking market. Planeta occupies a privileged place above its rivals: it is the leading Span41.70 ish publishing Group and the seventh in the world. % De Agostini Group: Italian multinational group which carries on its activity in the Planeta de Agostini Group publishing market, in the production and distribution of contents for television and cinema, and also in the financial and insurance sector. It is present in more than 30 countries and publishes in 13 languages. 19.17 UFA Film % RTL Group* 7.01 Treasury shares % With 54 television channels and 29 radio stations in 10 countries, it is the European leader in the entertainments market. It broadcasts more than 9,200 hours of television each year, in the 58 countries in which it is present. It currently has more 6.49 % Imagina Media Audiovisual than 300 programs being broadcast or produced throughout the world. Each day 25.64 more than 200 million spectators watch any of the television channels in which RTL has ownership interests. % Other Furthermore, it is one of the most significant audiovisual rights managers in the world, with more than 20,000 hours of content sold in a total of 150 countries. Imagina Media Audiovisual Spanish business holding company from the audiovisual production industry borne in 2006, with the integration of the Globomedia Group production companies (previously Arbol Group) and Mediapro. Likewise, since 2007, it has an international distribution platform through Imagina International Sales. Its investment in the shareholder structure of Antena 3 Televisión is directly (2.85%) and indirectly through its Group company, Gamp Audiovisual, S.A. (3.63%). Imagina Media Audiovisual has been a shareholder of Antena 3 Televisión since 31 October 2012. (date of performance of the merger and, accordingly, of the inclusion of Imagina in Antena 3). * UFA FILM UND FERNSEH GMBH SOLE-SHAREHOLDER COMPANY (owner of the shares of ANTENA 3 following the absorption of RTL Group Communication, S.L.U.). ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 27 Breakdown of the Board of Directors and of its Committees Mr. José Manuel Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. José Miguel Mr. Silvio González Mr. Nicolás Abel Lara Bosch Deputy Chairman Contreras Tejera Moreno Bellet de Tavernost Chairman Deputy Chairman CEO Director Mr. Josep María Mr. Mauricio Ms. Aurora Mr. José Creuheras Mr. Marco Drago Benet Ferrán Casals Aldama Catá Sala Margenat Director Director Director Director Director Ms. María Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. Pedro Ramón y Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Ms. Margarita Entrecanales Franco Director Cajal Agüeras Fdez. de Heredia González Martín Director Director Secretary del Río Deputy Secretary ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 28 Board of Directors Name Position Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Deputy Chairman Mr. José Miguel Contreras Tejera, representative of IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. Deputy Chairman Mr. Silvio González Moreno CEO Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Director Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán representative of GAMP AUDIOVISUAL, S.A. Director Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Director Ms. Aurora Catá Sala Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Mr. Marco Drago Director Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Director Mr. Elmar Heggen Director Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Director Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia Secretary Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Deputy Secretary Executive Committee Name Position Mr. José Manuel Lara Bosch Chairman Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Director Mr. Silvio González Moreno Director Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Director Mr. Marco Drago Director Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia Secretary Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Deputy Secretary Audit and Control Committee Name Position Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Chairman Mr. Elmar Heggen Deputy Chairman Ms. Aurora Catá Sala Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Secretary Appointments and Remunerations Committee Name Position Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Chairwoman Mr. Nicolás Abel Bellet de Tavernost Deputy Chairman Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Director Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Director Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal Agüeras Director Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. Heredia Secretary ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 29 Corporate Organization Antena 3 Eventos, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Films, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Juegos, S.A.U. 100% Antena 3 Multimedia, S.L.U. 100% Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U. 100% Atres Advertising, S.L.U. 100% Cordina Planet, S.L. 50% Guadiana Producciones, S.A.U. 100% Hola Televisión América, S.L. Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de 50% Canarias, S.A.U. 100% Antena 3 de I3 Televisión, S.L. Canal Media Radio, S.A.U. Televisión, S.A. 50% 100% Música Aparte, S.A.U. Estaciones Radiofónicas de Aragón, S.A.U. 100% 100% Publiséis Iniciativas Publicitarias, S.A.U. Ipar Onda, S.A.U. 100% 100% La Sexta Editorial Musical, S.L.U. Lemac Gestión, S.L. 100% 16.67% Uniprex, S.A.U. Mitjans de Cataluña, S.L. 100% 16.67% Onda Cero, S.A.U. 100% Radio Media Galicia, S.L.U. 100% Uniprex Televisión, S.L.U. 100% Uniprex Valencia TV. S.L.U. 100% Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Andalucía, S.L. 74% Further information on the Atresmedia companies may be found on the corporate web page www.atresmediacorporacion.com ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 30 Management Structure Atresmedia’s Corporate Atresmedia Televisión Organization General Manager CEO Mr. Javier Bardají Mr. Silvio González A3 Noticias Corporate Chief Executive Officer Ms. Patricia Pérez General Manager Ms. Gloria Lomana Chief Financial Officer Mr. Antonio Manso Atresmedia Radio General Counsel Chairman Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Mr. Javier González-Ferrari Regulation and Institutional General Manager Relationships Mr. Ramón Osorio Ms. Carmen Rodríguez Atresmedia Publicidad Auditing and Processes Monitoring Mr. Fernando Costi General Manager Mr. Eduardo Olano Director of Communication Mr. Ignacio Mata Atresmedia Digital Director of Strategy General Manager Mr. Javier Nuche Mr. José Manuel González-Pacheco Atresmedia Cine Chairman Mr. Mikel Lejarza Fundación Antena 3 Executive Director Ms. Carmen Bieger ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 31 Economic environment 2012 was not a good year for the Spanish Stock Exchange, lashed by the sovereign debt crisis, faced with the positive performance of the remaining surrounding stock markets. The year was clearly divided into two parts: the first part until July, in which the Ibex fell by nearly 30% as a result of the uncertainty regarding sovereign debt, with the spread reaching 750 basis points in its worst moment, and with the German and American bonds at historic minimums. In this situation, the ECB resolved to reduce interest rates by quarter of a point, to 0.25%, and the financial aid to Spain was approved for an amount of €100,000 million. All this led the ECB to finally show itself to be active with a view to the Spanish situation, and already by July, the statements of the ECB leaders to preserve the Euro enabled the Ibex to recover the lost levels, and the spread to relax considerably. Accordingly, the last four months of the year were much more positive for Spain’s financial conditions. State financing was more favorable and, accordingly, the Treasury, already in November, had completed its financing requirements for the rest of the year. Accordingly, the IBEX closed the year at 8,167.5 points, representing a fall of 4.66% with respect to 2011 year-end. Antenas 3’s shares fell by €3.90, falling in the year by 16.13%. The remaining European stock markets had a much better performance: the Paris CAC 40 rose by 15.23% (closing at €3,641.07); the German Dax reached 7,612.39, rising in the year by 29.06%; and the London FTSE earned 5.84%, closing at 5,897.81 points. The Eurostoxx 50 index, which includes the 50 most important companies in Europe, rose 13.79%, ending 2012 at 2,635.93 points. The main indexes of the U.S. markets rose considerably in 2012. The Dow Jones increased its trading by 7.26%, the el S&P 500 by 11.80%; while the Nasdaq increased it value by 16.82%. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 32 For the Spanish economy, 2012 was a year of recession, as compared with 2011, which grew by 0.7%. Falls were reported in all quarters, although performance in the third quarter was somewhat better than in previous years, due to the increase in Spanish demand fruit of the bringing forward of purchases faced with the increase in VAT. 2012, according to the Bank of Spain, ended with a fall of 1.5% in the GDP. Unemployment continued to rise: in 2012 the employment rate reached 24.9% of the active population, and FUNCAS estimates that it will reach 26.5% in 2013. Domestic consumption diminished by 1.8%, and it does not seem set to recover in 2013, rather it will deteriorate until it has fallen by 2.3%. In this environment the forecasts of the Bank of Spain for 2013 are worse than in 2012: the GDP may descend by 1.5%, falling somewhat more in the first part of the year, and growing slightly in the second part. Shareholder remuneration of approximately 70% of Net Profit Antena 3 Television shares fell by 16.13% in 2012. Its capitalization amounted to €880,36 million at year-end. In October 2912, the merger with laSexta was made effective, through a capital increase and, accordingly, at year end the new company has 225,732,800 shares. The advertising market once again reported negative figures: if in 2011 such advertising fell by a total of 6% (that of the TV a 9.5%), in 2012 there figures were no better. The total media market fell 16%, reaching €4,630 million. Television advertising, on the other hand, fell somewhat more to €1,815 million (representing a fall of 18.9% with respect to 2011). In this environment, despite the market’s weak results, Antena 3 Televisión maintains its commitment to its shareholders, and will pay approximately 70% of Net Profit through a Dividend. Share capital At 31 December 2012, Antena 3 Televisión’s Share Capital amounted to €169,3 million, represented by 225,732,800 shares of €0,75 par value each. VALUE DATA 2012 Share Capital at year-end (thousands of Euros) 169,299.6 Number of shares at year-end 225,732,800 Capitalization at year-end (millions of Euros) 880.36 Quoted price 31/12 (€/share) 3.90 Maximum (€/share) 5.37 Minimum (€/share) 2.81 Average Weighted Price (€/share) 3.86 Average trading volume (securities) 311,083 Average trading volume (thousands of Euros) 1,200,780 Source: Fininfo ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 33 + 200 500 Conf Call contacts were with analysts established with and investors. the financial community throughout the year. Shareholder and investor services Both the Investor Relations Department and the Shareholders’ Office are in charge of broadcasting the most significant news and of informing on market performance and financial outlooks. In 2012, the Investor Relations (IR) Department had intense activity. It participated in more than 25 conferences and road shows in different European cities and directly contacted approximately 270 investors. The IR Department made more than 200 conference calls with investors and analysts to treat current affairs and market news and review financial models. Approximately 35 meetings have taken place at our offices, through one-on-ones or reverse road shows (a group of investors visits Atresmedia with a broker): 25 with investors, 5 with industry analysts and 5 with service suppliers. In total, approximately 500 contacts were established with the financial community throughout the year. Furthermore, in order to provide access to rapid and clear information, the web page www.atresmediacorporacion.com, substantially improved in 2012, has a specific section in which significant events, financial results and other news of interest are published. But the attention does not stop there: the investors may contact through the email address, ir@atresmedia.com while a further email was provided for non-institutional shareholders. oficinadelaccionista@atresmedia.com. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 34 Corporate Governance Atresmedia in Madrid. Atresmedia’s Corporate Governance is formed by a series of internal and regulatory bodies, whose objective is to manage and control the organization in a transparent and efficient manner, generating value for the shareholders and the other stakeholders. The leading body deciding the corporate policies is the Board of Directors and the regulations governing and supervising their compliance are as follows: σσ Bylaws. σσ Board of Directors’ Regulation. σσ General Shareholders’ Meeting Regulation. σσ Conduct Regulation in Areas Relating to the Securities Market. σσ Code of Conduct. σσ Rules of Good Governance of the Antena 3 Foundation. In 2012 the Board of Trustees at the Antena 3 Foundation, following the recommendations of the Spanish Association of Foundations, adopted the Foundation’s Good Governance Standards, taking a further step towards ensuring transparency and efficiency in its management. These Standards, which are published on its website, www.fundacionantena3.org, are a vehicle for informing society about its aims and activities, and for raising awareness among its donors and beneficiaries about the management of its resources. Atresmedia does not limit itself to meeting the requirements established in these standards, but instead is actively involved in their definition. Evidence of this is the fact that it belongs to the Spanish Broadcasters Association, of which it is a development partner. One of this association’s objectives is to contribute to the development of Corporate Governance standards and to encourage communication and cooperation with the stakeholders. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 35 Furthermore, a Regulatory Compliance Committee exists integrated by the managers of all the areas in question. This Committee is responsible for the supervision, coordination and management of the Conduct Regulation both in security market matters and with respect to the Code of Conduct. In 2012, this Committee focused its efforts on the implementation of the internal crime prevention model. Accordingly, two lines of action were performed: σσ Designing a whistleblower’s channel which will be launched in 2013 and whose objective is to allow all the employees to report situations that could constitute inappropriate conduct or actions, as well as allowing them to raise queries and propose improvements. σσ Developing operating protocols (hiring managers, use of ICTs, management of powers of attorney, response to criminal risk situations, etc.) which must be implemented in 2013 in the departments involved. Reforms of the 2012 Corporate Governance rules Since 2010 there have been significant changes in the commercial legislation which directly affect the corporate regulations for Atresmedia. Among these reforms, we can highlight the following: σσ Implementation of Law 2/2011 of 4 March, on Sustainable Economy. σσ Implementation of Law 12/2010, of 30 June, which modifies, among others, the Law on the Auditing of Accounts. σσ Implementation of the revised text of the Spanish Companies Law. σσ Modifications introduced by the Law 25/2011, of 1 August. These legal modifications have made it essential to review and update Atresmedia’s Corporate Governance regulations and evaluate the degree of compliance with the Unified Good Governance Code. This work has resulted in the approval by the Board of Directors, in 2012, of two texts: a new set of Regulations for the Board of Directors and a new Code of Conduct on Stock Market matters. Meanwhile, the General Shareholder’s Meeting, held on 25 April 2012, approved the new text for its own Regulations as well as the Company Byelaws, with the purpose being to adapt them to the aforementioned legal reforms. The new texts approved include technical improvements, more accurate drafting, as well as new issues of additional importance for the listed companies. In addition, they include some of the recommendations of the Unified Good Governance Code (approved by the Stock Market Commission (CNMV) in May 2006). Specifically, the main modifications made are: σσ Inclusion of the option for the Company to request the data necessary to identify the shareholders to the entities responsible for the accounting entries in the accounting records. σσ Adjustment of responsibilities and structure of the Audit and Control Committee. σσ Changes in the formal and organisational aspects relating to the calling and holding of the General Shareholders’ Meeting and Board of Directors Meetings. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 36 RI webpage. σσ Reference to the “Annual Report on Remuneration for the Directors”, which is submitted to an advisory vote and as a separate agenda item at the AGM. σσ New regulations for the corporate website (company’s electronic office) and the information that must be included in this. Transparency Since the listing of Antena 3 shares in October 2003, all of Atresmedia’s corporate governance rules have been public and are available on the Company’s website: www.atresmediacorporacion.com, in the “Shareholder and Investor Relations” section, which contains all the information submitted to the CNMV (financial reports, significant events, significant shareholdings, shareholders’ agreements, etc.), in addition to other documents that the Company believes could be of interest to its shareholders (executive team, composition of the management bodies, group companies, history of dividends, press releases, corporate presentations, etc.). Corporate Responsibility Atresmedia understands Corporate Responsibility (CR) to be a sustainable management model of the business, committed to the Company’s progress and which continues improving to meet the needs and expectations of its stakeholders. These ethical and responsibility values are integrated into all the Group’s activities, which places at the service of the Company the capacity to broadcast its communication media, provide quality and responsible information, and show special attention to the most vulnerable groups. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 37 CR Master Plan Stakeholder Dialogue MisSion, Vision, Values RC Policy Corporate Responsibility Monitoring Management Model. This commitment of the Company has been recognized publicly by different reports as: σσ “Esporas de Helechos y Elefantes 2012” of the Fundación Compromiso [ Antena 3 Empresarial in which Antena 3 leads the Social Responsibility ranking of leads the Social public and private television channels (detailed information in the Social Responsibility Television chapter). ranking of σσ “Reporta 2012” an information quality study which the companies forming the Madrid Stock Exchange General Index provide to the market and to television its stakeholders. This report indicates that Antena 3 occupies position 36 channels in of the total of the 112 stock market securities and is the only audiovisual Spain. ] Company which appears in the Top 10 of the companies on the continuous market which are not listed on the Ibex 35. Likewise, noteworthy is the “exception” that Atresmedia Televisión represents faced with the “low rating obtained by media companies”. Our challenges In 2012 specific objectives and actions were defined focused on improving the Corporate Responsibility Management Model and the relationship with the stakeholders. Following is a detail of the degree of compliance with each of them. LEVEL OF 2012 CHALLENGE COMMENTS COMPLAIANCE Complete the Corporate Responsibility 97% compliance was attained. Master Plan until reaching 100% compliance. Improve the communication channels of the New improvements were made in the Corporate Responsibility strategy. communication channels in terms of audience, employees, shareholders, etc. (see detail in dialogue section with stakeholders). Continue the inclusion of new management The 2012 Annual Social Responsibility Report and reporting criteria for media established includes the indicators of the new industry by the Global Reporting Initiative industry guide. guide. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 38 Atresmedia: Corporate Responsibility Management [ laSexta adopts Model Atresmedia’s The Company integrated Social Responsibility in the proper essence of its busiCorporate ness. This is the criteria which has made it possible to define the mission, vision Responsibility and values of the organization with a clear orientation towards all the stakeholdpolicies. ] ers. Atresmedia’s mission was unfolded in various specific CR strategies, which are envisaged in its Corporate Policies, to be applied to all the Group companies including the channels of laSexta since its integration, and in its Corporate Responsibility Master Plan. This document includes the Group’s initiatives in the area of legislative compliance, Good Governance, transparency, respect for human rights, environmental protection or dialogue with the stakeholders, among others. Legal compliance Transparency Supervision Responsible content Compliance with financial, Dissemination of content social and environmental Verified and truthful CR strategy approved by the regarding sustainability. legislation. information, governed by Board of Directors. Independence with Mechanisms to avoid the principle of balance and CR Committee supervises respect to contents and in incidents of corruption, impartiality. implementation of Policy. accordance with the Group’s bribery and fraud. values. Corporate Governance Human rights Application of the principles of transparency, Corporate Special protection for minors independence and respect responsibility policy that participate in the for laws in force. Group’s contents. Appointment and Fight against domestic remuneration committee violence. that monitors compliance with CR Policy. Responible management Respect for the environment Dialogue with stakeholders Public policies of providers Minimize supplies and We make our knowledge Responsible resource Set up channels of contracts. of the audiovisual sector management and communication to know Fairness and transparency in available to Regulators and maximizing energy their demands and awarding contracts. Public Organisations. efficiency. expectations. Sustainability criteria Participation in sector included in all purchases. forums. CR Management System Tools In order to guarantee the correct application of its Corporate Responsibility Policy, Atresmedia set up internal bodies and other specific monitoring and improvement measures of the CR management model: σσ CR Committee. σσ CR Master Plan. σσ Dialogue with the stakeholders. σσ Participation in CR forums and associations. σσ Code of Conduct. σσ Integral CR scorecard. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 39 Corporate Responsibility Committee The mission of the Corporate Responsibility Committee is to reinforce the Corporate Responsibility transversal integration throughout the whole Organization. This committee is comprised of representatives of the Group’s main strategic areas and its main functions are as follows: Functions of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Supervise the consolidation of the Corporate Responsibility policy. Boost, supervise and inform on the actions envisaged in the Master Plan. Observe compliance with the external commitments acquired in the area of Corporate Responsibility. Collaborate in the identification, dialogue and cooperation with the different stakeholders. In 2012, the Corporate Responsibility Committee supervised the implementation of the Corporate Responsibility Master Plan and the annual sustainability objectives in the Company’s different strategic areas. It also analyzed the external perceptions of the stakeholders and defined new initiatives which respond to the expectations detected. Among others, improvements in the communication channels with employees and with the audience, the increase in information in the area of sustainability to analysts and investors, the reinforcement of the subtitling of contents or the linking of the advertisers to the Group’s corporate responsibility initiatives. 2010-2012 Corporate Responsibility Master Plan [ Atresmedia’s The Corporate Responsibility Master Plan defines coherence between the Corporate Group’s public commitment in this area and its business performance. Responsibility Master Plan Over the three years, this plan has implemented specific measures to improve the was 97% relationships of trust between the Company and its stakeholders. Thanks to these implemented. ] transversal lines of actions in areas such as children’s rights, responsible advertising, ethics in information management or the commitment to society, the Group is being widely acknowledged in the area of Corporate Responsibility and has become a reference for the Spanish audiovisual industry. In 2012, the Company finalized 97% of the measures envisaged and will continue to implement the remainder until it completes all its planned objectives. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 40 Dialogue with the stakeholders The stakeholders are all those people, organizations or institutions which affect or are affected by the Company’s decisions. Atresmedia has identified the following as its stakeholders: σσ The groups are its reason of being: audience, advertisers and shareholders. σσ Those without whom its activity would not be possible: employees and suppliers. σσ Groups with which the Company has a social commitment: regulating bodies, rivals and society. Stakeholders Expectations and response Advertisers Advertising Audience Television/ Radio /Multimedia Company Company Employees Employees Rivals Atresmedia Regulating bodies Atresmedia Suppliers Atresmedia Shareholders Atresmedia Atresmedia’s priority stakeholders and response to expectations in each one of the chapters of the Annual Report and 2012 CR. Transparency and active permanent dialogue with the stakeholders is one of the fundamental parts of the Company’s Corporate Responsibility. In order to facilitate dialogue, the Group has implemented different communication channels: Stakeholders COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Advertisers Periodic meetings. Monthly electronic bulletin of Atresmedia Publicidad. Sector media. Membership of industry associations. Audiences Web page www.atresmediacorporacion.com. Profiles in Facebook and Twitter. ‘Antena 3 in your mobile’. SMS alerts with current affairs information. Telephone information on subscriber numbers in 11843. Audience telephone attention channels. Information via SMS on programs, press releases, and series and program trailers. Teletext. Discussion groups, surveys and panels with experts. Membership of industry associations. Society Antena 3 Foundation. Ponle Freno platform. E-mail: responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com. Corporate Responsibility Section of Atresmedia’s web page. Virtual press office. Issuance of press notes through the Communication Department and holding of press conferences. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 41 Stakeholders COMMUNICATION CHANNELS Suppliers Periodic meetings of the Purchasing Department with suppliers. Electronic communications. Employees Periodic meetings. Electronic communications. Announcement boards. Corporate Intranet. Internal meetings. Quarterly results presentations. MD3 corporative digital magazine. Whistleblower channel related with breaches of the Code of Conduct. Focus Groups. Rivals Industry forums. Membership of industry associations such as UTECA, IMPULSA and ACT Participation in the CATSI. Regulating bodies Periodic meetings. Forums and events. Membership of industry associations such as UTECA, IMPULSA and ACT. Participation in the CATSI. Meetings with the Board of Directors. Shareholders Conferences, meetings and road shows aimed at the Investor Relations Department. Shareholders’ Office. Corporate web page www.atresmediacorporacion.com. Annual Corporate Governance Reports. Environmental information through the CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT ESG information through rating agencies In 2012, Atresmedia reinforced certain of those communication channels, renewing its corporate web page, organizing the third consultation process with employees or increasing information on sustainability which the Company provides to analysts and investors, among others. σσ Corporate website: www.atresmediacorporacion.com is a very visual and [ In 2012, more dynamic website, with a new structure for the content, better organised and than 29,000 providing greater visibility for the areas of Shareholders and Investors, Human Resources, Press and Corporate Responsibility. Through this resource, calls were investors, shareholders and the main stakeholders can find out about the answered. ] company’s internal structure, access financial, legal and Corporate Responsibility information, see how audience figures have been performing, read press releases, and access all the latest institutional news and contact the different areas. The web also has a version in English which is a faithful reflection of the Spanish page, and which provides access to information by the international public. σσ Telephone channel: In 2012, more than 29,000 calls were answered regarding doubts, queries, requests for information or opinions. It is an authentic “audience thermometer”. The Antena 3’s information services and the program Espejo Público monopolize almost half the calls received. σσ Focus Groups: In 2012 a new meeting was held with employees in order to hear their opinions, requests and expectations. Noteworthy among the conclusions obtained was the high degree of professionalism of the Company’s personnel and the need to improve internal communication. (see detail in the human resources chapter) In 2013 new Focus Groups were held aimed at ascertaining the opinion of the remaining stakeholders. σσ Sustainability report for investors: Atresmedia increased ESG information (Environmental, Social and Governance) aimed at analysts and investors, meeting the requests of the entities assessing social, environmental and ethical practices and measures such as EIRIS (Ethical Investment Research Services) and VIGEO Rating. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 42 Participation in CR forums and associations An active dialogue with stakeholderss also involves participation in forums, associations and national and international initiatives. The exchange of experiences and best practices with other leading organizations in sustainability is thereby boosted. In 2012, the presence of Social Responsibility forums was significantly increased, such as for example: σσ Meetings with the Observatory of Audiovisual Television Contents (OCTA). This body oversees quality television, analyses the task of the media and its social function, and promotes the broadcasting of adequate contents for children and adolescents. σσ Collaboration with Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI). In 2012, Atresmedia participated in the GRI consultation processes for the preparation of the new generation of GRI G.4 guides, which will include the new criteria for the preparation of sustainability reports. σσ Support for the World Agreement (Global Compact). In 2012, Atresmedia’s participation in the Spanish World Agreement Network was renewed. This agreement includes the commitment to apply principles such as respect for human and employment rights, the environment and the fight against corruption and bribery. σσ Members of the FTSE-4 Good Ibex. Atresmedia forms part of this stock exchange index prepared by Financial Times Stocks Exchange (FTSE). The indicator measures the involvement of companies which reach globally recognized environmental standards to provide investment to these companies. It is formed by companies which comply with a series of requirements relating to the environment, dialogue with stakeholders and respect for human rights. σσ Collaboration with Corporate Excellence, a laboratory of ideas devoted to promoting the management of the brand and corporate reputation as a strategic value for business excellence. In 2012, the Company participated in the Catalog of Energy Efficiency Good Practices, contributing a practical case for this publication. σσ Participation in the Co-responsible Breakfasts organized by the Environmental Head, which analyze the situation of Social Responsibility and the media. In relation to the academic world, various collaboration projects were executed in order to improve the practical knowledge and application of Corporate Responsibility: σσ Collaboration in the study Good practices and information excellence: implementation of ethical practices in journalistic companies of the Association of Sciences, Politics and Sociology. σσ Collaboration in the study Strategic Philanthropy of Spanish Companies by Universidad Politécnica de Valencia. * Mark GRI is an independent institution created in 1997 in which various stakeholders participate, whose mission is to prepare and broadcast the Guide for the Preparation of Sustainability Reports, an international standard for the preparation of sustainability reports in conformity with a universal model of voluntary application by the organizations. This reports follows the GRI criteria. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 43 Code of Conduct The internal Code of Conduct is a Corporate Responsibility tool which includes and specifies the policies, values and principles in force in the Organization. Approved by the Company’s Board of Directors, the Code forms part of the Internal Crime Prevention Model and constitutes the ideal tool to guide employees, management personnel and members of the Group’s administration bodies in all of its procedures. The Board of Directors, through the Regulatory Compliance Committee, is responsible for managing and supervising its compliance and adopting the appropriate measures to improve and update the Code of Conduct. Furthermore, the Regulatory Compliance Committee also assumed the competences to monitor and supervise its new regulations, including those of self-regulation in the audiovisual area established by the General Audiovisual Communication Law. Atresmedia encourages notification to its employees. In 2012 the Regulatory Compliance Committee worked on the implementation of a confidential whistleblower channel, which will be started up in 2013. Through such channel, employees may notify those procedures which, to their understanding, constitute inappropriate actions, in line with the Code itself and any other regulations applicable. This channel may also be used by the employees to cast doubts or propose improvements in the control systems existing in the Group, which would cover the triple objective of the prevention, control and clarification of matters related with corporate values. Corporate Responsibility Scorecard The Company defined a scorecard, grouped into four areas, which enables internal sustainable performance to be transparently assessed: σσ Economic sustainability. σσ Human Resources. σσ Company. σσ Environment. The analysis of these indicators enables improvement actions to be defined to improve Corporate Responsibility management. Atresmedia’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SCORECARD 2012 results Human Resources Environment % Women: 48.6%. Electricity consumption: 16,397 Kw / employee. Indefinite-term contracts: 84 %. Water consumption: 28.5 m3 / employee. Turnover rate: 2.25%. Emission of greenhouse gases: 0.75 tons of No. of hours training per employee: 30. equivalent CO2 / employee. Accident seriousness rate: 0.06. Environmental investment: €25,670. Economic sustainability Company Net income (€ million): 741.2 Degree of compliance with the Corporate Responsibility Distributed economic value (€ million): 618.3 Master Plan: 97%. Financial aid received from governments (€ million): 2.5 Income contributed by Atresmedia to the Antena 3 Foundation: €500,000 Opportunity cost of broadcasting campaigns at no cost for NGOs and associations: €9,952,975. Volunteers: 1,360 hours. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 44 Future challenges In 2013 Atresmedia will continue to strengthen its corporate responsibility strategy by achieving the following challenges. CHALLENGES FOR 2013 Increased information on environmental, social and governance to investors. Implementation of a proccess to manage complaints and suggestions. Development of Corporate Responsibility initiatives in laSexta Channel. Quality Management System Atresmedia produces, records and broadcasts its programs and advertising by complying with strict internal controls standards. In order to satisfy such high levels on an ongoing basis, a Quality Management System was implemented aimed at controlling and improving the Organizations’ main processes. The Quality Management System is based on an ongoing improvement cycle of incidents which includes the following phases: Incident identification and control Introduction of improvements Ongoing analysis of the causes to the process: lessons learned Assessment of the Identification of corrective and effectiveness of measures improvement measures The incidents which arise in the production, recording and broadcasting of programs and advertising are classified into: σσ Incidents with “to the air” effect, that is, those with are appreciable by the [ The number spectator. of incidents has σσ Incidents without the “to the air” effect, that is, which the spectator does fallen by 48% not detect. over the last All these situations are identified and classified on an ongoing basis by the areas year. ] involved. These areas subsequently perform a specific monitoring until the resolution of such incidents has been proven. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 45 In 2012, the Quality Management System has doubly amplified its scope. σσ With respect to the television channels: laSexta, laSexta3, and xplora. σσ With respect to the production, publication and broadcasting processes in Atresmedia’s various multimedia support systems. Improvement plans The Quality Management System has a Quality Committee formed by all the departments involved. Periodically, it analyzes the most significant incidents and the status of the unresolved actions. This joint analysis enables more effective global improvement plans to be defined based on “lessons learned”. Likewise, a monthly report is issued for Senior Management. Quality Committee Departments Audit and Processes Technical Programs Broadcasts Contents Operating Resources Production Marketing News Comercial In 2012, the Quality Committee implemented various Action Plans aimed at improving the following processes: σσ Production and broadcast of night-time programs. σσ Quality Control regarding material broadcast on the main channel and rebroadcast on secondary channels. σσ Preliminary guidelines management. σσ Digitalization of advertising. σσ Broadcasting System. σσ Design of creative material. σσ Advertising broadcasting. Corporate risk control and prevention The ongoing changes in the environment may have a direct influence on the sustainability of the organizations. The difficult economic climate, the new technologies, or the socio-cultural changes may represent serious risks for companies if they are not managed adequately. Atresmedia established a comprehensive Corporate Risk Prevention and Management System, based on the identification of such risks and the establishment of control measures and performance protocols. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 46 Atresmedia Risk Map Type of Risk Strategy and Environment Internal Processes Corporate and Reputational Risks related to operations Risks related to regulatory and processes compliance Information risks in the Risks related to external decision-making process image Risks associated with financial reporting In 2012, new analysis and risk management actions were implemented in relation to the merger process of Antena 3 and laSexta. Noteworthy among these procedures were the following: σσ External audits. σσ Fiscal, Financial, Employment and Commercial Due Diligences. σσ Economic-financial review of the aspects related with integration, including management and information systems. σσ Identification of risks intrinsic to the merger process of Antena 3 and laSexta. σσ Preparation and monitoring of a Transition Plan for Integration. Additionally, various audits were performed and activities were implemented to improve risk management in specific processes such as financial, documentation or integration of the News area. One of these actions was the notification of the internal Code of Conduct and the creation of the Regulatory Compliance Committee, based on the assessment of Atresmedia’s Financial Reporting Internal Control System. Transparency in supplier management Transparency is one of the main principles of Atresmedia’s Corporate Responsibility Policy, and the main criteria governing supplier management in the whole Group. In 2012, efforts were boosted to define a more transparent process which transmits greater confidence to all suppliers. Accordingly, new tools were incorporated to enable the contracting process. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 47 Number of producers Number of producers Number of distributors who have collaborated who have collaborated operating in Atresmedia with Atresmedia and with Atresmedia in programs produced fictional series and series produced 119 50 20 120 42 42 40 16 100 40 15 79 13 80 30 23 10 9 9 60 8 43 20 16 6 35 13 40 28 5 10 17 20 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Production companies Production companies National  ifferent programmes D Series produced Foreign produced *Note: the 2012 data include *Note: the 2012 data include laSexta’s distributors: (58 the producers who have Spanish distributors and 74 collaborated in programs foreign distributors). with laSexta and the programs produced in the last quarter of 2012. (4 producers and 8 programs). Atresmedia distinguishes two very different types of suppliers: σσ Producers and distributors who supply fiction and entertainment contents. σσ Other suppliers of goods and services. Producers and distributors [ Antena 3 and Atresmedia designed an audiovisual model which gives precedence to quality and laSexta assume responsibility and which is based on a careful selection of programs and contents. the Company’s Corporate Accordingly, the contracting process of producers and distributors is fundamenResponsibility tal. It must be complied with scrupulously and with strict professionalism to select policies. ] only those which best understand the audiovisual concept and the Group’s corporate values. Proof of this is the signing of a specific clause, in which the distributors and producers of Antena 3 and laSexta assume the Company’s Corporate Responsibility policies. Always under the supervision and control of Atresmedia’s Contents and Production team, the product’s quality is controlled so that it complies with the line which must be followed by the Group’s channels. An ongoing quality control both in terms of its contents and its execution. This meant that in 2012 many spots were maintained in the grid, thereby reducing new product and producer contracts. In 2012, the Foreign Production Department, area in charge of managing the acquisitions of broadcasting rights of those products which do not exclusively proATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 48 Modern Family. duce for Antena 3, generated 170 purchasing proposals, approximately 10% less than in 2011. This summary does not include the 132 proposals executed for laSexta’s channels to acquire specific contents aimed at laSexta3 and xplora. Of the total proposals, 41 % relate to Spanish companies. Likewise, the programming needs were maintained to reinforce the identity of the complementary channels. Modern Family (Neox), Ley y Orden (Nitro) and La que no podía amar (Nova) are three example of reference series which were acquired specifically to be broadExpenditure on cast on such channels. purchases (€ million) 55.0 60 The inclusion of new suppliers arising from the integration with laSexta enriched Atresmedia’s portfolio of producers and distributors. 49.5 50 41.8 40 Other product and services suppliers 30 Atresmedia defined a single contract procedure for all the Group companies. This process was designed to select the best suppliers by meeting technical and eco20 nomic requirements, which include best practices in areas such as environment or human rights. 10 In this connection, the Purchasing Department works to ensure that Atresmedia’s ethical values and principles are also applied by the product and services suppli2010 2011 2012 ers, reinforcing and expanding the Group’s value chain. Criteria of the Technical, management, CSR economic and claimant and commitment environmental purchasing signature criteria Area. Technical Appraisal Purchasing Tender Candidate Contract Purchase -------------need document offering award monitoring Economic Appraisal INTERNAL CONTROL ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 49 The different phases of this process ensure compliance with the following condi[ 96.8 % of the tions: purchases relate to Spanish σσ Independent technical and economic appraisal: Minimum technical quality criteria are defined for each purchase or contract. Only when the supplier suppliers and meets such criteria, is the economic offering appraised. 3.2 % to the As an added point of control, purchases of greater significance or of a high remaining amount (exceeding €50,000) are approved by a Purchasing Committee, foreign formed by the CEO, the Internal Audit Manager the Chief Financial Officer suppliers, mainly and the Management Control Director. European. ] σσ Transparency: in 2012 work was performed on the renewal of the purchasing management tool, which enables greater interaction and communication with the suppliers. Accordingly, all those who opt for a contract do so under equal conditions. This tool will enter into operation in 2013. σσ Environmental responsibility: suppliers are requested to include actions to minimize the environmental impact of their activities. Furthermore, each time the need is detected to acquire technological equipment, such equipment is selected in line with criteria to minimize the space occupied and to ensure its low energy consumption. This is what the Group defines as “green purchasing” criteria. σσ Social Responsibility: A fundamental requirement established for all the purchases and contracts is the signature of a Corporate Responsibility Clause in the contracts. This clause guarantees compliance with basic rights for employees, such as: equal opportunities, non-discrimination or safe healthy conditions in the workplace. This clause has special significance when the supplier is from a country in which basic human rights are not applied or respected. σσ Controlled process: On a periodic basis the complete process is submitted to internal audits which assess its transparency and reliability. No incident has been detected to date. Extract from the tender letter to Atresmedia suppliers: …”in the framework of the corporate social responsibility of Atresmedia’s companies and of the commitment acquired in its relationships with third parties, the successful tenderer states that in the performance of its functions it promotes equal opportunities among employees; does not discriminate due to reasons of age, sex, religion, race or similar and ensures the (Link full clause PAGE safety of its employees when carrying out their tasks. Likewise, the tenderer 24 2008 CR REPORT) states that in its production process it manages its activities in such a way as to be able to minimize their environmental impact, boosting energy saving and that of raw materials (eco-efficiency) in favor of sustainability”... ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 50 Defending the industry’s interests Atresmedia considers one of its obligations to be the defense of the audiovisual sector and, accordingly, maintains a proactive attitude to the legislative evolutions and trends of the industry, participating in numerous forums and associations in which it debates and influences positively in the implementation of public policies. Noteworthy among the main associations in the audiovisual industry in which Atresmedia participates are as follows: UTECA (Unión de Through UTECA, Atresmedia Televisión participates actively Televisiones Comerciales in the preparation of laws and regulations of the audiovisual, Asociadas) advertising and intellectual property industry, among others. http://www.uteca.com ACT (Association of Atresmedia Televisión forms part of the ACT, an association Commercial Television in constituted by the main European private television groups to Europe) defend their rights vis-à-vis the competent EU bodies. http://www.acte.be CATSI (Advisory Board for As a member of CATSI, Atresmedia Televisión participates Telecommunications and for in the reports of this body's Permanent Committee. These the Information Society) reports are compulsory in the processing of regulations which affect the telecommunications and audiovisual communication industry. http://www.mityc.es AERC (Spanish Commercial Through AERC, Atresmedia Radio participates actively in the Radio Association) preparation of laws and regulations regarding the audiovisual and advertising industry, the organization and management of the radio spectrum and intellectual property, among other areas. ACR (Catalonian Radio Atresmedia Radio is a member of the Catalonian Radio Association) Association (ACR), with an intense activity and collaboration in the radio sphere in Catalonia. In the area of self-regulation in advertising matters, Antena 3 boosted the cre[ Atresmedia ation of the Association for the Self-regulation of Commercial Communication Radio boosted (Autocontrol). Accordingly, it is an active member of the body with which it colthe creation laborates for enhanced compliance with advertising and competition regulations, of a Code of and for the extension of advertiser guarantees, of the television channels and, above all, of the consumers. http://www.autocontrol.es Advertising Conduct for the Likewise, once the new gaming law had been approved in Spain in 2012, Atresradio area. ] media Televisión signed the Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications of Gaming Activities and Atresmedia Radio boosted the creation of a Code of Advertising Conduct for the radio area, similar to that already applied in the television industry, through Autocontrol. Also noteworthy is Atresmedia Televisión’s commitment to the Code of Self-regulation on Television Contents and Infancy. In 2004, the Code’s bodies performed ongoing work to adapt television content to the youngest audience in the time slots envisaged therefor. http://www.tvinfancia.es. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia 51 Antena 3 also signed the PAOS Code for food protection especially for youngsters. In 2012, Atresmedia participated in the implementation of public policies and other significant matters for the audiovisual industry, including most notably the following: Process of freeing up the In January 2011 the process of freeing up the spectrum for the spectrum for the digital awarding of the “digital dividend” began. dividend. Atresmedia Televisión has participated very actively, both High Definition Television directly and through UTECA, so that both during the process and on its completion, the public can continue to enjoy the current television service. General Audiovisual Following the entry into force of the General Audiovisual Communication Law Communication Law on 1 May 2010, Atresmedia participates actively in the preparation of its enactment regulations; accordingly, the legal security of operators and users is increased. Support for Spanish cinema The television channels are opposed to the obligatory nature of the “investment quota” to finance the production of cinema films. The industry asserts that it is the very activity of the television channels that strengthens the country’s cinema industry, without the need to impose this exclusive tax levy for this economic activity. Consequently, Atresmedia is confident that the Constitutional Court will hand down a favorable ruling on the theory of the private operators, after the Supreme Court consulted it on the constitutionality of this quota. Likewise, Antena 3 achieved that the promotions in a channel of the feature films produced with financing of the television company itself are not considered to be advertising, effectively boosting Spanish cinema. Atresmedia Televisión currently participates in the Commission for the study of a new cinematography financing model, recently formed through an initiative of the Ministry of Culture. Public television financing Atresmedia has always considered that public television must obtain its credibility and strength via the public service and not from the sale of commercial slots, making television for people and not for advertisers. Accordingly, it firmly supported Financing Law 8/2009 of the RTVE Corporation which prohibits the obtainment of income through the broadcasting of commercial communication. Antena 3 maintains its activity, both individually and in its capacity as a member of UTECA, in order to obtain a true streamlining of the public television industry as a whole. Reforms relating Atresmedia is working to obtain regulatory reforms which to collective rights require transparency from the collective intellectual property management rights management entities. In this way, it pledges to establish objective, fair and adequate criteria for the application of the prices which those entities may demand for the use of the rights managed. Accordingly, it has the support of the Report on the collective management of the intellectual property rights in Spain, published by the National Competition Commission, which shows its full agreement with Atresmedia’s theory, the recent Case Law of the Supreme Court, and the criteria made public by the Economic and Social Board and the State Board. With the same objective, its observations, comments and pleadings to the drafts which the General Cultural Policy and Industries and Book Department is preparing in order to undertake, over the coming months, a partial reform of the Intellectual Property Law, were transferred to the Ministry of Culture and to the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and for the Information Society (SETSI). ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52 Atresmedia Televisión ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 53 A recognized and recognizable [ Antena 3 is the only leading model backed by the audience television channel which grew this Antena 3, the main channel of Atresmedia Televisión, significantly improved its audience figures in 2012. The new television model promoted more than two year in terms years ago continues to grow and has obtained the definitive backing of the pubof audience lic. This new form of understanding television is based on a varied programming, figures. ] which this year was enriched even further with the acquisition of the Fórmula 1; on the presence of limits or, what is the same, responsibility regarding contents; on shared consumption in the home, versus theme television models of individual consumption; and on the capacity to generate confidence in the spectator and in the advertiser. Antena 3 is the television channel most highly rated by the Spanish public according to an image study carried out by the company Gabinete de Estudios de la Comunicación Audiovisual(GECA). In addition, the Atresmedia channel is considered by the viewers as the most innovative for the second year running and the most entertaining for the last four years. The audience has endorsed this model. In an environment of growing fragmentaAlberto Chicote tion, Antena 3 was the only leading television channel which has grown to climb to second position and obtain its highest figure since 2009. In October Atresmedia Televisión continued to expand. With the arrival of laSexta, laSexta3 and xplora, the Group attained approximately 28% of the audience figures between October and December. Although its sound results extend over the whole day, noteworthy is the prime time figure (the slot with the highest consumption) in which Atresmedia Televisión is the absolute leader. Atresmedia Televisión thereby consolidates itself as the most diverse group with seven different channels which have their own independent identities. Seven channels with their own personality, but which, taken as a whole, form a unique television model, with quality and innovation as their seal of identity. At the end of the year, the channel launched a campaign to welcome 2013. In the campaign the leading faces of Antena 3 and laSexta joined together to lead a dance with an optimistic ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 54 tone, loaded with humor. This initiative reflects the value of the difference between both channels, but also the common elements: quality, innovation and respect for the spectator. The campaign was broadcast for the first time simultaneously and in a complementary manner on the two channels. In 2012, laSexta consolidated itself as modern, dynamic channel closely linked to current affairs. This was combined with cinema and foreign fiction. Since the inclusion of the chain in the Group, the entertainments contents were reinforced, highlighting Pesadilla en la Cocina, which became the best entertainment premiere in its history (13.7% and 2.8% million spectators). This new activity of laSexta commenced with a strong audience backing; since the merger, the chain has grown every month with respect to the same period in 2011. The offering of the complementary channels Neox, Nova, Nitro, xplora and laSexta3 obtained average audience figures of 8.8%. Atresmedia Televisión has a channel aimed at women, another aimed at young audiences, a further channel for men, as well as a channel of factual content and a channel devoted to cinema. None of these channels is based on the repetition of contents, rather on new inhouse proposals. They constitute the largest variety of channels with a unique and exclusive programming and, accordingly, they represent the leading offering of the market in the last quarter (8.8% in October-December). % Share The only generalistic television that grows +1.0 -0.3 -2.3 Antena 3 ended 2012 with remarkable results, enabling it to recover its second po14.5 sition and obtain its best figures since 2009. Furthermore, it is the only free to air 14.2 15 13.9 television channel which has succeeded in expanding with respect to 2011, despite 12.5 12.2 the fragmentation of audience figures. It thereby ended a successful year with 11.5 12 12.5% of audience share, one point more than in 2011, marking a clearly upward trend. In fact, the last quarter ended with an audience share of 13.3%. 9 This sound performance commenced at the beginning of the season (2012-2013). With 13.1% it achieved its best yearly start-up in three years and was situated as 6 leader in the commercial target (13.3%), among the public from 13 to 54 years (13.4%), and in the high to middle class (12.5%). 3 Since its inclusion in Atresmedia Televisión, laSexta grew to attain 5.4% in October and November, going on to attain 5.5% in December. These are the channel’s Antena 3 Telecinco La 1 Antena 3 laSexta 2011 2012 Source: Kantar Media. Spain Total individuals. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 55 laSexta Complementary Channels % Share % Share 6 10 5.4 5.4 5.5 8.8 8.6 5.0 4.9 4.8 4.9 5 4.7 4.6 4.5 4.6 4.5 8 4 6 3 3.9 4 2 2 1 jan-12 feb-12 mar-12 apr-12 may-12 jun-12 jul-12 aug-12 sep-12 oct-12 nov-12 dec-12 Atresmedia Mediaset TVE Source: Kantar Media. Spain Source: Kantar Media. Spain Total Total individuals individuals October -December 2012. highest results for more than a year. It ended October, November and December with increases with respect to the figures obtained in the same months of 2011. Atresmedia Televisión, integrated by Antena 3, laSexta, Neox, Nova, Nitro, xplora and laSexta3 (Gol TV leased to Imagina), ended the year with a 25.8% share and an increase in audience figures of 1.1 points. Audience share rose in practically all the time slots, but especially in the day time slot with growth of more than 2 points in the afternoon. All the complementary channels, are the leader in their reference public, and ended the last four-month period of the year as the most competitive offering of the market. Neox (2.6%) was once again the preferred channel among the young audiences with its offering of sitcoms, cinema and in-house production programs. Nova (1.6%) reported an annual record and ended the year with maximum audience figures and as the feminine leader. Nitro (1.6%) improved its result by 0.2 points in the preceding year despite the new competition and continues to be the masculine leader. The new channels incorporated to the Group are also experiencing good times. xplora (1.4% since it was formed) consolidates itself as the leading factual channel on the market and ended the year with its best monthly results. laSexta3 (1.6%) also progressed with respect to 2011 (+0,2) and consolidated itself as the leading cinema channel of the market. Once again, with the most successful premieres [ Antena 3 obtained Antena 3 once again based its model on innovation and for yet another year sitthe highest uated itself as the channel with the highest percentage of correct decisions in its premieres ( 53%, as opposed to the usual 20% on the market). New successful percentage of fictional offering such as Con el Culo al Aire, Luna and Fenómenos were included, success in its but also entertainment programs such as El Numero Uno. laSexta obtained its premieres. ] highest scores with Pesadilla en la Cocina, the best entertainment premiere of its history, and created a new current affairs brand with laSexta Columna. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 56 Reference in entertainment with the most innovative El Número Uno, commercial offering Tu Cara me Suena, Atrapa un Millón and ¡Ahora Caigo! Atresmedia Televisión continues to achieve sound results in entertainment programs, offering a model which generates trust and which the spectator may share. After becoming the phenomenon of the preceding season, Tu Cara me Suena reached a new milestone. In fact, it significantly boosted its following in its second season (22.0% vs. 19.0% and 3,362,000 spectators) and became the absolute leader of its time slot. Furthermore, it set itself up as the most seen and sold television format in the world. Antena 3 is the first channel to pledge for a new brand of talent show. El Numero Uno seeks new musical talent with a star-filled jury and conquers the public’s favor. The program ended with an average of 17.6% and as the leading offering in its time slot. El Hormiguero 3.0, for its part, consolidates its position as exceptional prime time curtain raiser with more than two million followers. Its innovative proposal of interviews, science and gaming programs achieved its most viewed broadcasting of the year with the singer Michel Tell (3,190,000 spectators and 15.6%) on 1 February. But one of the key programing elements was without doubt the afternoon competitions ¡Ahora Caigo! and Atrapa un Millón. The first, with Arturo Valls at the helm, ended the year as leader in its time slot, with a monthly record in December (18.2%). Antena 3 also has a successful competition in the morning slot. La Ruleta de la Suerte continued to be unbeatable as the leading program with an average of ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 57 17.9% in 2012 and more than a million spectators (1,086,000). The program led Luna, La ruleta de by Jorge Fernández is preceded by Karlos Arguiñano en tu Cocina, which grew la Suerte, Karlos Arguiñano and El 2.2 points with respect to 2011 and ended the year with 13.% and more than half a Barco. million spectators. Entertainment also achieved positive results in laSexta. Pesadilla en la Cocina and Alberto Chicote are the revelation of the season. Their premiere became the most watched in this category in the channel’s history (2,802,000 spectators) and ended the year with outstanding figures (12.6% and 2.5 million followers). El Intermedio, one of laSexta’s most emblematic programs, ended 2012 with growth of 1.3 points with respect to 2011 (7.4% and 1,409,000 spectators) and rising. In fact, the program Gran Wyoming obtained a new record in December of 9.7%. Furthermore, El Club de la Comedia became the Friday night success with almost 1.3 million followers and an average of 6.9%. Antena 3, the reference channel in fiction: five of its series were among the 10 most watched, and broadcasts the most closely-followed film of 2012 Antena 3 continues to be a fictional reference. It offers the most watched series of the private channels and, always seeking the best within the gender, successfully encompasses foreign fiction. Con el Culo al Aire (17.3% and 3,200,000) and Luna (15.3% and 2,786,000), which are the best fictional premieres of the commercial channels, and Gran Hotel and El Barco, which attained positive results in their new seasons, were all here to stay. . ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 58 Bandolera and El Secreto de Puente Viejo represented in 2012 a change in modBandolera, El Secreto el for the afternoon and evening slots. Bandolera concluded December with a de Puente Viejo, Juego de Tronos, monthly maximum (12.2%) and El Secreto De Puente Viejo averaged 16.8% in the Érase una vez, season, 3.3 points more than in the same period in the previous year, on various Pulseras Rojas and Downton Abbey. occasions becoming absolute leader in its time slot. Antena 3 also offered Pulseras Rojas in 2012. This drama on adolescents in hospital became the most watched of the summer (except sport) and the absolute leader in its time slot with an average of 15.2% and 2,359,000 spectators. Furthermore, Antena 3 continues to offer the most prized and prestigious foreign series. Érase una vez became the most watched foreign fiction (2,366,000 and 13.2%) and Game of Thrones (1,699,000 and 12.6%) in one of the revelations of the summer with 19.0% and almost 2.7 million followers in its premiere. It also broadcast the third season of Downton Abbey, the highly-prized British series. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 59 Foreign fiction is once again one of the main axes of laSexta with The Mentalist El Mentalista, The (9.1% and 1,863,00 in its fourth season), The Walking Dead (7.7% and 1,522,000 in Walking Dead, Antena 3 Noticias 1 and the second round of its second season) and Bones (6.6% and 1,318,000 in its sevBones. enth season) as leading exponents. Beyond serial fiction, Antena 3 consolidated its position in the broadcasting of the best cinema. Multicine (14.9%) and El Peliculón (13.5%) are its leading cinema containers and absolute leaders in their time slot. The premier of Breaking Dawn Part 1, of the Twilight Saga, became the most watched film of the year of all the televisions channels with more than 4.5 million spectators (22.8%). The cinema offering also excelled in laSexta with el taquillazo (8.4% and 1,383,000), which attained its best result with The Hangover with 2,262,000 spectators and a 12.5% share. The leading current affairs offering Antena 3 Noticias 1 ended the year on a high note and consolidated itself as the leading news channel of the private channels both from Monday to Sunday (14.3% and 1,910,000), and from Monday to Friday (14.1% and 1,901,000). In 2012, the 15.00 program with a lead of 1.6 points over Informativos Telecinco from Monday to Sunday overtook the whole of the private offering. But its position as current affairs leader does not only relate to the positive result of news programs. Espejo Público reported its highest ever viewing figures (471,000 and 16.5%) and continued to be the current affairs program with the greatest share (+3,0) with its analysis by Susanna Griso. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 60 laSexta’s news programs are among those which most grew with respect to the Al Rojo Vivo, preceding year (1.0). laSexta|Noticias achieved its best annual data (7.1% and Salvados, Equipo de Investigación and 777,000) and amply exceed the Cuatro news program. laSexta|Noticias 14H averFórmula 1. aged 8.9% and 929,000 spectators from Monday to Friday and exceeded 10% in the last months of the year. Al Rojo Vivo (9.3% and 525,000) and Salvados (13.3% and 2,726,000) yielded the best results of their history and became the reference slots. The former reached its maximum on 9 October with the visit of Felipe González (12.7% and 728,000), and the program featuring Jordi Évole led the channel’s most viewed non-sporting slot in the year attaining its record on 2 December with Fraude Rico, Fraude Pobre (3,584,000 and 16.1%), to become the most viewed non-sporting program of its history. Atresmedia Televisión also successfully promoted the news features format on Friday night-time in its two leading channels. Equipo de Investigacion, on Antena 3, obtained its highest ever viewing figure with its program on stolen babies and Sor María (13.2% and 2,312,000) on 4 June. laSexta Columna, exceeded 9% and 1.5 million spectators with 25S: No me grites que no gobierno on 28 September. The best World Fórmula 1 in four years 2012 was also the year of the inclusion of the Fórmula 1 in Atresmedia Televisión, thereby strengthening the diversity of the offering for all manner of public. Furthermore, the championship with Antonio Lobato at the helm won audiences with respect to previous years and ended its most viewed year since 2008 (4,175,000 and 39.1%). ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 61 Modern Family and Los Simpson. Atresmedia Televisión’s channels overtake their direct rivals Neox (2.6%) strengthened its position as leading channel among young people (8.2%) with its sitcom and cinema offering. Modern Family, Los Simpson and Cinematrix were consolidated as some of its reference slots. Moreover, the channel once again hedged its bets on in-house productions with Señoras Que (2.7% and 559,000) and Curso del 73 (2.4% and 424,000). Nova (1.6%) ended the year on a high note, with maximum audience figures. Such figures rose 0.1 with respect to 2011 and obtained the annual maximum. Its offering of afternoon and evening series, and cinema nights consolidated its positive audience share. Bellas Calamidades, Soy tu Dueña and Cuidado con el Ángel appeared among the channel’s most viewed offerings in the year. Nitro (1.%) improved 0.2 with respect to 2011. The Fórmula 1 and the Euro Cup under 19’s, Law and Order and cinema are its most effective offerings. xplora (1.4% since commencement) was consolidated as the leading factual channel on the market, and ended the year with its best monthly results (1.6%). In the last four month period, it became the third non-children’s theme channel with the best result in the commercial target with 2.1%. laSexta3 (1.6%) also grew with respect to the preceding year and consolidated itself as the leading cinema channel. It once again obtained positive results with the theme cycles, while Rocky IV (4.1% and 783,000) and Operation Swordfish (4.1% and 743,000) were its most seen productions. Listening to the Audience Atresmedia Television’s main objective is to offer a program in which entertainment, respect for all groups and the maximum quality of its contents takes precedence. In order to meet this commitment, it is fundamental to obtain the opinion of the audience and take it into account when developing and selecting new contents. Under this premise, Atresmedia Televisión’s Marketing Department performed qualitative studies backed by prestigious bodies in the industry. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 62 In 2012, a total of 552 spectators, formed by 69 opinion groups, contributed assessments of great use. These analyses were complemented by the daily audience figures provided by Kantar Media, which enabled the level of satisfaction, and the preferences and expectations of the spectators to be known. Atresmedia Televisión’s Social Responsibility actions were assessed very positively in these studies. Ponle Freno became the seal of identity of the initiatives performed by the Group, recognizing its considerable capacity to positively influence social awareness. Moreover, Atresmedia Televisión pays special attention to the comments of navigators on programing, through projects of active listening in the social networks, blogs and forums. Fruit of this permanent dialogue with the audience and to meet its needs, a programing was designed that was closer to its current likes and trends. The most valued television [ According to GECA, Antena 3 The image study performed by GECA (Audiovisual Communication Studies Ofwas the most fice) is a research project to ascertain the image and opinion of the Spanish population with regard to personalities, programs, channels and other aspects related highly valued with the contents broadcast by television. television channel by The 2012 GECA index was based on a macro survey of 3,200 people throughout the Spanish Spain. population in 2012. ] According to this analysis, Antena 3 was the most highly valued television channel by the Spanish population in 2012. Likewise, this channel is considered by the spectators to be the most innovative channel for the second year running, and the most entertaining, and such characteristic has been consolidated over the last four years. Other reference study was Televidente 2.0, which analyzes the audiovisual contents consumption in the home and in terms of mobility among Spanish navigators in the different media and screens available. In the last wave of this study, 5 discussion groups were formed with spectators in different screens and more than 1,000 surveys of navigators. The results obtained positively highlight Antena 3’s site, which was visited by 62% of participants, 9% more than in 2011. Committed television Atresmedia Televisión has a significant commitment to quality, varied and entertaining but, above all, “responsible” television, which acts as a social spokesperson to address the society’s main problems. Accordingly, Atresmedia Televisión’s channels include in their news, current affairs and entertainment programs, contents which respond to social awareness, endeavoring to contribute ideas, recommend good practices and, in short, propose solutions to the society. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 63 As a means of communication, Atresmedia Televisión has special responsibility in the following areas: 1. Contents of programs, series and advertising messages, with special attention to those which respond to social concerns. 2. Protection of the most vulnerable audiences, especially children and groups with disability. 3. Media literacy of audiences. This firm commitment to achieve responsible quality television was recognized [ Antena 3, publicly, since Antena 3 leads the social responsibility ranking of the public and leader in private television channels, according to the report “2012 fern spores and elethe ranking phants” of the Business Commitment Foundation. of the most The study analyzes the web pages of the 16 largest television channels in Spain and responsible highlights that Antena 3 has given a qualitative leap in its corporate responsibility television policies in relation to the production and broadcasting of contents. Accordingly, it channels. ] is on an equal footing with other large international groups such as BSkyB or ITV. Ranking of the most responsible television channels Channels Raking Antena 3 25 rtve 21 tv3 17 CanalSur 15 “The Observatory Tele5 12 for Audiovisual Content (OCTA) eitb 9 welcomes rtvg 8 Atresmedia’s work in broadcasting rtcm 6 a high quality rtpa 5 schedule for everyone. It must ib3 4 continue focussing on protection for Canal7 3 young viewers Canal Extremadura 3 and listening to the active voice of tvc 3 media users.” rtvv 3 laSexta 2 Telemadrid 1 Source: “Esporas de Helechos y Elefantes 2012” report (www.fundacioncompromisoempresarial.com) Antena 3 surpassed the remaining channels in most of the social responsibility aspects analyzed. It stands out in areas as important as the handling and disclosure to the public of sensitive matters, child protection in terms of contents, literacy Valentí Gomez actions carried out or the mechanisms of transparency and communication with Chairman of the Observatory for the stakeholders. Audiovisual Content ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 64 Mónica Carrillo and Matías Prats. Contents which respond to citizen’s concerns Commitment to quality information Antena 3 Noticias The objective of Antena 3’s information services is to offer their audience a reliable, quality and committed information with the principles of social responsibility and with the very professional ethics of audiovisual news journalism. In order to guarantee these bases, filters and controls are established to guarantee compliance with the legislation in force, the corporate responsibility procedures and the codes of conduct of the profession, as summarized in the following table: Ethical code of Antena 3 News services Legislation and Regulations No behavior or information may infringe the legal or regulatory provisions. Dignity of people All information should ensure respect for the people's rights, guaranteeing fair treatment and the presumption of innocence, with special rigor when such information involves minors. Language and visual Language and visual resources must be agreed with the information which is to be broadcast, resources of information without allowing expressions or images which, without adding information, may be disturbing or offensive to the audience. Separation of activities All Antena 3's news journalists must comply with this principle which involves withdrawing from the investigation or generation of the news when it or its most immediate environment are, or may be, affected or involved in a specific piece of news in order, accordingly, to avoid the existence of possible conflicts of interest. Risks Antena 3 Noticias writers may not accept presents or benefits from companies or institutions forming the subject matter of their news, which may be interpreted as a reduction of their capacity to provide objective independent information. Insider information The journalist who, due to his/her area of work, may have access to insider information may not use it for his/her own benefit. Commercial and critical News clearly and explicitly separates information from advertising. Furthermore, contents information which are strictly informative are unmistakably differentiated from those which represent a critical interpretation or assessment of the news. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 65 In order to maintain on ongoing relationship with spectators and know their opinion and concerns regarding current affairs, Antena 3 Noticias maintains active participation in its programs through the social networks. In 2012, the number of followers of the Antena 3’s news programs Twitter profile amounted to 185,000 and the number of fans on Facebook totaled more than 50,000. The number of users of the programs’ web page rose from 850,000 to 1,135,000 in one year. In addition, in the 2012-2013 season, Antena 3 Noticias, through its A Fondo team of reporters, prepared and broadcast more than 200 whistleblowing and investigation reports on current affairs, health, culture, new technologies, etc., which concern the population, such as, for example, eviction, obesity, abandonment of animals or child malnutrition in Sudan. Each report focused on a theme of social interest, many of them responding to audience requests via email, comments on the Company’s web page in the A Fondo section or Internet forums. laSexta|Noticias laSexta|Noticias defends committed and quality information. Two seals of identity of news services which are committed to equality, ecology and human rights. The program seeks its own approach to current affairs and deals with day-to-day themes which most interest the people in the street, and also has its voice in the channel’s news and its programs. laSexta|Noticias and www.lasextanoticias.com boast the Solidarity Objective to promote the work of the NGOs. This initiative includes and supports the social task of more than 60NGOs, including, Unicef, Action against Hunger, the Vicente Ferrer Foundation, the Red Cross, Oxfam, Human Rights Watch and Humanitarian Global. Current affairs with high social interest Espejo Público Presented by the journalist Susanna Griso, Espejo Público renewed its clear commitment to social support which forms part of its very essence. The program, which is broadcast live on a daily basis, analyzes current affairs issues of high social interest. In 2012, it included the new section Es Posible, which endeavors to evidence and seek a solution for the problems posed by spectators. Thanks to this initiative, success stories arose as important as jobs for the long-term unemployed with family members in their charge or improvements in the living conditions of many children with serious illnesses. The collaboration of the spectators in ascertaining their opinions or concerns through the social networks was fundamental. In 2012, Facebook had 23,000 fans and Twitter had more than 40,000. Investigation team The program endeavors to be a reflection of the social reality concerning citizens. In 2012, the journalistic work of the Investigation Team dealt with current affairs matters related in many cases with the current economic situation. The underATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 66 ground economy in Spain, the power of clairvoyants in times of crisis, the keys to Antonio García public deficit, the housing business or evictions were some of the matters anaFerreras (Al Rojo Vivo). lyzed by the program. Al Rojo Vivo Led and presented by Antonio García Ferreras, Al Rojo Vivo maintains its commitment to critical journalism, in order to seek responses and, above all, raise all the questions posed by society in general. García Ferreras moderates a discussion program with a plural philosophy and a debate in which all the political positions are represented. Furthermore, a daily analysis is offered of the most important news of the day, and the pulse of the news is sought in the street with the participation of the Spanish people. Más vale tarde and laSexta Columna In 2012, laSexta extended its commitment to news by presenting Más vale tarde, a daily program led and presented by Mamen Mendizábal, which performs a critical analysis of the events of the day and puts a face to the problems. This program is fed by analyses, debate, live connections, investigation, etc. Likewise, the laSexta Columna program provides a new 360º look at current affairs. This slot listens to all the interested parties in the quest for a response to all the question arising as a result of this economic and social climate. Salvados Presented by Jordi Évole, this program features interviews and reports on current affairs and denounces problems concerning society. In 2012 Salvados attempted to deal with matters of enormous social interest such as unemployment, the real estate bubble, Spain’s legal situation and food wastage. Solidarity entertainment Atrapa un Millón, Ahora Caigo and El Hormiguero Antena 3’s entertainment programs joined forces with the Group’s solidarity commitment. In 2012, Atrapa un Millón organized various solidarity programs to help resolve social problems such as the floods in Malaga, degenerative diseases, schools with deficient infrastructures or the lack of resources of soup kitchens. Thanks to the program, €103,000 were dedicated to these causes. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 67 El Hormiguero 3.0 also placed its capacity of communication and entertainment at Proyect Una the Company’s service. In 2012, two solidarity programs were broadcast in which, Gota, Una Vida; El Hormiguero 3.0; through audience SMSs, money was collected for UNICEF. Thanks to this initiative ¡Ahora Caigo!; and El and to the support of famous people such as Imanol Arias and Ana Duato, more Intermedio. than 300,000 solidarity messages were received. With this same format, the program ¡Ahora Caigo!, organized a special program and the money was also donated in full to UNICEF. Moreover, all Antena 3’s entertainment programs collaborated actively in the collection of funds for the Antena 3 Foundation’s project relating to the protection of children’s rights “One Drop, One Life”. (see Company chapter). laSexta also with social causes laSexta and its entertainment programs also applied the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and joined forces with the various NGO campaigns. An example was the “Sahel Emergency” project A million children cannot wait” implemented by Action against Hunger. The channel mobilized itself to prevent child malnutrition in the African region of Sahel, with the collaboration of the most representative programs, El Intermedio and Al Rojo Vivo, among others. Also noteworthy in terms of its solidarity campaigns is laSexta’s program El Intermedio led and presented by the Gran Wyoming. Its contents included social interest initiatives such as the attraction of followers for the Greenpeace campaign “Save the Amazons, the Campaign to Attract Bone Marrow Donations for the Josep Carreras Foundation, or the attraction of funds through the sending of an SMS for UNICEF. In 2012 El Intermedio received the Nicolás Salmerón Human Rights prize in the Culture section. The panel valued “the use of humoristic satire to defend the values and ideals of the common good and respect for people’s dignity”. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 68 Protection of children’s rights The UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child includes specific rights which guarantee greater care and protection of children, taking into account their special vulnerability. These rights are based on four main principles: Non-discrimination Participation and consultation Right to life, survival and in situations affecting them development Superior interest of the child in any decision or law. Contents thought out for the whole family Respect for these principles forms part of Atresmedia’s procedure policies and especially those relating to audiovisual contents. Accordingly, it is a basic premise to offer family programming, in line with the likes and needs of the youngest viewers, with strict control in the classification and broadcasting of its contents and commercial communications within the children’s time slot. Reinforcing this commitment, the objective of the Antena 3 Foundation is to guarantee that children and young people have the necessary support for their well-being and training, and to encourage social awareness regarding their rights, needs and interests. The Company chapter includes detailed information on its measures. Television is a means of transmitting principles and values. Accordingly, all the Group’s channels broadcast programs thought out for all the members of the fam[ In 2012 ily which also encompass children’s programs. Atresmedia Televisión broadcast a Atresmedia total of 3,337 hours of programs for minors in the last year, including most notably Televisión the Neox channel with 2,569 hours specially aimed at the younger public. broadcasted In 2012, the www.antena3.com web page particularly took care of children’s proa total of grams. Accordingly, the “lounge mode” of the Megatrix channel offered complete 3,337 hours of chapters of 17 children’s classic such as Heidi, Once Upon a Time, Maya the Bee, programs for Pippi Longstockings, Marco, etc. Each week, the portal offers a new chapter of children. ] these famous series which brings the youngest audience in touch with the cartoons belonging to their parents’ childhood. Moreover, through the lounge mode, Megatrix promotes language learning amount youngsters in a pleasant entertaining way. Accordingly, series such as La Brigada de los sepultureros are broadcast, which maintains the interest of the children’s public, teaching them English at the same time. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 69 [ Atresmedia Megatrix promotes language learning among the youngest audiences. channels did not report any breach of the All the contents broadcast by the Groups’ channels, children’s or otherwise, underSelf-regulation go exhaustive controls to guarantee the protection of minors. Since 2005, AtresCode in 2012. ] media has complied with the Self-regulation Code on Television Contents and Childhood and forms part of the Self-regulation Committee and of the Mixed Monitoring Committee, bodies which verify their correct application. The www.atresmediacorporacion.com web page includes a section in its childhood protection heading with the latest reports regarding compliance with the Self-regulation Code, enabling the user to contact the Mixed Monitoring Committee to manage complaints and suggestions. In conformity with the eighth annual assessment report on the application of the Self-regulation Code on Television Contents and Childhood, in the period 9 March 2012 to the same date in 2013, the Self-regulation Committee did not accept any clam in relation to the contents broadcasted by Antena 3 or laSexta channels. As an added guarantee, and in order to prevent a minor from accessing unsuitable contents, all entertainment programs of Atresmedia Televisión, and fictional, film, TV movies, in-house promotions and program trailers are exhaustively classified by the departments in charge, informing the audience of the classification and suitability of the contents through pictograms overprinted on screen. Aside from protecting minors from inappropriate contents, the symbols are communication tools used by Atresmedia’s channels to enable their audience to take informed decisions. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 70 Advertising respectful of minors The commercial messages which accompany the children’s programs have a great impact on minors. Accordingly, Atresmedia applies specific tools for their control. These principles include most notably: σσ Advertising of gaming activities. In 2012, the Company made a further step in its commitment to protect child audiences, by signing the Code of Conduct on Commercial Communications of Gaming Activities, establishing strict restrictions on limiting the broadcasting time slots of commercial communications and their broadcast together with programs aimed at the young public. σσ Toy advertising. Autocontrol an association to which Antena 3 also belongs, signed an agreement in 2010 relating to toy advertising with the Spanish Association of Toy Manufacturers and the National Consumer Institute. The purpose of this agreement is to reinforce the protection of the minor in this advertising segment so sensitive to infancy. σσ Extension of the child protection timetable. One of the specific measures [ Antena 3 adopted by Atresmedia which represents an improvement with respect to entered into the the legislation in force, was the voluntary extension by two hours (from Code of Conduct Monday to Friday) of the reinforced protection timetable. Accordingly, greater protection is ensured for minors with respect to the television proon Commercial grams broadcast in this slot. Communications σσ Food advertising aimed at minors. Since 2009, Antena 3 collaborates with of Gaming the promotion and application of the Self-regulation Code on Food AdverActivities. ] tising aimed at minors (PAOS), in order to prevent health problems prevailing in Spain such as child obesity. The PAOS Code expressly regulates the television advertising and marketing of food and drink for children under 12. Suitable for all Recommended Recommended Recommended audiences for people older for people older for people older than 7 years old than 12 years old than 16 years old Recommended Family Audio described Subtitled content for people older programme content than 18 years old Signed content Advertising Interactive programme placement through the Ant 3.0 application Contract guarantees Atresmedia does not enter into contracts with minors, but supervises that the producers of their programs or series establish the legal clauses and mechanisms required to guarantee the rights of the minor, when they intervene as actors or participate in any program on an ongoing basis. The Company pays special attention with regard to image, honor, personal and family intimacy and education. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 71 Minors at the Group’s facilities Aside from protecting minors in programing or advertising, their due access and security is also guaranteed at Atresmedia’s facilities. The internal security regulations prohibit, on a general basis, the access of minors to the facilities. When exceptionally they have to participate in a program (as a guest or public), the minor must be accompanied by production personnel, who will supervise their security. In any case, minors may only exceptionally access Atresmedia’s facilities between 10am and 8pm, always with the strict authorization of their parents or legal representative. Accessible programing One of Atresmedia’s commitments to society is to guarantee equal rights and opportunities, and provide the access of audiovisual contents to everyone, regardless of their auditory or visual disability. In order to comply with this objective, Atresmedia Televisión increased for the third year running its accessible programing through the audiodescription tools, scoring and subtitling of contents, exceeding by far 45% of subtitled programing and 60 minutes a week of audiodescription and scoring, required under the General Audiovisual Law. The most noteworthy data in 2012 were as follows: σσ Subtitled: broadcast of a total of 29,939.7 hours of subtitled programing, more than double than in 2011. This was due mainly to the inclusion of laSexta’s channels, a fact which led to the unification of subtitled technologies through a leading world supplier with extensive experience in the field of television access. The following companies lead the ranking of subtitling companies: xplora (73.82%), followed by Neox (57%) and laSexta3 (55.5%). σσ Audiodescription and scoring: broadcasting of 804.5 hours of audio described programs and 435.4 hours of scored programs, four times more than in 2011, also due to the inclusion of laSexta’s channels. σσ Live subtitling: in response to the requests of spectators with auditory disability, in 2012 various programs and news programs were subtitled live: ◼◼ Antena 3: Noticias de la mañana, Espejo Público and Antena 3 Noticias 1 [ In 2012, and Antena 3 Noticias 2, including Deportes and El Tiempo. Atresmedia ◼◼ laSexta: Al Rojo Vivo, Más Vale Tarde, El Intermedio and laSexta|Noticias has doubled 1ª and 2 ª edición, including Deportes and Meteo. the number Also, as part of the commitment to accessibility, the free broadcasting of subtiof subtitled tled advertising spots with different Henkel, Gaes and Campofrío products was programming increased by 3 hours, complementing more than 10 hours in 2012. hours. ] ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 72 Subtitled hours 29,940 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,494 10,000 7,746 5,766 4,183 4,496 3,627 3,619 3,709 3,865 3,833 4,172 2,313 2,331 2,086 2,368 5,000 2010 1,264 550 2011 2012 Antena 3 Neox Nova Nitro laSexta laSexta3 xplora Atresmedia Media literacy: bring the media closer to the Society The media perform an important task for the Society, since they inform, entertain and have a great capacity to influence the formation of opinions. In order that media users may correctly interpret the information they receive, the media must perform a media training task, showing the users the very characteristics of each media, as is the case of the immediate nature of radio or the strength of images in the case of television. In this way, the public may: σσ Differentiate and familiarize themselves with the diversity of genres of media. σσ Choose contents in line with their news or entertainment function. σσ Critically reflect thereon. In this connection, in 2012, Atresmedia implemented certain initiatives in order to bring the media closer to their audiences and to society as a whole: σσ Visits to Atresmedia’s facilities. In 2012, almost 3,000 people from 117 groups (schools, universities, advertisers and associations) visited the Group’s facilities. In these visits the different professions which make possible the daily activities of a communication group are explained to visitors and Atresmedia’s corporate values are transmitted to them. Moreover, they watch live programs, visit the television studio and, on occasions, the professionals themselves inform them of the activities carried on. In many cases, these visits have served to awaken vocations among the students. σσ Collaboration with university students. Atresmedia’s Communication Department met students from different universities such as Universidad de Rey Juan Carlos, Complutense de Madrid, Carlos III, the Camilo José Cela University, and a student on the Bergen University’s Master program (Norway) who requested its collaboration in the preparation of end-of-degree projects, interviews with the journalists of news and entertainment programs, or to discover at first hand the functioning of departments such as Multimedia or the Virtual Press Office. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Televisión 73 Radio workshops for children σσ Tuneox competition. The Neox channel launched in 2012 the first season of Tuneox, Neox A Tu Manera, a competition for the whole audience which endeavors to bring the media closer to the society. In the competition, the spectators must say how they see the channel and how they would make an advert to self-promote Neox. A panel, formed by professionals belonging to the channel, assessed the most original, amusing and adequate idea for the new campaign. The prize for the winner will consist of the broadcasting of his/her idea on the channel and of a three-month training session in Antena 3’s Corporate Image Department. σσ Proyecto Mañana. The objective of this initiative is to investigate how the news of the future will be. Thanks to a collaboration agreement signed with various Universities, the students may participate by presenting innovative projects and by opting for prizes which include grants to carry out work experience in television and or in radio. In 2012, Onda Cero joined the initiative, together with Antena 3 Noticias. σσ “Who is who on the Tele and the Radio” The Fan3 television channel, specifically designed for children and young people in hospital, included in its programming a new in-house production slot called Who is who on the Tele and the Radio. In this slot, employees of Antena 3 and Onda Cero explain to the children what the different professions consist of within these two media, such as the camera operator, the news presenter, the radio broadcaster or the sound technician. σσ Radio workshops for children. For yet another year, the Antena 3 Foundation gave radio workshops to hospitalized children. During two days, one of theoretical training and one of practical training, Onda Cero volunteers teach the children how to make a radio program, or how to carry out an interview. The Virgen de la Arrixaca de Murcia and Rio Ortega de Valladolid hospitals provided such workshops in 2012. σσ PRO Project. For the fourth consecutive year, the PRO Project provides training to disabled people, in order to promote and facilitate their employment in the audiovisual industry. In 2012, a new course was provided from the TV Accessibility Technician Program in Madrid with the collaboration of Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, and the scope was widened to the Catalonia Autonomous Community, developing the first Multimedia Communication Post-Graduate course, with the collaboration of Universidad Politécnica de Cataluña. σσ Non-Spot Prizes: In 2012, Atresmedia Publicidad convened the Sixth edition of the “Non-Spot Prizes for Media Creativity” aimed at students. The objective of the competition is to seek ideas in the non-conventional use of media (Television, Radio, Internet and Events) and detect new talents among the participants. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 74 Atresmedia Radio ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 75 Success through balance and quality In keeping with the last few years, Onda Cero and Europa FM closed 2012 with [ Atresmedia: significant audience gains. According to the figures from the General Media Rea radio OFFER port (EGM) published at the end of November, Onda Cero’s programmes attractbased on ed 2,615,000 listeners, 161,000 more than in 2011. This increase is in addition to earlier growth, with 66,000 more listeners in 2010 and 131,000 more in 2011, and continuity, reinforces this radio service based on continuity, balance and respect for different balance and opinions. respect for different opinions. ] Onda cero, the best results in the last eleven years The increase of 6.6% in the audience in 2012 allows Onda Cero to strengthen its [ Onda Cero second position in the radio rankings, distancing itself still further from the compecontinues to tition and achieving the best results in the last eleven years in the third wave of the have the best EGM. The gap with Cadena Cope has widened to 911,000 listeners, while the gap profitability per with Radio Nacional de España is a further 1,121,000 listeners. In terms of market share, Onda Cero has 19.3% compared to the 11.1% and 8.7% of its two immediate listener. ] competitors. In a difficult year, the channel continues to have the best profitability per listener, also being the leader in terms of the time spent listening to our broadcasts, with 159 minutes daily per listener. Within the current Spanish radio market, from which ABC Punto Radio has just disappeared, Onda Cero and Europa FM (to which we have to add Melodia FM) occupy a very strong position and are leaders in a very demanding and competitive market. In addition to the increases in audience, we should also mention the credibility and the good image of these two broadcasters. The prestige of Onda Cero is unquestionable, due to its strong relationship with its audience and its ability to combine different opinions and sensibilities in its debates, while providing rigour and reliability in its newscasts. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 76 Europa fm, once again the Javier Cárdenas fastest growing music chain Europa FM has beaten all the records in its still short history. For the first time, [ Europa FM according to the latest EGM figures for 2012, Europa FM has exceeded two million has broken all its listeners, 2,121,000 to be exact, and is the music station that has grown most over records. For the the last wave (177,000) and also over the last few seasons. In 2012 alone it has seen the audience grow by 542,000 listeners (34% more than it had at the end of first time it has 2011), while its breakfast show Levántate y Cárdenas has broken the one million over two million listeners barrier, also being the fastest growing music radio show, in both the last listeners. ] wave (154,000 listeners) and the last year (251,000). The progress made by this programme has been spectacular since Javier Cárdenas joined, increasing from almost 500,000 to more than double that: 1,011,000 listeners. The music station Europa FM occupies the third position in thematic radio and it has maintained this position in the raking during the whole of 2012, establishing a very considerable gap between it and Cadena 100 (more than 400,000 listeners) and leaving Kiss FM with more than a million fewer listeners. Record breaking stars The Onda Cero brand is perfectly identifiable through the voices of Carlos Herrera, Julia Otero, Carlos Alsina, Isabel Gemio and Héctor Fernández. More than two million listeners wake up each morning to Herrera en la Onda and over half a million listen in the afternoon to Julia en la Onda and keep listening into the night to the analysis of the day’s news offered by La Brújula. Almost two million people listen each weekend to Te doy mi palabra and hundreds of thousands of listeners turn on in the early hours of the morning to the revamped sports show Al Primer Toque, which since September has been directed and presented by Héctor Fernández. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 77 Herrera en la Onda, a leading sound in the morning As in previous seasons, the magazine programme from Carlos Herrera has contin[ Carlos Herrera ued to gain listeners. In 2011, according to EGM figures, it increased its audience increased his by 208,000 new listeners and in 2012 it once again improved its results, adding audience by a further 163,000 listeners, giving the programme Herrera en la Onda a total of 2,061,000 listeners, making it the leading news and entertainment show on Span163,000 listeners ish radio. In each of the three surveys carried out by EGM across the year, Herrera to reach en la Onda has always had more than two million listeners, exceeding by more 2,061,000. ] than one million the number of morning listeners for Cope and by 945,000 the new morning magazine programme from Radio Nacional de España. The programme directed and presented by Carlos Herrera has more listeners than the shows from the two stations mentioned above put together. Loyal to its commitment to inform and entertain, Herrera en la Onda has been increasing its presence in the social networks, without losing sight of the participation and debate about all those issues that provoke interest and controversy among the public. Julia en la Onda increases its Julia Otero and Carlos Herrera. lead Over the last season Julia en la Onda has added new features after taking into account the opinions and suggestions of the listeners, which were gathered through what Julia Otero calls “audits”. The main new development, Tea Party, consists in various analysts (Arcadi Espada, José María Calleja and Máximo Pradera) offering their particular points of view about the outstanding issues of the day. Names that stand out from among the additions to the current team of collaborators are Joana Bonet, Manuel Delgado and Juan Carlos Girauta. The audience for the evening program directed and presented by Julia Otero has once again broken the barrier of half a million listeners, representing an annual increase of 11.6%, which translates into 53,000 new listeners. Another significant fact is that the gap between it and the other afternoon shows has widened considerably, despite one of them (“las tardes de la Cope”) lasting an hour longer. Julia en la Onda is the programme that has grown the most in the last wave of 2012 during the hours of overlap with the other afternoon shows. Julia Otero has a unique style, blending rigour and reflection with controversy and humour. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 78 La Brújula, the second most listened to night time news programme La Brújula, with Carlos Alsina, gained 34,000 new listeners in the annual calculations, and remains the second most listened to night time news programme, with 538,000 listeners (the highest third wave EGM audience over the long history of the programme), offering a clear commitment to the intelligent analysis of current affairs. At the start of the season, September 2012, it added some new features, among these is A cien millas de Manhattan, in which Guillermo Fesser uses his ironic sense of humour to describe life in the United States. For its part, the news programme Noticias Mediodía, directed and presented by Elena Gijón, has consolidated the good results seen in previous seasons with close to three hundred thousand listeners. The year 2012 has also been important for the Onda Cero news programmes directed by Julián Cabrera, with up to the minute news on current affairs in our country and overseas. During this year we had some great shows thanks to the elections in the Galicia, Basque and Catalonia regions, as well as the United States presidential election, following the election night with Carlos Herrera from Chicago. One of the most celebrated landmarks in the area of news and programmes was Carlos Herrera’s interview with the prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, the first that he gave to a radio station after his arrival at Moncloa. News has also been present twenty-four hours a day on Onda Cero, through hourly bulletins. Al Primer Toque, a new era with Héctor Fernández The most important new programming development, launched on 6 September Elena Gijón, Carlos Alsina and Héctor 2012, took place in the early morning sports programme. Al Primer Toque has Fernández. entered a new era with Hector Fernandez and a revamped team. The results of this change are already being endorsed by the audience. In just a few months, Al Primer Toque has earned the trust of 318,000 listeners, with a lively and entertaining style. While Al Primer Toque is just starting out, things are already going well. So far, it has reduced the gap that separates it from the sports programme on Cadena Cope and has had important exclusives. In addition Radioestadio has been very popular at the weekends, attracting more listeners to its Saturday edition than tune into “Tiempo de juego” (Cope). It has reached the historic figure of 752,000 listeners. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 79 Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada have taken advantage of the often unpreJavier Ares, Javier dictable competition times to combine sport, humour and entertainment. RadioRuiz Taboada, Isabel Gemio and Esther estadio, with nearly one and a half million listeners over the two weekend shows, Eiros. remains true to its calm and reflective approach to football and other sports. Ares and Taboada invite the listeners to have fun, while at the same time informing them about what is happening in the various fields of play. Te doy mi palabra, the most popular weekend programme When it comes to the weekend, Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio, has established itself as the most popular show on Saturday and Sunday mornings. Javier Gurruchaga is just one of the people joining the programme team to tell stories and anecdotes about music. Isabel Gemio’s charity work in this time of crisis has served to enhance the credibility of the magazine show that next season will have been on-air for ten years. While we are talking about weekend shows, we must also mention the long history and popularity of Gente Viajera. The audience has established an unbreakable date with Esther Eiros and her team before packing their suitcases. During 2012, the programme La Rosa de los Vientos (Saturdays from 01:00 to 04:00 and Sundays from 01:30 to 04:00) celebrated its 2000th with the public, in a cinema in Madrid. Bruno Cardeñosa and Silvia Casasola paid worthy tribute to the creator of the programme, Juan Antonio Cebrian. This programme on Onda Cero, in addition to being a cultural landmark for many listeners, also has weekly discussions on the key topics in the world of mystery and science. Also on the Internet Through our website the shows on Onda Cero and Europa FM have found new channels for information and listener participation. The two large radio stations at Atresmedia Radio have used the Internet to enter the social networks, thereby expanding the contents of conventional radio and music radio, improving the quality of the recordings. In this way, the listeners can retrieve music, take part in chats and comment on the various shows and broadcasts. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 80 As well as using www.ondacero.es and www.europafm.com to listen to live radio, listeners can also use them to give their opinion on what is happening on-air. Onda Cero and Europa FM have also created applications that allow them to be accessed via mobile devices and tablets operating with the Apple and Android platforms and environments. Radio for everyone One of the hallmarks of Atresmedia Radio and its stations Onda Cero and Europa FM is its dedication to public service, by providing society with its ability to inform and becoming a radio service for everyone. This is achieved through news bulletins, programs and advertising slots, that encourage respect for the values of diversity, the plurality of opinions and the free participation of the listeners through a multitude of channels (social networks, post, phone, email, SMS, etc.). In addition, using the languages of their audiences, Onda Cero and Europa FM are socially committed to their listeners in each and every one of the items in their programming. Health, social values, respect for opinions, the defense of sport and education, scientific research, or the value of finding out about other perspectives are present in the shows broadcast by both channels. However, there is also a commitment that goes beyond merely providing information, and that involves the dissemination, support and participation in social initiatives and campaigns that tackle real problems. In 2012 this commitment from Onda Cero and Europa FM has translated into three action areas: σσ Support for Atresmedia’s large corporate responsibility campaigns (Vive Conectado, El Estirón, Hazte Eco and Ponle Freno*) by broadcasting reports, interviews, and publicity breaks in the main programs. * Note: For more information on the Social Responsibility campaigns of Atresmedia and the Antena 3 Foundation see the “Society” chapter. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 81 UNA GOTA, TE TOCA and TE UNA VIDA TOCA JUNIOR Project which wants Junior initiative involving to provide access children and young to drinking water people in environmental for 1,800 children in improvement. Senegal. σσ Promotion of the activity of the Antena 3 Foundation**, discussing its major initiatives, such as the Una Gota, Una Vida project which has raised €180,000 to provide access to drinking water for 1,800 children in Senegal. There is also the PRO Project to promote and encourage employment in the audiovisual sector for people with disabilities and the Te Toca! y Te Toca! Junior initiative involving children and young people in environmental improvement. Social projects supported by Onda Cero and Europa FM in 2012 Support for the 1st Health Degree at the Official College of Psychologists in Madrid. Support for the UN campaign And you didn't know . Collaboration in the radio workshop with children at the Children's Hospital Virgen de la Arrixaca. Support for the Ford 24 hour charity race. Support for the “Tapones por una vida bottle top campaign of Fundación Seur Support for the Company Solidarity Day. Dissemination of the report from the College of Psychologists in Madrid on the Effect of Positive Emotions in Sick Children. Support for the Food Bank. Dissemination of Information on the Premios Solidarios del Seguro Awards. Support for the Cultural Exchange Tour by Malagasy Gospel. With social concerns In 2012 Onda Cero and Europa FM have continued to improve their radio shows and strengthen the content of most concern to listeners. The current schedule, in addition to informing and entertaining, prioritises comment and free audience participation. The clearest example is the news bulletins on Onda Cero which currently share space with reports, news with a social content and complaints about unjust behaviour and situations. This is all while giving priority to the principle of objectivity. ** Note: For more information on the Social Responsibility campaigns of Atresmedia and the Antena 3 Foundation see the “Society” chapter. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 82 Also noteworthy is Isabel Gemio’s Te doy mi Palabra show that examines issues of Isabel Gemio.. general interest such as welfare, happiness, minorities and the weak. This show has two notable sections: first Amanecemos con… which explores the other side of Spanish emigration and encourages respect for this movement; and second, radio ayuda, where the leading psychologist María Jesús Álava Reyes provides ongoing support to the listeners. Te doy mi Palabra: “Only good news” During the last weekend of January 2012, Te doy mi Palabra proposed offering “only good news” to its audience. This philosophy was applied for eight hours of radio time, during which good humour prevailed. Among the many guests was the chef Karlos Arguiñano, who praised the proposal to leave aside, if only for a few hours, the themes of the crisis and unemployment. Other shows on Onda Cero with a clear social content are: σσ Gente Viajera, which allows listeners to learn about different ways of life, civilizations and cultures and use this knowledge to increase their respect for diversity. During 2012 a new section on tourism flows between the East and the West has been created, in which a Chinese journalist, living in Spain, talks about news items of interest. σσ Como el Perro y el Gato is dedicated to pets. It introduces elements about respect for the environment and animals (as do Onda Agraria and Linde y Ribera). σσ En Buenas Manos: this show looks at health as a whole and as one of the essential preconditions for full human development. σσ La Brújula includes the section Otras noticias que no interesan a nadie whose aim is to show how large news stories that affect inequality, violence, hunger, etc. are ignored on a daily basis but remain a fundamental problem. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Radio 83 Meanwhile, Europa FM wants to be the mirror for the new generation. Aside from the entertainment, programmes like Ponte a prueba have emerged as a channel for reporting abuse. This show, which is uninhibited, deals with topics such as sex between young people and eating disorders such as bulimia and anorexia from a point of view which is serious, responsible, supportive and seeking to raise awareness. Levántate y Cárdenas is a programme focused on young listeners and uses their language to deal with harmful behaviour by young people, while transmitting social values to its audience. Awards and recognitions Many accolades were won throughout 2012 in recognition of the effort and work of the professionals at Onda Cero: Award Winner Programme Award Given by Cesáreo Martín Linde y Ribera Environmental Jaulín Council Award (Zaragoza) Cesáreo Martín Linde y Ribera Annual award Club de galgueros in Guadalajara Julia Otero Julia en la Onda Golden Microphone Federation of Radio and Television Associations Bartolomé Beltrán En Buenas Manos Cefaleas-2011 Spanish Society of Neurology Esther Eiros Gente Viajera Guest of honour Spanish Confederation of Hotels and Tourist Accommodation Lucía Mateos Onda Cero Heritage Award for Castile and Leon Journalism Heritage Foundation Vicente Ballester Onda Cero Valladolid Among Friends Digital Journal Aqui Award 2012 en Valladolid Sección Madrid Local news Improved local news Grupo Vaguada Onda Cero work Vicente Ballester Onda Cero Valladolid Journalism Award Francisco de Cossio Journalism Awards Isabel Gemio Te doy mi Palabra Solidarity Award IX Edition Nations Festival ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 84 Atresmedia Cine ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Cine 85 CINE Box office success In 2012, Atresmedia Cine premiered a total of five feature films which represent[ The cinema ed 20% of the box office in the whole of Spanish cinema. To these premieres it is produced by necessary to add XP3D shown for the first time at the end of December 2011, but Atresmedia which was projected in cinemas in 2012. The box-office takings of its cinema productions remained in the top positions of the ranking of Spain’s cinema industry. Cine represents 20% of the total Atresmedia Cine is conscious that it is not enough to make good cinema, it is necbox office of essary, moreover, to know how to connect with the public. Under this premise, it Spanish cinema succeeded in placing four of its productions among the first top ten of the Spanish with only five cinema and, in turn, has obtained the recognition of the critics and professionals films. ] at Spanish and international festivals. Rkg Título ESTRENO DIRECTOR RECAUDACIÓN ESPECTADORES 1 Lo Imposible 11/10/2012 Juan Antonio Bayona 41.020.508,16 5.852.138 2 Las Aventuras de Tadeo Jones 31/08/2012 Enrique Gato 17.880.413,27 2.656.849 3 Tengo ganas de ti 22/06/2012 Fernando González Molina 12.152.813,74 1.947.785 (*) 4 A Roma con Amor 21/09/2012 Woody Allen 3.207.007,35 458.997 5 Luces Rojas 02/03/2012 Rodrigo Cortés 3.027.821,85 465.294 6 Grupo 7 04/04/2012 Alberto Rodríguez 2.370.301,47 365.765 7 Rec 3: Genesis 30/03/2012 Paco Plaza 2.341.804,97 367.618 8 XP3D 28/12/2011 Sergi Vizcaino 2.056.933,46 267.404 (**) 9 El Cuerpo 21/12/2012 Oriol Paulo 1.928.653,61 272.732 10 Promocion Fantasma 03/02/2012 Javier Ruiz Caldera 1.704.413,50 269.187 11 Katmandu, un espejo en el cielo 03/02/2012 Icíar Bollaín 1.510.998,59 235.311 … (**) 13 Fin 23/11/2012 Jorge Torregrossa 1.480.296,86 216.018 … 69 Extraterrestre 23/03/2012 Nacho Vigalondo 164.719,33 25.518 (*) Este largometraje no se contabiliza en el ranking como producción de Atresmedia Cine debido a que los derechos de antena pertenecen a laSexta. (**) En explotación ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Cine 86 Tengo ganas de ti, a feature film based on the novel by Federico Moccia and a [ Tengo Ganas continuation of Tres metros sobre el cielo, also taken to the cinema by Atresmedia de ti, with Cine, which became the biggest box office hit in 2010, occupied the third position box office of the Spanish film ranking. Directed by Fernando González Molina and starring Mario Casas and María Valverde, with more than €12 million, it nearly quadrupled of 12 million the total takings of the film that followed it in the ranking. quadruples the number of The fifth place in the ranking was occupied by Luces Rojas, directed by Rodrigo spectators of Cortés and starring Robert de Niro and Sigourney Weaver. The film was successthe following fully presented at the Sundance Cinema Festival. film in the 2012 also saw the premiere of El Cuerpo, directed by Oriol Paulo and starring ranking. ] Belén Rueda, Hugo Silva and José Coronado. The film continues at the moment of drafting this report to be projected at cinemas, with estimated box office takings far exceeding those of the film which occupied the fourth place in the 2012 ranking. Fin, directed by Jorge Torregrossa, with Maribel Verdú, Daniel Grao and Clara Lago in the cast, is another of the feature films premiered in 2012 whose projection continued beyond the close of the year. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Cine 87 Premieres in 2013 2013 will see premieres such as Los últimos días, an apocalyptic thriller directed by the brothers Alex and David Pastor set in the city of Barcelona; Combustión, directed by Daniel Calparsoro and starring Alberto Amann and Adriana Ugarte; TRES-60, directed by Alejandro Ezcurdia and with Raúl Mérida, Sara Álamo, Geraldine Chaplin and Joaquim de Almeida in the cast. The second half of the year will see the premieres of Futbolín, the first animated film of the Oscar winner Juan José Campanella; La gran familia española, a film by Daniel Sánchez Arévalo, with Quim Gutiérrez, Verónica Echegui and Antonio de la Torre, a comedy about a wedding which takes place during the final of the South African world cup. Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica directed by Oskar Santos, whose filming was extended over nine weeks in natural locations in Hungary and the Basque Country. This film aims to conquer the family public through these two characters who, during almost seven decades, have delighted various generations. Furthermore, Mindscape is in the post-production phase, a psychological thriller directed by Jorge Dorado, whose premiere is envisaged in the last four months of 2013; Tres bodas de más, a comedy by Javier Ruiz Caldera starring Inma Cuesta, Martín Rivas and Paco León; and Open Windows, a classical thriller starring Elijah Wood and directed by Nacho Vigalondo. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 88 Atresmedia Digital ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 89 DIGITAL Leaders in interactivity For antena3.com the year 2012 has been studded with success. The launch of [ According the new version of ANT 3.0, connecting in real time the live television content to to the General phones and tablets, the launch of the new laSexta.com website and the excellent Media Study results obtained with the Formula 1 World Championship are some of the major (EGM), in 2012 milestones this year. antena3.com antena3.com ended the year with an average of 9.7 million monthly unique viswas the leading itors, representing a 10% increase over 2011. Out of the entire year, the month of television November was the highlight, recording 12 million users, a historical record that website in coincided with the climax of the Formula 1 World Championship season. Spain. ] However, these are not the only figures that confirm the excellent record of Atresmedia Digital. According to the General Media Study (EGM), in 2012 antena3.com was the leading television website in Spain, and this year also saw it achieving its best ever results. antena3.com was also the most visited television website on the [ Antena 3 Internet, according to the Televidente 2.0 study written by the Internet consultanwebsite has cy The Cocktail Analysis. for the second consecutive To these quantitative measures we must add the qualitative ones, since the year won the Antena 3 website has for the second consecutive year won the award for “most popular website of the year” in the study carried out by the market research award for “most agency Metrixlab. popular website of the year” It has also maintained excellent shares in the viewing of videos, with over 700 in the study million viewings, mainly through the television-on-demand service, its online platcarried out form for viewing complete episodes and programs. by the market Once again this year antena3.com has partnered Habbo in Spain. The largest onresearch agency line youth community in the world chose this website for its audiovisual strength, Metrixlab. ] its high quality content and its good relationship with its audience, to which we must add the success of the direct encounters with the actors from their favourite series. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 90 ANT 3.0: The new interactive television In order to continue to provide content and make them available to viewers wher[ ANT 3.0 ever they are, Atresmedia Digital has launched a new version of ANT 3.0. This is is the first the first “second screen” application in the world that connects in real time to the “second screen” content of live TV from smart phones and tablets. This is another step toward removing the barriers between the channel and the audience, allowing the viewers application in to participate more in their favourite series and programmes. the world that connects in The interaction possible through ANT 3.0 is very diverse. It allows exclusive videos real time to the and additional information to be offered. Thus, while the viewers are enjoying the content of live broadcast of El Barco, Tu cara me suena, Fenómenos or Gran Hotel, they are reTV from smart ceiving extra content in the form of questions, images or videos. phones and This experience, a pioneer in the world and developed internally by Atresmedia, tablets. ] has obtained excellent results with an average of three million monthly interactions and has attracted ten times as many registrations as the first version. In addition, the content on ANT 3.0 has also involved current affairs, following the last Catalan elections, during which users were given minute by minute updates on events. Atresmedia therefore remains at the cutting-edge, adapting to the possibilities offered by the new technologies and showing its commitment to a multi-screen strategy. Formula 1 World Championship, record audience The website has also mirrored the successes of Fernando Alonso in the last Formula 1 world championship. During the 20 races of the competition, fans had access to absolutely all the information possible about the circuits, teams and drivers, both in the actual races and in the practice and qualifying sessions for each race. Interviews were also broadcast, along with related news items, videos, image galleries, polls, rankings and it was used to gather interview questions. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 91 Internet users also had real time access to all the information about the champiLasexta.com and onship via Twitter (@ a3formula1) and Facebook (Formula 1 in Antena 3) with the Fórmula 1. special presence of Antonio Lobato and his team. Its success has been clear, and all this effort to provide information has been rewarded with an increase of 34% over the 2011 audience. The website has also improved the possibilities for commercial exploitation through the bundling of the broadcasting and the double advertising window. Launch of the new laSexta website The launch of the new lasexta.com website, which took place in October 2012 [ The new following the merger, is another of the great landmarks of the year. With a comwebsite of pletely revamped image, but maintaining its own identity within the framework laSexta has of the design of Atresmedia’s websites, the new website has all the information obtained the about the channel’s series, laSexta|Noticias news bulletins and programmes like Al Rojo Vivo, laSexta Columna, Salvados or the hugely successful new Pesadilla highest figures en la Cocina. for the year in November Lasexta.com also has its own On Demand service where viewers can watch comwith 2.6 plete series and programmes from both laSexta and the xplora channel and this million unique has the flexibility required to meet the demands of the advertising market. browsers. ] These improvements have been rewarded with excellent audience figures, obtaining the highest figures for the year in November with 2.6 million unique browsers. New business diversification 2012 was also the year of the launch and consolidation of the new businesses established by Atresmedia Digital. Muchosplanes.com, a portal dedicated to offering the best options in leisure, beauty, travel and products at a discount. Nubeox is the online video platform created by Antena 3 and DeAPlaneta. It has more than 2,200 licensed titles and agreements with the main Hollywood and Spanish distributors. Nubeox is a completely open portal, where users can browse with no obligation and find out what content is available for rent or purchase. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 92 On Demand Premium. The new pay-TV service through the internet where viewCommunity managers ers can access series and premieres in high quality and without advertising. For and web page El Barco. just 4 euros per month, they have unlimited access to the entire Antena 3 catalogue, with more than 2,000 episodes of series, TV films and programmes. Finally, Atresmedia Digital is still working on its catalogue of games with the launch of new titles like Imperium, la conquista de Roma, an online strategy game where players arrange their troops to conquer the Roman Empire. The games Atrapa un Millón and Hispania are some of the new titles introduced by Atresmedia Digital. Leadership in social networks The social networks have also been witness to the good results achieved in 2012. The channel remains among the top positions in terms of Facebook fans and reaffirms its position as the leading television website with over 630,000 fans. If you add up the different profiles managed by Atresmedia Televisión on Facebook (which include channels like Neox, Nova and Nitro, and the main series and programmes), the Group has more than 6 million fans. Among these, El Hormiguero, the Spanish programme with the most followers, stands out for its 840,000 fans. Antena3.com has been a pioneer in launching the Fan Club for El Barco, an initiative that rewards the loyalty of the fans on the platform, where the followers of El Barco can enjoy exclusive content and collect points to exchange for gifts. On Twitter, @Antena3com now has 450,000 followers and continues to be the leading commercial television website in terms of followers. Since 5 October 2009, the date on which it published its first tweet, it has published almost 13,000 messages. The success of Tu Cara me Suena has also been replicated on the social networks, where each week its followers gather, managing to accumulate 191 national and 114 international trending topics in its 11 first events. Similarly, Antena 3 News is the leading news programme from a commercial broadcast on twitter, with 254,000 followers in @A3Noticias, double that of its closest rival. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 93 The radio online The Atresmedia Radio websites also repeat the excellent results seen in television. [ Ondacero.es Ondacero.es has grown by 6% to reach 732,000 unique monthly browsers and has grown by 6% europafm.com has seen growth of 13%, to 642,000. In addition, both are among reaching 732,000 the most listened to on the Internet in their category. Onda Cero is the leader with an average of 44 minutes of online listening daily, and Europa FM has an average unique users per of over an hour each day of listening. month. ] Beyond the figures, we must mention the efforts made by both networks to provide access to their content from any device. This new tool, simple and intuitive in terms of navigation, means that Internet users have access to all the content of the radio stations. In addition, listeners can share all the information on Twitter and Facebook, thanks to the full integration of content with the social networks. Dialogue with the audience Atresmedia recognizes the importance of maintaining an open, fluid and permanent dialogue with its audiences because it is they who can provide suggestions, opinions and recommendations that meet their needs. The Group views the online environment and social networks as a great opportunity to reach out to its stakeholders, find out about them and get them involved in its initiatives. The public greatly appreciates the invitation to interact, not only in entertainment programmes but also in corporate responsibility initiatives, as evidenced by the number of followers on Twitter and Facebook for Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco and El Estirón. Ponle Freno Hazte Eco EL ESTIRÓN Twitter Followers (2012) 6,948 3,548 5,393 Facebook Fans (2012) 155,849 3,832 3,065 In a moment of real boom in the social and multiplatform networks, Atresmedia has increased its efforts to facilitate the use of these tools and has launched specific initiatives that reinforce the link with the public and let them interact with the content broadcast. The following are the main initiatives: Access to exclusive ANT 3.0 Application Twitter and Facebook content Viewer Loyalty ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 94 Smartsphones [ The Style Antena 3, thanks to the new version of the application ANT 3.0, has taken a major Guide for Social step toward greater interactivity with the audience. ANT 3.0 is an application for Networks is iOS and Android that allows simple, direct, and respectful access to extra content a pioneering for series, unbroadcast videos, “making of” programmes, and exclusive informainitiative in the tion additional to the content being broadcast on television. Furthermore, through sector, offering the application the users can review and rate the content, which is a direct and immediate way to communicate with the channel. The first version of the applicaguidelines to tion achieved more than 2 million content items served and more than 200,000 follow when downloads. using the social networks. ] Social Networks σσ Development of a Style Guide for Social Networks. In 2012 we began developing a Style Guide for Social Networks. This is a self-regulatory tool that compiles rules and tips to ensure the safe, respectful and responsible use of these communication platforms. This document is in response to Atresmedia’s commitment to promote respect and protection for all the followers of its official channels. It is expected that this guide will be com[ Atresmedia pleted in 2013, although it is a living document and once launched will grow Digital attends a and adapt to new uses and needs. σσ The creation of the Community Fan Club for the El Barco drama series specific course on Facebook has allowed fans to share opinions about the content of the on the proper series and obtain official products. use of personal σσ Interacting with the Programme El Número Uno: profiles, a ◼◼ The audience had the pioneering opportunity to choose the show’s conpioneering step testants through the social networks. As a result, the public was involved in order to show even before the series was aired. Atresmedia’s ◼◼ Text on the screen showing the programme’s hashtag during the broadcast of the show. This initiative promotes the integration and the feeling commitment to of belonging among the viewers, as they can access information on the transparency, contest in real time. The warm welcome received by this initiative has accountability enabled it to be extended to the rest of the programming schedule. and the ◼◼ The contest’s participants attended a specific course on the proper use good use of of their personal profiles, a pioneering step in order to show Atresmethese tools dia’s commitment to transparency, accountability and the good use of these tools by everyone connected to the channel. by everyone σσ Leadership on Facebook: Antena 3’s profile on Facebook maintains its connected to leading position. This profile allows fans to access exclusive content, includthe channel. ] ing firsts. Internet Toward the end of 2012 the 1st Internet Course for Managers was run, a new initiative that seeks to extend, unify and promote the proper use of the Internet. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 95 www.antena3.com, a leading and inclusive online “For a environment communications group, social As part of thecommitment by Atresmedia to offer interactive platforms using the responsibility latest trends to facilitate navigation and two-way communication with the usinvolves listening ers, the Group has developed innovative initiatives to make the www.antena3.com to and responding website a leading and inclusive online environment. These measures include the to the needs and suggestions following: of its users and consumers of σσ During 2012, the process of displaying subtitles for the entire schedule ofcontent. We as a fered over the Internet has begun. Once this task has been completed, users federation welcome will be able to access the contents posted on the internet as easily, or even any measures taken to achieve greater more easily, as they can access those on television now. interactivity and σσ Integration of a group bar and a new structure at the bottom of the page participation in the for easy access to the contents about the group. This process has involved development of important work on design and deciding on the right features that allow for content and the efficient access and navigation. establishment of σσ Internal implementation of the quality management system in the multimecommunication channels and real dia environment, which controls the incidents recorded in the online media. trust between This functionality is being very warmly received by the Internet users, since the channel’s each incident is recorded and analysed to prevent recurrence. management and σσ Creation of an information area for users of the “On Demand service” (platthe users. In this form for viewing complete episodes), where users can check the solutions sense, campaigns such as ‘Menos to any problems with accessing or viewing content. sillón y más sofá’, σσ Commissioning of a telephone hotline for troubleshooting and an email adapplauded and dress (webmaster@atresmedia.com), which anyone can use to communirecommended cate illegalities or irregularities. by several of our associations, constitute a first positive step in the construction of interactiveness, Safe telephone participation trust and respect between content broadcasters, such Atresmedia is aware of the importance of communicating with its audience and as your channel, therefore the different programs broadcast on the Group’s channels have specific and the users.” ways that allow them to interact and increase synergies with their audience. The rise of the social networks and new technologies, which facilitate two-way communication, is gradually displacing the traditional overcharged telephone system used for audience participation. Thus, the programme profiles in different social networks (Facebook, Twitter, and even Tuenti) are becoming the most dynamic, ideal and flexible way for the audience to interact with the shows. And one of the consequences of this virtual development is the gradual disappearance of opinion messages from the screen María Tobalina or these being read out over the radio. Executive Director Federation of Associations of Media Consumers and Users However, programmes of the “talent show” type, such as Tu Cara me Suena and El Número Uno, require a powerful system for receiving votes in a short space of time, and for these cases SMS messages and the 905 televoting system remain the best ways to meet the needs of the audience. These two systems are subject to strict regulation to ensure user protection. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Digital 96 The viewer can subscribe to a number of the Group’s quiz shows. This facilitates Food Bank. audience participation, as people don’t have to send a message every time they want to take part. This service also allows it to “democratise” the phone-in participation in competitions, preventing professional players from winning more prizes through sending SMS messages in large volumes or in certain time slots, or studying the terms and conditions for the contest. The sending of alerts to Atresmedia Televisión’s viewers is also limited to 12 per month, compared to the 30 offered by the main telephone operators. In 2012, the charity numbers 28000 and 28020, with special pricing, have enabled Atresmedia to implement fundraising initiatives for different social projects and organisations such as the Food Bank, ADENA or Antena 3 Foundation. Calls and SMS messages from the audience to these numbers offering donations have raised over €250,000. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 97 Atresmedia Publicidad ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 98 PUBLICIDAD Coverage, quality and service The year 2012 has not been an easy one for the advertising market in the conventional media. The adverse economic environment has led to a reduction in consumer consumption and the consequent reduction in the advertisers’ advertising budgets. However, once again this year Atresmedia Publicidad has performed better than the market as a whole. Advertising spending fell by 15.8% in 2012 compared to the previous year. The fall was generalised across all the media, including the Internet, which after recording strong initial increases started to fall around the middle of the year. Despite everything, Atresmedia Publicidad has retained its fierce intention to defend the value of its product and the richness of its formats so that it can widen the gap with its competitors, increasing its commercial effectiveness. As a result, Atresmedia Publicidad’s 2012 advertising policy has been defined on the basis of the quality of the product, service, innovation and commitment. Evidence of that is the new services added, such as tools to predict the success of a particular advertising campaign and the reason for its success. Similarly, guided by the desire to contribute value added in the market, campaigns have been launched to support the Spain brand by providing slots in the international channel that have been used by exporting companies. Through Promarca, Atresmedia Televisión has involved its television presenters to demonstrate the level of consumer confidence in the brands. However, that is not all. It has also organised the “El Producto del Año” (The Product of the Year) competition, where users vote on the most innovative items during the year. Innovation is creativity Society is changing and consumers are adopting new consumption habits. This unstoppable trend has its effect on advertising as well, which is why innovation is now essential to obtaining greater profitability. During 2012 Atresmedia Publicidad has been a pioneer in the launch of advertising products, such as the pre-roll spots in the Formula 1 coverage or advertising through the interactive application ANT 3.O. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 99 If in the latter part of 2011 Atresmedia made a public commitment to its viewers and advertisers, in 2012 it established its unique model for understanding and selling TV. A model with guarantees for the advertiser and the viewer, in which the advertiser knows, with no shocks or surprises, the environment in which its messages are going to be transmitted to an audience that is comfortable watching TV. This year Atresmedia Publicidad has added other benefits to its famous commitment to a “coverage guarantee” in its campaigns. These include “maximum [ The concentration of GRPs by program”, “express awarding” and responsibility in the integration of reinforced protection schedule. laSexta, has multiplied However, if there is one landmark to highlight for the audiovisual industry in 2012, it is the merger with laSexta. Atresmedia Publicidad has seen two very distinct the efforts periods: the first nine months of the year, in which the main objective was to grow to achieve the share of investment through a defensive pricing strategy against a larger comthe greatest petitor; and the final quarter of the year, in which the focus has been on achieving synergies the greatest synergies between the new family of seven channels resulting from among the the merger. new family of seven channels Overall, from January to December television suffered a fall of -18.9%. Despite that, Atresmedia Publicidad has increased its market share reaching a cumulative level resulting from of 35%, according to the annual investment report published by Infoadex. the merger. ] Channels 2012 2011 % ‘12/’11 Share ‘12 Share ‘11 Total TV 1,815.3 2,237.2 -18.9 100.0 100.0 Mediaset España 821.5 975.0 -15.7 45.3 43.6 Atresmedia (*) 639.0 681.5 -6.2 35.2 30.5 Grupo La Sexta (*) 115.0 255.0 -54.9 6.3 11.4 Rest of the national free to air 42.1 36.5 15.6 2.3 1.6 television Total national free to air 1,643.9 1,977.0 -16.8 90.6 88.4 television Total regional television 126.8 198.0 -36.0 7.0 8.9 Total pay-TV stations 43.1 60.2 -28.5 2.4 2.7 Total local television 1.5 2.0 -25.0 0.1 0.1 [ The Formula 1 (*) Grupo La Sexta includes the investment for the period January-September 2012. From 1 October this is has enabled included in Grupo Antena 3 TV. advertisers and agencies Moreover, its special services have played a crucial role in 2012, since in an environto have access ment of falling investment, this type of advertising has remained stable, increasing to the world’s its presence by 0.6%. One of the main drivers for this type of advertising has been greatest the inclusion of the Formula 1 in our commercial offer, which has enabled advertisadvertising ers and agencies to have access to the world’s greatest advertising show. show. ] ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 100 Integration with laSexta: the birth of a new advertising offer In October 2012, following the integration of the family of laSexta channels into Atresmedia Publicidad’s services, a new business proposal was established, designed to meet the communication needs of all television advertisers, regardless of their specific characteristics. The result has been three distinct products that have been very warmly welcomed in the market: σσ Atres Cobertura: This includes Antena 3, Nova, Nitro, laSexta3 and xplora. This product, due to the diversity of the audiences it covers, offer leadership in coverage to be retained at the same GRP’s. σσ Atres Afinidad: This brings together Neox and laSexta. It becomes the product with the greatest affinity with the qualitative targets and of most commercial interest, offering advertisers the chance to buy with a guaranteed impact on their core targets. σσ Atres Independiente: Facilitates the individual purchase of any channel with preferential treatment in the awarding of slots over the other products. This makes it easier for brands that wish to link to very specific content and profiles. Onda Cero and Europa FM, better performance than [ Onda Cero the market has become the Radio, the most stable media format, began in 2012 to feel the effects of the crisis station with the and fell by around 13%. Despite this situation, Atresmedia Publicidad has permost advertisers formed better than the market average. among the generalists and In the third wave of the EGM in 2012, Onda Cero again increased the success of Europa FM its audience figures with a growth of about 7% compared to 2011, consolidating its position as the leading general station for much of the Spanish population. Howis the fastest ever, it is in advertising where it has become the industry leader, since the good growing of results in quantitative terms are complemented by the level of special mentions the themed and solutions, as it has opinion leaders across its whole schedule. stations. ] The position of Europa FM is similar: it has seen increases in its audience and revenue, even though the music market is stagnant. All these facts have led to our customers trusting in us and as a result, Onda Cero has become the station with the most advertisers among the generalists and Europa FM is the fastest growing of the themed stations. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 101 Avertisers ‘12 vs ‘11. Generalists stations. Avertisers ‘12 vs ‘11. Themed stations. 578 286 288 288 600 300 538 261 478 243 467 231 233 450 225 432 402 400 200 322 152 139 136 134 200 100 2012 2011 Source: internal estimates Onda Cadena Cadena Punto Europa Cadena Cadena Cadena Kiss FM Cero M-80 Radio Cope Ser FM 40 Dial 100 Internet: sustained growth [ The interactive The online product from Atresmedia Publicidad has experienced strong growth in application sales. The advertising formats offered today have registered double-digit growth ANT 3.O allows in a market that, according to IAB, has for the first time seen falls in display adverusers to receive tising, which have been offset by the growth in search engines. exclusive television According to Comscore, throughout 2012, more than 700 million videos have content and been released, which make us the leading commercial station for online videos. The Atresmedia Publicidad network, with 5 million unique users, 236 million page interact with it. ] views and 80 million video downloads a month, features solid communication formats such as antena3.com, lasexta.com, ondacero.es and europafm.com. The management of the client portfolio has been satisfactory since market penetration has been increased through adding ten new advertisers this year. In addition, our regular customers have increased their investment by 27%. On the Internet there has been no shortage of examples of brands that have linked to the content through original special campaigns, in which active participation in the social networks has played a part and further steps have been taken towards multiplatform advertising. Finally, the launch of new products such as the interactive application ANT 3.O that allows people to receive exclusive television content and interact with it, has enormous advertising potential that will set the advertising trend for the coming years. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 102 New businesses Web pages of Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo. Pioneers in innovation The purpose of the New Business area is to look for and obtain new income sources for Atresmedia through the commercial exploitation of its brands and the development of interactive formats. The key to success is being able to anticipate the future, adapting the business models to the changing legal environment and market trends. Antena 3 was the first national channel to implement commercial formats based on the new technologies, such as the launch of Premium SMS in 2001, Call TV in 2006, promotions in the press with the distribution of DVD’s, also in 2006, Poker events in 2008, Astrology programmes in 2009, Roulette in 2012 and Bingo in December of that year. The New Businesses team works in close coordination with the other areas of the company. Their production or operations are not usually left in the hands of third parties, since they keep tight control over all releases to ensure that they reach the users in the desired conditions. The New Business Area consists of two departments: Special Products and Licenses. Special products After successfully completing all the necessary requirements, on 1 June 2012 the company Antena 3 Juegos SAU obtained a general license for “competitions” and “other games”. Both are part of the process established by the online gaming regulations implemented by the Ministry of Finance. This has created an opportunity to look at new business ideas arising from the launch of the Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo projects, which use television programmes and campaigns to encourage registration on the gaming websites www.ganing.es and www.canalbingo.es. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 103 On the gaming websites, revenue generation occurs during the sessions in which [ The service the users participate throughout their lifetime as registered customers. This allows is provided the generation of revenue to be decoupled from television consumption, contrary with great to what happens with other forms of interactivity, or with advertising itself, which generate revenue primarily during the hours in which the programme is broadcast. transparency for the user and Both Ganing Casino and Canal Bingo have been pioneers in the development of good customer roulette and bingo on television through live programs. New game modes will be service, which added during 2013. has led to us being During the year, the New Business area also managed other formats, such as dating, teleshopping, astrology, competitions and poker, either promoted internally or recognised as by third parties. With these it has created a portfolio of programmes that optimise the television revenue through the early morning slot on the Atresmedia Televisión channels. station with the fewest La Llamada Millonaria has once again this year focussed on SMS competitions for complaints in the viewer, with a simple and enjoyable game and more than half a million euros in this field. ] prizes awarded during the year. By not using a pull push SMS mechanism (in which the greater the number of messages sent by the user, the greater the likelihood of winning) and instead relying on subscription, all participants have the same opportunities. So the advantage of professional players or “heavy users” in this type of competition is removed, favouring a simpler, more convenient and more equal game. La Llamada Millonaria sends a maximum of 12 monthly alerts to users, which is less than the maximum allowed by the telephone operators. The service is provided with great transparency for the user and good customer service, which has led to us being recognised as the television station with the fewest complaints in this field. In the process of integrating laSexta’s teletext with that at Antena 3, the advertising investment of the portfolio of advertisers from laSexta has been successfully safeguarded, which has led to an increase of around 40% in turnover in this area. Licenses, merchandising, publishing and promotions After the excellent results obtained by board games in the previous year, there is still a strong focus on this area of merchandising, adding new releases such as the Juego de Experimentos under the El Hormiguero brand. It has also added a pet to the ¡Ahora Caigo! programme, which has allowed for the release onto the market of another character to join Trancas and Barrancas at the point of sale. The series El Secreto de Puente Viejo has become a publishing success with 40,000 copies of the first book sold. This led to the release of the second book in October. Programmes like El Hormiguero 3.0, with two books published this year, have brought stability to this business area. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 104 The promotional strategy this year has focused on working with related companies. In this regard, an agreement was reached with the publisher Planeta to launch a selection of catalogue titles such as Palmeras en la Nieve; or the latest novel by María Dueñas, Misión Olvido, with very good results. An agreement has also been signed with Casa del Libro for the launch of its new tablet. Atresmedia Eventos Brand initiatives Atresmedia Eventos continues to focus on creativity and innovation in the production and organisation of major events. In 2012 it launched five new initiatives which added to classics like the Ponle Freno race. Hundreds of thousands of people have enjoyed the music, film, sport and leisure events run by Atresmedia Eventos. Equally, dozens of advertisers have associated their images with these events, including companies such as Gas Natural, Energizer, Asics, Ford, Leche Pascual and Movistar. Bico, the first of these, extended the range of participants in an unusual sports event, based on the less demanding discipline of the popular duathlon. Over 2,000 people took part in this fun day held in April at La Casa de Campo in Madrid. Continuing with the promotion of sport, and closely linked to the El Estirón initiative, we have the De marcha con El estirón. A popular race format for children and their families, which aims to raise awareness about the importance of physical exercise in preventing childhood obesity. So, on Sunday 20 May thousands of families gathered in the Warner Park Madrid to wait for the starting pistol signalling the beginning of this walk to encourage physical activity in children. After the race, young and old alike also enjoyed the attractions in the park. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 105 With Fórmula Campus, another of the events held, Atresmedia Eventos set the Ponle Freno Race. challenge of bringing the experience of a Formula 1 Grand Prix to everyone. As a result, it organised a three-day camp in the vicinity of the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia, where people could go before and after the race. Christmas is and will always be a great excuse for new initiatives. Atresmedia Eventos wanted to create a new children’s entertainment area in the mornings during the Christmas holidays. Navifun was the name used for this project involving nearly 15,000 people who had fun in the twelve different rooms, with magicians, mime artists, clowns, puppets, storytelling, and music and dance workshops. Ponle Freno Race, new record [ The Ponle Once again this year, Atresmedia Eventos has boosted the success of what is alFreno Race ready known as one of the major events in the popular racing calendar for Madrid. again beat its The 4th year of La Carrera Ponle Freno again broke its record for the number of own record for participants. The limit of 15,000 runners was reached one week before the race. participation with the limit With an open invitation to all kinds of runners, participants and their family memof 15,000 bers, they again came together to raise money for road safety projects. registered The year 2012 also witnessed the holding of the 2nd edition of Madrid Premiere runners being Week, the first commercial film festival. This time the red carpet was rolled out in reached. ] both the emblematic Callao Square (Madrid) and in the Kinepolis cinemas to accommodate the nearly 6,500 guests and an influx of more than 10,000 fans who attended the premieres of Amanecer Parte 2, Asterix y Obelix, Fin and Fenómenos. Major music events Another initiative that is gaining prestige each year is the Europa FM in concert. Under this label, the famous Pitbull, one of the most important international artists on the current music scene, delighted the audience with three large concerts across Spain. More than 30,000 people packed the Pabellón Olímpico in Barcelona, the Palacio de Vistalegre in Madrid and the Plaza de Toros in Valencia to enjoy his greatest hits. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 106 During 2012 Atresmedia Eventos has also worked on the creation and launch of the first ever Musicland. A festival where the public could enjoy two packed days of indie, hip hop and electronic music performances. The organisation of the Fiestas de Móstoles (Madrid) also was entrusted to Atresmedia Eventos, which was responsible for managing and organising seven large concerts with the highlights including performances by Ana Torroja, Juan Magan, Fangoria and Love of Lesbian. The most popular music on the internet also entered into the company’s portfolio. Atresmedia Eventos was commissioned to produce YouFest, the festival of the Youtube generation. Two days, four stages, live music, screenings, lectures, extreme sports and the most amazing mashups with the great stars of the Internet took place in Madrid last September. Responsible and high quality advertising Advertising is a key part of Atresmedia’s business model, as it helps to fund a schedule that is sustainable and highly valued by the viewers, listeners and Internet users. “We greatly value the commitment shown by the Atresmedia Publicidad manages the advertising on the different formats used by Atresmedia the Atresmedia group with the objective of offering the best possible advertising Publicidad team service to the advertisers. To do this, its work is based on three action areas: imin every project it proving customer service, developing innovation in advertising and guaranteeing undertakes, and its ability to adapt in the quality of the product offered. each case to the customer’s needs. To achieve this, Atresmedia Publicidad is constantly coordinating with AtresmeIts professionalism, dia and working on two main areas: seriousness and rigour, but σσ Unifying the positive elements of the scheduling so that the advertisers especially its ability to innovate in benefit from them. finding the best σσ Inserting the advertising messages in a form that is logical and consistent solutions for our with the content and credible to the audience. customers, are a shining example in These guidelines are translated into a commitment to both the advertiser and the our market. It really is one of those audience to ensure responsible advertising based on: organisations that you can rely on.” 1. Responsible and high quality television. 2. Self-regulation of the advertising content. 3. Advertising communication committed to society. Responsible and high quality television Atresmedia Publicidad makes available to the advertiser a model of television that has been recognised and endorsed by all the market players. The fundamental attributes of this model are variety, quality and commitment. Miguel Angel García CEO Starcom ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 107 Variety is reflected in a schedule that is plural and diverse in genres, and this [ The corporate translates into high audience figures. The diversity in programming means that policy of the advertiser’s brand can have an impact not only on a large number of people responsible but also on a varied audience, a fundamental objective in customer’s media plans. advertising Moreover, the quality of the schedule, based on respect for the viewer, on limits applies to the and on “not everything goes”, offers an ideal environment for advertising. Atrescompany’s media Publicidad is committed to working toward a responsible television model entire family with the advertisers to offer them a clean environment with which to associate of channels, their brand. including Commitment is translated into designing a responsible advertising policy based the laSexta on the principles of honesty, truthfulness, child protection, excellence and social channels ] responsibility. In its commitment to excellence, Atresmedia Publicidad offers its advertisers more quality. That is, it allows them to plan advertising campaigns in response to their specific needs and select the programs that best suit their values. The corporate policy of responsible advertising applies to the company’s entire family of channels, including the laSexta channels (laSexta, laSexta3 and xplora). The integration of all of these has helped Atresmedia Publicidad to create new advertising products that meet the needs of both the advertisers and the offices: Atres Cobertura, Atres Afinidad and Atres Independiente. With Atrescobertura and Atresfinidad, the company brings to the market a leading product offering the two attributes most demanded by the market: coverage and affinity. Atresindependiente meets more specific advertising needs and offers the advertiser the option to further segment its advertising. To strengthen its television and advertising model committed to the advertisers [ Atresmedia and viewers, the organisation has in 2012 launched the following initiatives: Publicidad has continued to σσ Offered free to advertisers, the “Econometric model of effective frequency promote among in advertising on TV”. Atresmedia Publicidad, has developed an innovative service that explains the behaviour of visibility as a function of advertising its advertisers activity. This tool is able to predict the visibility of the advertiser in future the sending of campaigns and thus helps the customer to improve the effectiveness of its digitised spots media plans. to avoid using σσ Creation of an institutional piece with the image of Antena 3 and Onda conventional Cero, which linked the Group’s commitment to quality in programming with tape. ] that offered to consumers by the brands being advertised. σσ Assignment of free slots in the Atresmedia international channel to the campaign España son nuestras empresas to support national brands and companies. σσ Commitment to the greatest audience coverage across all the Group’s channels, and, if not, a return of 5% of the campaign cost to advertisers. Also in the field of sustainability, and in keeping with the company’s Environmental Policy, Atresmedia Publicidad has continued to promote among its advertisers the sending of digitised spots to avoid using conventional tape. In 2012, 54% of the spots were received in digital format. In addition, it provides its advertisers with tools for online purchasing and supervision of creative elements, which means significant savings in paper and tapes respectively. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 108 Self-regulation of advertising content Another initiative to comply with the responsible advertising policy is its voluntary adherence to various sectoral self-regulation codes. These texts include requirements for commercial communications that go beyond the existing legislation. The main codes signed up to include: PAOS: Self-Regulation Code of Advertising Aimed at Minors to Prevent Child Obesity (2005). TV stations committed to this code in 2010. FEBE: Self-regulation Code of the Spanish Spirits and Beverage Federation (2006). Self-regulation code of Spanish Beer–Makers (2009). Wine Code of Ethics (2009). SMS Self-Regulation Code (2009). Self-Regulation Code of Toy Advertising (modify in 2010). Environmental Impact Self-Regulation Code (2010). As a result of the entry into force of Law 13/2011 of 27 May on the Regulation of [ In 2012 Gambling and the publication in 2012 of the first licenses for gambling operators, Atresmedia Atresmedia Publicidad has implemented measures to ensure compliance with voluntarily signs these, such as: up to the Code σσ Voluntarily signing up to the Code of Conduct on Commercial Communiof Conduct on cations for Gambling Activities whose purpose is to protect consumers in Commercial the field of commercial communications for gambling activities, especially Communications minors and other vulnerable groups. The Code sets out the principles to be for Gambling followed by publicity so that the gambling activity is practised responsibly. Activities. ] Among others, there is a requirement to include a message about social responsibility or combatting addiction. σσ Requests to Autocontrol (Association for the Regulation of Advertising) for copy advice (initial consultation service) for all the gambling campaigns before they are aired. In 2012, Atresmedia Publicidad asked Autocontrol for a total of 489 pieces of copy advice for all its campaigns broadcast, 51% more than in the previous year. To go one step further in its desire to be a responsible advertiser, the company has adjusted the reinforced protected times to the new advertising guidelines. As a result, Atres Cobertura maintains the schedule for protection set by law. Meanwhile, Atres Afinidad extends this as a result of the broadcasting of children’s programming on the Neox channel and the company’s commitment to children. Reinforced protection times Atres Afinidad extended reinforced protection times Mon-Fri From 8 am to 9 am and from 5 Mon-Fri From 8 am to 11 am and from 5 pm to 8 pm pm to 8 pm Sat-Sun From 9 am to 12 noon Sat-Sun From 9 am to 12 noon Supports and controls of advertising contents To strengthen and ensure compliance with current legislation and with the voluntary self-regulation codes, Atresmedia Publicidad has a strict system for controlling all advertising content before it is aired. This involves the departments of ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 109 Broadcasting, Advertising and Self-Regulation applying a triple filter. Their con[ The economic trols ensure that all advertising campaigns comply with the responsible advertiscost of the ing policy designed. sanctions has In addition to this triple check, it is planning to implement a supervision system so decreased to that the media planners indicate the time restrictions for each tape. This measure less than a aims to avoid human errors in planning and broadcast. third of that for 2011. ] In addition, several measures have been designed to meet current regulations, in terms of the times and type of advertising allowable depending on the time slot: σσ Daily Report on the occupancy of the Group’s channels. σσ Daily monitoring of the logs for advertising and advertising saturation levels. This work is done by the Kantar Media company. σσ Control of daily complaints in the logging errors. σσ Weekly sending of the advertising alerts report to the Subdirectorate General of Broadcasting within the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. During 2012 there have been minor offences due, in most cases, to differences in the coding of sponsorships and infomercials. However, the economic cost of the sanctions has decreased to less than a third of that for 2011. 2010 2011 2012 No. cases 11 7 6 No. breaches 41 26 27 Television advertising (€) 696,232 761,899 222,657 Advertising in other media (€) 32,201 50,000 0 TOTAL 728,433 * 811,899 222,657 The 2012 data include sanctions for the broadcasting of television advertising through the Antena 3, Nova, Neox and Nitro channels, and also the new channels resulting from the merger with Gestora de Inversiones Audiovisuales La Sexta, S.A., the channels laSexta, laSexta3 and xplora. There have also been changes to the data corresponding to the amount of the sanctions for television advertising in 2009 compared to the amount included in the report in previous years. This is because during 2012 a fine imposed by the Secretary of State for Telecommunications and the Information Society was overturned by a judgement from the High Court, declaring the partial invalidity of the sanctioning decision from 2009 and reducing the amount of the fine from €119,025 to €24,150. There have also been changes to the data corresponding to advertising through other media as the Court has overturned two sanctioning decisions by the Spanish Data Protection Agency derived from the sending of commercial communications by SMS, in application of the Law on Information Society Services. Advertising that is committed to society In 2012 Atresmedia Publicidad has continued involving its advertisers in the Group’s Corporate Responsibility campaigns, such as Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco and El Estirón. For the latter it has reached agreements with advertisers to promote healthy eating and physical activity among children: ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 110 Espejo Público. σσ Hero has supported the El Momento de El Estirón initiative, a weekly slot in Espejo Público. During this slot, renowned experts offer tips on child nutrition and tackle one of the health issues of most concern for Spanish families: childhood obesity. σσ Micrópolix, the city of children, has opened the attraction El Estirón-El Desafío de la Torre to promote exercise by children. σσ Parque Warner Madrid has collaborated in organising the initiative De Mar[ In 2012, cha con El Estirón, a non-competitive family race to encourage physical Antena 3 exercise that is held in the park. and laSexta broadcasted Another initiative to strengthen Atresmedia Publicidad’s commitment to society free tv is offering free advertising space on television and radio to NGOs and Foundations. In 2012, the Antena 3 and laSexta channels broadcast a total of 74,945 secadvertising onds of free television advertising time, valued at a market price of €8,300,820, campaigns for which is almost three times more than in 2011. NGO’s, valued at a market price of €8,300,820. ] List of the advertising space assigned to broadcasting free campaigns in Atresmedia’s channels during 2012 Tv Antena 3, Neox, Nova and Nitro SECONDS OPPORTUNITY COMMITMENT CAMPAIGN BROADCAST COST (€) Social X SOLIDARIA 2,060 216,740 Social AECC 1500 299,550 Advertising sector SELF-REGULATION 5,900 983,335 Advertising sector CONFIANZA ONLINE 2012 2,500 644,112 DIA MUNDIAL CONTRA Social 45 8,700 MALTRATO Advertising sector PROMARCA 12,370 3,263,458 Social SOMOS 2012 CAMPAIGN 990 118,650 Total general 25,365 5,534,545 ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Atresmedia Publicidad 111 TV laSexta. xplora, laSexta3 SECONDS OPPORTUNITY COMMITMENT CAMPAIGN BROADCAST COST (€) Social ALIA2 4,840 264,500 GENERIC SELFAdvertising sector 4,640 331,950 REGULATION Social DROGAS PIENSA 6,630 366,795 Social FAMILIAS UNIDAS 7,260 382,770 Social LEUCEMIA 6,210 286,665 Social MEDICOS DEL MUNDO 2,820 110,655 Social MENINGITIS 4,460 265,320 Social ASI SOMOS NGO 3,030 168,240 Social SAVE THE CHILDREN 990 174,750 Social WORLD VISION 3,920 195,400 Social X SOLIDARIA 4,780 219,220 Total general 49,580 2,766,265 74,945 8,300,810 Awards and recognitions The commitment shown by Atresmedia Publicidad and Atresmedia to the responsible management of its advertising has been recognised with numerous awards and accolades. In 2012 the Fourth Foro de Comerciales de Publicidad advertising forum was held, which handed out its annual awards to the best teams in advertising management. Atresmedia Publicidad received an award in the categories of Television, Best Multimedia marketing and Best Format Marketing. The 9th edition of Study into the Quality of the Media in the Advertising Market by the Group Consultores has cited Atresmedia Publicidad for attributes such as the quality of the advertising service, compliance with agreements and good working practices. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 112 Human Resources ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 113 Ready for the future The integration of laSexta into Atresmedia Televisión has been a milestone for everyone in the organisation and required a joint effort to integrate more than 60 new employees. After the merger, Atresmedia will be made up of 1,784 professionals who are ready and willing to take on new challenges, and to adapt to the needs of the new circumstances. Other important milestones in 2012 have been the improvement to the Corporate Volunteering Program and the internal communication channels. These and other important projects are described in more detail throughout this chapter. Highlights 2012 Merger with “laSexta” Corporate Volunteering Programme Internal communication Health campaigns To successfully deal with future challenges, the management of human resources at Atresmedia is based on a policy which applies equally to all employees and which, during 2012, has strengthened aspects as important as the retention of talent, dialogue and equality. Professional Career Safe Environment Dialogue Talent Retention HR POLICY Work-Life Balance Competitive Pay Freedom Equality ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 114 Our challenges During 2012, specific objectives and initiatives were defined that focus on improving internal communication, the retention of talent, equality and the prevention of health problems. The following sets out the degree of compliance with each of these. CHALLENGE FOR 2012 DEGREE OF COMPLIANCE COMMENTS Continue with the Communication Successful launch of the Digital Plan: launch of the Digital Magazine Magazine and regular updating of the providing information to all the company's Welcome Plan. employees and the implementation of the Welcome Plan for new employees with the creation of the Welcome Manual, to help them fit into the workplace. Improve the tools for People Consolidation of the HR development Management and Motivation: Talent tools and launch of the Plan for Management, Work Environment Executives in languages and skills Study, Performance Assessment, Plan for Executives in languages and skills. Approval and implementation of the Inclusion of the Equality Plan at the Equality Plan negotiating table for the collective bargaining agreement. Pending agreement with the Company's Committee. Start a hearing check-up campaign 406 employees have had a hearing aimed at all of the Group's employees. test. Give several educational talks about A campaign to prevent and control occupational health and safety (survey hypocholesterolemia in the 53 affected result) employees has been developed and training has been provided to 65 interns to improve their safety in the workplace. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 115 Number of employees Age range of the employees Percentage permanent Turnover contracts 1,942 2,000 1,849 1,200 100 5 1,773 1,018 4.3 4.3 84 80 81 1,000 1,500 80 4 800 1,000 60 3 537 2.25 600 40 2 400 500 197 20 1 200 21 2010 2011 2012 20-29 30-45 46-60 > 60 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Atresmedia in figures Atresmedia is made up of a large team of 1,784 people ready to take on new professional challenges. The reduction in the workforce in 2012 is mainly due to organisational changes, which have made it necessary to outsource some services in order to adapt to the demands of the audiovisual sector. The workforce at Atresmedia is young, with the largest age group being between 30 and 45, and an average age of 40.6. The geographic distribution is mainly concentrated in the Madrid region (1,475), followed by Andalusia (110), Catalonia (75), and Galicia (69). It also has employees across the rest of the country and where possible supports employees who want internal transfers to a new city. The percentage of the workforce with a long-term contract has increased in 2012 to 84% (1,490), a very positive figure taking into account the current socio-economic climate, and the average seniority of the staff is 11.5 years. The turnover considered as voluntary resignations from the company stands at a very low level (2.25%), almost two percent lower than in previous years. Equality and diversity Equality and diversity are values that form part of Atresmedia’s spirit and can be found in all the organisation’s activities, including the processes for selecting personnel and professional development. To consolidate these values, efforts have been increased during 2012 to finish writing the Company Equality Plan, with specific measures to guarantee equality and encourage a healthy work-life balance. The Equality Plan has been completed and is pending approval by the Company’s Committee. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 116 Percentage Evolution of the Workforce by gender Distribution in 2012 by gender and professional category [ In 2012 more 52 800 than 55% of 51.4 new staff were women. ] 700 621 51 50.4 50.3 600 528 49.7 500 49.6 50 400 49 48.6 300 185 200 124 131 48 76 85 100 23 Men Women 2010 2011 2012 Managers Technical Officers Rest “After months of uncertainty I arrived here almost overnight. New Clear evidence of the effectiveness of these principles and plans is the equal numprocedures, new bers of each gender working in the company, with 48.6% of the workforce being projects, a single women. set of guidelines and colleagues Our workforce currently includes 39 disabled workers, all of whom have been fully who from the very integrated into Atresmedia’s operations. Most of these disabled workers occupy first day made everything very technical positions. We should point out that Spanish law requires all companies easy for me. Seven with over 50 workers to have 2% of the total workforce accounted for by disabled months later we people, a percentage exceeded by Atresmedia. In addition, Antena 3 complies are a very united with the Law on the Social Integration of the Disabled through alternative meateam, it feels like I sures in the PRO Project, a workplace integration programme for the disabled, run have been here for years. Many things by the Antena 3 Foundation. have changed, but the best thing is Another figure that shows the diversity of the workforce is that eight foreigners that laSexta has currently work in the Group’s different companies. retained its identity, and has even been strengthened in terms of the Integration of the staff from laSexta features that differentiate it During 2012, 62 new employees from laSexta have joined Atresmedia’s workforce, from the rest, and and this has been a significant challenge for the Human Resources Team and for remains part of this all the staff. From the very start the main objective has been to fully integrate all increasingly strong group.” of these people, offering them the same conditions enjoyed by the rest of the workforce. Various different measures have been implemented to help with this integration: σσ A positive attitude and personal approach so that each new member feels as comfortable as possible. σσ Development of a detailed study of each person to identify the job that best suits each profile. σσ A Welcome Manual, with all the useful information about the company, Inmaculada Romero Marketing, Atresmedia available to employees through the corporate intranet. Televisión ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 117 Career development The people who work for Atresmedia form the core of the organisation and guarantee its successful results. As a result, the company has an active commitment to all the employees, developing specific initiatives focussing on career development and growth. Talent Management Work Experience Training Programme Programme Programme PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Training Plan Ongoing training is a fundamental requirement for career development and must be designed specifically for each person, since each employee has their own specific training needs. Each year Atresmedia draws up a Training Plan, which gradually over more than fourteen years has been substantially improved, adding initiatives such as the inclusion of new courses or other methods of imparting training. The aim of the plan is for all the employees to receive the training they need, not only for excellence in their job, but also to help with their personal development. The Training Plan starts by detecting the cross-cutting needs (languages, skills, values, health and safety, etc.) and functional needs of the unit or position (finance, HR management, etc.) held by each employee. This analysis leads to the approval each year of the schedule and the calendar of courses for the Group’s employees. Average hours of training by job category for all Average hours of training by job category for employees all those attending training courses 30 30 60 53 25 50 47 20 40 30 15 30 24 23 22 21 21 21 19 19 19 9 10 20 7 4 5 10 2012 2011 2010 Managers Technical Officers Rest Managers Technical Officers Rest ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 118 Hours of training by type of course 12,000 11,219 10,000 7,423 8,000 6,100 6,000 4,248 2,948 3,079 2012 2,902 4,000 2,436 2011 1,454 2010 2,000 1,240 1,131 976 832 512 432 544 465 Note:* The subjects marked have 84 been counted for the first time in 2012. Communications Skills Languages Technology New Social Editorial Other policies* technologies* responsibility* Currently, the Group offers over 340 courses, which are given either in person or via e-learning (online or virtual training), addressing areas such as skills development, communication, new technologies and languages. During 2012, 477 employees have taken part in training programmes, receiving a total of 18,306 hours of training, 12% more than in the previous year, with an average of 30 hours per attendee and an average of 10.3 hours per employee. Among the new training initiatives implemented we can highlight a specific course on Corporate Responsibility to improve the awareness and involvement of the employees in this area. The total investment in staff training and development was €395,700. Talent Management Program The Talent Management Program is designed to develop and reinforce the skills and capacities of the personnel at Atresmedia who have great professional potential, establishing four categories: σσ Personnel with strong executive potential. σσ Personnel with notable creative talent. σσ Employees who are important for the organisation due to their high-degree of professional versatility. σσ Personnel with professional talent throughout the organisation (analysis of executive structure). This programme encourages internal promotion within the organisation. This is a deeply rooted strategy in Atresmedia because it shows clear support for the employees as well as saving time and money. The main new development in this programme in 2012 has been the addition of new training courses such as language training. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 119 These are currently included in the Executives and Senior Management programme, but will be gradually rolled out to the entire workforce. Work Experience for young people Atresmedia, aware of the current problem of youth unemployment, has once again this year run its Work Experience Program designed for young students. In 2012 the programme involved 40 professional training students, 458 undergraduate students and 22 postgraduate students. Those taking part in this program do their work experience in Atresmedia with the help of a personal tutor, so that they can take full advantage and learn as much as possible about areas as specific as speech, production or tools for journalists (DALET) or skills courses. The Work Experience Programme has been created not only to give the students the opportunity for their first contact with the business world, but to also provide a very valuable source of future employees for Atresmedia, given that some of them are given the chance to join the company after their work experience has been completed and all of them are added to the company’s database for future selection processes. As a complement to this programme, other initiatives to encourage the training of future professionals are also carried out: σσ Mañana Project: promoted by Atresmedia since 2010, several universities send in projects on how the news should be presented in the future on television and the radio. The organisations chosen as finalists receive a cash prize. In addition, the group of students presenting the best project is given a scholarship in television or radio. σσ First Job Program: in collaboration with the Madrid Press Association (APM), through its Work Experience Programme and First Job Programme, this initiative allows a graduate (registered with the APM) to form part of the Group for a year. Furthermore, and in order to reinforce specialised training in the audiovisual sector, many of the Group’s professionals participate as teachers in various Masters courses and Universities. Some of the most important are: σσ Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Masters in Audiovisual Business Management (MEDEA). σσ Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. Masters in Television Journalism. σσ Universidad San Pablo CEU y TRACOR. Masters in Reporting and Journalistic Investigation in Television. Social benefits Atresmedia has established a complete Social Benefits Programme for all the employees with a double objective: Increase the non-salary compensation for Encourage a good Work-life balance employees ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 120 The Social Benefits Programme includes the following measures: Benefit Beneficiaries Company cafeteria The central offices of Atresmedia have a company cafeteria All the employees for use by all the employees. The company subsidises 58% of the cost of the food. Employees working away from the office are given food vouchers. Parking at the Office The company's facilities have free parking for employees All the employees Life Insurance All the employees have personal life insurance. All the employees Medical insurance Management personnel receive free medical insurance. All the management personnel Flexitime There is an unwritten policy in the HR department and their All the employees trust in the employees means that there is certain flexibility in working hours according to the needs of each employee and job. Temporary incapacity In the event of the temporary incapacity of an employee, the Everyone supplement company supplements the benefits to reach 100% of salary. Maternity and Paternity In the event of maternity or paternity leave for an employee, Everyone* Supplement the company supplements the benefits to reach 100% of salary. Flexible Compensation Plan Antena 3 offers a Compensation Plan to its directors that 14 employees in 2012 includes car rental and specific training. Transport bonus The employees at Onda Cero have a transport bonus due to Onda Cero collective the relocation of their offices. bargaining employees Special perks in buying Atresmedia has established agreements with different All the employees products and services. external companies, which allow workers to enjoy certain products and services at special prices: special rates on health and fitness services, special conditions for training programs (agreement with the ESIC), the use of sports facilities (the Dehesa Boyal municipal sports centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes) and discounts on the purchase of books, trips and on eating out, among others. Special perks in GROUP Working in a Media company also has its own advantages. All the employees activities As an added perk, Atresmedia's employees can take their children to film shoots, sit in the audience of their favourite shows or obtain tickets for previews of the company's releases. *Note: during 2012, 52 women took maternity leave and 30 men took paternity leave. Remuneration policy One of the main factors that sets Atresmedia apart is its salary policy. This is characterised by having employee salaries that are higher than those set by collective bargaining agreements and, in most cases, significantly above the sector average. The minimum employee remuneration is set by collective bargaining agreements and varies according to the particular features of each worker’s position, functions and responsibilities in the company. Increases are established on the basis of personal performance and seniority in the company. On the other hand, Executive salaries (Directors, Assistant Directors and Managers) consist of a base salary and a variable remuneration linked to individual targets, overall company results and the result of the 180° performance assessment. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 121 The 180° performance assessment is a clearly defined and transparent procedure, which in 2012 was applied to 160 members of the management in the Group. Leadership Communication Teamwork Factors assessed in the 180° skills evaluation Results-orientated Commitment Innovation At the moment, a new Collective Bargaining Agreement is being negotiated through regular meetings with the Company’s Committee. Among the main new features that this could include are a flexible wage system for all employees which is more closely connected to the company’s financial performance. Internal communication [ In 2012, an Internal communication is one of the key aspects in any organisation, and espeaverage of 1,500 cially in those organisations, such as Atresmedia, that involve companies and peounique users ple with very different roles and responsibilities. Transparent and effective comconnected to munication at all levels helps with carrying out the work and promotes employee confidence. In this regard, the Group has as one of its objectives the implementhe Group’s tation of specific measures to improve internal communication. One example is: intranet each month, with σσ Corporate Intranet: the main point of information, consultation and access an average to all the information of interest to Atresmedia’s employees. of 13,100 σσ “Más de Tres” Digital Magazine: 2012 saw the launch of the internal magconnections a azine “Más de Tres”, with the aim of reporting internally on all matters that may be of interest. The magazine has been very well received among emmonth. ] ployees, who can actively collaborate in its content. σσ Welcome Manual: the Group’s intranet contains the “Welcome Manual” which provides very useful information about joining the company and about the company itself. The Manual is particularly designed for new members of staff, but is also of use to the rest of the employees in the company as it contains information such as the Code of Conduct, services, protocols, and security policies, rules for travel, etc. which are useful for everyone. We listen to the employees For internal communication to be as effective as possible it is necessary to listen. One of the most useful tools for this is Focus Groups, meetings where employees exchange views, demands and expectations about a particular issue. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 122 Therefore, in December 2012 a session was held involving 14 randomly selected “Our society needs employees belonging to different Atresmedia companies. They talked and shared to be aware of their views on matters that affect them directly, such as the company’s policy on exemplary actions human resources, occupational health and safety, and professional development that go beyond within the organisation. self-interest, that help the most needy, offering They also discussed more general issues such as the perception of Atresmedia them support and its television model and its involvement in society through its various corpoand solidarity. rate responsibility initiatives. After this debate, the important conclusions were The media has gathered for consideration when developing future actions to improve the worka key role to ing environment: play in showing the generosity of volunteers demonstrating STRONG PONTS AREAS TO IMPROVE values such as love and social justice.” Team work, professionalism, degree of Knowledge of Corporate Policies camaraderie Mandatory and optional training options Language training Occupational Health and Safety Measures Internal communication Corporate Volunteering Programme Volunteers: corporate pride Sandalio Gómez Emeritus Professor Personnel Management Atresmedia is very proud of its Corporate Volunteering Program, one of the eleDirectorate at IESE ments that sets it apart from the rest and that also offers tangible benefits for its employees, the Group itself and society in general. It is called “volunteering” because the employees do it freely, often during their own spare time (holidays, weekends, etc.) and “corporate” because it is an activity enhanced and supported by the company and one in which it has decided to invest. Contributes to making Increases employee Improves the workplace social projects a reality motivation Environment Corporate Volunteering The Group has been gradually extending its Corporate Volunteering Programme since 2005, offering associations and NGO’s the professional potential and skills of the company’s employees to help groups with different problems. During 2012, the company extended the Corporate Volunteering Programme to all the employees at laSexta, which increases its ability to take action in society. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 123 In addition, the company uses its communication media to raise awareness in sociVolunteers on “One ety about the importance of this volunteer work and actively takes part in forums Seed, One Life” and organisations that promote Corporate Volunteering. Since 2009 Atresmedia has been a member of the Advisory Board of the Corporate Volunteering Observatory which is designed to help companies to take decisions about corporate volunteering. In addition, in 2012 the group joined the Voluntare platform, the first international network of Third Sector companies and organisations to encourage corporate volunteering and help organisations to improve their programmes on this issue. As part of this collaboration, the group has participated in the “Study on the skills associated with corporate volunteering initiatives”, and in various Focus Groups on the challenges facing volunteering. Moreover, reflecting the company’s commitment to volunteering, Atresmedia has signed a collaboration agreement with the Volunteers for Madrid Foundation to jointly run activities throughout 2013, and has joined the international initiative “City of Services” which will be launched in Madrid in 2013 with the aim of improving the social work in cities through volunteering. During 2012, employees have been involved in several corporate volunteer projects: 4 volunteering 70 Atresmedia 1,360 hours €13,744.57 activities volunteers volunteered investment σσ 4th Corporate Volunteering Day for EVERYONE: 40 Volunteers from Atresmedia took part in the 4th Corporate Volunteering Day for EVERYONE with the Balia Foundation. During this day, they accompanied 170 children at risk of being excluded from society on a trip to Rascafría (Madrid region). The volunteers, along with their families and friends, worked as monitors and enjoyed spending the day with the children. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 124 σσ 6th Company Solidarity Day: the 6th Company Solidarity Day was held in October, organised by Atresmedia and International Cooperation to simultaneously take place in Madrid, Seville, Valencia, Saragossa and Barcelona. More than 1,000 volunteers from 44 companies took part in this day to help more than 13,000 people from different groups, such as disabled people, people at risk of exclusion from society, etc.  Atresmedia took part with 20 volunteers who accompanied elderly people from the Amigos de los Mayores Foundation and the ASISPA Residential Home. σσ Volunteers on “One Seed, One Life”: Three Atresmedia employees partici[ 94% of pated as volunteers in the project run by the Antena 3 Foundation “A Seed, Atresmedia A Life,” with the goal of alleviating malnutrition in more than 400 children. employees The volunteers travelled to Mozambique and visited the different villages supports the south of Maputo where the project is being run. For three weeks, these employees worked with the local mother and child hospital, with the collection Corporate of crops, as well as training the members of the local NGO in administrative Volunteering duties. Programme. ] σσ Volunteers with “Operation Kilo” run by the Food Bank: 10 professionals from Atresmedia, along with their families and friends, have taken part as volunteers in “Operation Kilo” from the Food Bank. Thanks to their help, and that of hundreds of other people, the Food Banks collected 95 tons of food in the Madrid region. Custom volunteering In order to improve the Corporate Volunteering Programme and meet the needs and expectations of the employees, a study has been run using 130 opinion survey responses. “The volunteer The study shows that the employees at Atresmedia are very proud of the proactivities that have gramme and 94% are in favour of the company organising these activities. They been carried out show particular interest in helping three groups: children, the elderly and the disby the Company abled. In addition, 41% of the employees say that they have taken part in a volunhave given me the teering activity with a charity. The following are viewed as the main benefits from opportunity to meet and work with volunteering: colleagues from very different areas σσ It improves personal and professional skills. or even from other σσ It improves the working environment and encourages pride in belonging. group companies. σσ It encourages relationships between employees. During the time σσ It helps employees to become involved in social action initiatives. of volunteering new and strong relationships Lastly, the report identifies as the main area for improvement the need to offer among the staff more activities for families to foster among the children the benefits of volunhave been built teering and the extension of the volunteering activities to all the Group’s offices and this matter is around Spain, not just in the central offices in Madrid. helps o create a good atmosphere at work.” As a result of this active listening to employees and responding to their requests, the voluntary activity chosen for the Business Solidarity Day consisted in accompanying elderly people and this day was also extended to employees of the Group in Valencia and Barcelona. Jose Javier Baquedano Voluntario Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 125 Atresmedia volunteers ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 126 Safe and healthy working environment Atresmedia applies an active occupational health and safety policy that goes beyond the risks in the workplace, and includes voluntary actions to prevent health problems and improve the health of the employees and their families. Throughout 2012 the personnel were diligently informed on matters concerning occupational safety and health. Proof of this are the monthly meetings with the prevention delegates from the two unions that represent employees in the company. In addition, jointly with the delegates, information, consultation and participation activities were carried out in relation to the following issues: σσ Report on 2011 activities and 2012 programming. σσ Employee Welcome Manual. σσ Plan to Prevent Occupational Risks. σσ Campaign to Prevent and Control Cholesterol Problems. σσ Training-informative activity for interns and work experience staff. σσ Organisation and results of the medical checks in 2012. σσ Communication of the changes to the membership of the Health and Safety Committee and company representatives. Employee awareness and training Proper prevention begins with raising awareness and training the workforce. Therefore, Atresmedia has during 2012 launched various initiatives designed to train and raise the awareness of employees about the importance of health and safety and creating healthy and safe working conditions. σσ “Health and Safety affects everyone”: an information tool placed on the Group’s intranet, presenting practical examples and detailed information to improve the health and physical condition of the employees and their families. σσ Training for work experience staff: at the start of their time in the company, 65 summer work experience employees received specific training to improve their safety at work. σσ Ongoing advisory initiatives: the professionals in the Department of Prevention and Health Services provide daily advice and guidance to employees who request it. In addition, the Department of Prevention and Health Services has run several campaigns to promote a healthy lifestyle and prevent health problems: σσ Hearing campaign: a total of 406 employees have volunteered for hearing tests. σσ Cholesterol campaign: after carrying out the medical tests, a campaign to prevent and control hypocholesterolemia in the 53 affected employees has been developed To increase the dialogue with employees and identify new health and safety initiatives that meet the needs of the workforce, Atresmedia has launched initiatives such as the suggestions and ideas box so that they can, on a voluntary basis, reports issues or comment on any topic related to occupational health and safety. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 127 Accident and absenteeism rate Preventative activities 60 600 525 518 4.05 4.10 50 500 432 407 406 372 2.89 40 400 2.60 30 2.21 300 2.11 1.80 1.50 181 20 200 0.97 128 112 127 90 90 102 77 10 100 49 2010 0.07 0.06 0.06 2011 2012 Medical Other OHS Accident frequency Accident seriousness Common illness Work absenteeism Evaluation of Preventative Security, hygiene and ergonomic check-ups initiatives planning workplace risks index (%) index reports absenteeism index (%) Work accidents and absenteeism Number of accidents 50 During 2012 accidents that do not result in sick leave have improved considerably compared to the previous year, partly thanks to awareness initiatives and training 41 courses. 50% of the accidents have been caused by commuting, i.e. during jour40 134 neys to or from the workplace. 30 In addition, all the absenteeism indices have fallen considerably, recording a total of 473 days lost. There have been far fewer cases of sick leave due to common and 21 19 19 18 professional illnesses. This reduction is due to the preventative initiatives run and 20 the unfavourable socio-economic climate. 10 Note: the rates for 2010 have changed with respect to the data provided in previous reports, given that previously not all of Atresmedia’s employees were taken into account. • Accident frequency index: number of work accidents for every million hours worked. • Accident seriousness index: number of work days lost due to work accident for every thousand hours worked. With • C  ommon illness absenteeism index: the number of work hours lost due to common illness for every thousand Without leave hours worked. leave • Work absenteeism: total hours lost compared to total hours worked. 2010 2011 Lastly, it is worth noting that during 2012 there was a general increase in all pre2012 ventative activities. As evidence of this we can highlight the more than 400 medical check-ups and the more than 4,400 medical appointments, including advice, emergencies, tests and injections. Note: the calculations of preventive activities have changed with respect to previous years, to adjust them to the breakdown of tasks for a Joint Prevention Service (Order TIN/2504/2010 implementing RD 39/1997 Prevention Services Regulations). ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 128 Awards and recognitions Randstad, the company for work solutions and Human Resource services, has named Atresmedia as the second most attractive company to work for, within a ranking of organisations that best convey their appeal to the general public. This position has been obtained on the basis of the response of 7,000 people surveyed for the report “Employer Branding: when perception becomes a reality,” which was used to identify the most important factors for employees when seeking a company to work for. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Human Resources 129 Future challenges In 2013 Atresmedia will continue strengthening and promoting the values included in its human resources and health and safety policies: CHALLENGES FOR 2013 Integration of the personnel from laSexta into the corporate programs. Organizational restructuring to ensure the greatest possible efficiency and profitability of the company. Launch of the Equality Plan. Maintenance and consolidation of all the human resource development tools. Running health campaigns to control blood pressure and skin problems. Running training and awareness campaigns on: • Nutrition and diets. • Workplace health. • Health and safety for work experience staff. Specific studies on social psychology and ergonomics: • Jobs with visual display of data. • Temperature and humidity conditions. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 130 Society ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 131 Society: making a positive contribution Atresmedia believes that corporate responsibility is the best way to encourage communication, dialogue and action, and build confidence among different stakeholders. By actively listening, the group has developed a policy which encompasses its main lines of social action, focusing on four key areas: Making a positive Raising contribution to awareness society Social commitment policy Promoting Transparency volunteerism or and maximising co-operation impact Making a positive contribution to society is one of the commitments included in this policy. To this end, the company uses the ability to disseminate information through its different media outlets to serve society and implements a variety of social initiatives and campaigns. Our challenges The actions which the group carries out for the benefit of society are defined through a process of active listening which makes it possible to prioritise lines of action based on current needs: Listen to Prioritise and Define stakeholders select challenges The challenges undertaken in 2012 gave priority to the following areas of social interest: σσ Improving safety on our roads and motorways through the Ponle Freno campaign. σσ Combating childhood obesity in Spain through an initiative known as El Estirón. σσ Raising social awareness, particularly among young people, of the need to respect the environment through Hazte Eco. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 132 σσ Through the Antena 3 Foundation, implementing actions aimed at ensuring that children and young people have the necessary support for their wellbeing and education. σσ Working with NGOs and other organisations to provide a response to the needs of society (UNICEF, food banks, WWF-Adena, Greenpeace). All Atresmedia media outlets have actively supported the social action campaigns undertaken by acting as a mouthpiece or providing air time and airing PSAs, spots or messages. Air time devoted to corporate responsibility campaigns CSR CAMPAIGNS 2012 RUNS TOTAL TIME A3 LaSexta DTT COVER2012 PROMOS PROMOS PROMOS SECONDS MINUTES HOURS AGE % GRP's OTS Ponle Freno 837 72 2,444 68,900 1,148.3 19.1 94* 2,309.1 24.6* Hazte Eco 80 0 296 752 12.5 0.2 58.1 241.8 4.2 El Estirón 1,793 0 6,479 165,440 2,757.3 46.0 96* 5,896.5 61.4* Food Banks 165 414 845 35,600 593.3 9.9 88.10 971.7 11.0 *Estimated data based on the number of runs and GRPs. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 133 Our challenges In order to meet these challenges, the group undertook specific actions, whose level of completion is summarized in the table below. LEVEL OF PONLE FRENO 2012 CHALLENGES REMARKS COMPLETION Begin a citizen listening and participation The Radares sólo para salvar vidas (Radars campaign to gather information about to Save Lives) campaign, begun in 2012, is a concerns regarding road safety. response to a survey carried out to identify our society's main concerns regarding road safety. This campaign received the most votes. Hold the 4th Ponle Freno Race. 25 November The event was held on 25 November. Organise the 3rd 3.0. Road Safety The conference on cyclists was held on 14 Conference. December. Campaigns to raise awareness of the need to A summer campaign was carried out for protect cyclists and motorcyclists. motorcyclists and signs were placed along stretches of road frequented by large numbers of cyclists. LEVEL OF EL ESTIRÓN 2012 CHALLENGES REMARKS COMPLETION Continue producing and broadcasting The programme El Estirón remained on the the programme El Estirón and create air, reaching a total of 50 shows broadcast. new sections with the aim of encouraging healthy habits among audience members and increasing family participation in the programme. Organise events that promote physical A race for the entire family was held under exercise among children. the name De marcha con El Estirón (On the Road with EL ESTIRÓN). Associate the campaign with and A book and minidisc to promote physical provide support for other events held by exercise and good eating habits was organisations that work to reduce childhood published. obesity in Spain. The Coles Activos campaign was organised to get schools involved in the campaign. LEVEL OF Antena 3 FOUNDATION 2012 CHALLENGES REMARKS COMPLETION Adopt a systematic approach to obtaining A public announcement was made inviting support for NGOs and foundations through people to help select the partner NGO for public calls to participate. the Campaña por los Derechos de la Infancia (Campaign for Children’s Rights). The no-cost spots procedure has been updated and a consensus has been reached with the Programming Department regarding benefit programmes. Create a job board for students taking part in The job board was created to promote access the PRO Project. to employment for students in the PRO Project. Expand the reach of the Programa de This programme's reach was expanded to Asistencia Hospitalaria (Hospital Assistance the Autonomous Community of Aragón, as Programme). well as various private hospitals in different geographical areas. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 134 Ponle Freno: together we can save lives Ponle Freno is the commitment to social action undertaken by Atresmedia to help save lives on the road. This programme was begun in 2008 with the aim of moving beyond the television screen and airwaves to undertake a long-term active and determined commitment to initiatives and measures which contribute to improving and fighting accident rates on the road. ‘Juntos sí Podemos’ (‘Together We Can Do It’) is the slogan championed by this social action. It represents an ongoing dialogue with citizens, government bodies, victims’ groups, automobile and cycling associations, road safety experts and all other groups involved in this issue which support the initiative. In 2012, following the merger with laSexta, the social commitments undertaken by Atresmedia were extended to the new family of channels. Evidence of this can be seen in the coverage which programmes and reports give to subjects related to road safety, and especially the Ponle Freno initiative, encouraging citizen participation. Ponle Freno informs and maintains an ongoing dialogue with citizens through the www.ponlefreno.com website, social networks and periodic newsletters. Almost 100,000 people are already part of the Ponle Freno Citizen Platform, a large and powerful group that passes on and shares a responsible attitude behind the wheel and collaborates actively on Ponle Freno initiatives. The platform also has a lot of support on social networks, with 155,849 followers on Facebook and 6,948 on Twitter. Social network Twitter 6,948 Facebook 155,849 followers Through this support and dialogue, Ponle Freno identifies concerns and puts forward solutions. Erecting signs along accident black spots on the roads; reporting signs and roads in poor condition; reports on road safety by journalists; awareness-raising campaigns on safe following distances and protecting at-risk groups; road safety education for children and young people; and the PONLE FRENO FUN RUN to save lives are just a few examples. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 135 With each passing year, statistics are the best reward for Ponle Freno, as road accident rates have gone down for nine consecutive years. In 2012, 1,034 people died in accidents on inter-city roads, 180 fewer than the previous year. However, the numbers are still too high and we must continue to work so that together we can achieve the goal of 0 VICTIMS. STEADY DROP IN MORTALITY RATES ON INTER-CITY ROADS 4,000 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,304 1,500 1,000 500 Source: DGT (General Directorate of Traffic). 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Radars yes, but not for fines Radares para salvar vidas (Radars to Save Lives) was created as a result of the dialogue between Ponle Freno and its stakeholders. In a survey conducted by the [ Radars to platform to identify the main concerns in our society on the issue of road safety, save lifes citizens rated the installation of radars in order to collect money as their number gathers more one concern. Ponle Freno has provided a direct response to this social concern, than 100,000 implementing the Radares para salvar vidas campaign in 2012. supportive This initiative demands that the General Directorate of Traffic (DGT) and the govsignatures. ] ernment bodies which own the roads commit to installing new radars in locations that truly contribute to reducing accidents, giving priority to accident black spots or stretches of road with a high concentration of accidents, because saving lives should be the only aim. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 136 More than 100,000 signatures representing citizen support for this proposal were gathered through the www.ponlefreno.com website and as a result, the government has already taken several steps. Examples include submitting a non-binding resolution to Parliament, the announcement by the DGT that it would be relocating 50% of radars to dangerous spots on secondary roads, and the removal of one radar that was no longer saving lives in the Basque Country. 4th Edition of the Ponle Freno Awards The 4th Ponle Freno Awards were presented on 21 March 2012, coinciding with the fourth anniversary of Ponle Freno. These awards recognise people, actions, organisations and public bodies for their efforts and contribution to improving road safety in our country. The winners at the 4th Edition of the Ponle Freno Awards were: σσ Ponle Freno Citizen Award: Ramón Delgado σσ Most Active Institution Award: Cidaut Foundation σσ Innovation and Development Award: ANFAC (Spanish Association of Automobile and Truck Manufacturers) σσ Ponle Freno Junior Award: PONS Foundation σσ Best Road Safety Action Award: Local police of the City of Castellón As at previous editions, the winner of the award for Best Road Safety Action of the year was chosen by citizens from among the three finalists, via the Ponle Freno website. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 137 Atresmedia and AXA join forces for road safety with “The agreement Ponle Freno with Ponle Freno allows us to In 2012, Atresmedia and AXA signed an agreement making the insurance compaprogress in our ny a strategic partner in the Ponle Freno platform with the aim of strengthening its work of improving corporate responsibility strategy, which is based on preventing accidents through road safety through research and education. a hugely important social initiative, with acclaimed AXA, Antena 3 and Ponle Freno will work to increase awareness of dangers on the successes.” road through studies, awareness-raising campaigns, institutional action and the traditional fun run, among other projects. The insurance company will also attend the periodic meetings of the Ponle Freno expert committee and participate in the road safety awards presented each year. Special summer campaign targeting motorcyclists For the fifth consecutive year, Ponle Freno launched a special campaign for the Jean-Paul Rignault summer travel season, one of the periods with the highest numbers of cars on CEO of AXA Spain the road. In 2012, the campaign focused on motorcyclists because of their vulnerability on the road. The General Directorate of Traffic (DGT) estimates the total number of motorcycles at close to five million. Although accident rates for two-wheeled vehicles have dropped significantly and steadily for years, more than 400 lives lost each year are still too many. This awareness-raising campaign has received a great deal of coverage on the Atresmedia family of television channels and radio stations, with spots and public service announcements with messages and advice directly targeting motorcyclists and car drivers. “The proceeds from the 2012 Ponle Freno race The Ponle Freno Fun Run breaks records will allow us to retain for more Under the slogan ‘Don’t stop, today running can save a life’, Ponle Freno held the than one year the fourth edition of its fun run on 25 November of last year, at Retiro Park in Madrid. technical personnel This annual road safety run has become an exciting major event which beat all necessary to previous records for participation in 2012, with 15,000 runners and over €140,000 carry out the raised. first cell therapy trials approved in Spain, with the The run was attended by a number of personalities, including General Directorate aim of reducing of Traffic Director María Seguí and Public Prosecutor for Road Safety Bartolomé the after-effects Vargas. for paraplegic patients”. As a new feature at this edition, AXA and Ponle Freno created the CORREMOS JUNTOS (LET’S RUN TOGETHER) application, allowing users to participate in the run from anywhere in Spain. As at previous editions, the money raised through registration fees for the run will be used entirely for an action related to road safety. In 2012, the action chosen was the ‘Research project to improve medulla injuries using stem cells’ carried by Puerta de Hierro-Majadahonda University Hospital in Madrid. Doctor Jesús Vaquero Additionally, with the entire proceeds of the previous edition, in 2012 a new sign Professor of Nuerosurgery. Puerta initiative was implemented along stretches of road frequented by large numbers de Hierro-Majadahonda Hospital of cyclists, one of the most at-risk groups on the road. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 138 This project reminds drivers of the need to take extreme caution and of the rec“The Association ommended speed. of Professional Cyclists, In collaboration with cycling clubs and the different government bodies that own representing the roads, Ponle Freno has succeeded in having suitable signs erected at critical all the cycling organisations in points along the following roads in the Community of Madrid: M-629 (Miraflores the Road Safety de la Sierra-Canencia); M-601 (ascent to Navacerrada Pass); M-305 (Aranjuez– Council at the Chinchón); M-513 (M-503-Boadilla del Monte) and the entrance to the town of Department Cobeña. of Traffic, congratulates Ponle Freno for its selfless involvement in Working with future drivers improving the road safety of cyclists In 2012, Ponle Freno signed partnership agreements with Micropolix and Parque by placing warning Polo to promote road safety among children. signs around Spain on stretches of road used by Micropolix is an educational leisure centre for children which, thanks to Ponle Frecyclists. Thanks to no, also has a driving school for kids. The little ones learn the rules of the road and this initiative, there signs at the road safety education school. They have a great time using driving is greater driver simulators and electric karts on a closed track with road signs, where they put awareness and an their knowledge into practice. effective reduction in speed in these marked sections, Parque Polo is a leading facility which develops road safety education prowhich reduces grammes. Its main aim is to enable school children aged 5 to 15 to adopt suitable the number of models for behaviour in the area of road safety. accidents and allows cyclists to live in peaceful coexistence with 3.0 Road Safety Conference cars.”. Ponle Freno has held its 3.0 Road Safety Conference each year since 2010. At the 2012 edition, participants analysed the current situation with regard to cyclists, as Spain is the European country with the highest number of cyclist deaths on the road. In 2012 47 cyclists died, 14 more than in 2011. The conference, which is broadcast live on the Ponle Freno website, featured the participation of experts on the subject from organisations such as RACC automobile club, AXA and the General Directorate of Traffic, as well as representatives Alfonso Triviño from cycling associations. As a result of this conference, in 2013, Ponle Freno will Secretary General of implement new initiatives to raise awareness for the protection of cyclists. the Association of Professional Cyclists ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 139 “Healthy habits, like other habits in life, are established and become entrenched at a very young age and are difficult to change. It is therefore very useful to promote healthy eating habits in children and encourage them to take regular exercise, to prevent the onset El Estirón, comprehensive plan of obesity and other diseases. against childhood obesity Everyone must be involved in this task because health Childhood obesity is one of the top public health problems worldwide and it promotion takes affects Spanish society directly, to a worrying degree. According to Food Safety place in different areas of life: the and Nutrition Agency (AESAN) figures, the problem of excess weight among the family, school, child population of Spain (overweight and obesity) affects 45.2% of boys and the community in girls aged 6–9. which we live and also the media, with Only 5% of cases of child obesity are due to endocrine or genetic causes. Thereinitiatives such as El fore, establishing healthy habits starting early in life is essential to ensure that kids Estirón which aims to improve health avoid developing excess weight and all of the associated pathologies. through nutritional education, El Estirón is the corporate responsibility initiative which Atresmedia created in promoting physical May 2011 in response to this social concern and to combat childhood obesity. This exercise and is a long-term project, backed by a committee of experts that acts as a technical disseminating authoritative consulting body. It is made up of specialist in the fields of medicine, sport, nutriinformation tion, psychology and education. in a way that is simple and Since its creation, El Estirón has been very active, broadcasting advice on a healthy understandable diet and physical activity through all Atresmedia media outlets. This included airfor all.” ing a television programme on the Nova channel. Under the same name as the initiative, the programme sought to provide advice for families and help them lead healthier lives. 2012 brought new projects, in addition to those which were already established. El Estirón releases the book “El Estirón: The best Ana María Troncoso advice to help your child grow up healthy” and the Professor of Nutrition CD “El Estirón Minidisc” and Food Science at the University of Seville El Estirón succeeded in moving beyond its television presence by publishing a book and CD with entertaining songs that encourage children to get exercise in a fun way. Dr. David Mariscal, an expert in childhood nutrition and contributor to the programme El Estirón, and journalist Alejandra Rodríguez are the authors of El Estirón: The best advice to help your child grow up healthy. The book offers simATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 140 ple, easy-to-follow advice for parents and the rest of family. It aims to do away with the idea that eating healthy is boring and get rid of the concept that physical activity requires a great deal of effort or a lot of resources. In addition, to continue promoting a healthy lifestyle among kids during the summer months, El Estirón released El Estirón Minidisc, a CD filled with fun, entertaining and modern songs for the whole family, encouraging them to do sport as they dance. De marcha con El Estirón In 2012, the Warner Bros. theme park in Madrid was the venue for De marcha con El Estirón (On the Road with El Estirón), a 2.3-kilometre race for the entire family, designed with the youngest members in mind. Parents and children take part to promote physical exercise and fight childhood obesity. This family event combines health and fun, attracting almost 4,000 participants. Sesame Street: Monstruos Supersanos joins the initiative In response to the increase in childhood obesity and the prevalence of cardiovascular disease, Dr. Valentín Fuster, chairman of the SHE Foundation (Science, Health & Education), implemented the Sesame Street: Monstruos Supersanos project. In 2012, this programme became part of El Estirón. Through this children’s series, the Muppets offer educational messages about diet, physical activity, handling emotions and how the body works. The project also featured the contributions of chef Ferrán Adrià, journalist Susanna Griso, footballer Gerard Piqué and singer David Bustamante, who presented health tips for the entire family. In June, the series premiered on Antena 3, Neox and Fan3, the Antena 3 Foundation channel for hospitalised children. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 141 50 shows aired In November, the weekly television programme El Estirón reached its 50th show, with an average audience of 72,000 viewers (target, total individuals). Presented by Roberto Leal, with the assistance of specialists such as David Mariscal, expert in childhood obesity, and well-known family psychologist María Luisa Ferrerós Tor, the programme offers tips for families to help them prevent excess weight by having a healthier and more balanced diet and avoiding a sedentary lifestyle and other bad habits. The show presents healthy recipes, promotes sport as a fun activity, offers nutrition tips and sheds light on diet myths, among other subjects. In addition, wellknown experts present children with a number of messages about the importance of proper habits for a healthy life. This initiative has a great deal of support online and on social networks, where audience members can exchange opinions and make suggestions. El Estirón has 3,065 Facebook followers and 5,393 on Twitter. Coles Activos against childhood obesity In collaboration with the publication Padres y Colegios and the website www. scholarum.es, the first school search and comparison site, El Estirón has implemented the Coles Activos initiative. The aim of this programme is to recognise the efforts of schools that take an interest in working actively to fight childhood obesity, as well as to disseminate information about the practices put in place by educational institutions that help children be healthier through physical activity and proper nutrition education. All schools that meet certain requirements, such as providing nutrition information in their cafeterias, encouraging active break-time activities, and promoting hydration and the consumption of fresh fruit, among other things, are recognised as an El Estirón Active School and are highlighted on the website: www.antena3.com/ elESTIRÓN/coles-activos. In 2012, 67 Coles Activos were recognised. Eight requirements to be a Cole Activo This school provides fresh fruit for pudding at least three times a week This school issues a cafeteria menu schedule in advance and in writing This school promotes physical activity during break-time This school offers physical activity as part of its extracurricular classes This school encourages hydration, providing facilities or habits for this purpose This school organises initiatives aimed at improving nutrition education for students and/or teachers This school offers recommendations for dinner preparation and creating a balanced lunch menu This school provides recommendations about the foods that students should bring for the midmorning break The National Sport Facility Business Owners Federation (FNEID) awarded El Estirón the 2012 FNEID Award in the ‘Promoting Healthy Habits’ category. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 142 Antena 3 Foundation The company is aware of the enormous value which the media can contribute to training and educating citizens. For this reason, we consider it essential to undertake and play an active role in awareness-raising campaigns about certain social problems. It is not enough to be aware, you also have to get results. The Antena 3 Foundation was created in 2005 with the aim of channelling the social action undertaken by Atresmedia. Its work focuses on two of society’s most at-risk groups, children and young people, with the aim of ensuring that they receive the necessary support for their wellbeing and education, and to promote social awareness of their rights, needs and interests. 2012: A new path with the same aim, happier children For the Antena 3 Foundation, 2012 represented the starting point and implementation of a major milestone, the new 2012–2015 Strategic Plan. This new plan focuses the foundation’s activities on larger scale projects, with the aim of increasing the impact and presence of its actions, both within the organisation and among its audience. In line with the new strategic plan, the Antena 3 Foundation has continued its work on the projects which have provided the greatest benefits to society in re[ In 2012, cent years (Hospital Assistance Programme, PRO Project and Campaign for Chilthe Antena 3 dren’s Rights). It has also added Te Toca! and Te Toca! Junior, projects aimed Foundation at listening to and involving children and young people in aspects of social enled the trepreneurship. In its first edition, the focus was on one of the main concerns transparency among young people: the environment. In 2012, the Antena 3 Foundation invested rankings for €1,117,049 in implementing its projects, of which €500,000 were contributed by corporate Atresmedia. All financial information for the Antena 3 Foundation is audited every year by an independent outside body and published in the transparency section foundations of the website www.fundacionantena3.es. In 2012, the Antena 3 Foundation led in the 2011 the transparency rankings for corporate foundations, together with Gas Natural Confidence Fenosa and Telefónica, in the 2011 Confidence Report published by the CompromReport. ] iso Empresarial Foundation. 2012 Antena 3 Foundation Income 2012 Antena 3 Foundation Expenditure Atres Media Contribution €500,000 Una Gota, Una Vida Project €233,216 Donations €85,000 PRO Project €157,937 Grants €23,121 Hospital Assistance €474,334 Other income €328,847 Te Toca Project €139,555 Te Toca Junior Project €72,809 Awards €39,198 Total Income €936,968 Total Expenditure €1,117,049 ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 143 World Book Day with the children. International Day of Persons with Disabilities. “Leisure activity is one of the most useful tools for normalising the life of a sick The Hospital Assistance Program now operates in 15 child in hospital. The continuous autonomous communities and coordinated Since 2006, the Antena 3 Foundation has focused especially on hospitalised chilcollaboration with the Antena 3 dren through the Hospital Assistance Programme. This initiative encompasses acFoundation has tivities to help make a stay at a medical facility as pleasant as possible for children provided us with and their family members. new entertainment options for the In 2012, the programme expanded to the Autonomous Community of Aragón with patients, with the foundation taking 11 new public hospitals, as well as Quirón Hospital in Zaragoza and four Ribera care of all the Salud Group facilities. In total, 15 autonomous communities are now part of the management and programme. implementation of these. The hospital Highlights among the activities carried over the past year as part of the Hospital appreciates the Assistance Programme include: care with which each activity is organised, from σσ Medical studies to aid children. its design to its σσ Entertainment activities for hospitalised children through reading and implementation. games. Putting itself in σσ Fan3 television channel. our shoes, thinking about our needs and requirements, Medical studies to aid children makes a difference and guarantees In 2012, a study titled Study on pain in hospitalised children was carried out an excellent result. with the collaboration of the Grunenthal Foundation, various specialists in pain in The Antena 3 children and 20 major hospitals throughout Spain. The document contains new Foundation operates through thoughts on the most social aspects of pain in children in order to improve treatthinking about our ment. patients. ”. The conclusions were published in useful brochures which were distributed on the occasion of the Global Day Against Pain to provide guidance for children, their parents and family members, as well as health care workers, and help them manage pain better. Entertainment activities for hospitalised children through reading and games Margarita González For the Antena 3 Foundation, it is very important to entertain hospitalised chilGrande dren through reading and games. To this end, distributing books and educational Managing Director of the Infantil Universitario materials and presenting play activities are other actions which the foundation has Niños Jesús Children’s Hospital carried out at the hospitals with which it works. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 144 In 2012, more than 6,000 books were distributed to celebrate World Book Day with the children, along with more than 8,000 stories published especially for the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. There are also calendars featuring drawings made by the hospitalised children especially for the foundation. In addition, the Antena 3 Foundation wanted to offer a special something to the parents and family members of these children, presenting a special edition of the book Lary, el tesón de una sirena (Lary, the Tenacity of a Mermaid) to those who might find the story helpful due to their child’s illness or long hospitalisation. Lastly, with the aim of bringing the magic of television and radio to children, in 2012, a number of famous people paid visits to different paediatrics departments at hospitals in Madrid, Barcelona, Murcia, Castile-Leon, Castile-La Mancha and Galicia and presented two radio workshops in Murcia and Valladolid, with the collaboration of Onda Cero employees. Canal de televisión FAN 3 Fan3 is the first children’s television channel created especially for children and young people who are in hospital. It is currently shown in more than 100 hospitals throughout Spain, reaching more than 100,000 children each year with content that includes series and cartoons. In 2012, the programming was updated, increasing the entertainment portion with new episodes of Sesame Street and other material. But more than anything else, the programmes that get the hospitalised children involved in the channel have taken on greater importance. Highlights among this content include the third edition of Te leo mi cuento (I’ll Read You My Story), where children in hospital read stories they wrote themselves to other hospitalised children, and the new programme La cámara mágica de mi hospital (My Hospital’s Magic Camera), where the Fan3 cameras visit various hospitals so that the children can share their experiences and concerns, offering advice and encouragement to other children. The [ Fan3 reaches aim of this show is to build empathy among the children, which will help them. more than 100,000 On Fan3, Atresmedia employees contribute their voices to animate a variety of content for the channel, as well as taking part in the new show Quién es quién en children each la tele y en la radio (Who’s Who in Television and Radio). This show explains the year at over 100 different professions in radio and television in an entertaining way. hospitals. ] ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 145 2012 Randstad Award. PRO Project: facilitating access to work for people “The PRO project with disabilities has allowed me to extend my training, The Antena 3 Foundation started the PRO Project in 2009, with the main aim of grow professionally promoting and facilitating access to work in the audiovisual sector for people with and have the disabilities. option to carry out my practical training with an This project also seeks to help companies in the audiovisual sector comply with employment existing regulations governing the integration of people with disabilities, given the contract in clear difficulty this group has in finding suitable types of jobs in the audiovisual a company sector. specialising in audio description The activities included in this initiative focus on three core areas: and subtitling. Most importantly, it has allowed me to increase my Internships at Specific theoretical chances of finding companies in the training work.”. industry Pre-employment workshops on effective job search In 2012, the PRO Project expanded its scope to Catalonia, developing the first post-graduate course in Multimedia Communication, with the collaboration of the Carlos Saiz Salso Student on the PRO Polytechnic University of Catalonia. The first edition included 20 students selected Project from among the more than 100 candidates who applied. In Madrid, a new course in the Technical Degree in TV Accessibility program was [ The PRO offered, with the collaboration of Carlos III de Madrid University. Students were Project has trained on subtitling for the hearing impaired, sign language interpretation and expanded its audio description. scope to the The PRO Project enjoys the support of the different television channels in our Autonomous country, as well as production companies that allow students to supplement their Community of theoretical education with work placements. Catalonia. ] In recognition of its efforts, the PRO Project received the 2012 Randstad Award for work on integration of people with disabilities into the work force. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 146 Campaign for Children’s Rights: Una Gota, Una Vida As is now customary, in 2012 the Antena 3 Foundation continued its work on mobilising and raising social awareness of children’s rights through the significant media potential of Atresmedia. This year, the traditional campaign was known as Una Gota, Una Vida (One Drop, One Life), focusing on children’s right to ‘enjoy health and specifically, a supply of potable water’. The project was created with the aim of raising social awareness of this problem and with the initial goal of raising funds to provide access to potable water and basic sanitation for 1,800 children in Senegal. The Una Gota, Una Vida campaign was developed in collaboration with the AMREF-Flying Doctors Foundation, with Paula Vázquez as the solidarity ambassador. Through the support of all of the company’s radio stations and television channels, together with citizen solidarity (especially the latter), the campaign surpassed all expectations and raised more than €185,000. These proceeds made it possible for over 2,000 children in Senegal to have access to their most basic rights. In recognition of this work and the results obtained, the Campaign for Children’s Rights received the Psicofundación Award ‘For the Benefit of Childhood’, sponsored by the Association for Social Integration (GINSO). The Antena 3 Foundation takes on new projects Te Toca! The Antena 3 Foundation has joined its forces to the group’s media potential with the aim of becoming a spokesperson for the opinions of young people. With this aim, in 2012 the first edition of the Te Toca! (Your Turn!) competition was developed. This project aimed at listening to and involving young people, seeking to give them an idea of the reality of our society, as well as getting them involved in finding solutions to aspects that affect them. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 147 The project is based on an online competition in which young people aged 12 to 16 have the opportunity to present their ideas on how to solve a given problem each year. In 2012, the subject was the environment and a response to the following question: How can we produce less waste? More than 700 young people registered for the competition in the two categories: σσ Proposal for individual action: What would you do to produce less waste? σσ Request to the adult world: What should adults do to produce less waste? The three winners in the first category received an award in kind and the support of a group of experts to make their proposal reality, with the necessary capital (up to €500). The winning proposals implemented were: σσ Developing a sustainable lunch by replacing aluminium foil and tetrabricks with reusable materials at Jesús María School (Madrid). σσ Promoting the production of organic fertilizer through composting with communal compost bins in the Carraixent neighbourhood of Valencia. σσ Making natural recycled soap from used oil at Corazón Inmaculado School in Madrid. The three winners in the second category, as well as receiving an award in kind, had the opportunity to present their video request to top authorities: HRH Letizia, Princess of Asturias and Minister of Agriculture and the Environment Miguel Ángel Arias Cañete. As a result of this event, the ministry will be implementing Jóvenes por el planeta (Young People for the Planet), an ongoing programme to listen to young people on subjects related to the environment, through the website of the Biodiversidad Foundation. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 148 Te Toca! Junior 2012 also featured the first edition of the national competition Te Toca! Junior (Your Turn! Junior), aimed at listening to and involving children ages 6 to 11, as well as mobilising family members around the following issue: Caring for the environment Under the slogan ‘Wherever you go this summer, we want to know how you can care for the environment while having fun with your family’, the children presented their ideas in the form of an advert. The winning spot was aired as an environmental awareness-raising campaign on the channel Neox. Support for other social campaigns Food banks [ In Spain alone, nine million In 2012, Atresmedia and the Spanish Federation of Food Banks (FESBAL), recenttonnes of food ly awarded the Príncipe de Asturias Award for Concord, signed a partnership agreement with the aim of joining forces to ensure that the right to food extends go to waste to the groups hit hardest by the current economic situation in our country. The each year. ] two organisations will work together to carry out a number of projects aimed at providing a direct benefit for society. The presenter of Espejo Público, Susanna Griso, and Jordi Évole, host of Salvados, were involved in the first of the initiatives aimed at transforming surplus agri-food produce into non-perishable products such as juice and jam for later donation to “This time of solidarity, more social organisations that work with food banks. Thanks to citizen support, in 2012 than sentimental, more than €60,000 was raised to transform 660,000 kilos of oranges into over rational, long245,000 litres of juice. lasting and effective, we thank Atresmedia for having put its UNICEF communications media to work in Children and young people are two top priority groups within Atresmedia social support of the responsibility policies. As a result of this commitment to both, the company and most needy and for UNICEF España, an international organisation that works to promote children’s doing this working rights, have signed a co-operation agreement to develop initiatives to benefit with us in the best possible style. ”. children and encourage citizen participation in improving living conditions for the most at-risk children and their families. By virtue of this agreement, shows such as El Hormiguero, El Intermedio and ¡Ahora Caigo! have contributed their capacity to communicate and entertain to serve this cause. Additionally, the channel xplora celebrated the 66th anniversary of the creation of UNICEF by airing two documentaries ‘Haití en reconstrucción’ (‘Haiti Under Reconstruction’) and ‘El proyecto de Pau’ (‘Pau’s Project’). José Antonio Bustos Chairman of FESBAL ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 149 Bottle Tops for a New Life campaign. Creating culture One of the main uses of the Internet is downloading multimedia content such as videos, music, books and television shows. To demonstrate its support for copyright and legal downloading of cultural content, in July 2011 Antena 3 launched a campaign to raise awareness among viewers against Internet pirating. In 2012, Antena 3 reinforced this campaign with messages in support of copyrights to foment the generation of ideas and against piracy. The group’s support for this initiative is expressed in different ways, such as a message included in the copyright for all domestic fictional series, as well as corporate fades and a pre-roll on the www.antena3.com website and entertainment programmes. Tapones para una Nueva Vida The company works with the SEUR Foundation on the Tapones para una Nueva Vida (Bottle Tops for a New Life) campaign. The aim is to collect plastic bottle tops to defray the cost of medical expenses not covered by Social Security for children with serious illnesses, or to provide access to orthopaedic accessories. SOMOS Day In 2012, laSexta supported the celebration of SOMOS Day (WE ARE Day), on which 25 Spanish NGOs came together to give thanks to the three million Spaniards who support them with regular donations. The aim of the SOMOS campaign is to invite Spanish society to demonstrate its commitment to NGOs and promote a culture of solidarity. In total, 18% of Spain’s adult population supports NGOs financially, a long way from levels in other European countries. “Y tu sin enterarte” United Nations campaign Onda Cero collaborated on the United Nations Millennium Campaign Y tú sin enterarte (And You Didn’t Even Know), with the aim of communicating the successes achieved after a decade of fighting extreme poverty. Thanks to this campaign, in just one month, close to 11,000 people donated their Facebook and Twitter profile, generating more than 150,000 messages about everything that has been achieved in the fight against poverty, reaching more than 28 million people. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Society 150 Challenges for the future The organisation has set itself new social action goals for 2013, continuing its support for certain initiatives and implementing other new ones in response to the needs of today’s society. Ponle Freno 2013 Aims Start up a television programme with information, reporting and opinions about issues related to road safety. Launch an awareness-raising campaign to protect cyclists. Create a study centre devoted entirely to road safety. EL ESTIRÓN 2013 Aims Strengthen the Coles Activos Campaign and provide public recognition for outstanding schools in the fight against childhood obesity. Carry out a physical activity project with the aim of studying the relationship between getting regular physical exercise and childhood obesity. Antena 3 FOUNDATION 2013 Aims Improve project management efficiency by implementing a planning, monitoring and evaluation tool. Increase and diversify the foundation's sources of income, intensifying fund raising activity. Reinforce the Hospital Assistance Programme at the locations where it is already present through personalised visits to determine the needs of each site and improve the quality of the programme and how well it adapts to the different hospitals. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 151 The Environment ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 152 Atresmedia, Sustainable Environmental Management Atresmedia’s environmental policy involves taking on a real and ambitious environmental commitment, which exceeds the legal requirements established by the current legislation in this area. This commitment is turned into specific action when establishing the annual targets aimed at improving energy efficiency, minimising waste and raising awareness about the environment. Dissemination and information Legal Compliance Raise awareness about recycling and Comply with laws and regulations energy saving Good environmental reporting Ensure suppliers follow the policy practices Public awareness about responsible Other national and international environmental practices initiatives Control of waste and contaminating Climate change substances Ensure resources are available to Environmental Policy avoid polluting the environment Minimise greenhouse gases Minimise the generation of waste Reduce emissions Promote recycling Efficient use of resources Energy efficiency Procedures to minimise the consumption of resources Control energy costs Use resources for their entire useful Efficient design of facilities activities life Atresmedia’s environmental investment in thousands of euros Atresmedia is required to disseminate these values and commitments to the peo148,540 ple working in the company and to society in general. In light of these considerations, two main areas of action have been established: 150 σσ Minimise the environmental impact of all the activities carried out by the 105,300 120 group. σσ Raise awareness about environmental protection and improvements. 90 60 25,670 30 2010 2011 2012 ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 153 Our challenges Atresmedia established for 2012 some environmental challenges that are intended to create a model for management. The following table shows the degree to which each challenge has been fulfilled: DEGREE OF CHALLENGES FOR 2012 COMMENTS COMPLIANCE Continuation of the five-year plan to replace Since the plan runs for five years, we expect refrigerant in air conditioning. to recover the delivery gap in future years. Completion of the technical study to We performed a study on the economic implement LED lighting in public areas with feasibility of implementing this type of fluorescence. lighting in the San Sebastian de los Reyes (Madrid) facilities and the Audiovisual Building (Offices and Distribution Aisles). Examination of the feasibility of installing an We performed a feasibility study that energy efficient lighting system in at least estimated a potential annual savings of one study. 150,000 kW. Possible change from printed press to digital There has been change to digital media press allowing for a reduction in the number of print newspapers by 20.59% Decrease toner consumption by 5% by Several older machines have been replaced, installing multifunction copiers. representing a decrease of 6.19% in toner consumption. Reduction of 1% in the volume of paper and Paper usage has been reduced by 7.27% cardboard that could be recycled. through the use of multifunction copiers and a reduction in the number of newspapers in physical format. Fortnightly production and publication of The Hazte Eco micro-spaces and news items new Hazte Eco micro-spaces and news items. continue to be published. Involvement in causes, such as Hazte Eco, New initiatives have been supported and which will require the involvement of the launched that have required the involvement public through the social networks. of the pubic, such as the Save the Arctic and The Antena 3 forest campaigns. Highlights 2012 Atresmedia responds to The Antena 3 forest: 3,500 “Save the Arctic” the Carbon Disclosure trees planted campaign Project ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 154 Energy efficiency Year after year Atresmedia launches innovative projects and ideas that promote energy efficiency in all the company’s activities. In this context, when purchasing new equipment, it ensures that only the absolutely essential amount of energy is used. In 2012, new energy saving initiatives were implemented and initiatives already undertaken in previous years were continued, among which the following are worth noting: Energy saving Control room temperature in summer and winter Reduce number of hours lights are on and the number (±2°C) of lights in corridors Reduction of number of hours production sets Encourage employees to use public transport controls are on/ off (preferably the train) It has also invested €17,887 in HVAC systems in buildings and facilities, such as replacing aluminium windows with double glazing, incorporating sunscreens and waterproofing and insulating roofs. Moreover, this year Atresmedia has implemented new projects to reduce energy expenditure: σσ Optimization of space by grouping staff: this has freed-up a total of 4,750 [ In 2012 there m2, which has resulted in an annual energy saving of 225,000 kWh/year were 646 through not using lighting and air conditioning equipment. The investment fewer plane in this initiative amounted to €10,978. σσ Server Virtualisation: this has grouped several servers into one, optimizjourneys. ] ing technical and environmental resources. Through this initiative, we have obtained higher utilization rates (up to 90% of the resources), reduced the total energy consumption and saved space. σσ Control and reduction of hours of use of outdoor lighting: this has resulted [ In 2012 in energy savings of 7.5 kWh/year. train journeys σσ Control of fuel consumption for transport: in 2012, Antena 3 and Onda increased by Cero’s vehicles have consumed 1,757 fewer litres of fuel, compared to 2011. σσ Reduce CO2 emissions. In 2012 work continued to raise awareness among 281. ] staff, so that their first preference is to take national journeys by rail rather than fly. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 155 The following charts show the effectiveness of energy saving measures promoted from within the company: Energy consumption in Atresmedia Gas (m3) 1 Transport Diesel (litres) 2 Heating diesel (litres) 2 56,112 53,185 520,878 15,000 60,000 600,000 12,442 12,579 45,250 420,040 419,643 50,000 500,000 10,270 12,000 40,000 400,000 9,000 30,000 300,000 6,000 20,000 200,000 3,000 10,000 100,000 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Transport gasoline (litres) 3 Electricity (kW) 4 20,000 30,000,000 16,636 63 15,295 57 19,716,406 19,400,980 25,000,000 ,5 9, 4 15,000 01,7 11,224 20,000,000 31 1,1 10,000 15,000,000 10 ,920 ,5 18 10,000,000 E  lectricity (kW) Onda 5,000 Cero Offices 5,000,000  lectricity (kW) A3TV E Offices E  lectricity (kW) S.S. de los Reyes 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Note 1: Gas: 1 m3 =10,723 kW/h (Source: Gas Natural Fenosa) // 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ The 2012 energy consumption of gas is equivalent to 437.51 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) Note 2: Automotive Diesel: toe = 1,181 litres // 1.12 toe equals 13,020 kWh (Source IDEA) // 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ The 2012 energy consumption of transport diesel is equivalent to 1,884.67 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) The 2012 energy consumption of heating oil is equivalent to 16,082.47 GJ (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) Note 3: Automotive gasoline: toe = 1,290 litres // 1.10 toe equals 12,790 kWh (Source IDEA) // 1kWh = 0.0036 GJ The 2012 energy consumption of transport gasoline is equivalent to 539.81 GJ. (Table A8.1 Conversion factors GHG inventory report published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment and IDAE) Note 4: 1kWh = 0.0036 GJ In 2012, the data include the consumption of electricity in the Offices of ONDA CERO and Antena 3, not included previously. The 2012 energy consumption of electricity is equivalent to 104,652.77 GJ ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 156 More than 445.000 units 7.000 units In 2012, 445,000 fewer In 2012, 7,250 fewer sheets of papers were used. white envelopes were used. Efficient use of resources Water consumption (m3) 60.000 52,449 The global consumption of natural resources is growing exponentially, and so that 50,553 future generations can enjoy them we need to use them responsibly and sustain52,449 50.000 ably. 40.000 To this end, during 2012 Atresmedia continued with its commitment to efficiency in resources consumption and, therefore, has run a series of initiatives to control 30.000 and reduce this: 20.000 σσ Replacing the old water collector with another more effective one. An investment of €980. 10.000 σσ Improving the sewage network through a sanitary well. This reduces possible leakage and makes it easier to take samples for analysis. The investment for this initiative was €5,862. 2010 2011 2012 σσ Preventive maintenance of facilities to prevent water leakage and improve efficiency. The actions taken have included cleaning the water filters, testing  ater delegaciones W Onda Cero: 3.900 m3 water circuits and burners for the boilers and cleaning HVAC coils. W  ater (m3) delegaciones σσ Measures taken to improve printing efficiency and reduce paper use. In A3TV: 247 m3  ater (m3) S.S. de W 2012, thanks to multifunction copiers (machines that scan, send and receive los Reyes: 46.406 m3 faxes, photocopy, etc.), we have managed to reduce white paper consumption by more than 7%. The amount of printing has been reduced through Note: in 2012, consumption data are included for the scanning documents for display on the screen or emailing. ONDA CERO and ANTENA3 TV offices, not previously σσ Reduction in toner cartridges. The aforementioned multifunction copiers included. have led to a reduction in 2012 in toner consumption of 6%, therefore reducing the amount to be recycled. Atresmedia consumes water from the public network. After its use, it is correctly poured into the sewerage system to be treated and purified along with the rest of the public waste. At no time is there any uncontrolled dumping. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 157 The following table shows the evolution of consumption of the other resources used: 2010 2011 2012 White paper (sheets) 6,595,000 6,117,500 5,672,500 Printing toners and cartridges (units) 886 791 742 White envelopes (units) 29,500 29,750 22,500 Fluorescent lights (units) 1,673 1,695 1,301 Drop ceilings (m2) 1,495.41 387.28 100.42 Technical floors (m2) 1,826.83 561.73 61.60 31.98 (S.S. de los Partitions (m2) 161.94 35.97 Reyes) + 115.86 (Other offices) Shelving (m) 0 0 0 In parallel with the minimisation of the resources consumed, Atresmedia recycles, where possible, those materials and products that can be reused to extend the life of its components. This type of measure includes examples such as: σσ Reuse of partitions and office furniture. This measure has led to an increase, compared to 2011, of 176% in the reuse of screens. σσ Reduction of paper recycled due to the format change from print to digital media. Below you can see the progress made on the reuse of resources by Atresmedia that are still of value: 2010 2011 2012 % of total % of total % of total Total reused acquired. Total reused acquired. Total reused acquired. Paper (units) 3,931,250 59.6 3,804,250 62.19 3,171,350 55.90% Printing toners and 886 100 791 100 742 100% cartridges (units) Electronic and IT 985 73.29 398 18.65 895 57.82% material (units) Fluorescent lights 1,673 100 1,695 100 1,301 100% (units) Drop ceilings (m2) 557.7 38.85 63.83 16.48 67.82 67.53% Technical floors 544.39 29.79 42.00 7.61 29 47% (m2) Partitions (m2) 0 0 35.97 100 99.57 67.34% Shelving (m) 0 0 0 0 0 – Mobile telephones 133 60.04 132 76.30 118 100% (units) Furniture 173 65 0 0 30 100% ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 158 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Hazardous waste Hazardous waste 500 2.0 200 2000 432 1,673 1,695 160 1.56 400 363 352 1.5 150 1500 325 1,301 300 100 1.0 100 1000 82 200 164 0.50 0.53 0.46 0.47 0.44 0.5 50 500 80 73 100 70 48 20 16 2010 4 2011 2012 Paper and Rubble (m3) Solid urban waste Batteries (tn) Toner (tn) Batteries Televisions Fluorescents (units) (units) (units) cardboard (tn) (tn) Minimising waste The gradual minimisation of the amount of waste generated is one of the main [ Reduction priorities for Atresmedia in environmental management. of rubble by 70.74%. ] Thanks to the acquisition of multifunction copiers, paper and cardboard waste has been reduced by 3.3 tonnes, a reduction of 4.5% compared to last year. Awareness raising activities have also been conducted to encourage reuse policies by the company’s suppliers to ensure that they comply with the group’s environmental policy. The most notable landmark in waste management during 2012 was a significant reduction in the number of building projects with a direct impact on the existing spaces and the encouragement of the good use of existing partitioning and layouts. This initiative has led to a 70.74% reduction in the rubble resulting from this type of activity. Going beyond waste reduction, during 2012 the effectiveness of some measures aimed at improving its efficient storage and management was verified. These measures include: σσ Using official sheets to control waste. σσ Reclassification of waste through good internal management. Stopping climate change Stopping climate change is one of the greatest environmental challenges of the 21st century. The companies committed to this task should work towards more sustainable, low-carbon models. To this end, for the first time in 2012 Atresmedia has responded to the questionnaire from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), informing its stakeholders about the policies and actions carried out by the group in relation to climate change. The CDP means a greater commitment to tackling climate change since it is a voluntary initiative that encourages transparency and a shift towards sustainability in companies around the world. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 159 Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) Emissions of NOX, SOX and CO (Tn) 2,680.31 3,000 3.0 2.633 2.343 2,095.06 2,500 2.5 2,000 2.0 1,373.35 1,500 1.5 1,000 1.0 0.518 0.546 0.432 500 0.5 0.276 2010 0.16 0.119 0.08 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 NOX SOX CO Note: the 2012 data include emissions from diesel consumption. Additionally, Atresmedia’s consumption of electricity produces an indirect emission of 4,942 tCO2 (Source: IBERDROLA electricity mix 2011 data). Similarly, in 2012 the company has run several initiatives aimed at reducing emis[ Atresmedia sions levels, such as the replacement in 17 cooling systems of greenhouse gases takes part in (gases with a greenhouse effect if they leak) with ecological gas that has no imthe Carbon pact on the ozone layer. This initiative, coordinated by the Operational Management Department, will be gradually rolled out until 2015. Disclosure Project. ] Other initiatives aimed at minimising the harmful effects on the ozone layer of Atresmedia’s activities are: σσ Preventative maintenance of boilers. σσ Control of boiler use schedules. σσ Minimising studio use. These and other measures have helped to significantly reduce NOX emissions. On the other hand, although the increases in SOX and CO compared to 2011 are significant, the absolute values are still very low, under the 99.8% required by law. Hazte Eco: Atresmedia’s Environmental initiative Hazte Eco has become Atresmedia’s leading campaign for the protection and defence of the environment. The Neox channel and Greenpeace work together closely to run initiatives that contribute to environmental sustainability. Launched more than two years ago, the campaign has involved important environmental CAUSES, such as the collection and delivery of more than 10,300 signatures to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment asking for a reduction of CO2 emissions, and the creation of a fortnightly news programme on environmental issues on the Neox Canal. In 2012, 26 news programmes were broadcast with a combined audience of 3,655,000 viewers. These have addressed issues ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 160 “Thanks to Antena 3 and Hazte Eco, thousands of people from across Spain have come together to tackle the problem of forest fires, providing funds to plant the first 3,500 native trees that will grow to demonstrate that the whole of society condemns those who each summer set fire to our forests and to contribute to the recovery of the forest cover in our country”. such as light pollution, renewable energy, reforestation, green buildings, recycling and plant biodiversity, among others. In 2012, Hazte Eco has increased its efforts in environmental protection with important actions, such as the initiative for the reforestation of forests with WWF, one of the most important nature conservation organisations in the world, to reJuan Carlos del Olmo populate the more than 180,000 Spanish hectares burned in 2012. The aim of Secretary General this initiative was to create The Antena 3 and WWF forest. To achieve this, both WWF-ADENA entities launched a fundraising campaign, supported by commercials and awareness raising messages across all of Atresmedia’s media. The campaign ended with around 14,000 SMS messages of support and the funds raised were used to plant 3,500 holm oaks, oak trees and cork oaks. Another of the new initiatives developed by Hazte Eco in 2012 is “Save the Arctic”. The Arctic icecap, on which we all depend, is disappearing at an alarming rate. As a result, Greenpeace has promoted this campaign in more than 40 countries, and Hazte Eco has added its support through collecting signatures to ask for the uninhabited areas of the Arctic to be declared a World Heritage site. In 2012, 3,044 signatures were collected on the Hazte Eco website. Also during 2012, Hazte Eco was present at the FesTVal in Vitoria, European Green Capital 2012, holding an environmental contest asking internet users and everyone at the television festival to share ideas on how to ‘Be Ecological’ and care for the environment, serving as an example for others. Hazte Eco is also very popular on the social networks, with a total of 3,832 fans for its Facebook profile and 3,548 followers on Twitter. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Environment 161 Future commitments As part of its model of continuous improvement in environmental management, each year Atresmedia establishes a series of objectives aligned with its environmental policy. Environmental Objectives 2013 Maintain the 5-year plan to replace refrigerant in air conditioning. In 2013 we will change equipment that produces no less than 300,000 BTU. Improve the lighting in the offices using LED technology. A pilot test will be carried out in offices and there will be financial feasibility study of the project. Analysis of the feasibility of installing a photovoltaic solar panel system. Reduction, with respect to 2012, of 3% in the volume of solid urban waste and 5% in toner consumption. 2% reduction in the volume of paper and cardboard, allocating that amount to the recycling processes. Extension of the WWF-ADENA reforestation and fire prevention campaign Promotion of the Save the Arctic campaign with GREENPEACE, handing over the results to the Government. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 162 Annexes ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 163 About the Corporate Responsibility Report Coverage and Scope: This is the sixth year that Atresmedia has published its corporate Responsibility Report as part of its Annual Report, setting out details of its commitments to economic, social and environmental sustainability. Over the last five years the report has been published using the name Atresmedia. It is also the fifth year that this report has been verified by a third party (AENOR), in order to ensure that the requirements set in the 3.1 Global Reporting Initiative Report are met with an A+ rating. This year has seen the addition of the criteria included in the new sector-specific supplement for the media. The information disclosed in the report refers to the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December of the same year and covers all the activities of Atresmedia (Antena 3 Televisión, Neox, Nitro, Nova, laSexta, laSexta3, xplora, Onda Cero, Europa Fm, Antena 3 Films, Atres Advertising y Fundación Antena 3), focusing on material information, without omitting any relevant details. Any modifications in terms of the scope and coverage of the information have been indicated in this report. The main modifications are due to the new data included in the report after the merger of laSexta with Atresmedia. Furthermore, when any changes have been made to the way data are calculated compared to previous reports, this is noted next to the data in question. Materiality: the materiality of the contents is based on the information received from the various stakeholders through the channels of communication available, and described throughout the report. International Standards: this Corporate Social Responsibility Report has been prepared according to the following guidelines: σσ “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative, known as G3.1. σσ G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative indicator protocols. σσ Sector Supplement for the Media. Global Reporting Initiative. In the event that the GRI protocols cannot be applied, we will indicate the metric used. For any question related to the content and the definition process used in the Annual Report and the Corporate Responsibility Report, please contact: Atresmedia Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04 ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 164 GRI Report ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 165 Verification Report ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 166 GRI index 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4 YEAR 1 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED Sustainability strategies adopted by the 1.1 4 TOTAL reporting organisation Description of key impacts, risks, and 1.2 4,8 TOTAL opportunities 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4 YEAR 2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED 2.1 Name of the organisation 2, 163 TOTAL 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 26, 29 TOTAL Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating 2.3 29, 30 TOTAL companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 2, 163 TOTAL Number of countries where the Atresmedia broadcasts organisation operates, and names of in Spain. However, some 2.5 countries with either major operations of its channels (Antena 3 TOTAL or those specifically relevant to the Internacional) may be seen sustainability issues covered in the report abroad. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 29 TOTAL Atresmedia broadcasts in Spain. However, some Markets served (including geographic of its channels (Antena 3 2.7 breakdown, sectors supplied, and types of TOTAL Internacional) may be seen customers/beneficiaries). abroad. 26, 29, 40 Scale of the reporting organisation: • Number of employees 13, 16, 20, 32 • Breakdown by net business activities Of Atresmedia’s net income, •N  et sales (for private sector) or net 93% comes from advertising. revenues (public sector) The rest of the income is 2.8 TOTAL •T  otal capitalization, broken down in distributed between minority terms of debt and net assets (private activities such as copyright, sector) film productions or special •A  mount of products or services activities. rendered. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 4, 16 TOTAL expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 67, 83. 111, 128, 141, 146 TOTAL ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 167 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR 3 REPORT PARAMETERS PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 3.1 163 TOTAL year) for information provided. Date of most recent previous report (if 3.2 163 TOTAL any). 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 163 TOTAL Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 2, 163 TOTAL report or its contents. Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality; 3.5 40, 163 TOTAL • Prioritising topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, 3.6 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 163 TOTAL joint ventures, suppliers). State any specific limitations on the scope 3.7 163 TOTAL or boundary of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced No joint business ventures, operations, and other entities that 3.8 subsidiaries, and no TOTAL can significantly affect comparability installations rented in 2012 from period to period and/or between organisations. Data measurement techniques and All the data has been the bases of calculations, including collected with corporate assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 tools and using the GRI TOTAL estimations applied to the compilation of Guide as a basis for the Indicators and other information in the calculation report. Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in New data are included earlier reports, and the reasons for such coming from the merger with 3.10 TOTAL re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, La Sexta and set out in each change of base years/periods, nature of section business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 3.11 4, 14, 163 TOTAL or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the 3.12 166 TOTAL Standard Disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with regard to This report has been verified 3.13 TOTAL seeking external verification of the report. by AENOR with level A+ ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 168 3REASON GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND STAKEHOLDER 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR 4 INVOLVEMENT PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for 27, 28, 30 TOTAL specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within 27,28 TOTAL the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of 4.3 members of the highest governance 27,28 TOTAL body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 33, 40, 43 TOTAL or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 120, Remuneration Report body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 B1.14 and B1.16 (available in TOTAL (including departure arrangements), and www.grupoantena3.com) the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 34, 43, 45, 50, 64, 68, 106, 108 Processes in place for the highest Corporate Governance 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Report 2011, page 22 TOTAL interest are avoided. (Available in www. grupoantena3.com/ accionistas-inversores) Process for determining the composition, Corporate Governance qualifications and expertise required for Report 2011 page 22 the members of the highest governance 4.7 (Available in www. TOTAL body and its committees, including grupoantena3.com/ the consideration of gender and other accionistas-inversores) diversity indicators. Internally developed statements of mission 39, 43, 50, 64, 68, 106, 108, or values, codes of conduct, and principles 113, 131, 152 Annual and 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and CR Report 2011 Page 24 TOTAL social performance and the status of their www.grupoantena3.com/ implementation. responsabilidad-corporattiva) Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 34, 45 Corporate Governance economic, environmental, and social Report 2011, page 22 4.9 performance, including relevant risks (Available in www. TOTAL and opportunities, and adherence or grupoantena3.com/ compliance with internationally agreed accionistas-inversores) standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Corporate Governance Processes for evaluating the highest Report 2011, page 22 governance body’s own performance, 4.10 (Available in www. TOTAL particularly with respect to economic, grupoantena3.com/ environmental, and social performance. accionistas-inversores) Explanation of how the precautionary 4.11 approach or principle is addressed by the 45 TOTAL organisation. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 122/131/159 TOTAL principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 169 3REASON GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND STAKEHOLDER 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR 4 INVOLVEMENT PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED Main memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: 4.13 • Has positions in governance bodies; 42, 50 TOTAL • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14 40 TOTAL organization. Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 40 TOTAL stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 4.16 including frequency of engagement by 40-42 TOTAL stakeholder type and group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded 40, 42, 131 TOTAL to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR EC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: ECONOMIC 5, 9 PERFORMANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 13/ Audited Annual costs, employee compensation, donations Report (Available in www. EC1 TOTAL and other community investments, grupoantena3.com/ retained earnings, and payments to capital accionistas-inversores) providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks EC2 and opportunities for the organization's 152, 158 TOTAL activities due to climate change. Coverage of the organisation's defined EC3 There are no pension plans TOTAL benefit plan obligations. 13, 43 Informe de cuentas auditadas Ayudas financieras significativas recibidas EC4 (Disponibles en www. TOTAL de gobiernos. grupoantena3.com/ accionistas-inversores) Audited Annual Report Significant funding and other support www.grupoantena3.com/ M1 received from non-governmental sources accionistas-inversores) 137, 142, 146 MANAGEMENT FOCUS: MARKET PRESENCE 4 The entry level wage is Range of ratios of standard entry level agreed by each company in wage compared to local minimum wage EC5 the group with no differences TOTAL at significant locations of operation, by between gender and it gender. exceeds the minimum salary. Policy, practices, and proportion of There are no policies defined EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers at for this concept TOTAL significant locations of operation. 48 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the There are no procedures EC7 TOTAL local community at significant locations of defined for this concept operation. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 170 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR EC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: INDIRECT ECONOMIC 46, 132 IMPACTS Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 primarily for public benefit through 71, 110, 111, 122, 134, 139, 142 TOTAL commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. The The inforindirect mation economic is not impact material generated, for the Understanding and describing significant with the organizaEC9 indirect economic impacts, including the 46 PARTIAL exception tion and extent of these impacts. of the there are revenues no progenerated cedures by providavailable ers, is not for its analysed. analysis 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR EN ENIVRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: MATERIALS 152 TOTAL Atresmedia is an organization Kg paper that used, distribkg CO2 utes its equivalent content per kg of in audiopaper, total visual EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 156-157 PARTIAL volume of (mostly) toner and form, so adhesives materials used, total such as volume of toner or packaging adhematerials. sives are not significant Percentage of materials used that are EN2 157 TOTAL recycled input materials. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: ENERGY 154 TOTAL Direct energy consumption by primary EN3 155 TOTAL energy source. 3,608.7162 tons of carbon equivalents. Indirect energy consumption by primary Equivalence used:1Kwh= EN4 TOTAL energy source. 3.6*106J 1 ton carbon eq.= 2.9*1010J Source: Ministry of Industry Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 154-155 TOTAL efficiency improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products EN6 and services, and reductions in energy 154 requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 154 TOTAL consumption and reductions achieved. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 171 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR EN ENIVRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: WATER 156 TOTAL 173 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. All the water used comes TOTAL from the public water supply There are no cases of water Water sources significantly affected by EN9 sources that have been TOTAL withdrawal of water. significantly affected. Percentage and total volume of water Atresmedia does not recycle EN10 TOTAL recycled and reused. water, due to its activity. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: BIODIVERSITY Description of land adjacent to or within protected areas or unprotected areas of EN11 high biodiversity. Location and size of TOTAL land owned, leased or managed of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Atresmedia carries out its business in urban areas, Description of significant impacts in which do not affect natural biodiversity in protected natural areas or spaces so they don’t have in unprotected areas of high biodiversity, any impact on biodiversity EN12 derived from activities, products, and TOTAL services in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. No action to protect or EN13 Habitats protected or restored. restore habitats has been TOTAL undertaken. Strategies, current actions, and EN14 future plans for managing impacts on TOTAL biodiversity. Atresmedia conducts its business in urban areas Number of IUCN Red List species and so it has no impact on national conservation list species with biodiversity. EN15 TOTAL habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS 158-159 TOTAL AND WASTE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 159 TOTAL emissions by weight. 13,484.38 Tons CO2 eq Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Equivalence used: EN17 TOTAL emissions by weight. 1Khw = 0.495Kg CO2 eq. Source: Ministry of Industry Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas EN18 158-159 TOTAL emissions and reductions achieved. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances EN19 159 TOTAL by weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air EN20 159 TOTAL emissions by type and weight. There have not been any Total water discharge by quality and EN21 significant discharges in the TOTAL destination. reporting period. Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 158 TOTAL method. Total number and volume of significant No spills or environmental EN23 TOTAL spills. accidents have occurred Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel No hazardous waste has EN24 TOTAL Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and been transported percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and All the water that Atresmedia EN25 related habitats significantly affected by consumes comes from the TOTAL the reporting organization's discharges of public water system water and runoff. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 172 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR EN ENIVRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: PRODUCTS AND 159-160 SERVICES Initiatives to mitigate environmental EN26 impacts of products and services, and 154, 156, 158-160 TOTAL extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their Atresmedia only sells EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by TOTAL audiovisual content category. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: REGULATORY 152 COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No environmental sanctions EN28 TOTAL for non-compliance with environmental have been levied in 2012. laws and regulations. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: TRANSPORT 154 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods EN29 and materials used for the organization’s 155 TOTAL operations, and transporting members of the workforce. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: GENERAL 152 Total environmental protection EN30 152-154 TOTAL expenditures and investments by type. 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR LA LABOUR PRACTICES PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: EMPLOYMENT 113 Breakdown of total workforce by LA1 employment type, employment contract, 115 TOTAL and region, by gender. Total number of employee and rate of LA2 115 TOTAL turnover by age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 119-120 TOTAL or part-time employees, by the major operational locations. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: EMPLOYEE/ 113, 121-122 MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Percentage of employees covered by LA4 100% TOTAL collective bargaining agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding Notification periods are significant organisational changes, defined in the pertinent LA5 TOTAL including whether this is specified in collective bargaining collective agreements. agreements MANAGEMENT FOCUS: OCCUPATIONAL 126 TOTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor 126 TOTAL and provide advice on occupational health and safety programmes. Rates of absenteeism, occupational LA7 diseases, lost days, and number of work127, No fatalities TOTAL related fatalities by region and gender. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes LA8 in place to assist workforce members, 126 TOTAL their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 126 TOTAL agreements with trade unions. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 173 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR LA LABOUR PRACTICES PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: TRAINING AND 117, 118-119 EDUCATION Average hours of training per year per 117-118. There are no LA10 employee by employee category and differences in hours of TOTAL gender. training by gender. Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the LA11 117-119 TOTAL continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development 121 TOTAL reviews, by gender. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 115-116 OPPORTUNITIES Composition of governance bodies 27-28 and workforce broken down according CV’s of the members of the LA13 to gender, age group, minority group Board of Directors on the TOTAL membership, and other indicators of corporate website www. diversity. grupoantena3.com 120-121. Ratio of basic salary for men to that for There are no differences LA14 TOTAL women by profession. between the basic salaries of men and women. 120. 100% of those taking Return to work and retention rates after maternity and paternity LA 15 TOTAL parental leave, by gender. leave remain in their jobs after returning with no time limitation. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 174 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4 YEAR HR ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PAGE/ANSWER 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: INVESTMENT AND 46-47 SUPPLY PRACTICES Percentage and total number of significant 48-49, All the contracts meet investment agreements that include HR1 laws in force that guarantee TOTAL human rights clauses or that have respect for human rights undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other partners that have HR2 48-49 TOTAL undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant 118 TOTAL to its operations, including the percentage of employees trained. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: NON-DISCRIMINATION 115-116 Total number of incidents of discrimination No incidents of HR4 TOTAL and corrective actions taken. discrimination MANAGEMENT FOCUS: FREEDOM OF 113 ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and On operating in Spain, this HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant TOTAL type of risk does not exist. risk, and actions taken to support these rights. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: CHILD LABOUR 68 Significant operations and suppliers identified as having a potential risk for On operating in Spain, this HR6 incidents of child labour, and measures TOTAL type of risk does not exist. taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: FORCED AND 113 COMPULSORY LABOUR Significant operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory On operating in Spain, this HR7 TOTAL labour, and measures to contribute to type of risk does not exist. the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: SECURITY PRACTICES 71 Percentage of security personnel trained Atresmedia 3 does not have in the organisation's policies or procedures HR8 any security personnel on the TOTAL concerning aspects of human rights that payroll are relevant to operations. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS NO APLICA On operating in Spain, there Total number of incidents of violations are no risks of this nature HR9 involving rights of indigenous people and TOTAL and no related incidents have actions taken. been reported On operating in Spain, there Percentage and total number of are no risks of this nature and HR10 operations that have been evaluated to TOTAL therefore assessments are verify compliance with human rights. not carried out Number of sanctions due to human rights HR11 violations and that have been resolved No violations. TOTAL through formal mechanisms. ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 175 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR SO SOCIETY INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: COMMUNITY 131 Number of operations that have implemented programmes to determine SO1 the impact on local communities, manage 134, 139, 142, 148 TOTAL these risks and establish development initiatives. Percentage and total number of business SO2 units analysed for risks related to 45-46 TOTAL corruption. 43. Percentage of employees trained in the In 2012 the internal code SO3 organisation's anti-corruption policies and TOTAL of conduct has been procedures. disseminated to all staff Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 No incidents of this type TOTAL corruption. Public policy positions and participation in SO5 public policy development and lobbying 50-51 TOTAL activities. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Atresmedia does not make SO6 TOTAL politicians, and related institutions by this kind of contribution country. Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal action nor sanctions SO7 competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and for these reasons have been TOTAL monopoly practices and their outcomes. produced MANAGEMENT FOCUS: REGULATORY 34-35, 50-51 COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions SO8 109 TOTAL for non-compliance with laws and regulations. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: COMMUNITY 62-63, 80, 106, 131 TOTAL Operations that have potential or actual Taking into account SO9 TOTAL negative impact on local communities. Atresmedia’s activity, its Actions taken to prevent and mitigate operations do not cause any SO10 negative impacts (potential or actual) on significant negative impact local communities. outside of business risks 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR PR PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: CREATING CONTENT 44, 50, 68, 106, 108 Methodology for assessing and monitoring M2 44, 50, 68, 70, 108 adherence to content creation values Actions taken to improve adherence M3 to content creation values and results 45, 64, 70, 108 obtained. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: CONTENT 44, 50, 64, 68, 106 DISSEMINATION 47, 55 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues M4 (access and protection of vulnerable 45, 64, 62, 70, 71, 109 public and taking informed decisions) and results obtained. Number and nature of responses (feedback/complaints) related to content dissemination, including protection M5 61-62, 68-69 of vulnerable public, taking informed decisions and access, and processes to respond to complaints. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: INTERACTION WITH THE 40-41, 93-94 PUBLIC Methods to interact with audiences and M6 40-41, 61-62, 93-94 results ATRESMEDIA 2012 ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Annexes 176 3REASON 2PART NOT FOR OMIS4YEAR PR PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS PAGE 1REPORTED REPORTED SION PLANNED MANAGEMENT FOCUS: CONSUMER HEALTH 44, 50, 68, 106 AND SAFETY Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and PR1 44, 50, 68, 70, 108 percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary PR2 codes concerning the health and safety No incidents of this type impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: PRODUCT AND 50, 68-69 SERVICE LABELLING Type of product and service information required by procedures in force, and PR3 50, 68-69 percentage of products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary PR4 codes concerning product and service 109 information and labelling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, PR5 including results of surveys measuring 61-62 customer satisfaction. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: MARKETING 106-107 COMMUNICATIONS Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related PR6 50, 108 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 108-109 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: MEDIA LITERACY 72 Actions taken to empower audiences M7 through media literacy skills development 72-73 and results obtained MANAGEMENT FOCUS: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Total number of substantiated complaints No breaches of this type PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy have taken place and losses of customer data. MANAGEMENT FOCUS: REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 108-109 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Atresmedia Communication Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) www.atresmediacorporacion.com comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+ 34) 91 654 92 04
