UN Global Compact reporting for 2012 The company Bergen Plastics is a small group of companies doing design, engineering, manufacturing, assembly and sales of moulded thermo plastics, thermo set plastics, composites, epoxies, elastomers and silicones. Statement of support from director Jan Atle L. Ellingsen “I hereby confirm that Bergen Plastics, and its subsidiaries, reaffirms the support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We also commit to share this information with all of our stakeholders.” Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights An internal system is implemented which helps as both as guides and documentation to assure high standards. This includes also training. Principle 2: Make sure they are no complicit in Human Rights abuses Management reviews are done regularly. There are no signs of any broken rules or policies regarding human rights. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Any and all employees are free to be members of associations that collectively bargain, and a large group of employees are. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The company haven’t seen any signs or risks of being part of, direct or indirect, business were forced or compulsory labour is used. If and when such signs should surface, measures will be taken to investigate and avoid participation. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour The company haven’t seen any signs or risks of being part of, direct or indirect, business were child labour is used. If and when such signs should surface, measures will be taken to investigate and avoid participation. Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our mix of employees mirrors society in general, and even if a number of ethnicities, cultural and other differences are present, no sign of conflicts or discriminations have surfaced. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges In all projects the company is engaged in, environmental considerations are done. Environmental considerations are a mandatory step in product and process development project, and are regularly reviewed. The company have participated on assessments of Life Cycle Cost and environmental impacts. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our mandatory step in product and process development projects states that our clients shall be guided to do environmental considerations. Internal efficiency projects is run to cut waste of electricity. More ECO friendly materials and solutions are investigated, and the company foresee that steps towards changing to such, and in cooperation with our clients, will be done in near future. Internal projects is currently being ran to slim down existing products, making the total impact on the environment lower. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our mandatory step in product and process development projects states that our clients shall be guided to do environmental considerations. Anti‐Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Corruption is not regarded as a risk in our business, but petty bribery could be. Only assigned and trained employees act as contacts, whereas ethics is part of the training. Additional information Our main office is in Norway, with subsidiaries in Norway and Portugal, countries known for high standards of human rights, labour rights, anti discrimination, environmental friendly focus and high ethics. Our worldwide international presence and business, import and export, is by large with businesses in developed countries. Hence, risks of violating the ten principles are low. Many of our customers are large internationally well reputed companies with strong brand names; we support them best by having high standards in all we do. Our written internal policies, systems and procedures forms a business culture assuring our business to be compliant with rules and regulations, and also supporting the Global Compact principles.
