2012 Activity and Sustainable Development Report We are a world leader in project management, engineering and construction for the energy industry. From the deepest subsea oil and gas developments to the largest and most complex offshore and onshore infrastructures, our 36,500 people work together to offer the best solutions and most innovative technologies to meet the world’s energy challenges. Present in 48 countries, Technip has state‑of‑the‑art industrial assets on all continents and operates a fleet of specialized vessels for pipeline installation and subsea construction. What we accomplish, together with our partners, is nothing short of amazing. Because taking it further is what we do. Take it 04 M  essage from the Chairman 06 Technip worldwide Further 08 Message from the Head of Sustainable Development 10 2012 in pictures 14 2012 in figures Doing 20 Ethics and compliance 24 Markets and strategy the right 26 H ealth and safety, security thing Trusting 32 Governance and organization 36 Human resources the team Encouraging 42 L ocal communities 46 Business stakeholders a fair return for all Building 52 Innovation and technologies 54 Operations the future Subsea Offshore Onshore 72 Environment 76 Indicators 86 Glossary 3 Activities one technip Subsea Offshore Onshore technip In 2012 €14.3 billion €8.2 billion €821.7 million Backlog at the end revenue Operating income from of 2012 recurring activities industrial Listed 36,500 assets on the Euronext people on all continents Paris exchange 32 vessels Presence in of which 4 under construction 48 countries | 2012 | technip aCTIvITy anD SuSTaInaBLE DEvELOpMEnT rEpOrT | Take iT FurTher take it further is our approach to business, partnerships and aspirations. it embodies our spirit and our outlook. it is the message we want to convey through our words and above all our actions. it is the essence of technip, making us unique. meSSage From the chairman 04 technip WorldWide 06 meSSage From the head oF SuStainable development 08 2012 in pictureS 10 2012 in FigureS 14 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | “2012 has been a year of growth and profitability.” Thierry Pilenko Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 04 take it Further DOInG THE rIGHT THInG TruSTInG THE TEaM EnCOuraGInG BuILDInG THE fuTurE a faIr rETurn fOr aLL How would you sum up the year 2012? as we look back to 2012, we see another year of good performance and great achievement and progress. we have improved certain safety indicators and for the first time since 2005 there were no fatalities on any of our projects. we won a broad range of projects across all our business, leveraging our technologies and teams, which translated into a record backlog. as a result of the growth this year, we now have 36,500 people working for Technip worldwide. This is 50% more than five years ago. we have also done a number of strategic moves over the course of 2012. I would like to highlight two of them. The first one is the acquisition of Stone & webster process technologies, which expands our downstream technology portfolio and gives us exposure to the uS petrochemicals market, driven by the shale gas revolution in north america. The second one is our commercial alliance with Heerema for the ultra-deep subsea market. In parallel, we invested €519 million in CapEx to strengthen our asset base. In Brazil for instance, we are building a new flexible pipe plant, which will manufacture high-end products for the 3,000-meter water depth pre-salt market. Can you comment on Technip’s financial results? 2012 has again been a year of growth and profitability, with Technip delivering a strong performance in line with our objectives. firstly, I would like to note that our full-year revenues have increased by 20%, to €8.2 billion. Secondly, our operating margin is at 10% for the fourth year in a row, with operating income growing by 16% to more than €800 million. and lastly, our backlog reached €14.3 billion at the end of 2012, with a strong order intake of €12 billion that represents an average of €1 billion per month. It is a well-diversified backlog, by geography, market segment and project type, which we hold to be a critical success factor in our industry. Our two segments of activities performed well. In Subsea, the operating margin in 2012 was in line with our objective, at 15% on revenues, which grew well ahead of plan at 36%. In Onshore/Offshore, the operating margin was at the top end of our expectations at 7%. These good results reflect the steady implementation of our strategy. Could you tell us about the Group’s commitment to sustainable development? Sustainable development is an opportunity to do our business with more added value for all our stakeholders. Our initiatives in that field are related to social, societal and environmental aspects. when it comes to social actions, our priority is the safety and development of our people. regarding societal actions, particular emphasis is given to the national content of our projects and issues related to children, health, disability and humanitarian activities. for the environment, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and prevention of accidental pollution are our main focus areas. we will be working even more on all these elements throughout the years to come. Technip is a global company, present in many countries, and we have a key role to play in corporate social responsibility. what is your outlook for 2013? Technip starts 2013 with a substantial, profitable backlog of business to execute. we believe our markets, while competitive and never immune to general economic conditions, remain robust and growing. Our clients continue to focus on replacing and raising production from increasingly challenging areas and reservoirs. They seek long-term relationships with contractors that are capable of developing and deploying the right technologies and who can embrace national content and local execution. upstream investments should grow at a double-digit rate and several very large oil and gas offshore developments should be sanctioned in the next couple of years. Downstream will be particularly active in petrochemicals, notably in north america. we will continue to be selective about the projects we take on, so as to ensure reliable execution and delivery to both clients and shareholders. we will pursue our CapEx program, with a focus on delivering our current commitments. On this basis, we aim to grow Group revenues by 11 to 16% to between €9.1 and €9.5 billion. we expect to raise revenue and profit at Technip again in 2013 in both our segments. we target full-year operating margins of around 15% in Subsea, and 6 to 7% in Onshore/Offshore, in line with our long-term expectations. accordingly, confident in our strategy, our backlog, and our potential for profitable growth, we will propose at the Technip’s General Meeting of Shareholders an increase of 10 eurocents in the dividend, to €1.68 per share, in accordance with our practice of encouraging a fair return for all. 05 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | TECHNIP WORLDWIDE A MULTI‑LOCAL COMPANY WHEREVER IN THE WORLD OUR CLIENTS OPERATE, WE HAVE THE RESOURCES TO MAKE THEIR PROJECTS A SUCCESS. Or Stava Calgary Evanton Aberdeen Newcastle London Boston Le Trait St. John’s Paris Weymouth Marseille Claremont Houston Lisbon Bar Carlyss Mobile Monterrey Mexico City Ciudad del Carmen Port-of-Spain Caracas (Trinidad) REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS/ Bogota OPERATING CENTERS Accr CONSTRUCTION YARD Vitória Açu (under construction) Macaé LOGISTIC BASES Rio de Janeiro Angra Porto MANUFACTURING PLANTS (FLEXIBLE PIPELINES AND/OR UMBILICALS) SPOOLBASES 06 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all A UNIQUE FLEET To undertake our offshore operations, we operate a specialized fleet comprised of 32 vessels (of which 4 are under construction)* which is unique in the industry. 4 Rigid Reel‑Lay and J‑Lay 11 Flexible‑Lay and Construction 4 Rigid S‑Lay and Heavy Lift 13 Diving and multi support * As of March 2013 Orkanger Pori Stavanger Oslo St. Petersburg Evanton Aberdeen Milton Keynes Newcastle The Hague London Warsaw Le Trait Düsseldorf Paris Lyon Rome Seoul Marseille Baku Ashgabat Lisbon Shanghai Barcelona Athens Baghdad Cairo Doha Dubai New Delhi Al Khobar Mumbai Bangkok Abu Dhabi Ho Chi Minh City Lagos Chennai Rayong Miri Port Harcourt Kuala Lumpur Tanjung Langsat Accra Singapore Dande Batam Balikpapan Luanda tória Jakarta Lobito u er construction) é aneiro Perth 07 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | “Our ambition is to be recognized as one of the bestin-class companies for sustainable development within our business sector.” Colette Casimir Senior Vice President, Head of Sustainable Development 08 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all What is Technip’s sustainable development strategy and how do you evaluate its performance? Our sustainable development strategy relates to social, societal and environmental aspects. Our current level of maturity allows us to develop and widen our actions. To achieve our objectives and the expected level of excellence, sustainable development will be more deeply integrated into our business strategy. To do so, our action plan will focus primarily on integrating more sustainable development into project execution. Setting up innovative pilots in certain projects will then lead to a roll out for the most successful ones globally. Regarding climate change, we will focus on using eco-design and lifecycle analysis in the infrastructures we build to reduce the long-term impact on the environment. Our strategy also includes working more closely with stakeholders and notably the local communities in the countries where we operate, developing communication towards our clients, and reinforcing our relationships with socially responsible investors. We have taken tangible steps towards improving sustainable development and have been committed to a strong and widely recognized policy of corporate social responsibility (CSR) for many years. In 2003, we signed the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, working standards, environmental standards and anti-corruption. We apply its ten principles to every aspect of our business. Our CSR efforts have been acknowledged in many ways. We have been highly ranked in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for more than 10 years. In 2011, the CSR rating agency Vigeo positioned Technip at number two in its industry. Moreover, we have received several distinctions for the quality of our sustainable development strategy, whether for our health, safety and environmental performance on projects, such as Jubail, Asab3 and PMP, or our human resources policies, with the Top Employers Europe label in 2012. Last year, the Group has been recognized for its excellence in financial, CSR and share performance, a prize only awarded to six companies amongst the top 100 market capitalization in France. Internally, additional key indicators for CSR will be defined in 2013 to improve the measurement of our performance. You were appointed as Group Head of Sustainable Development in July 2012. What is your vision of this function? Our approach to sustainable development permeates our four core values of Doing the right thing, Trusting the team, Encouraging a fair return for all and Building the future, and is therefore deeply embedded in our identity and strategy. Supporting our clients to meet the world's energy needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own is our priority. I report directly to our Chairman and CEO, which demonstrates the importance of sustainable development at Technip. For us, sustainable development means reinforcing talent management to focus even more on developing the potential of each employee. Improving our financial and operational performance will happen by accurately anticipating the future needs of the industry and associating our business partners with our development. Regarding the environment, we need to further reduce the footprint of our activities and that of our clients and suppliers, by working together in a more collaborative way. Last but not least, sustainable development is about contributing to the economic and social balance of local communities, by raising the national content of our projects to create local employment. To support our vision, I have decided to reinforce our sustainable development network with more coordination at Group, regional and entity levels to improve the way we share best practices. The Group CSR team will be in charge of social, societal and environmental best practices as well as coordination of innovative pilot initiatives. Also, thanks to a new financing structure, we will take a smarter approach to funding sustainable development initiatives. In addition, and whenever appropriate, regional and country Sustainable Development Committees will be set up on the model of the Group Committee. Within operations, a Sustainable Development Coordinator will also be named for each Region and country. What are your priorities for 2013 and beyond? Poverty reduction through local initiatives, national content and climate change will be at the heart of our priorities. We will also continue to offer our teams better career opportunities and enhance internal mobility, a very important development tool when it comes to empowering employees. And, of course, we will promote even more sustainability and innovation in everything we do, especially in new technologies and solutions for our clients. Our continuing growth, while maintaining competitiveness, will help us provide value to all of our stakeholders. 09 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 2012 in pictures The year in review 01 Major milestones for our projects 01 The Koniambo nickel project, in New Caledonia, reached a turning point when the construction of the first production line of the smelter was completed. 02 Technip completed the construction of the buoyancy cans of the Marine Well Containment System in its Pori yard, Finland, to help prevent oil spills. 03 The Girassol Resources Initiatives development project (GirRI) represents a significant milestone for Technip as 02 04 it demonstrates its capabilities to execute subsea projects from its Luanda center, Angola. 04 In Brazil, the South-Nort Capixaba Profundo P62 Pipeline project exceeded expectations: Petrobras awarded the project the maximum performance evaluation score, ranking it as excellent . 05 We successfully completed the second phase of the Nord Stream Pipeline project, in the Baltic Sea, and performed tie-in of the largest offshore pipelines ever laid. An array of new contract awards 03 06 The Aasta Hansteen Spar will be the first one in Norwegian waters, the first Spar concept chosen by Statoil and the largest ever built. Technip also received instructions to start the construction of the Heidelberg Spar, in the US Gulf of Mexico. It will be the 17th Spar delivered by Technip and demonstrates the Group’s ability to tackle ultra-deepwater developments. 07 Technip and Petrobras signed a major five-year frame agreement for the supply of around 1,400 kilometers of flexible pipe, reinforcing the Group’s leadership in that sector. 08 The award of Petronas’ Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development (RAPID) project, in Malaysia, confirmed our position in both the refining and petrochemicals sectors. 05 09 Technip’s expertise in the field of refining was reinforced by capturing the construction of phase 1 of a heavy residue hydrocracking complex to be built in Burgas, Bulgaria. 10 Technip, in a JV with Odebrecht and ICA Fluor, was awarded a large EPC contract by Braskem Idesa for the Ethylene XXI petrochemical complex. The cracker will be the most modern and efficient in operation in the Americas. 11 Technip was awarded its largest contract to date in the UK North Sea by BP and partners to develop the subsea infrastructure of the Quad 204 project. 12 The TLP Malikai Deepwater Project is Technip’s first TLP contract and a new step in its development into the burgeoning deepwater floating production facilities market in Asia Pacific. 13 In 2012, Technip reinforced its leading position in the FLNG sector by securing contracts for Petronas’ FLNG in Malaysia and the signature of an agreement with Shell and Samsung to strengthen their FLNG collaboration. take it Further DOInG THE rIGHT THInG TruSTInG THE TEaM EnCOuraGInG BuILDInG THE fuTurE a faIr rETurn fOr aLL 06 08 11 12 09 07 13 10 11 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 2012 in pictures The year in review 01 02 Key acquisitions and alliances to reinforce our leadership 01 Technip acquired Stone & Webster process technologies and associated oil and gas engineering capabilities from The Shaw Group and substantially enhanced its position as a technology provider to the refining and petrochemicals industries. 02 Technip and Heerema Marine Contractors are in a five-year worldwide alliance where they combine their capabilities to address the fast growing subsea ultra-deepwater market. 03 05 03 The agreement with CIMV will help Technip develop its renewable capabilities in green chemistry. 04 Technip and Areva are going to actively collaborate on solar energy solutions for electricity generation or production of utilities for the oil and gas industry. 05 Genesis Oil and Gas Consultants Ltd, Technip’s subsidiary, acquired Suporte Consultoria e Projetos Ltda, a Brazilian pipeline and structural engineering company, to enhance its position in the fastest growing Brazilian market. Leading-edge assets 06 The G1201, a vessel specialized in rigid pipe installation and heavy lift, joined the Technip fleet. 04 07 Technip completed the construction of its new umbilical R&D facility in Newcastle, United Kingdom. 08 Technip celebrated the inauguration of its operating center in Ghana, reinforcing its footprint in West Africa. 09 Technip has entered a long-term charter agreement for a new build offshore construction vessel, designed to suit the Norwegian installation market. A strong commitment to sustainable development 10 At the beginning of 2012, Technip won the Top Employers Europe label. Technip celebrated HSE through three main Group events: 06 11 World Environment Day, Pulse Communication Week and Survey and Health Day. 12 Many of our projects reached safety milestones, like the Jubail refinery in Saudi Arabia with 70 million man-hours without LTI. 13 An example of our actions in favor of communities: 100 employees from our Houston (Texas) office raised more than $33,000 for the American Heart Association at the Annual Heart Walk. 14 Technip has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for 11 years. 15 Technip created its Group Sustainable Development department, to strengthen its commitment. 16 Technip launched its Facebook and Twitter accounts to improve dialogue with its stakeholders. take it Further DOInG THE rIGHT THInG TruSTInG THE TEaM EnCOuraGInG BuILDInG THE fuTurE a faIr rETurn fOr aLL 07 08 10 11 09 16 12 14 15 13 13 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 2012 in Figures KEY FIGURES Technip's performance was in line with our objectives throughout 2012. The revenue in 2012 grew by 20%, reaching €8.2 billion. For the fourth consecutive year, the operating margin from recurring activities was at 10%. Our substantial backlog, €14.3 billion at the end of the year, was diversified in terms of geography, segments and project type. We believe that we have built solid basis to sustain a profitable growth in 2013, with expanded capabilities, differentiating assets, and highly valuable teams worldwide. 8,204 822 6,813 710 6,082 620 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 REVENUE Operating income from (€ MILLION) recurring activities* (€ million) Subsea revenue in 2012 (€4,048 million) reflected Onshore/Offshore 2012 revenue (€4,156 million) platform projects in the North Sea, Asia Pacific progress on various projects worldwide, notably reflected progress on diversified projects around and the Gulf of Mexico. in the North Sea as well as a mix of deepwater the world, including onshore downstream and shallow water projects in the Americas and projects in the Middle East, Europe and the Africa. Americas, as well as offshore production * Includes the impact of assessment of purchase price allocation of Global Industries, which is reflected in the restated December 31, 2011 statement of financial position 14 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Net income (€ million) 2012 540 2011 507 2010 418 Net income in 2012 was €540 million, up by 6.4% compared with 2011. NET CASH (€ million) 2012 183 2011 657* 2010 1,332 Capital expenditures for full year 2012 were €519 million, of vessels such as the Deep Orient, the Deep Energy and two compared with €357 million in 2011. Technip’s investment in key 550-ton Flexible-Lay vessels for Brazil, or manufacturing plants differentiating assets during the year included the construction such as the high-end flexible production unit in Açu, Brazil. Backlog (€ million) 2011 10,416 2012 2010 2010 14,251 9,228 In 2012, we maintained our portfolio diversification, invested in technology in order to increase our order intake, and made strategic acquisitions and alliances. 15 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 2012 in Figures Technip on the Stock Market Technip’s shares are listed on the NYSE Euronext Paris exchange and the USA over-the-counter (OTC) market as an American Depositary Receipts (ADR), with one Technip share equal to four ADRs. Share Price Performance on Euronext Paris, Compartment A (from January 2, 2012 to December 31, 2012) Technip CAC 40 As of December 31, 2012, Technip’s shares ranked In 2012, despite uncertainty in relation to the In 2012, Technip continued to implement its 25th on the CAC 40 by weighted capitalization worldwide economic recovery and European strategy focused on profitability based on (1.27%), compared to 36th (0.64%), when Technip sovereign debt crisis, Technip’s share price rose successful project execution, technological joined the index in September 2009. by 19.6% which outperformed the STOXX® 600 excellence and profitable order intake. At the start Oil & Gas Index* by over 20% and the CAC 40 of 2012, Technip’s share price was €72.62 and ended index by 4.4%. the year at €86.84. * STOXX 600 Oil & Gas Index includes European companies that are involved in the energy sector 16 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Dividend for the fiscal year (€ per share) 2012 1.68 2011 1.58 2010 1.45 Our 2012 performance enables the Board of Directors to recommend a dividend increase by €0.10 to €1.68 per share. Shareholding structure as of November 30, 2012 North America 31.7% UK and Ireland 11.7% Institutional Employees 2.6% Investors 83.1% Treasury 2.0% Others 4.7% Rest of World Individual Shareholders 18.1% 5.1% IFP Energies nouvelles 2.5% Sustainable development indexes FSI 5.2% Sustainable development concerns are integrated into French Technip’s approach to project execution and in defining Institutional Investors and applying its values. Thanks to our achievements in 16.4% sustainable development, our stock has been reselected to be a part of both the 2012-2013 European and World Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, for the 11th consecutive year. Technip is also part of SAM’s list of best performing Technip’s financial calendar companies in sustainable development and ASPI Eurozone’s index of socially responsible groups. February 21 2012 fourth April 25 April 25 July 25 October 31 Shareholders and investors contacts quarter and 2013 first General Meeting 2013 second 2013 third full-year results quarter results of Shareholders quarter results quarter results Technip’s financial communications team is available to answer questions and provide information to individual shareholders, institutional investors and financial analysts in French and English: MCE Deepwater LNG 17 OTC 2013 OTC Brazil ADIPEC Developments April 16-19, May 6-9, October 29-31, November 10-13, March 18-20, Houston Houston Rio de Janeiro Abu Dhabi Individual shareholders relations The Hague Tel: +33 (0)1 47 78 66 75 E-mail: actionnaires@technip.com Investors and analysts relations Main exhibitions in 2013 Tel: +33 (0)1 47 78 69 77 E-mail: investor-relations@technip.com 17 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | DOING the right thing Our conduct speaks louder than words. That is why we strive to always do the right thing wherever business takes us. That means not only acting transparently and keeping commitments, but also ensuring the safety of people and sustainable practices within the community and across the planet. Safety, ethics, security and respect always take us further. Ethics and compliance  20 Markets and strategy  24 Health and Safety, Security  26 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 20 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Ethics and Compliance Maintaining the highest ethical standards At Technip, Doing the right thing means doing business with the highest moral standards. Ethical behavior is expected of our employees, demanded by our clients and required by our shareholders. A clear strategy and a strong Starting at the top implemented. It submits an annual review of commitment its actions to the Chairman and CEO recommending Our compliance program is supported by improvements in terms of ethics and compliance. We are dedicated to conducting business across a dedicated structure that stretches from the Board Additionally, it gathers reports from regional the world according to the highest standards of Directors to every level of the Group. managers detailing the implementation of our of honesty, fairness and integrity, and in compliance Ethics Charter. This Committee is very far reaching: with the principles set out in the United Nations The first pillar of our compliance structure any employee can submit a question concerning Global Compact. Everyone in the Group is expected is the Ethics and Governance Committee. Created the principles set forth in the Ethics Charter. to do the right thing and conduct our business in December 2008 and composed of members Moreover, a whistleblowing process enables in an ethical manner on a day‑to‑day basis. To make of the Board of Directors, it assists the Board Technip’s employees to report if they feel that there sure compliance is understood and applied in promoting ethical and governance best has been a violation of its policies and procedures. by our employees, Regional Compliance Officers practices. One of its main tasks is to guarantee oversee daily operations and committees have the respect of ethical principles within the Group The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), who also been set up. We have also developed a compliance and debate any matter that the Board of Directors supervises Technip’s Ethics and Compliance program program that focuses on three main priorities: (or Chairman) submits for consideration. The Ethics across the Group, chairs the Ethics and Compliance 1. Comply with the laws and regulations and Governance Committee meets at least twice Committee. Reporting directly to the General of the countries where Technip operates, a year. It produces an annual report evaluating Counsel and the Board of Directors via the Ethics 2. Conduct due diligence on business partners operating policies and proposing functional and Governance Committee, the CCO is in charge globally, to ensure that they operate in strict improvements. of applying and enforcing the Ethics Charter and all compliance with laws and regulations at both applicable anti‑corruption policies and regulations. an international and national level, The second pillar is the Ethics and Compliance In the event of an issue involving the CEO or a top 3. Train our workforce to increase their awareness Committee. Composed of senior managers manager, the CCO would report it to the Chairman and knowledge of legal and company from across the Group, it reports directly to of the Ethics and Governance Committee. To ensure requirements, and to foster ethical behavior. the Chairman and Chief Executing Officer (CEO). total independence, the CCO is not affiliated with The Committee ensures that Technip’s Ethics Charter any profit center and holds no other role within and related policies and procedures are properly the Group. 21 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Training our workforce and leadership ethical and responsible behaviors. In 2012, we expanded it to a broader population with a campaign highlighting our commitment to excellence in business practices. It was so successful that we decided to open our online training to business partners, because we believe that all third‑party stakeholders can benefit from the progress we are making — towards maintaining the highest ethical The Ethics and Compliance e-learning program standards. In 2013, we will continue helps raise ethical awareness. to improve our ethics and compliance Regional Compliance Officers oversee everyday operations The Ethics and Compliance e‑learning culture by enhancing our compliance program was launched in 2011 to program, expanding our e‑learning in the Regions and business units, supporting the implementation raise awareness and understanding, offering and adopting new policies of Technip’s anti‑corruption and compliance policies. while providing clear insight into and procedures. Covering all business operations To govern our business activities, we have implemented several ethics‑related operational standards that translate our general principles into concrete operating procedures. The Doing Business Abroad ‑ Anti‑Corruption policy provides a clear and comprehensive Group‑wide framework to help employees operate with honesty and integrity. The policy sets out the rules governing sensitive relationships, such as negotiating with third parties and making decisions about contracts. The Know Your Partner policy obliges potential business partners to complete a thorough questionnaire and sign a declaration of compliance with the main international laws and regulations against corruption. Internally, we perform due diligence on the information provided and we pay particular attention to any indicators that could cast doubt on the honesty and integrity of the potential partner. If any such issues cannot be suitably resolved, the commercial relationship is terminated. — Moral standards are expected of our employees. In 2012, we implemented several new policies. One of which governs the hiring of sub‑contractors. It is aligned with the Know Your Partner policy and aims to verify the reputation and integrity of our potential sub‑contractors. Another oversees joint ventures and consortium relationships. We also continued to enhance existing policies, revising them when necessary. For instance, we improved Technip’s anti‑trust policy and launched a special training program for it. All the policies and procedures mentioned above apply to all operations worldwide. 22 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 3 QUESTIONS FOR David McGuire Vice President, Technip Marine Operations Services, T‑MOS (United Kingdom) Why is ethics important in your entity? As we have an international fleet of vessels, bringing together crew members from different cultures, and interface with many partners, our personnel are exposed to practices they may not be familiar with. We have the responsibility to ensure our employees fully understand our values — and behave with sound moral judgment Ethics governs the way we do business with our partners. to avoid any customs fines, delays or even prosecution. Behaving ethically also helps us instill a sense of trust in both our partners In 2012, the Compliance department has launched a large‑scale initiative to create and employees that benefits T‑MOS in Technip’s first Code of Conduct, which will be one of the most effective and impactful terms of business, as well as motivation parts of its compliance program. Embracing all aspects of best practices, it will include, and retention of personnel. among others, topics related to human resources, sustainable development, safety, communication and finance. In 2013, a booklet will be produced and distributed Can you give us an example of how you apply ethics principles in your scope worldwide to all employees. It will also be available on both our intranet and website, of work? as a resource for our stakeholders to better understand the role and importance Within T‑MOS, we use crewing companies of compliance within Technip. to help us man our vessels, as is the case with an agency based in the Philippines. We successfully completed the thorough Know Your Partner process, making sure that in spite of the distance, we retained a greater understanding of the structure and principles of this partner. It offers a level of comfort about our business relationships. In addition, we have completed a similar process for ships agents and freight forwarders, and Protecting human rights have included a standard clause regarding company values in our contractual terms and conditions. Fighting corruption is one part of our uncompromising commitment to ethics; protecting human rights is another. How do you make the link between the Ethics and Compliance department Technip is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which covers and your teams? human rights, working and environmental standards as well as fighting We have appointed a person who acts corruption. We respect the letter and spirit of all human rights legislation. as the link between our teams, the Regional That is why all of our entities adhere to the International Labour Organization’s Compliance Officer and the department, Fundamental Conventions regarding the elimination of discrimination, to circulate information, monitor the freedom of association, the abolition of child labor, and the eradication our performance for training and be the focal of forced compulsory labor. point for questions that our workforce onshore may have. We also organize regular Significant actions have been undertaken in favor of human rights. We added a clause to our general seminars for our offshore personnel to make purchasing terms and conditions, informing suppliers that we uphold the Global Compact. Through regular sure that the management on the vessels inspection and audits, we verify that they comply with these values. We also encourage local initiatives. have the same briefings as our management In Italy for example, we are proud to have received the Social Accountability 8000 certification for the ninth onshore. Further to this, a key role in any year in a row. SA 8000 is a code of conduct for improving working conditions around the world. marine organization is the Designated Person Ashore, ensuring feedback from the crew reaches the senior management onshore. 23 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Markets and Strategy Using our strengths to meet our clients’ needs and challenges Through the projects we undertake, we contribute to finding solutions to the world’s energy challenges. We are known for the close attention we pay to the needs of our clients, which is made possible by our integrated management, our approach to projects, our technological expertise and local presence strategy. Markets: projecting solid fundamentals The improvement in market conditions seen in 2011 slowed slightly in 2012, after the sovereign — debt crisis led the International Monetary Fund Hydrocarbons still supply more than 50% of the energy consumption of the Earth's 7 billion inhabitants. to lower forecasted gross domestic product (GDP) growth worldwide. However, growth for non‑OECD countries was projected at 3.6%, which Exploration and production: spending set A buoyant market for Technip was favorable for us as most of our business to reach a new high We are confident in the growth drivers of is generated in these countries. Despite a tougher macroeconomic environment, our markets. Oil and gas account for more than half exploration and production investments are of the energy consumed by the world’s population. Oil demand in 2012 was 89.7 million barrels per expected to grow by 7% in 2013 compared Global primary energy demand could double day* (Mb/d), slightly down from 2011 demand to 2012, which had already showed an 11% in the first half of the 21st century, and meeting this (90.5 Mb/d), but still above 2010 (88.9 Mb/d). increase compared with the previous year**. growth would require large‑scale and sustained The solid level of oil demand together with International and offshore cycles momentums investment in all sources of energy. a relative high‑priced barrel, highlights needs as well as attractive level in commodity prices for more energy which would also trigger are the main drivers of this contemplated trend. exploration, additional investments and One notable outcome is that this growth shall production efficiency work increased by depletion be nearly entirely driven by international markets, * International Energy Agency figures issues in mature basins (United Arab Emirates, North American evolution being seen as quite ** Source Barclays, “Global 2013 E&P Spending Outlook” Indonesia, West Africa…). stable in 2013. 24 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Second, we aim to set the industry benchmark for meeting the challenges of deep and ultra‑deepwater developments that require, among other things, heavy‑lift capabilities. Third, we are focused on subsea growth in regions that offer high‑development potential ‑ West Africa, the Gulf of Mexico, Brazil and Asia Pacific ‑ by not only managing a diversified portfolio of projects, but also by establishing a long‑term industrial footprint. Offshore: embracing frontier projects — We operate in markets where technology delivers Developing assets is part of our vertical integration strategy in the subsea business. high‑added value, such as the ultra‑deepwater market (Spar technology), large units requiring sophisticated installation techniques, an indisputable competitive advantage that delivers and the emerging market for floating liquefied real added value to our clients. natural gas units (FLNG), with construction of the units awarded by Shell and Petronas We remained on course in 2012, implementing to Technip respectively in 2011 and 2012. Natural gas, the cleanest burning fossil fuel, the strategy started in 2007, based on empowering has an important role to play. Our client Shell our regional organization and increasing operational In FLNG, we capitalize on our combined expects global natural gas demand to increase efficiency. Significant progress was made expertise in natural gas liquefaction, flexible by 60% from 2010 to 2030, reaching 25% of in 2012 in several areas by focusing on six strategic pipelines and offshore platforms, and we intend the global primary energy mix, a vision shared priorities: a well-diversified, profitable backlog; to consolidate our leadership by working with by other major players***. With alternative energies key differentiating assets; technology; the oil companies most committed to developing growing only gradually, the share of oil and gas execution capabilities; vertical integration this market. Another aspect of our offshore strategy is likely to continue to dominate the energy market and national content. is the optimization of our ability to deliver projects in the decades to come. in high‑potential regions, such as Asia Pacific We are also committed to a sustainable and the Gulf of Mexico. Our clients must not only face an increase development policy that integrates environmental in demand, but also offset the decline in their and social responsibility into everything we Onshore: capitalizing on our expertise reserves and undertake increasingly complex do and the way we grow our business. We are a world leader in the onshore market, projects in challenging environments. A company and we reinforced our position in 2012 with like Technip, with a sound and reliable record Subsea: increasing our global leadership the acquisition of Stone & Webster process in terms of safety and technology, is very well Technip’s comprehensive offer covers the entire technologies and associated oil and gas engineering equipped to support these producers. Regionally, value chain for subsea infrastructures, from capabilities from The Shaw Group. Widely the most significant enhancements should come pipeline and umbilical design to manufacturing known as a best‑in‑class player in downstream from Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. and installation vessels (deep‑to‑shore projects). technologies, the acquired business provides Our diversified portfolio strategy will help us with recognized technologies and alliances us meet the needs of these markets in 2013. Our subsea strategy aims to extend our market in the ethylene, refining, petrochemicals and leadership, as was illustrated by our acquisition gas‑to‑liquids sectors. It also confirms our strategy Strategy: staying focused of Global Industries in 2011 and our recent alliance of focusing on developing our main strengths: on our clients with Heerema Marine Contractors. First, we intend technological expertise (through proprietary to capitalize on vertical integration by increasing technologies and partnerships with licensors), In this market context, we stayed focused the production capacities of our flexible pipe and engineering and project management capabilities, on our oil and gas core business sector, where umbilical manufacturing plants and by modernizing and project delivery skills. our technological expertise and solutions represent and improving the capabilities of our fleet. *** ExxonMobil in its “Outlook for Energy: a View to 2040” 25 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 26 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Health and Safety, Security Protecting people at all times From project sites to offices, from manufacturing facilities to vessels, we strive to protect our employees, clients and sub‑contractors. We do so by defining and strictly applying an ambitious health, safety and environment (HSE) policy, as well as an uncompromising security strategy. Our objectives for 2013 Safety Security • Maintain a 0 fatalities rate • Continue the implementation of the corporate • Reduce the total recordable case frequency rate security standards across Technip • Elaborate a new three‑year Pulse plan • Consolidate the dedicated maritime security Safety: a culture of continuous system across our fleet and offshore assets improvement Health • Implement Technip’s new joint notification • Continue the implementation of health risk and incident management standard through In 2012, a total of 172 million man‑hours assessments on all sites and the follow‑up the organization of regular crisis exercises were worked at our facilities and project • Start the health surveillance process, following • Develop the prevention and detection sites worldwide. We are continually health risk assessments of information security issues • Implement the health performance indicators challenging and improving HSE described in our process management to increase performance and set the benchmark for our industry. Technip safety performance Data‑driven prevention Our total recordable case frequency rate (TRCF), 8 0.40 which measures the recordable incident per 7 7 0.35 200,000 hours worked, dropped to 0.24 in 2012 6 0.30 after rising slightly in 2011. The overall severity 0.25 0.26 of incidents fell as well, and for the first time since 5 0.24 0.25 0.22 0.22 2005, there were no fatalities on any of our projects. 4 0.20 4 In 2012, we introduced the serious injury and fatality 3 0.15 frequency rate (SIFF) in our reporting, including near 2 0.10 Total recordable case misses, which are often precursors of more serious 2 2 frequency (TRCF) incidents. We will use this data to identify potential 1 0.05 problem areas. We also track leading indicators 0 0 0 Fatalities to gauge the effectiveness of the proactive actions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 taken to improve safety performance. 27 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | The Jacques Franquelin award fosters safety initiatives The Pulse leadership program Our Pulse program is one of the main ways we develop a positive HSE culture. It aims to create awareness of the challenges posed by safety, and of the human, material and financial costs of accidents. So far, more than 17,000 people have attended Pulse sessions, ranging from senior — managers and managers/supervisors to the general Internally, we foster safety-related initiatives. workforce and engineers. In 2012, our annual internal Jacques Franquelin award was notably attributed to two teams, in In 2012, around 20,000 employees participated the Doing the right thing category, for their high-safety aspect. The first team worked on risk management of soil contamination on a project site. The second one developed a method for in a global HSE culture survey that focused on installing offshore cables that reduced manual handling and working at height. This original management commitment, risk taking and attitudes concept is considered to be an industry first. to stopping work when faced with a safety risk. The results will serve as the basis for a new three‑year Pulse plan. We continued our policy of making sub‑contractors Health: preventing risks prone to epidemics. Medical risk alerts are issued part of implementing a robust HSE approach and encouraging wellness when necessary: in 2012, 15 such alerts were issued, on worksite. To ensure everyone working on sites providing information and prevention advice. is fully engaged in HSE, we make our safety Present in 48 countries, our employees requirements and expectations clear to contractors travel and work in areas with different Improving medical care at sea and on land at the contract stage, and provide training for all health profiles. A good knowledge In 2012, we paid particular attention to our vessels. construction personnel. of local health risks allows us to A new standard for the qualification and training provide our personnel with the right of onboard medics was issued, and their job information. description was reviewed accordingly. In parallel, a new standard for vessel hospitals and medical Group‑wide health management process equipment was published, bringing them in line with implemented the standards used at construction sites. Evaluating workplace risks, including social and psychological factors, has been at the center We continued to evaluate local medical resources of our healthcare strategy since 2011. A health and their ability to handle emergency situations. management process was implemented in 2011 to This review was conducted in Cameroon, standardize practices throughout the Group. In 2012, Equatorial Guinea, South Korea, Ghana, Thailand, a comprehensive guideline, regarding health risk New Caledonia, Angola and Indonesia in 2012. assessments, was provided and a tool was also made available to the occupational health teams and HSE Putting wellness in the spotlight managers. New guidelines will be provided in 2013. For Technip’s 2012 World Health Day, all of our To reinforce the services provided to the Regions, entities organized a vaccination awareness a new Medical Officer joined the medical team in campaign, complete with posters, information 2012. leaflets and workshops. Many entities invited healthcare experts to talk about the importance Protecting travelers and expatriates of vaccination and immunization. Other entities Preventive healthcare starts with accurate arranged for free‑flu shots. Across the Regions, — Leveraging leadership and communication, the Pulse information and regular training. Detailed leaflets employees also participated in awareness program has massively contributed to improving the about destination countries and specific diseases are and fund‑raising healthcare activities for heart HSE culture and behaviors within Technip. available to travelers and expatriates on Technip’s disease, smoking and diabetes. Several entities, intranet. Special training for antimalarial treatments including Technip’s headquarters, started surveys and other health risks is provided for projects in areas and assessments of psychosocial risks at work. 28 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 3 QUESTIONS FOR Venus Maroun Group Security Manager (France) and Nigel Hope, Group Fleet Security — and Emergency In 2012, we distributed the Information Security and Response Director Privacy booklet to all our (United Kingdom) employees. Why is maritime security so important at Technip? — Following the development of our activities, Regular health checks are provided to our employees in our operating our areas of operations have extended centers and project sites. worldwide and some projects are located in regions with maritime and piracy threats. At all times, Technip Security ensures that dedicated processes are implemented Security: keeping our people Security starts with information throughout the Group for the protection out of harm's way In 2012, we consolidated our best practices of crews and the smooth execution of and initiatives introduced in 2011 and kept innovating operations. Ensuring the security of our people to enable our projects to be well integrated locally and crews while operating in challenging and continue to operate in volatile countries notably What were the maritime security challenges in 2012? environments is our security priority. by forming close ties with local communities, clients The capacity of our fleet to operate and partners. worldwide has led to a major increase of An evolving international context transits in piracy hotspots: for example, six 2012 was a challenging year, with more staff Following the expansion of our fleet, maritime transits happened in the Gulf of Aden and and operations around the globe, evolving maritime security processes were upgraded for the protection Arabian Sea in 2012, versus one transit in risks and an increased number of cyber‑attacks. of vessels during operations and transits in sensitive 2011. Several projects are also situated in Our robust security management system areas. In 2012, an internally‑developed anti‑piracy DVD the Gulf of Guinea where piracy incidents have significantly augmented. In addition, supported several vessel transits in high‑risk areas was given to all fleet staff. It contains information our projects are getting more complex and the maintenance of operations in secure on threats and security recommendations. To answer as they involve staff and vessels from conditions in the Middle East and North Africa after a project’s specificities, dedicated security inductions different Regions and marine centers the Arab Spring. are conducted. across the Group. The maritime security organization, based on regional time zones All‑round protection Regular live exercises were carried out in Technip’s and coordinated by our headquarters, has enabled us to tackle these challenges. Technip Security division monitors security issues main entities and projects to strengthen its response affecting the working conditions and environments capacity. We continued to enhance our emergency Can you provide examples of measures of our people and crew members, regardless of communication capabilities, to keep in touch with our in place for the protection of crews where they work or travel. Our strategy is to evaluate people and external stakeholders in the event of an and vessels? and prevent security risks while enhancing our ability incident. Regular security training and awareness‑raising To protect vessels transiting in piracy to manage any kind of incident. sessions are held in entities for all staff. hotposts, we harden them by setting up barbed wire over the freeboard or on the main deck, welding steel plates at critical Thanks to our fully‑independent assessments, we keep In order to reinforce the protection of our information access points, adding lookouts during our teams permanently informed about security and know‑how, a dedicated Information Security the transit, conduct lock down drills… issues. Travelers Handbooks for all countries where and Privacy booklet was distributed in 2012 to all Depending on the threat assessment, an we operate are given to staff prior to any mission. employees. Also, a permanent independent audit escort vessel or embarked armed security Real‑time security alerts are issued to inform travelers process was implemented to regularly test the security team can be provided. In liaison with our of changing security conditions worldwide. Through of our IT systems, and therefore reduce risk exposure Legal department, we strictly control their a system‑proprietary software, we are in permanent as well as anticipate new threats. In this context, the IT skills, capacities and processes, notably the rules for the use of force. We also focus on contact with all personnel in transit to inform Security unit received additional resources to handle security and awareness-raising briefings as and support them in case of an incident. the ever‑changing IT protection landscape. the crew plays a key role in the prevention of threats. 29 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Trusting the team You already know the feeling that comes from joining together to successfully solve a major challenge. Our ability to combine talents and deliver success makes us unique. We value diversity, and have passion and true belief in each person’s contribution. It is the trust and confidence between team members and between teams that take us further. Governance and organization 32 Human resources 36 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 5 Nello Uccelletti Senior Vice 1 President, Onshore Julian Waldron Chief Financial Officer 6 Thierry Parmentier Human Resources Director 3 Thierry Pilenko Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4 Philippe Barril Executive Vice President 2 and Chief Operating Officer Onshore/Offshore Frédéric DELormel Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Subsea 1 2 3 4 5 “Last year, we started to see “In 2012, we signed a “We will stay focused on “In 2012, we expanded our “The acquisition of Stone & the impact of our strategy worldwide alliance agreement the core processes of the services and technology Webster process technologies and acquisitions reflected with Heerema. Together, we company: safety, quality, offering and consolidated has increased our portfolio in our backlog.” will provide our clients with compliance and more than our project and regional of onshore technologies unrivalled capabilities for ever people development.” portfolio.” and reinforced our execution in harsh, ultrapresence in some strategic deepwater environments, countries. The joint effort enabling them to bring these of the Regions and the new promising reservoirs into dedicated business unit will production.” allow us to gain a better and well‑diversified market share starting in 2013.” 32 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Governance and Organization Keeping our standards high At Technip, we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, notably by complying with the French AFEP‑MEDEF code for corporate governance of listed companies. Representing operational and support functions The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is responsible for the general management of Technip and is assisted by the Executive Committee. Three other special committees report to the Chairman and CEO: the Sustainable Development Committee, the Ethics and Compliance Committee and the Disclosure Committee. The Executive Committee is comprised of the Chairman and CEO, two Chief Operating Officers from our business segments (Subsea and Onshore/Offshore) and the Senior Vice President, Onshore. Three key corporate functions are also represented by the Chief Financial Officer, the Human Resources Director and the General Counsel. The Executive Committee prepares decisions for approval by the Board of Directors, including those related to the approval of accounts, the setting of objectives, budgets, strategic orientation, as well as investments and divestments. It supervises the monitoring of major contracts and evaluates key investment decisions. It also examines the plans and recommendations put 7 forward regarding internal audits, information systems and telecommunications, John Harrison human resources and asset management. General Counsel Enabling growth through empowerment Technip is organized into seven Regions, each responsible for its own client relations, operations and financial results: Asia Pacific, Brazil, Middle East, North 6 7 America, North Sea‑Canada, Region A (Western Europe, Africa, India and Pakistan) and Region B (Italy, Greece, Eastern Europe/Russia/CIS and South America). “At Technip, mobility “We continued to share is threefold: geographical, our values with all of our functional and between stakeholders, especially with The head office, comprised of our senior management and corporate teams, business segments. It is one the 3,000 new talents that supports the Regions with advice and expertise in cross‑functional areas such of the tools which help have joined the Group through as quality, health, safety, security, environment, finance, legal affairs, human our talents to develop their major acquisitions.” potential and get ready for resources, product lines, communications, sustainable development and the challenges of the future.” information systems. 33 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Embodying our diversity and global reach 1 The Board of Directors determines the strategic business directions of Technip and supervises their implementation. It is made up of 11 members, including eight independent Directors, who bring an in‑depth understanding of our major clients and markets, such as North America, the North Sea, Asia Pacific and Brazil. With four women and seven nationalities, the Board reflects the diversity of the Group. It also complies with the AFEP‑MEDEF code, which calls for women to make up at least 20% of the board members of French‑listed companies in April 2013, and 40% by 2016. The Board is assisted in its duties by the recommendations made by four committees. The Audit Committee assists the Board in ensuring the quality of internal controls as well as the integrity of the information disclosed to shareholders and financial markets. The Nominations and Remunerations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors, examines the policy governing the compensation of Executive Committee members, and proposes the remuneration of the Chairman and CEO of the Group. 2 The Strategic Committee assesses Technip’s overall strategy (strategic orientations, plans and budgets, investments, acquisition and disposal of assets) as proposed by the Chairman and CEO. Finally, the Ethics and Governance Committee promotes best practices regarding governance and ethics within the Group. The activities of the Board of Directors are governed by a set of internal regulations, and a Directors Charter defines the rules of conduct and duties of Board members. Composition of the Board of Directors at February 28, 2013: 1 Thierry Pilenko Technip’s Chairman and CEO 2 Olivier Appert Chairman of IFP Énergies nouvelles 3 Alexandra Bech Gjørv* Partner in Advokatfirmaet Hjort Da 3 4 Pascal Colombani* Chairman of the Board of Directors of Valeo 5 Leticia Costa* Associate of Prada Assessoria 6 Marie-Ange Debon Corporate Secretary of Suez Environnement 7 C. Maury Devine* Member of the Boards of Directors of FMC Technologies and John Bean Technologies 8 Gérard Hauser* Member of the Boards of Directors of Alstom and Ipsen 9 Marwan Lahoud* Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer of EADS 10 John O’Leary* Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Strand Energy 11 Joseph Rinaldi* Partner in Davis Polk & Wardwell *Independent Director 34 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 4 7 10 5 8 11 6 9 The Board of Directors will submit the nomination of two additional Directors to the General Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 25, 2013: • Manisha Girotra Chief Executive Officer of Moelis & Company in India, • Pierre-Jean Sivignon Chief Financial Officer of Carrefour group. Marwan Lahoud has not solicited the renewal of his appointment as a member of the Board of Directors, which will expire on April 25, 2013. 35 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 36 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all human resources in action In 2012, we began a new three-year action plan for Human Resources (HR), focused on improving the quality and impact of HR practices and also on strengthening business support. Our objectives for 2013 • Recruit with impact media presence. Those initiatives helped us In action: • Strengthen succession plans continue to deliver projects under good conditions. Onboarding ex‑Shaw Group employees • Develop core populations During the same period, attrition decreased globally, “A 60‑member team of representatives from both • Promote positive diversity management companies led the effort of this overwhelmingly thanks to improved people and career management. • Ensure reliability, consistency and completeness successful integration into Technip. Key success factors of HR data included the high level of interaction, transparency, In action: A new recruitment center in Asia Pacific and consistent communication that began with Thierry Pilenko’s warm greeting, and included “In 2012, we established the Asia Pacific Recruitment town hall meetings and a comprehensive welcome Center in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. It is a creative booklet. The reception was friendly and genuine, Supporting business and innovative solution to sourcing and recruiting, and we look forward to continuing our integration development as well as improving and promoting Technip’s employer brand. We set out to recruit 2,000 people, into the Technip family.” Paula King, and by the end of the year the Center had exceeded Vice President, Human Resources, Technip Stone & Our HR strategy aims to support its objectives, and had already coordinated Webster Process Technology the Group in its development, notably 2,119 recruitments. We plan to strengthen by providing experienced personnel, this process in 2013, and from 2014 onwards, Toward standardized HR systems improving people management and our ambition is to support the Group HR and begin Over the last four years, our Human Resources developing tools to standardize recruiting for other entities.” Without Borders program has been an important Kasuma Satria Matjadi, practices across the organization. Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate step towards standardization of HR systems. Development in Asia Pacific In 2012, we took a step forward, working on Accompanying the growth with recruitment the harmonization of the way information is Our business is developing strongly. Although Integrating employees from recent acquisitions shared between the various HR systems used our Job Portal remains the key tool for recruitment, When we complete acquisitions, our goal locally. We started the rollout of an employee we have had to identify other solutions to meet is to make the transition as smooth as possible and organization management tool that greatly the increasing demand for new employees in 2012. for the employees joining Technip. In 2012, facilitates day‑to‑day HR management. In parallel, We opened a new recruitment center in Malaysia, we acquired Stone & Webster process technologies we developed an iPad application for top managers improved cooperation between centers, ran special from The Shaw Group and successfully onboarded and senior HR staff to have immediate access recruitment campaigns and increased our social the employees. to employees’ information. 37 | 2012 | technip aCTIvITy anD SuSTaInaBLE DEvELOpMEnT rEpOrT | — in 2012, we faced large recruitment objectives. in action: in action: an innovative application on ipad reviewing 1,300 people in India “The iPad application we developed provides Group “In 2012, a special focus was given to the people decision makers with secure, anytime access to key HR review in India, to cover 100% of the eligible information like profiles, appraisals and career plans. employees (more than 1,300 persons). We focused Technip’s HR executive Application System (HReIS) on high‑potential talents. Several employees were recently won the Digital Innovation Trophy in France, deemed ready for career development and they highlighting the great work that has been done by will be given new opportunities in the near future. our team and encouraging a collaborative mindset.” The aim is to go beyond each operating center’s needs aLaIn SOuny, and find greater opportunities for our people across vice preSident, human reSourceS inFormation SyStemS our three centers in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai as well as in the rest of the Group.” unlocking the potential SaMIk MukHErJEE, country manager and vice preSident For india of our people learning and development We continued to Strengthen our ability Technip university is our cross-regional organization to identiFy and nurture talent. dedicated to growing knowledge. In 2012, two major project management initiatives were launched. talent management Technip’s Council for project Management and In 2012, we conducted our biggest people review Technip university created the project Leader campaign ever: Technip management, supported Development program (pLDp). It empowers by Hr, reviewed the careers of all middle and employees to assess their skills against a standard senior managers, as well as all high performers. competency framework and compare their strengths in action: This resulted in internal mobility opportunities, and areas for development with current and future The project Leader Development program personal development plans and long-term career job requirements. “Participants remark on and appreciate the value paths for each person. The review also enabled of the skill development plans, as it is the first time Hr to develop a strong succession plan for senior as part of the program, Technip university they have seen development documented in such a manner. This approach also allows management managers and identify pools of high-potential is sponsoring a knowledge transfer project to see who is ready for greater responsibility, individuals. Moreover, thanks to the application to accelerate the development of our next as the University reports progress to the Council for the second year of our revamped expatriation generation of project managers. Thirteen project for Project Management.” policy, we continued to promote international management experts are helping 33 employees build rEBECCa JOHanSSOn, mobility, which is one of our key tools to help build their skills, with the goal of acquiring the expertise vice preSident, technip univerSity tomorrow’s leaders. needed to take on assignments with larger scope and scale. additional employees and experts will compensation and benefits be added to this project in 2013. Technip Capital 2012, the capital increase for the Group’s employees, was held in July 2012 and created over 1.1 million new Technip shares, Our fOur vaLuES: the Foundation oF our culture for an investment of about €66 million. More than 8,500 employees from 21 countries invested When we undertook our brand revitalization program in the operation: with a 40.6% subscription rate, it two years ago, we redefined our four corporate values was the highest ever for a Technip capital increase. to better reflect who we are and how we work: doing the right thing, Trusting the team, encouraging a fair in action: return for all and building the future. a first successful participation of Technip in Greece To help all of us integrate our group values into everyday “Taking part for the first time, Technip in Greece life, an interactive e‑learning course was launched in had the best participation rate in Technip Capital 2012 to improve our understanding of the behaviors, 2012. It was mainly due to the fact that it was clarify how we evaluate ourselves and link them to a very good investment program. HR also created a the performance appraisal process. in this framework, climate of trust and dialogue between management 12 concrete behaviors were identified ‑three per value‑ and employees that reinforced our sense of — to express more tangibly how our values should belonging to an important and stable company.” An e‑learning course helps us translate our group values into actions. be reflected in actions. DIMITrIS SOTIrOpOuLOS, general manager oF technipetrol hellaS S.a. 38 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 3 QUESTIONS FOR Thierry Parmentier, Group Human Resources Director (France) — Technip expects to reach a headcount of We bring together employees from different cultures. 40,000 by 2015. How are HR preparing for this rapid growth? — We have made sure we have robust and In 2012, 24% of our people were Promoting social responsibility female. scalable processes in place that enable in the long term each entity to add staff effectively. During the 2009-2011 period, we designed and developed these processes and in 2012, Technip is committed to a responsible HR In action: A diverse Board of Directors we began their implementation. We also approach. We encourage businesses to cultivate a very open culture that sees create both economic and social value “In 2012, we welcomed Alexandra Bech Gjørv as the arrival of new people as enriching and by focusing on issues such as diversity. a new member of the Board. With four women and highly complementary. We strengthen In 2012, we received several distinctions seven different nationalities out of 11 representatives, this culture through seminars, town-hall the Technip Board has clearly moved towards underlining the quality of our HR meetings and e-learning. a greater diversity which is part of a drive for processes and working conditions, better governance. Technip is truly an international including the Top Employers Europe What progress have you made on leader in the oil and gas service industry, and I am award (CFR Institute). intergenerational HR management? convinced that this increased diversity brings a strong added‑value to the Group in terms of culture, Six percent of our workforce is over knowledge of the business environment and different 60 years of age. Their experience and Developing social dialogue perspectives on issues.” knowledge is a priceless asset, one that Technip has built a culture based on trust, mutual Leticia Costa, we cannot afford to lose. At the same respect and dialogue. To turn this culture into member of the Board of Directors time, our workforce is growing quickly, 22% a competitive advantage, a Group HR policy of which being under 30. For several years will provide in 2013 a frame of reference for the Providing employment to people with disabilities now, our goal has been to create pathways collective relationships with trade unions and Again this year, we continued to support initiatives of knowledge transfer. Our efforts will other employee representatives. It reinforces our in favor of people with disabilities. From 2009 continue in this area. commitment to long‑term business development to 2012, the employment rate of people with through an open dialogue with personnel and disabilities has risen from 0.6% to 0.7%. For How do you identify and develop future leaders while ensuring an equal chance external stakeholders. In 2012, more than 58 new maximum efficiency, we target our efforts locally. for all? collective bargaining agreements were signed, It comes back to the processes I mentioned covering remuneration, working conditions, health In action: earlier. These include standardized and safety, equal opportunity and training. Technip in France working to improve inclusion performance appraisals and our The 14 members from 10 European countries of the “Our Paris center actively supports public‑private Company‑wide people review. The goal European Works Council met twice during the year. initiatives for people with disabilities. Through is to find talents worldwide using objective ‘Mission Handicap’, which has been running since measures and to give them the skills they April 2010, we participated actively in the French need to advance. One way we do that is Strengthening diversity Disability Week with several awareness activities. through our Technip University leadership In 2012, Technip employed people from We also took a step forward by signing our first training courses, but there are many 109 nationalities, and women make up nearly corporate agreement covering the hiring and career others. To address gender diversity, in 2012 a quarter of our workforce. Increasing diversity development of disabled employees.” we focused on identifying a pool of is embedded in all our talent management Patrick Dudouit, “Mission Handicap” Manager, Human Resources talented women who are suitable for more processes, from hiring to succession planning. senior positions. Our approach is to improve our diversity mix with new joiners and to “push” the best to the top. 39 | 2012 | technip aCTIvITy anD SuSTaInaBLE DEvELOpMEnT rEpOrT | encouraging a Fair reTurn For all We believe in profitable projects based on sustainable relationships. We seek to enhance our performance and share the benefits of every achievement with our stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers and local communities. Fair returns take us all further. Local communities  42 Business stakeholders 46 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 42 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Local communities Contributing to national economies and local development Technip is committed to encouraging a fair return for all. We strive to share the benefits of our successes with all our stakeholders, and notably local communities. Our objectives for 2013 Stimulating national to undertake projects with a very high level of economies national content. For example, the supply contract • Continue to increase the national content of for integrated production bundles delivered in 2012 our projects National content and multi‑local to Papa Terra BV in Brazil, was executed with over • Select local initiatives more carefully to increase footprint of talents are one of our 50% national content. our positive impact on communities and national strategy’s pillars. Our Regional presence economies • Promote and engage our workforce as volunteers puts us close to our clients, wherever Every time we open new offices, our objective is and active players in sustainable development they operate. It also helps us meet to stay for the long term. In 2009, we took our first • Create a position of Local Communities Manager the growing demand for national steps in Ghana, an emerging oil and gas country, to better coordinate the strategy and actions at content, in both developing and mature by opening a sales office. Three years later, we Group level markets, and respond to local needs reinforced our presence there and inaugurated an and sustainability issues. engineering center, as part of a joint venture with Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, where Establishing a deep‑rooted presence 80% of the employees are Ghanaians. This center We are a truly multi‑local company with a strong cooperated with our other centers to execute the regional focus. In the past 15 years, our workforce Jubilee project, the first offshore field developed has been multiplied by 2.6 in Europe, by 44 in North in Ghana, and is currently working on the second America, by 15 in Asia Pacific, by 12 in South America phase of the project. and by 13 in the Middle East. During the same period, we launched activities in Africa and the Promoting employment and skills transfer North Sea, where we now employ 700 and 4,000 We play a key role in giving priority to on‑site hiring, people respectively. while strengthening our multicultural identity: Group‑wide, 79% of our staff are local. For example, Today, we are present in 48 countries, with 100% of the workforce at our Dande spoolbase in production assets on every continent and an Angola are Angolan, and 99% at our Tanjung Langsat extensive network of suppliers, giving us the ability factory in Malaysia are Malaysian. 43 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | — We play a key role of local employer. In our Asiaflex Products plant Our human resources strive to identify local talents and help them for example, 99% develop, notably through skill transfer and training. Our Technip Leading of our staff are Malaysian. Edge Program, part of the career development process for managers, provides a common leadership culture for people from all nationalities, cultures and backgrounds. In 2011‑2012, 102 people of 27 nationalities participated in the program. Our activities generate indirect jobs. We work with clients to source materials and equipment locally whenever possible, and continue, according to our program launched in 2012, to qualify more and more suppliers from emerging countries. Our projects also help create employment in housing, healthcare, transportation and catering. Supporting local communities We are strongly committed to respecting local A close and continuous relationship cultures. We work to improve the wellbeing Our operating centers and project teams develop their own initiatives of communities by encouraging solidarity at a local to support local communities, with an emphasis on issues related level, as well as through our newly‑created Technip to children and education, health, people with disabilities and Relief and Development Fund. humanitarian projects. In 2012, charitable actions were carried out in 26 countries and donations reached more than €1 million. Building trust and confidence through open dialogue Local communities are essential stakeholders and their support Some of our entities have comprehensive and sustained programs is an integral part of a project’s success for us and our clients. In the to take care of their local communities. For example, Technip in Brazil United Kingdom, we have been involved in the Vattenfall‑led Aberdeen drafted two procedures in 2012 about corporate social responsibility Bay offshore wind farm project since 2010. We have participated in (CSR) and inclusion of people with disabilities. Two social initiatives various stakeholders events to explain the purpose and characteristics in Brazil were rewarded in 2012. The Technip Citizen Movement, a global of the development, and address their potential concerns. day of action for community service, received our Jacques Franquelin internal award. The other program, consisting of initiatives towards our employees’ families and community, obtained the Social Service from Industries award in the sustainable development category. While our priority is long‑term engagement, we are also capable of collecting significant resources for disaster relief. Through a contract with Nagarjuna Oil Corporation, we work on a refinery complex at Cuddalore, in southern India. In 2012, when the area was hit by a devastating cyclone, the Technip project team helped assess the situation and provide assistance to the local population. Moreover, we work closely with clients and sub‑contractors to carry out initiatives in favor of local communities. The Macedon gas plant project team in Australia is collaborating with the client BHP Billiton, sub‑contractors and local communities to preserve the cultural heritage of Aboriginal people and protect indigenous flora and fauna. In Malaysia, we have teamed up with our client Statoil to visit and cheer up children at the Kuala Lumpur hospital. — We regularly carry out initiatives in favour of local communities, such as schools sponsoring. 44 TakE IT furTHEr DOInG THE rIGHT THInG TruSTInG THE TEaM encouraging BuILDInG THE fuTurE a Fair return For all 3 QueStionS For — Technip supported the equipment of a computer room for the ghanaian kumasi university. adriana rugeleS, CSr Coordinator (Colombia) can you describe your relationship with the local communities and the way you are organized? we work with the local communities to shape business projects, conduct social investment, encourage volunteering and partner with local stakeholders. The goal is to encourage economic, social, educational and cultural development for the good of all. To do so, we have an annual CSr plan and budget and a dedicated team, comprised of two people in Bogotá and technip relief and development Fund one in Barrancabermeja. Employees at Group level, we established the Technip relief and Development fund in 2011 to volunteer for many of the programs, such reinforce our CSr in the countries where we operate. The fund supports non-profit as our work with the homeless, distributing social and general interest projects, primarily focused on health, education and food and entertaining children. underprivileged communities. In the event of natural disasters, it also contributes to emergency missions. can you tell us what you did in 2012 that you are the most proud of? Our client Ecopetrol held a competition Since 2012, employees are able to directly submit project proposals to the fund via in 2012 for CSr excellence among suppliers the company-dedicated intranet. During the year, the fund financed equipment for and we won a prize recognizing our good a computer room at the kumasi university in Ghana for use by students working on practices in this domain. In addition, we entrepreneurial projects. The fund also signed a long-term partnership with the red donated machinery for cheese production Cross non-governmental organization (see insert below). and provided the technical assistance of an engineer to the asociación para Desarrollo Comunitario Merquemos Juntos, to help this association start a new food plant. What are your priorities for 2013? we will keep developing programs and projects in accordance with our plan. we are also looking at supporting a project that the Corporación Desarrollo y paz LOnG-TErM parTnErSHIp wITH THE rED CrOSS del Magdalena Medio association is developing. we will continue to structure our volunteering program in order to give The Technip Relief and development can use to donate money in the event Fund supports the Red Cross ReAdy of a disaster, with a 100% matching employees more ways of giving back Fund, a preparation and response disaster contribution from the group. to the local communities. fund which finances actions worldwide Additionally, as part of an agreement in a sustainable approach. established for the first time in 2012, our corporate doctor is made available Another facet of our long‑term for up to three weeks per year to provide relationship is a fund‑raising widget medical assistance alongside the Red on the Technip intranet that employees Cross teams in case of a natural disaster. — Technip supports the Red Cross preparation and response disaster ReAdy Fund. 45 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 46 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Business stakeholders Building value that benefits everyone Completing projects profitably and having a strong balance sheet are among our main responsibilities. By ensuring long‑term growth and employment, while creating a stable business environment for our economic partners, they contribute to sustainable development just as much as environmental protection and social initiatives. Our objectives for 2013 • Pursue focus on client satisfaction and performance improvement • Monitor sustainable development aspects of selected suppliers and sub-contractors in their supply chain methodologies • Meet the needs of our individual shareholders and reinforce our relationships • Maintain open, credible and consistent communications with all investors and provide Technip’s management with relevant financial information To gauge client satisfaction, we measure nine We also continue to maintain our focus on costs indicators for all projects: health, safety and and scheduling to further improve competitiveness. environment (HSE); project delivery; client Following the introduction in 2010 of Lean principles Clients: national content relationships; documentation; scheduling; costs; for operations and Six Sigma quality improvement, and quality resources; contract management and installation more than 100 Lean‑Six Sigma leaders have been performance. We use questionnaires to evaluate trained to spread the programs throughout the We are committed to creating value for performance over the duration of the project, organization. Also, more than 80 quality initiatives our clients by providing quality services understand clients’ expectations and identify have been launched across all our business areas and delivering high‑performance potential improvements. Over 190 surveys were and we aim to reach 100 across the Group in 2013. installations that include significant conducted in 2012 and the results showed a high levels of national content. level of satisfaction, on par with 2011, especially Increasing the national content of our clients’ in HSE, project execution, installation performance projects Delivering client satisfaction and competitiveness and client relations. In 2013, we will again conduct With a presence in 48 countries, Technip is both Because it is the cornerstone of how we deliver 190 customer surveys to better analyze our clients’ international and very local. This allows us to deliver client satisfaction, quality is at the heart of perceived service level. To capitalize on the lessons world‑class projects to our clients while meeting our priorities and the quality management systems learned, we have extended the new knowledge their objectives to increase national content of all our operating centers are ISO 9001 certified. management system across all our Regions. (see Local communities chapter). 47 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Sub‑contractors: the power of collaboration The success of our projects depends in part on the quality of our sub‑contractors. No matter whether they are providing equipment or manpower, we always take an integrated approach to working with them. Our close relationships benefit all stakeholders. Sustainable procurement At Technip, sustainable procurement starts when selecting suppliers — who share our values and standards. We also recognize the strategic Technip and its sub-contractors share the same values regarding sustainable development. importance of HSE in the quality of their operations and in our relationship with them. When choosing equipment suppliers, we focus on sustainable development criteria along with economic and technical performance data. For example, greenhouse gas emissions produced In 2012, we continued to work with clients to develop procurement policies by equipment transportation are considered when making technical aimed at increasing the national content of projects, both in terms of industrial and commercial comparisons. capacity and human resources, without compromising on quality and HSE practices. In 2013, we will organize an HSE awareness‑raising campaign in India, Since 2006, our general purchasing terms and conditions have similar to the one we organized in 2012, in Shanghai. incorporated Technip’s values, and a clause informing suppliers that we uphold the United Nations Global Compact principles. We verify that Ensuring accountability among construction sub‑contractors our suppliers comply with these values through inspections and audits. At project level, we use a process that integrates ethics and sustainable development in construction execution. It starts during the sub‑contractor To sustain our long‑term, profitable performance, we use two selection phase. The call for bid documents, sub‑contracting procedure and final regularly‑updated IT tools. One aims to promote a design‑to‑cost selection systematically include sustainability requirements. Project procedures culture among our engineers, while the other provides our buyers with and plans make sub‑contractors take greater responsibility for environmental the most competitive best practices for procurement. Technip buyers protection and societal commitments. These documents serve as a framework are trained to uphold ethical standards and recognize the risks and guidelines for sub‑contractors to help them draft their own procedures. of corruption. They were among the first to be trained as part They also describe how compliance to our principles will be ensured, through of the major ethics awareness campaign held in 2011 and 2012 notably awareness‑raising meetings and training, and monitored. (see Ethics and compliance chapter). At corporate level, the Group Sustainable Development department has defined a strategy that aims to promote sustainable development practices among sub‑contractors and suppliers. The Group Construction Method Center in Abu Dhabi has turned this strategy into a tangible set of deliverables that can be used in projects and by sub‑contractors to promote a sustainable development culture, solutions and responsibilities on site. Fostering renewable energies on construction sites At the end of 2012, a new initiative which will involve later on our sub‑contractors was launched to study the feasibility of implementing renewable energy on a pilot construction site. The Group Construction Method Center in Abu Dhabi had already performed a study to identify what activity and areas could benefit from green energy while minimizing the risk for — We focus on quality and HSE to meet our clients' requirements. production. In parallel, a study has started in other areas, such as water and waste, to learn from previous projects. 48 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 3 QUESTIONS FOR John Lindley, Vice President Procurement and Supply Chain Management, Global Projects Organization, BP (United States) What is BP’s overall approach and strategy to quality? The quality of our supply chain is key. Our ultimate goal is to deliver projects that are defect‑free, start up, and stay up in production for many years. We want — to further develop a quality culture that In 2012, our individual shareholders visited our does not create, accept or pass on defects manufacturing pipe plant through the full project life cycle, starting in Le Trait, France. from concept selection through to the first 24 months of operation. So, Technip has a large role to play in what we do: your performance is, in many respects, our performance. Shareholders: benefiting from responsible growth How does quality impact your partners, Technip encourages a fair return for all of its stakeholders and and especially Technip? therefore takes care to share the benefits of its growth with its Very significantly. We carefully choose the types of relationship we want to shareholders. to that end, Technip’s Board of Directors proposed that have and clarify how we will work with the General Meeting of shareholders of April 25, 2013 approves a dividend those sources of supply. Technip is seeing of €1.68 per share, a 6.3% increase over the previous year. the benefits of working with us to improve its quality capability in a number of ways. Our individual shareholder relations are based on transparency and proximity and in 2012, These include among other things: visibility we continued to promote an active and ongoing dialog with them. Two topic‑specific of performance including process safety, conferences were hosted at Technip’s corporate headquarters, including one on as we did recently with Genesis (Technip’s our offshore wind activity, and we organized a visit of our manufacturing plant in Le Trait, subsidiary); and commitment to longer France. We also met investors in Strasbourg and in Paris (France), during the Actionaria strategic relationships that reward great exhibition for individual shareholders of listed companies. We were awarded the Jury’s performance with future business. Special Grand Prize for the organization of our General Meeting of Shareholders as well How do you evaluate Technip’s specificities as a silver medal at the Shares’ Grand Prize for our share performance. and culture regarding quality? In 2012, BP’s GPO project conference was During 2012, we continued to provide the institutional investment community with themed “quality build”, in line with our in‑depth information regarding our strategy, operations, technologies and financial company commitment to quality. It is results. This was done primarily through our investors dedicated website, where all press reassuring to hear that Technip is on a similar releases, presentations, audio webcasts and transcripts are freely available. Group and quality journey. We must continue to work individual meetings were also held with investors, including roadshows and broker‑hosted together to improve quality across the conferences in 16 cities worldwide, visits to Technip’s offices, and energy industry industry. Our supplier quality management conferences. In October, we successfully hosted our second technical workshop, which group provided positive feedback on Technip’s capability and approach to quality focused on Technip’s expertise in refining, via an audio webcast. earlier this year, following a collaborative engagement with its executive quality leadership team. It is also important that Technip feels empowered to propose quality improvements for BP to tackle, since we believe that quality is everyone’s job. 49 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | building the future At Technip, we are building the future through today’s most ambitious energy infrastructure projects. We are also creating the conditions that will generate tomorrow’s game‑changing innovations by developing our people. Entrepreneurial attitude, quality, investment and anticipation are at the very heart of how we are taking it further. Innovation and technologies  52 Operations  54 Subsea 54 Offshore 60 Onshore 66 Environment 72 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Innovation and technologies An expert in high‑added value technologies Innovation plays an essential role in all our activities. It helps us meet our clients’ needs effectively and provide tailored, high‑performance solutions. Our research and development (R&D) teams are the driving force behind our track record of successful innovation. — At Technip, we foster innovation. We develop, design, integrate and market a wide range of technologies to complement and expand our offerings. • 600+ patent families registered, in force in more than 90 countries • Nearly €70 million R&D investment per year • Global network of more than 500 experts World‑class R&D centers Through our R&D centers, we optimize design — and execution: At Technip, we foster innovation. • Flexible pipe centers in Le Trait (France), Rio and Vitória (Brazil) • Rigid pipe and fleet development centers Our newly‑created Technip Stone & Webster Pipe technologies: primary in Aberdeen (UK) Process Technology business unit has a portfolio focus of subsea R&D • Umbilical center in Newcastle (UK) of proprietary technologies in ethylene, refining, • Hybrid riser center in Nîmes (France) hydrogen, petrochemicals, and gas‑to‑liquids New initiatives are currently in the development • Ethylene and hydrogen centers of expertise including technologies offered through alliances phase for continuous rollout to projects following (US, Benelux and India) or partnerships with other companies such as a rigorous gate review process. We own proprietary • Onshore process development laboratory ExxonMobil Chemical Company. Our 50/50 joint technologies for flexible pipe, integrated production in Weymouth (US) venture, Badger Licensing LLC, offers technology bundle, pipe‑in‑pipe components, umbilicals, • AETech, part of our Asset Integrity Management in the area of phenolics and styrenics. pipelay equipment and riser configurations. (AIM) Services (France) • Offshore and onshore product lines and Proprietary platform designs Our R&D activity is focused on four major technology (France) to answer the industry’s needs technological trends: water depth, harsher environments with complex reservoirs (including A leader in proprietary In the offshore business, our R&D effort is focused high pressure and temperature), asset integrity technologies for the onshore on technology transfer for national content and to increase the life of field operation, and mastering sector new frontier areas such as ultra deepwater. As the subsea value chain. Centers are equipped with drilling activity and developments move into colder a full range of test facilities, making it possible We cover a wide range of onshore technologies regions, Technip is developing designs and methods to simulate realistic service conditions on actual for the oil and gas chain as well as petrochemicals. that will allow for the safe exploitation of resources pipe samples. in ice‑prone zones. 52 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all recent technological firsts 2012 World’s first large application of ethylene from fuel gas (for Reliance) 2012 Certification of the Carbon Armor flexible pipe by Bureau Veritas 2011 Signature of an engineering, procurement and construction contract for Prelude, the world’s first floating LNG unit, which Shell will operate off the shores of North 2010 Qualification of one of the first 20,000 pound-force West Australia per square inch flexible jumpers at a water depth of 3,000 meters 2010 Contract for the world’s first subsea implementation of our reelable, electrically trace‑heated pipe‑in‑pipe (ETH‑PIP) technology (for Total) 2009 World’s first full-scale floating wind turbine (for Statoil) 2008 Certification of the Aerial LNG Loading system (ALLS) by Det Norske Veritas 2008 Technological world first with a riser and lifting system contract for a subsea mining project 2007 Installation of free‑standing hybrid risers on the PDET gas export system in Brazil (for Petrobras) 2007 World’s first open sea catamaran floatover topside installations on the deepwater Kikeh Spar (Murphy Sabah Oil Co. Ltd) 2006 World’s first semi‑deck 2006 World’s first deployment of the integrated floatover on the Petrobras P-52 production bundle (IPB) on Dalia field; an innovative technology developed by Technip R&D teams, for high-level flow assurance (for Total) Tomorrow Our new client magazine, Tomorrow, was launched in 2012 and focuses on our differentiation in the energy industry through innovative technology in all of our business sectors. Every day, our teams play a part in meeting the world energy challenges and are involved in projects with a high level of technological input. This magazine shines a spotlight on our technologies of tomorrow, and how we use them today. — Our magazine is a spotlight on our technologies of tomorrow. 53 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | €4 billion subsea 2012 revenues 14.9% subsea 2012 operating margin €6.1 billion subsea Backlog at end 2012 €5.3 billion subsea Order intake at end 2012 SUB operations SEA Underwater infrastructures, from deep to shore In the subsea business, we are a vertically‑integrated, technology leader committed to being at the forefront of frontier projects such as ultra‑deepwater, high‑pressure/temperature flexible pipe and asset integrity technologies. This dedication to excellence is driven by our strong internal research and development (R&D) programs, and is reflected in our acquisitions of state‑of‑the‑art technology companies. Our technologies and innovation – combined with a leading‑edge fleet, international assets, talented people and the alliance with Heerema Marine Contractors – make us a global leader from deep to shore. | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 56 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all sub sea Constantly pushing the limits of frontier projects A strategy rooted The cold temperatures of deepwater operations can Improving life of field and safety of operations in technology lead to wax or hydrate formation. Our electrically Following the acquisition of Cybernétix in 2011, trace heated pipe‑in‑pipe is a cost‑effective and we now provide a full portfolio of monitoring With greater depths come greater energy‑efficient way of reducing the risk of pipe and robotic systems for use in hostile environments. challenges for our clients. Through blockage. In 2012, this technology successfully made innovation and continuous its world debut on Total’s Islay North Sea project, In 2012, we went one step further, creating Asset improvement of existing technologies, and operators are beginning to see the wider Integrity Management (AIM) Services, a dedicated we help them push back subsea frontiers. flow‑assurance potential of this solution. business unit. AIM Services focuses on life of field to reduce the risk of asset failure and accidents, New technologies for new challenges Corrosive fluids are a threat to pipe integrity increase asset availability, and help optimize in‑field At Technip, we are already working on tomorrow’s and life expectancy. We have qualified mechanically maintenance strategies. Through proprietary ultra‑deepwater challenges. Our exclusive carbon lined pipes for dynamic applications, which were technological solutions, AIM offers subsea assets fiber armor technology is a major advance approved by Det Norske Veritas in 2012. For flexible surveillance, field surveys, information management for the industry. It weighs less than other solutions pipes, our patented anti‑hydrogen sulfide layer is in and consulting services. It also performs inspection, and offers excellent corrosion and fatigue the final stage of qualification. Capable of resisting maintenance and repairs using autonomous resistance. A full‑scale dynamic fatigue test was corrosion and providing significant weight and underwater vehicles and remotely‑operated successfully completed in 2012. Riser qualification cost reduction, it has already been made available vehicles. We signed our first contracts in 2012 for and a potential field pilot application are currently for some specific projects. offshore flexible pipes inspection and integrity under negotiation with a major operator. We have assessment in West Africa and Brazil. also launched a new initiative focusing on the qualification of flexible pipes for pre‑salt fields. 57 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | — Technip reinforced its presence in West Africa with the award of the second phase of the Jubilee project offshore Ghana. Spanning the whole value‑chain of subsea The integration of Global Industries (see box p. 59) within Technip, our alliance with Heerema Marine Contractors, and our tier‑one assets strengthened our position as a leading subsea contractor in 2012. State‑of‑the‑art assets close to our clients Our seventh manufacturing plant is being built Technip is committed to being close to its clients in Açu, Brazil and will be completed at the end and field development areas. Our fleet of 32 vessels of 2013. This high‑end facility will deliver a full range (of which four are under construction) is deployed in of advanced flexible pipe products. Together with the main strategic oil and gas regions of the world. our Flexibras manufacturing plant in Vitória and It covers the whole subsea installation chain from our logistics bases in Macaé and Angra, our presence ultra‑deepwater to shore, with unique heavy‑lift and activities in Brazil continue to grow to meet and high‑tension pipe‑laying capabilities. The newest the robust market demand. Technip’s umbilical R&D additions to the fleet include the Deep Orient, center opened in May 2012 in Newcastle, United a Flexible-Lay construction vessel, and the Deep Kingdom. Our dedicated steel tube umbilical Energy, one of the largest pipelay vessels ever built manufacturing facility in Newcastle is also currently and designed to operate in the Atlantic basin and being expanded, and will notably feature the world’s on intercontinental projects. Both vessels will be leading vertical helical assembly machine. — delivered in 2013. We are also building two very The Deep Orient, our newbuild vessel, is dedicated to subsea construction and flexible high‑tension flexible pipelay vessels that will be pipelay projects. dedicated to the Brazilian pre‑salt market. In 2012, we also ordered a new advanced construction vessel for the Norwegian installation market, which will be delivered in 2014. Operating at the highest standards of health, safety and environment Nowhere is safe and efficient operations more For example, we implemented Behavior Based important than on our vessels, where we Safety (BBS) at our Flexi France (Normandy, France) have deployed our WorkSafe program. It uses and Asiaflex Products (Malaysia) plants in 2012. a system of management controls to ensure that This peer‑to‑peer program uses incident analysis all work is properly risk assessed, controlled to identify critical action items and set and coordinated. up dedicated action plans. All our assets are concerned by safety, and a few other initiatives have been organized. — The safe and efficiency control of work activities is paramount in our business. 58 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Global Industries: a positive first year 3 QUESTIONS FOR Integration has already begun to deliver added value Leon and we started using their assets in 2012. Harland Senior Vice Not only does this acquisition offer greater flexibility President to our clients, but it has also enhanced our backlog, Commercial, Heerema Marine with contracts in new markets such as conventional Contractors and trunklines. For example, in North America, (The Netherlands) the S‑Lay and heavy‑lift capability of the G1200 allowed us to secure a contract for the shallow water Could you present us the Heerema/ Starfish field. The G1201, a flagship pipelay vessel, Technip alliance in a few words? was used for the first time in 2012 and carried out The essence of the alliance is to answer the offshore installation for the Liwan 3‑1 shallow the significant technical and execution — water project in China. In Australia, we were awarded The flagship pipelay vessel G1201 was added to our fleet challenges of our clients’ ultra‑deepwater in 2012. our largest engineering, procurement, construction projects, by integrating all our capabilities and installation contract to date in this region such as project management skills, for the development of the Wheatstone field, During the year, we successfully integrated technology and specialized which will use the G1201 for offshore installation. the employees from former Global Industries construction assets. Worldwide, bid activity remains high and our S‑Lay and they fully took their place within the Group. vessels give us a competitive advantage. Why did you choose Technip as your partner? Because there is a unique and complementary fit between our Above all, our teams and their expertise are of important projects, including BP’s Quad 204, two companies. On one hand, Technip paramount for the successfull execution of projects. our largest contract to date in the UK North Sea. has an impressive track record in Our organization is built around staffing flexibility The Gullfaks South field development will use our delivering integrated and complex and cross‑fertilization of talents, making us one direct electrical heating and pipe‑in‑pipe flowline deepwater projects thanks to its extensive engineering and project of the few contractors worldwide capable of technology. We also won a major contract for management capabilities and its versatile mobilizing hundreds skilled engineers on major the Bøyla field development in Norway and two fleet. On the other hand, we have projects, with a strong national content. subsea contracts under the diving frame agreement unmatched high‑tension J‑Lay vessels with Statoil. Ithaca Energy, one of our new clients, and an important technical expertise A strategic alliance with Heerema Marine awarded us a significant contract to help them in ultra‑deepwater infield developments. Contractors develop the Greater Stella area. Our companies are also quite alike: Projected to be the fastest growing part of the we both have a strong focus on health, subsea market in the next few years, ultra‑deepwater In West Africa, we are working with Total on the safety and environment, project delivery projects, situated over a 1,500‑meter water depth, second phase of the GirRI development in Angola, as well as technology. Finally, the teams are complex and require special technologies and after we successfully completed the first phase know each other well and have good relationships at all levels. pipe‑laying capabilities. in 2012. Similarly, Tullow selected us for the second phase of the Jubilee project offshore Ghana. What do you expect from this alliance? To meet these challenges, we formed a five‑year Heerema’s approach towards worldwide alliance with Heerema Marine Contractors In 2012, flexible pipes continued to contribute to ultra‑deepwater projects required in October 2012 (see interview on the right). This the development of deeper and more complex project‑by‑project cooperation agreement gives us unrivalled competences for work offshore oil and gas fields. We signed a five‑year with other companies and was quite in harsh and ultra‑deepwater environments, requiring frame agreement with Petrobras for the supply opportunistic. A long‑term alliance with substantial tensioning capabilities. of around 1,400 kilometers of flexible pipes. a strong partner like Technip has therefore many advantages. We can see a range Safely expanding in new markets and bolstering We also moved into promising new markets, of exciting opportunities, and we are already pursuing several large our leadership winning the South West Fatah & Falah project ultra‑deepwater projects together, just In 2012, the North Sea continued to be a significant in the Middle East, and being selected for the Panyu a short time after the start of the alliance. source of orders. We led the subsea parts project in China. 59 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | €4.2 billion Onshore/Offshore 2012 revenues 7.0% Onshore/Offshore 2012 operating margin €8.2 billion Onshore/Offshore Backlog at end 2012 €6.3 billion Onshore/Offshore Order intake at end 2012 off shore operations Fit‑for‑purpose platforms at sea Our Offshore activities include engineering, procurement, construction and installation of fixed and floating platforms for the energy industry. We use our world‑class standards and advanced technologies to deliver fit‑for‑purpose solutions. We have a long‑standing track record for fixed platforms in shallow water, with conventional sub‑structures and self‑installing platforms, and for deepwater facilities, including Spars, semi‑submersibles, tension leg platforms (TLP), floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) and floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) units. Thanks to our expertise, multi‑local footprint and ability to staff with national content, we are well positioned within this very promising market. | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 62 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all off shore Consolidating our expertise to prepare for the future North Sea activity and At the end of the year, as leader of a consortium with an additional five‑year extension option, leadership in deepwater with Samsung Heavy Industries, we signed covering engineering and project management projects drive new business a large contract, with our share worth more services for Shell’s offshore facilities in Asia, than €580 million, for the topsides of a fixed Australia, and New Zealand. In 2012, our clear strategy and balanced production platform for the Martin Linge project approach to regions, and both shallow offshore Norway. Leadership in deepwater floating installations and great water depths enabled us We are a major player in Spars, having built 14 out to grow at a healthy rate, and prepare Multi‑local footprint continues to pay off of the 17 currently in operations worldwide. for the next growth phase. Thanks to our multi‑local footprint, we are present In 2012, we once again reinforced our position in fast‑growing markets, such as the Middle East in this market. In a consortium with Hyundai Still well positioned in the conventional sector and Asia Pacific. In 2012, we reinforced Heavy Industries, we were awarded by Statoil 2012 marked our return to the North Sea our involvement in major offshore projects the EPC and transportation of a Spar hull for offshore market, where we provide engineering, and our long‑standing relationship with National their Aasta Hansteen field offshore Norway. procurement and construction (EPC) on technically Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC) in Installed at a depth of about 1,300 meters, complex projects that are therefore very the United Arab Emirates. In a consortium with NPCC, this Spar marks a number of firsts: the first demanding in terms of safety and environment. we were awarded a turnkey contract for the Upper Spar in Norwegian waters, and the first to In partnership with Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Zakum 750K project, which is scheduled be located in the Arctic Circle. It will also be Engineering (DSME), we were awarded a strategic for completion in the second half of 2015. the first to combine production facilities with turnkey contract for the Hejre development product storage, and the largest Spar ever built. project. Situated off the coast of Denmark, In Asia Pacific, Shell is one of our most important This contract followed the successful execution the platform will process high‑pressure and clients. After securing the Prelude FLNG facility of the front‑end engineering and design (FEED) high‑temperature hydrocarbons fluids. contract, we signed a five‑year framework agreement, for this project. 63 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Positive long‑term outlook Although we expect 2013 to be a transition year in terms of order intake, we see an overall upward trend in the global offshore market in the next six years. In 2012, 100 floating platform projects were sanctioned We signed another contract with Anadarko worldwide and 175 are expected in 2018. Petroleum Corporation to begin work on This pattern is similar for fixed platform projects, from more than 60 this year a 23,000‑ton Truss Spar hull for their Heidelberg to more than 100 in 2018 (source: Infield field development in the US Gulf of Mexico. (08/12), Technip). The design and fabrication will be carried out by our Pori yard in Finland, where we are currently There is sustained activity, especially building the Truss Spar hull for Anadarko’s Lucius — in conventional platforms, in Asia Pacific, Our 40‑year experienced yard in Pori is one of our assets in field. Recognized as a leader in the field, our yard the offshore market. the Middle East, the North Sea and Europe. has been building offshore facilities for 40 years Future developments are being driven by new discoveries in Africa, by pre‑salt and supplies Spar systems worldwide. The offshore market continued to grow worldwide in Brazil, and new fields in Latin America. in 2012. With the signature of several major North America is seeing an increase contracts, our Offshore activity reinforced in both conventional and non‑conventional its contribution to the Company’s backlog. platforms, such as Spars and TLPs, in the Gulf of Mexico. We continued the FEED of the Spar hull This project should be completed by the end and moorings for BP’s Big Dog Phase 2 development of 2016. Moreover, in Brazil, we completed the in the Gulf of Mexico. This is the first project detailed engineering work on Petrobras’ first to be executed under the 10‑year Spar platform two Brazilian FPSOs. master services framework agreement signed with BP in 2011. Covering the entire spectrum of offshore challenges In 2012, we strengthened our activities in pioneering deepwater field development projects in Malaysia We are active in all types of offshore and took a new step in the region’s burgeoning projects and are pushing the limits market for deepwater floating production facilities. of frontier environments to meet As part of a joint venture with Malaysia Marine the challenges of this evolving market. and Heavy Engineering Sdn Bhd (MMHE), we signed our first TLP contract for the Malikai Deepwater Ever more hostile, ever more complicated project offshore Sabah. As with subsea, the offshore market is faced with the challenge of exploiting new hydrocarbon Technip has delivered some of the world’s largest fields in increasingly extreme conditions, FPSO units. This track record was enhanced such as water depths approaching 3,000 meters in 2012 by the award of two important contracts and Arctic regions. In 2012, we continued to invest for the INPEX Ichthys project, situated in in new technologies and tools for production the Browse Basin, offshore Western Australia. in these frontier environments. We will execute the detailed engineering and procurement assistance for the FPSO topsides Work on our novel heave and vortex‑induced — and the offshore commissioning of the FPSO motion suppressed (HVS) semi‑submersible We have built 14 out of the 17 Spar platforms and central processing facility. platform design moved forward, with currently in operation worldwide. 64 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all 3 QUESTIONS FOR Roland Bianciotto Managing Director, Technip Offshore Finland Many yards were hit hard by the economic crisis and the Macondo incident. How did you maintain, and even develop your activity in Pori? We increased our performance, by improving running costs, flexibility and adaptability. We also diversified our activities with the help of the other — Technip entities. These efforts paid off. Construction phase has begun for the Petronas Floating LNG 1 project. In 2011, as soon as the moratorium on drilling permits in the Gulf of Mexico was lifted, we signed two new major contracts. the evaluation of its suitability to support dry tree Maintaining a dominant position in FLNG Which projects are you currently completions. This motion‑dampening platform FLNG represents a breakthrough in the oil and working on? reduces fatigue on risers connected to it, therefore gas industry. By placing gas liquefaction facilities We just delivered the Marine Well supporting large‑diameter steel catenary risers directly over offshore gas fields, FLNG units Containment System (an emergency system to prevent oil spills) elements in the Gulf in water depths that would not be possible with eliminate the need for long‑distance pipelines of Mexico, and are in the final phase of conventional semi‑submersibles. By year’s end, and extensive onshore infrastructure. By bringing the Lucius Spar fabrication. Anadarko the HVS was being evaluated for a potential Gulf together our expertise in subsea, offshore and was so pleased with our work on Lucius of Mexico field development. onshore, we have played a leading role in the that it gave us the go‑ahead for its sister FLNG sector from the start. In 2012, we confirmed platform. Fabrication started in November Moving into Arctic and ice‑prone environments this position. 2012. We are also engaged on the BP Big Drilling activity and oil and gas developments are Dog project, one of the heaviest Spars ever moving into more northerly regions. We signed We furthered our collaboration with Shell through built, and are supporting major projects in an agreement with Cervval (a specialist software the Technip‑Samsung consortium, signing a new Malaysia and Houston, Texas. company) and Bureau Veritas to develop a program agreement that reinforced our leadership in FLNG. What are the priorities of the yard? capable of modeling the flow of ice around fixed The deal extends the collaboration between Shell, Our goal is to deliver total client and floating structures, and calculating ice loadings Technip and Samsung Heavy Industries on the satisfaction. Quality is our motto, and safe on the platforms. Since several projects are design, engineering, procurement, construction operations and environmental protection imminent in the North Caspian Sea, the program and installation of future FLNG facilities. We also guide our engineering and fabrication. will be developed initially to predict ice behavior continued with the detailed engineering and Another priority is timely delivery. in shallow waters, but will be equally applicable procurement associated with Shell’s Prelude FLNG Pori holds a world record for delivering in Arctic regions. The program will help optimize unit. By the end of the year, construction of the hull products on time. Finally, all our work is platform structures, and minimize ice loadings and had begun. done in keeping with the Company’s values: ice rubble build‑up, prior to final design verification our people, safety, quality, and ethics always in an ice‑test basin. After completing the FEED phase, Technip, come first. in a consortium with DSME, won a contract for the engineering, procurement, construction, installation and commissioning of the Floating LNG 1 facility for Petronas, offshore Malaysia. 65 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | oN shore operations Land‑based oil, gas, petrochemical, renewable energies facilities and other industries Onshore covers the land‑based facilities required by a wide range of industries, including oil and gas, petrochemicals, renewable energies, mining and metals. In 2012, our Onshore business remained healthy. The acquisition of Stone & Webster process technologies, and associated oil and gas engineering capabilities from The Shaw Group strengthened our position in the downstream market. Throughout the year, we continued to balance the mix of contracts to reduce our overall risk profile. | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 68 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all oN shore Broadening our reach and technologies A strategic acquisition yields installation of critical proprietary equipment. Early Robust activity in all sectors significant opportunities involvement with projects increases our chances and a strong 2013 outlook of being selected for following project phases. The integration of Stone & Webster Our Onshore business was solid across process technologies marked a turning the board, with a noticeable shift point for our Onshore activity. Construction sites towards North America. Moreover, achieved excellent our research and development (R&D) In August 2012, we acquired Stone & Webster safety results program continued to be a key process technologies from The Shaw Group differentiator for us. to strengthen our technology portfolio, high‑end Our onshore projects reached several safety proprietary solutions and skilled resources. milestones this year, demonstrating our Natural gas: diversification across geographies It has made us a leader in downstream technologies ongoing commitment to health, safety and Study contracts with the potential for future work by expanding our offering for the refining, ethylene, environment (HSE). Our Jubail project in Saudi were secured for major gas projects in North Arabia continued to deliver exceptional HSE gas‑to‑liquids and petrochemical industries. America, Russia/CIS, the Eastern Mediterranean, performance, with a cumulative total of 70 It has also opened up growth opportunities million man‑hours without lost‑time injury (LTI) Africa and the Middle East. in regions such as the US, where shale gas and a total recordable incident frequency rate is revitalizing downstream activities. (TRCF) below 0.015. In Qatar, the Technip‑led joint venture with Chiyoda continued to execute the contract for gas treatment The acquisition led to the creation of our Technip By the end of December 2012, the Plateau units and utilities at the Qatargas PMP site. In China, Stone & Webster Process Technology business Maintenance Project (PMP) in Qatar had achieved the small‑scale LNG unit for Ningxia Hanas has entered more than 17 million man‑hours without LTI. unit. This new global team provides three types of production. Work on a second unit has started, with With no lost‑time injuries and over 90,000 HSE services: licensed proprietary technologies; process training hours, this project is an example of how a third expected to begin in the first semester of 2013. design and engineering; and design, supply and our dedication to safety is paying off. 69 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | — The acquisition of Stone & Webster process technologies allowed Technip to expand its offering to the refining industry. Our teams also contributed to floating liquefied natural gas (FLNG) projects, including the Shell Prelude and Petronas units. Our structured R&D program continued, with further development of enhanced heat exchangers in partnership with Wieland and others. Patent rights were acquired for the Air Tower LNG vaporizer, first used in Freeport LNG terminal, and new ones were filed for cryogenic gas processing. Refining: strong performance on grassroots projects In 2012, an outstanding track record of major Some important projects, such as the SATORP selected as the technology supplier of the hydrogen projects positioned Technip as a refining leader. Jubail refinery in Saudi Arabia, the Algiers refinery plants for the RAPID project. A major engineering project was the Petronas RAPID in Algeria and a residue hydrocracker in Bulgaria, grassroots refinery and petrochemical complex moved closer to completion. Our R&D teams worked on new advances and in Malaysia that built on our long‑term presence made incremental improvements to existing in Asia Pacific, and confirmed our leadership Hydrogen: four new plants on stream products, such as the process gas waste heat boiler. in the refining and petrochemical sectors. We were Hydrogen is the most widely used industrial gas Our 20‑year alliance with Air Products continued also involved at the very early stages of projects in in the refining, chemical and petrochemical industries to generate significant development activities. Eastern Europe, the Middle East and South America. and we are recognized as the market leader in this Besides, we were also active on several engineering sector. Four new Technip production units came Ethylene: upturn followed by a brighter horizon projects for grassroots refineries, including on stream in 2012 in the US and Australia. The major in 2013 the Petrocarabobo Upgrader Complex in Venezuela, expansion of Total’s hydrogen plant in France also Considering ethylene is the cornerstone of for the expansion of two refineries in Kazakhstan began operations. Work started on three new plants petrochemicals, the acquisition of Stone & as well as the upgrading of a unit in Estonia. in the US for Air Products. Additionally, we were Webster process technologies has reinforced renewable energies In 2012, we confirmed our commitment to for the implementation of an advanced offshore wind. As a member of the Ailes Marines ammonia‑water mixed fluid power cycle Consortium with Iberdrola, Eole Res and Areva, project, part of Entiv Organic Energy’s we were awarded the Saint‑Brieuc offshore wind development of a geothermal plant. zone in France, our first major project win in this domain. We officially launched the European We continued to reinforce our collaboration Union‑funded INFLOW project to industrialize with well‑implanted companies and signed an the vertical axis floating wind turbine concept agreement with the Compagnie Industrielle de we are currently working on. la Matière Végétale to industrialize its process for converting solid biomass into hydrocarbons Technip provided an important support for use in petrochemicals. We also established — to geothermal energy by being awarded a a partnership with Areva Solar to combine solar The Saint-Brieuc offshore wind zone award in France is an grant from the US Department of Energy energy with oil and gas assets. important achievement for Technip. 70 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all our world‑leading position and expertise on those Asahi Kasei and BP. Thanks to these alliances, we are two markets. To further strengthen our leadership, entering petrochemicals projects at the early 3 QUESTIONS FOR we tied deeper relations with tier‑one partners, stage, which positions us for the execution work as was the case on Braskem Idesa’s Ethylene that follows. We were selected for several process XXI project in Mexico. We were awarded the design packages and FEEDs in Russia, Malaysia engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) and China. We were also awarded EPC contracts Stan phase after successfully completing the front‑end in Mexico, Germany, India and Saudi Arabia. Knetz Senior Vice engineering design (FEED) in 2012. Another example President, Process is Reliance’s Jamnagar refinery complex in India Mining and metals: a mature diversification Technology (United States) for which we are working on the conceptual design We have a major role to play in supporting key and engineering of the cracker. nuclear operators in their projects. The industrial Could you describe Technip Stone design phase of the contract awarded to Technip & Webster Process Technology? The US market based on ethane from shale gas was and Ingérop, by the French National Radioactive It is a new global business unit with buoyant in 2012 and additional ethylene production Waste Management Agency (ANDRA), for the 1,200 engineers, researchers and project projects using the same feedstock are expected Cigeo geological storage center, started in 2012. team members. Our wide and strong in 2013. In Texas, both The Dow Chemical Company TSU Projects, a jointly‑owned subsidiary of Technip portfolio combines Technip’s existing and Chevron Phillips Chemicals selected us for FEED and SGN (Areva Group), continued work on the proprietary process technologies with the ones from Stone & Webster in ethylene, contracts for their respective world‑scale ethylene Imouraren project in Niger. refining, hydrogen, petrochemicals plants from ethane feedstock. and gas‑to‑liquids. In the mining and metal sector, we carried on The outlook for ethylene in 2013 remains positive. supporting Xstrata Nickel on the Koniambo nickel What is process technology In addition, our new swirl flow tubes technology, project. We are performing engineering studies and why is it a good fit for Technip? tested in 2012, will be ready for market in 2013. for Eramet’s Weda Bay nickel project in Indonesia, In the onshore arena, process technology and have completed the feasibility study for encompasses the methods of converting Petrochemicals and fertilizers: partnerships and the Zanaga iron ore project in Congo. feedstocks into useable products. alliances drive business These technologies differentiate us Economic growth in emerging countries led to We pursued pushing the limits in subsea mining. in the downstream market and position us early in a project’s development cycle. new projects in Latin America, Eastern Europe and As a member of the French Maritime Cluster Royalties or license fees are paid when South‑East Asia. and premium sponsor of the International Marine Technip supplies proprietary know‑how, Minerals Society, we are acting as an offshore expertise or catalysts. We maintained relations with best‑in‑class architect engineer for the seafloor massive sulfides producers and technology owners such as INEOS, pilot mining project in the Pacific Ocean. What projects are you currently working on? We have various projects underway, including a FEED for a major ethylene plant for Chevron Phillips Chemical, and a FEED and cracking furnaces engineering and procurement services for a new world‑scale ethylene plant for Dow in the US. In the Gulf, we are providing engineering services and licensing for our proprietary residue fluid catalytic cracking technology to Abu Dhabi Oil Refining Company (Takreer). The past few months have been an exciting time, and there are many opportunities ahead of us! — The Ethylene XXI cracker will be the most modern and efficient in operation in the Americas, and will use our state‑of‑the‑art technology. 71 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | 72 Take it Further Doing the right thing Trusting the team Encouraging Building the future a fair return for all Environment Promoting sustainability across the board The energy industry has a vital role to play in meeting the planet’s environmental challenges, especially those related to global warming and the prevention of accidental pollution. We assume these responsibilities everyday in all our activities, whether for ourselves or our clients. Our objectives for 2013 • Establish carbon footprint minimization strategies • Strive to reduce the environmental impact of our activities • Develop, carry out and monitor a high-level environmental risk register in all Regions Limiting our environmental • Conduct at least one environmental performance standard audit to identify steps for footprint improvement in each Region • Continue to implement the Green Office program at all major Technip offices The increased demand for energy in emerging countries has accelerated the need to tackle greenhouse gas emissions reduction. The main focus of our environmental policy is to reduce Our process and requirements for environmental One of Technip’s major environmental achievements these emissions to fight against management are defined in Technip’s global in 2012 was the implementation of its Green climate change and limit the impact environmental management performance Office program, a standard developed since 2010 of our activities, while continuing standard, which was implemented in 2011. that describes how to conduct office operations to develop more efficient processes. In 2012, we audited both our environmental in an environmentally-sound manner. Many data and the data collection processes to green initiatives were organized around the A strong and efficient commitment to improving identify areas of improvement, while reviewing Group: environmental walkthroughs and a waste performance our operating centers to assess their compliance management audit were held in Düsseldorf, Germany; As an integral part of our health, safety with the standard. Also, to identify and manage a policy to reduce the volume of waste generated and environment (HSE) policy, our environmental local risks and challenges in accordance with was implemented in Antwerp, The Netherlands; and strategy aims to improve environmental performance regulatory and stakeholders expectations, a carbon footprint study was conducted in Paris, and compliance, increase energy efficiency, and lower an environmental risk register was established France. In 2013, all our head offices will be assessed consumption, emissions and waste. for each entity. against the Green Office standard. 73 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | — We completed buyoancy cans of the Marine Well Containment System to prevent oil spills in the Gulf of Mexico. Reinforcing our environmental culture Improving our environmental performance begins with fostering responsible behavior. We continued to develop awareness, through participation in global events such as the World Environment Day. In 2012, activities were conducted throughout the Group, including local initiatives such as planting trees, nature walks, cycling events, recycling and energy saving. With the same objective, Technip University launched four environmental e-learning modules. Helping clients meet their demonstrated how fragile the Earth is. They remind Specifically tailored for the oil and gas sector, sustainability goals the industry of the importance of safety and they cover all aspects of our business. pollution prevention. The purpose is to help raise an understanding Our environmental initiatives are not of the Group’s activities, potential impacts on limited to internal activities. We also In 2012, Technip recorded an increase in the planet and area of opportunities for the future. support our clients in their efforts environmental incidents on sites and vessels, to tackle greenhouse gas emissions as a direct result of stricter mandatory reporting reduction and other environmental requirements and additional reporting processes. issues. These incidents had minimal impact and have helped us identify areas for improvement and prevention, Integrating the environment into every project including regular inspections, maintenance, training Developing sustainable environmental solutions starts and processes, as well as ensuring the competency at the conceptual design phase of a project, where of the people and systems in place. the greatest reduction in the impact of construction and operation can be achieved. For example, the Having equipment ready to mitigate the impact Paris-based Environmental and Health team completed of any accidents is also paramount. In 2012, we important design studies for Shell’s FLNG projects, completed the development and fabrication of the which will be deployed around the world. Marine Well Containment System for international operators led by ExxonMobil. This emergency During the construction phase, we work closely response device can be available in 24 hours and with our clients on all aspects of HSE. Projects fully deployed within a matter of weeks, in the such as the Jubail refinery in Saudi Arabia have event of an underwater well incident in the Gulf achieved a high level of HSE performance, of Mexico. including environmental management. During the construction, pre-commissioning and Staying strong in renewables commissioning phases, we focused on air emission After increasing over the last eight years and reduction, dust abatement, waste segregation and reaching a record level of $300 billion in 2011, global recycling. In addition, a great effort was made in investment in renewable energy decreased for the environmental training and awareness campaigns, first time in 2012 to $270 billion (source: Bloomberg involving all personnel including site management New Energy Finance). In spite of this, we continued and contracted workforce. The Jubail project’s to meet the market’s needs by reinforcing our HSE Management System team received the expertise in that sector. Environmental Champion award from the client, in recognition of the excellent results During the year, several offshore wind initiatives in management and performance. were launched in France and in the rest of Europe, and we successfully continued our expansion in — Technip successfully continued to develop its Preventing accidental pollution this market. Technip Offshore Wind Ltd, our UKexpertise in the offshore wind sector. Recent worldwide events, in the Gulf of Mexico based business unit, earned the ISO 14001:2004 or in the North Sea, and natural disasters have Environmental Management standard as well 74 TakE IT furTHEr DOInG THE rIGHT THInG TruSTInG THE TEaM EnCOuraGInG building the Future a faIr rETurn fOr aLL — in brazil, we worked with schools to implement a vegetable garden and gardens built with reused material. 3 QueStionS For leonardo naveS, HSE Manager, and mykaella Sbardelott, Environmental Engineer (Brazil) can you present the actions you launched in brazil in 2012? we focused on three main initiatives in our manufacturing plant in vitória. first, the implementation of Technip’s Environmental Education program, to raise awareness of natural resources among employees and communities, including three schools. various events, such as the arbor (Tree) Day as the OHSaS 18001:2007 for Occupational Safety and Health standard, underpinning our Celebration, as well as lectures and visits commitment to becoming an industry leader in HSE performance. we also provided valuable were organized during the year. Second, support to geothermal activity in the uS. Thanks to collaboration agreements in the renewables we analyzed our 2011 CO2 emissions to try sector, we expanded our range of solutions in bio-refining and solar energy. and improve our performance and footprint. Third, the ISO 14001 certification of our investing in bio-based chemicals environmental management system was we accompanied the growth of the bio-based chemicals market, derived from biomass, and renewed for the third time. perspectives are promising, with several projects currently underway. In 2012, we continued work on our first bio-based chemical project in China, for Solvay, with a plant start-up how are you organized to carry out those actions? scheduled for 2014. It will convert glycerin derived from vegetable oil into epichlorohydrin Mykaella and I work closely to set up (a chemical used frequently in electronics, automotive and aeronautics). awareness events and we can also count on our colleagues’ support and motivation. partnerships and technological alliances are being developed, both in the uS and Europe. for the CO2 diagnosis we conducted, we recently joined the french bio-based Chemistry association, which seeks to promote we were helped by a consultancy and the development of this new sector. we are also involved in a multi-client study regarding specialized contractor. In general, we try strategic and prospective issues for bio-based chemicals by 2030. a major step forward in as much as possible to share best practices, this field as this project gathers together for the first time all the main actors of the value chain. providing food for thoughts to other regions across the Group! What are your priorities in terms of HELpInG prOTECT THE auSTraLIan environment for 2013 and beyond? environment In 2013, in vitória, we will focus on pursuing the Environmental Education program, on implementing procedures to adjust in Western Australia, the bHp billiton Macedon the management system with the aim of gas project is located in a semi‑arid region achieving the nBr-ISO 14064 Greenhouse of coastal plain and bushland. in 2012, we Gases certificate, and on conducting an continued to implement various strategies to energy efficiency study to optimize the use preserve the fragile local fauna, including native of the site’s resources. In the rest of Brazil, snakes and lizards. excavations are inspected we will work on obtaining the ISO 14001 twice daily and fitted with shelters to prevent certification for Technip’s new açu plant, animals from being trapped inside. employees vessels and supply boats. were trained to handle reptiles, in case they need to be removed. This novel initiative has — helped rescue and relocate a large number of employees on site are trained to handle reptiles in case they need to be removed from excavations. animals and do a census count of the local fauna. 75 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | indicators A commitment for Transparency Financial figures, social indicators, environmental indicators... ... All of these data reflects the Group’s commitment to achieving excellence. They highlight the enhancements already made and areas for further improvement. In preparing this report, Technip has applied the standards required by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3), the most widely-used benchmark for non-financial reporting. Again this year, Technip has requested GRI approval of its reporting policy and procedure. We will also continue the improvement of our level of GRI compliance, in order to help our stakeholders to better understand our sustainable development strategy and performance, and better comply with GRI 3.1 guidelines. The L. 225-102-1 article from the French Commercial Code, entered into force on April 24, 2012, is part of the implementation of the Grenelle II law. This law is one of the stricter worldwide and aims to drive French companies, including Technip, towards a continuous improvement of corporate social responsibility (CSR) processes. In this context, Technip had its External Auditors check the CSR information from its Reference Document, Annex E-Society and Environment Report. This report is dedicated to sustainable development performance and complements the information developed in the Activity and Sustainable Development Report. As part of taking our dialogue with stakeholders further, we invite you to share your views on these reports by contacting us at: sustainabledevelopment@technip.com. | 2012 | technip aCTIvITy anD SuSTaInaBLE DEvELOpMEnT rEpOrT | InDICaTOrS rePorTing Scope The main 2012 social, environmental and financial data are listed in the following pages of this report. More details are also available in the 2012 reference Document and in particular in the annex E where additional information on the scope and methodology are communicated. social data The 2012 social reporting perimeter includes 82 entities at the end of December 2012, taking into O Calgary Evanton Du account the integration of the following companies during the year: Aberdeen Newcastle • Stone & webster process technologies mainly London/ Milton Keynes in the united kingdom and in the united States, Rouen/Le Trait Boston St. John’s Paris/Venette • Suporte Consultoria e projetos acquired by Lyon/Vaux-en-Ve Genesis in Brazil. Claremont Toulo Social indicators cover 100% of the entities Houston Lisbon Bar Duco Carlyss consolidated in the Group, in accordance with Mobile Algi finance and legal perimeters of consolidation. Monterrey Mexico City In order to give more transparency to the reporting Ciudad and to facilitate the comparison between the two del Carmen consecutive years, the reporting on training and absenteeism does not take into account the answers Caracas coming from newly acquired entities that have not Bogota Ac been within the Group throughout the whole year. Environmental data is collected and reported The input, collection and consolidation of social throughout the year by means of Technip's Barra do Riacho data have been conducted using a common worldwide HSE data management system. HSE Vitória software tool across the Group. users dispose of and administration staff members from all regions, Açu an indicator definition protocol that is reviewed including project sites, sub-contractors, facilities Macaé and improved each year based upon feedback and various entities participate in data collection, Rio de Janeiro from the entities and the problems observed. Data analysis and reporting. This data reflects the Angra dos Reis consolidation is centralized by the Group Human environmental performance of entities involved resources. in fleet, construction, plant, fabrication and office operations and activities. environmental data while this data is as accurate as practical, efforts The perimeter covered in this report is for existing are continually made to review and improve the entities and does not consider companies acquired reporting process and quality of the data, during the year. The environmental data from and to provide more transparent picture companies acquired in 2012 will be included in the of our environmental performance. 2013 report. 78 Orkanger Kstovo Pori Oslo/Sandvika St. Petersburg Evanton Duco Novograd Stavanger/Haugesund Aberdeen The Hague/Rotterdam Ufa Newcastle NExBTL plant Moscow London/ Antwerpen Milton Keynes Warsaw Rouen/Le Trait Zoetermeer Paris/Venette Düsseldorf Aktau Seoul Lyon/Vaux-en-Velin Nimes Sarajevo Toulouse Rome Marseille Baku Nanjing Lisbon Barcelona Athens New Delhi Shanghai Algiers Tunis Alexandria QCS Al Jubail Cairo Doha Dubai Al Khobar Mumbai Arlit Ras Laffan Abu Dhabi Vizag Bangkok Surat Chonburi Ho Chi Minh City Chennai Lagos Tangjung Langsat Port Harcourt Kuala Lumpur Kuala Belait Accra Raiu Singapore Dande Batam Balikpapan Luanda Angoflex Jakarta Lobito CWLH Macedon Vavouto Perth NKW Refinery Offices and assets reporting their social and/or environmental data project and installation sites reporting New Plymouth their social and/or environmental data Countries in which Technip has carried out initiatives in favor of local communities in 2012 79 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | indicators social data Breakdown of total workforce by category Reasons of departures (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll and contracted workforce) (permanent employees) 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 (Coverage rate: 100% of permanent employees on payroll) Employees on payroll 30,241 25,717 2012 Permanent employees 26,279 22,390 Voluntary reasons of leaving (resignations, retirements) 2,008 Temporary employees (fixed-term) 3,962 3,327 Lay-off/redundancy/dismissal 440 Contracted workforce 6,267 5,375 Transfers between entities 135 Contracted workers in fleet, plants and yard 2,749 2,502 Other reasons 189 Other contracted workforce 3,518 2,873 Total 2,772 Total workforce 36,508 31,092 Breakdown by gender Breakdown of employees by geographic zone (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll) (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll) 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Managers(2) 3,337 2,817 Europe 10,551 9,507 Women 18% 17% Americas 9,054 7,491 Men 82% 83% Asia Pacific 7,827 6,212 Non managers 24,061 20,562 Women 27% 27% Middle East 2,011 1,833 Men 73% 73% Africa 555 472 Blue collars employees(3) 2,843 2,338 Russia and Central Asia 243 202 Women 5% 10% Total employees on payroll 30,241 25,717 Men 95% 90% Total 30,241 25,717 Women 24% 24% Payroll employees: arrivals and departures Men 76% 76% (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll) (2) Employees who supervise subordinates in accordance with the Human Resources Without Borders program (3) Employees who perform manual labour/physical work. A blue collar employee with a management role, 2012 2011 as defined above, will be qualified as a “manager” Arrivals 7,651 5,862 Permanent employees 5,027 3,717 Organization of working hours Temporary employees (fixed-term) 2,624 2,145 (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll except overtime hours, which Departures 4,295 3,277 coverage rate is 50%) Permanent employees 2,772 2,261 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Temporary employees (fixed-term) 1,523 1,016 Number of full-time employees 29,666 > 25,000 Renewal rate of permanent positions(1) 1.81 1.64 Number of part-time employees 575 < 600 (1) Start/termination of permanent positions Number of employees working in shifts 3,400 < 2,500 Overtime hours 1,421,931 773,394 (France and Region centers) 80 Absenteeism Training of employees on payroll (excluding other reasons than illness or injury) (Coverage rate: 96.5% of employees on payroll) (Coverage rate: 96.5% of employees on payroll) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Training hours 863,714 901,379 Occupational illness or injury 0.03% 0.04% Technical training 226,864 360,043 Non-occupational illness 1.69% 1.99% Non-technical training (including management, cross disciplines, IT and 294,770 295,084 Non-occupational injury 0.06% 0.08% certification) Total (illness/injury) 1.78% 2.11% Health, safety, security (including Pulse 204,092 142,876 training) Languages 101,223 68,794 Breakdown of expatriates by home office Human rights, ethics and Technip values 36,765 34,582 (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll) awareness training Number of employees on payroll who benefited from at least one training 23,402 19,495 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 course during the year Europe 698 591 Women 5,635 4,514 Asia Pacific 342 278 Men 17,767 14,981 Middle East 177 166 South America 78 92 North America 72 44 Profit sharing Africa 1 1 (in € thousands) Russia and Central Asia 1 1 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Total 1,369 1,173 Amounts allocated to incentive profit 19,715 8,052 sharing (France, Spain, Italy) Age pyramid as of Decembre 31, 2012 Amounts allocated to mandatory profit sharing (France) 16,875 6,052 (Coverage rate: 100% of employees on payroll) 65+: 1.7% Geographical breakdown of staff on payroll 60 to 64: 4.4% 55 to 59: 6.8% 50 to 54: 7.7% Europe 35% Americas 30% 45 to 49: 9.5% 40 to 44: 12.6% 35 to 39: 15% 30 to 34: 20.1% Russia and Central Asia 1% 25 to 29: 16.8% Africa 2% Middle East 6% Asia Pacific 26% -25: 5.4% 81 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | indicators environmental indicators 2012 breakdown Consumption 2012 2011 Construction Fabrication Fleet Offices Paper Paper (tonnes) 898 1,053 25 56 0 817 Energy Direct energy consumption (MWh) Natural gas and LPG (MWh) 19,073 16,545 2,605 11,086 0 5,382 Fuel-oil, diesel, gasoline (MWh) 1,720,743 1,354,272 422,725 30,998 1,260,951 6,069 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) Electricity (MWh) 127,721 90,761 4,227 58,016 0 65,478 Water Water consumption (m3) 1,977,630 2,480,785 1,254,861 241,502 150,698 330,569 Production Waste water(1) Industrial and domestic effluents (m3) 745,835 350,311 434,806 64,530 109,958 136,541 Waste Non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 86,195 55,871 67,082 14,853 2,160 2,100 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 6,761 4,513 503 4,037 2,111 110 Total waste (tonnes) 92,956 60,384 67,585 18,890 4,271 2,210 Atmospheric emissions CO2 Direct emissions (t CO2 equiv) 460,252 342,075 111,462 10,547 335,590 2,653 Indirect emissions (t CO2 equiv) 45,153 36,085 2,521 15,388 0 27,244 Total 505,405 378,160 113,983 25,935 335,590 29,897 (1) Effluents treated either on site or offsite and discharged into the natural environment. Characteristics Annual expenditure on environmental protection (k€) Total environmental expenditure (k€) 405 192 843 1,572 166 2,773 Total capital expenditure committed (k€) 1,846 Provisions and guarantees to cover environmental risks (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Decontamination costs (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of fines and compensation awards 0 0 0 0 0 0 Amount of fines and compensation awards (k€) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total environmental man-hours worked (millions) 172.4 142 79.7 20.8 31.1 40.7 Performance indicators Energy consumption (kWh/h) 10.83 10.30 5.39 4.81 40.50 1.89 Water consumption (l/h) 11.47 17.47 15.74 11.61 4.84 8.12 Waste (kg/h) 0.54 0.43 0.85 0.91 0.14 0.05 Greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO2 equiv/h) 2.93 2.66 1.43 1.25 10.78 0.73 82 Technip's main environmental indicators Despite a stronger commitment to environmental performance, most indicators have shown an increase between 2011 and 2012. This is due to the enhanced volume of pipe manufacturing, construction activities and number of sites/facilities, as well as the level and accuracy of environmental data and reporting across Technip. Greenhouse gas emissions (kg CO2 equivalent per hour) 2012 2.93 2011 2.66 2010 2.14 2009 2.94 2008 1.64 Waste (kg per hour) 2012 0.54 2011 0.43 2010 0.13 2009 0.18 2008 0.26 Water consumption (liters per hour) 2012 11.47 2011 17.47 2010 16 2009 12.29 2008 17.89 83 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | indicators summary of financial information Consolidated statement of income Consolidated statement of financial position € million Full Year Audited Dec. 31, 2012 Dec. 31, 2011, (except diluted earnings per share and diluted number € million (audited) restated* of shares) 2012 2011 (audited) Revenue 8,203.9 6,813.0 Fixed assets 6,022.2 5,662.0 Gross margin 1,551.6 1,286.6 Deferred tax assets 300.5 319.2 Research and development expenses (68.7) (65.3) Non-current assets 6,322.7 5,981.2 SG&A and other (661.2) (511.8) Operating income from recurring activities 821.7 709.5 Construction contracts – amounts in assets 454.3 588.0 Non-current operating result (9.5) (15.7) Inventories, trade receivables and other 2,504.8 2,392.6 Operating income 812.2 693.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2,289.3 2,808.7 Financial result (65.3) 17.4 Current assets 5,248.4 5,789.3 Share of income/(loss) of equity affiliates 1.0 Assets classified as held for sale 9.9 Income/(loss) before tax 747.9 711.2 Income tax expense (204.8) (208.7) Total assets 11,581.0 11,770.5 Non-controlling interests (3.4) 4.8 Shareholders’ equity (parent company) 4,001.2 3,651.6 Net income/(loss) 539.7 507.3 Non-controlling interests 13.2 21.7 Diluted number of shares 124,419,663 117,498,889 Shareholders’ equity 4,014.4 3,673.3 Diluted earnings per share (€) 4.50 4.41 Non-current financial debts 1,705.7 1,553.4 Non-current provisions 162.3 140.3 Deferred tax liabilities and other non-current 265.2 231.4 liabilities Non-current liabilities 2,133.2 1,925.1 Current financial debts 400.4 598.2 Current provisions 351.2 346.9 Construction contracts – amounts in liabilities 873.0 724.3 Trade payables and other 3,808.8 4,502.7 Current liabilities 5,433.4 6,172.1 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 11,581.0 11,770.5 Net cash position 183.2 657.1 * Restated with assessment of purchase price allocation of Global Industries 84 Consolidated statement of cash flows Breakdown of 2012 backlog by activity Full Year € million Gas/LNG/FLNG 12% Refining/heavy oil 2012 2011 Net income/(loss) 539.7 507.3 14% Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets 194.9 174.0 Stock options and performance share charges 48.6 46.0 Non-current provisions Petrochems 22.2 18.4 (including employee benefits) 12% Deferred income tax 52.9 27.5 Net (gains)/losses on disposal of assets (5.6) 0.8 Others and investments Non-controlling interests and other 30.9 8.5 2% Cash generated from/(used in) operations 883.6 782.5 Shallow water(1) 42% Change in working capital requirements (438.9) (130.9) Deepwater(1) >1,000 meters Net cash generated from/(used in) operating 18% 444.7 651.6 activities Capital expenditures (518.9) (357.2) (1) Includes offshore platforms and subsea projects Proceeds from non-current asset disposals 43.8 3.8 Acquisitions of financial assets (3.3) (13.3) Acquisition costs of consolidated companies, (245.0) (591.0) net of cash acquired Backlog at year-end 2012 by geographic area Net cash generated from/(used in) investing (723.4) (957.7) activities Americas Europe, Russia Net increase/(decrease) in borrowings (39.8) 132.9 29% and Central Asia Capital increase 115.8 34.4 30% Dividends paid (172.6) (156.1) Share buy-back (107.9) 0.4 Net cash generated from/(used in) financing (204.5) 11.6 activities Net effects of foreign exchange rate changes (36.4) (2.5) Africa Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash Asia Pacific (519.6) (297.0) 9% equivalents 21% Bank overdrafts at period beginning (0.1) (0.1) Middle East 11% Cash and cash equivalents at period beginning 2,808.7 3,105.7 Bank overdrafts at period end (0.3) (0.1) Cash and cash equivalents at period end 2,289.3 2,808.7 (519.6) (297.0) 85 | 2012 | Technip Activity and Sustainable Development Report | Glossary Biomass-based fuel FLNG (Floating Liquefied Natural Gas) These include, but are not limited to wood, sawdust, grass cuttings, In a FLNG solution, the gas liquefaction installations are situated directly above biodegradable domestic refuse, charcoal, agricultural waste, crops and dried the offshore gas field, thus making the construction of long subsea pipelines manure. and large onshore infrastructure unnecessary. Carbon fiber armor Floatover Installation method of an integrated production deck (topsides) on a fixed An exclusive technology for the composition of flexible risers, for use or floating offshore structure without heavy‑lift operations. in deepwater, allowing them to weight 50% less than traditional flexible pipes while offering excellent corrosion and fatigue resistance. Flowline Flexible or rigid pipe laid on the seabed for the transport of production or CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) injection fluids. The CCS is a solution for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from industrial installations in response to global warming. FPSO (Floating, Production, Storage and CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Offloading) A converted ship or custom-built vessel used to process oil and gas A concept whereby companies integrate social and environmental concerns and for temporary storage of the oil prior to transport. in their business operations and in their interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis. CSR concerns actions by companies over and above their legal obligations towards society and the environment. (European Commission Global Compact definition) International initiative of the United Nations, launched in 2000. It unites businesses, United Nations bodies, labor groups and civil society around ten universal principles relating to human rights, labor and the environment. Development (of a gas or oil field) Technip has been an official member of the Global Compact since 2003. All operations associated with the exploitation of an oil or gas field. DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) Greenhouse gas Any of the atmospheric gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect by Launched in 1999, the European and World DJSI indexes were the first to track absorbing infrared radiation produced by the solar warming of the Earth’s surface. the financial performances of leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. Greenhouse gases include carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and water Technip’s share has been part of the indexes for 11 years. vapour. These gases can be naturally occurring or produced by human activity. EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Type of contract comprising management and engineering services, procurement A network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the of equipment and materials, construction. world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. In order to ensure EPIC (Engineering, Procurement, Installation, the highest degree of technical quality, credibility, and relevance, the reporting Commissioning) framework is developed through a consensus-seeking process with participants drawn globally from business, civil society, labor, and professional institutions. An EPIC or “turnkey” contract integrates the responsibility going from the conception to the final acceptance of one or more elements of a production system. It can be awarded for all, or part, of a field development. GTL (Gas-to-Liquids) Transformation of natural gas into liquid fuels (Fischer Tropsch technology). ETH-PIP (Electrically Trace Heated Pipe-in-Pipe) A new technology developed and qualified by Technip for use in shallow and deepwater applications alike, and qualified by Technip and Total for higher HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Defines all measures taken by Technip to guarantee the occupational health temperature applications. Successful deployment of ETH-PIP will enhance or and safety of individuals and the protection of the environment during the enable production operability in certain flow and temperature conditions, performance of its business activities, whether in offices or on construction sites. where subsea pipelines transporting hydrocarbons are liable to blockage through the formation of hydrates or wax. HVS (Heave and Vortex-induced motion Suppressed) semi-submersible platform FEED (Front-End Engineering Design) A low-motion semi-submersible platform, reducing the fatigue on risers Engineering studies whose detail allows the client to launch the bidding process connected to it, enabling it to support large diameter steel catenary risers for the execution of the project. in water depths that would not be possible for conventional semis. As such, it is a technology suited to deepwater developments. 86 IPB (Integrated Production Bundle) Semi-submersible platform A flexible pipe with an incorporated electrical heating system aimed to increase Offshore platform that is stabilized by pontoons whose degree of immersion can internal fluid temperature, thus increasing oil flow. be changed through ballasting and de-ballasting. ISO 9001 Shale gas A standard dealing with quality management systems. Natural gas held in shale, rocks made up of thin layers of fine-grained sediments. Shale formations have very low permeability. ISO 14001 A standard dealing with environmental management systems. Syngas An abbreviation of “synthesis gas”, a mixture of gases made as feedstocks. It is produced by reacting steam, or steam and oxygen, with a heated Lean and Six Sigma carbon‑containing material such as natural gas. To improve competitiveness, Lean focuses on cost and schedule improvement and Six Sigma on quality by reducing defect rate. Technip integrated a quality program based on these methods at the end of 2010. Spar A cylindrical, partially submerged offshore drilling and production platform that is particularly well-adapted to deepwater. LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) Natural gas, liquefied by cooling its temperature to -162°C, thus reducing its volume 600 times, allowing its transport by LNG tank. SST (Spiral Stacket Turret) A flexible hose-based alternative to the traditional mechanical swivel stack to be used in floating units. Natural gas Largely comprises methane (CH4) with some carbon dioxide and other impurities Sustainable development such as sulphur-based gases. Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. (Definition from the United Nations’ 1987 Report of the World Commission on Environment and Petrochemicals Development) Industry relating to chemical compounds derived from hydrocarbons. PiP (Pipe-in-Pipe) Technip PMC (Project Management Steel pipes assembly consisting of a standard production pipe surrounded by Consultancy) Technip’s business unit in charge of assisting its customers in achieving a so-called carrier pipe. The gap between the carrier and production pipes is their business objectives, from the technology and licensor selection phase filled with an insulation material. As the insulation is protected from the external to the management of multinational consortia in the execution and successful pressure by the carrier pipe, a high‑thermal performance material can be used. delivery of world-scale, lump-sum turnkey projects. Pipeline installation Technip Stone & Webster Process Technology Technip’s fleet masters the three installation methods for rigid pipes: J-Lay Technip’s business unit looking after technologies which are wholly (a vertical lay system, in deepwater), S-Lay (the most common installation and jointly‑owned, along with others that are offered through licenses with method for steel pipe in medium to shallow water. A horizontal lay from third parties. the back of a vessel, under tension, which gives it an “S” configuration) and Reel-Lay (an onshore assembly of rigid steel pipeline, made of long sections welded together as they are spooled onto a vessel-mounted reel for transit TLP (Tension Leg Platform) and subsequent cost‑effective unreeling onto the seabed. Minimum welding Floating production platform anchored by tensioned cables, thus limiting vertical is done at sea), as well as Flexible-Lay (including the Vertical‑Lay System – movement caused by heavy swells. This platform design allows for the well heads VLS, a proprietary technology for installation of flexible pipes in deepwater). to be located at the surface, on the platform. Riser Ultra-deepwater Pipe or assembly of flexible or rigid pipes used to transfer produced fluids from Waters deeper than 1,500 meters. the seabed to surface facilities, and transfer injection or control fluids from the surface facilities to the seabed. Umbilical An assembly of steel tubes and/or hydraulic hoses which can also include electrical cables or optic fibres used to control subsea structures from a platform SA 8000 (Social Accountability 8000) or a vessel. An international standardized code of conduct for improving working conditions around the world. 87 This document is published by the Technip Group Communications department. To obtain copies, please contact: Group Communications Technip 89 avenue de la Grande Armée – 75116 Paris – France Tel: +33 (0)1 47 78 24 00 Publication Email: e-accessibility press@technip.com www.technip.com Publication e-accessibility E-accessible version for visualy impaired This document is conform to Web content accessibility standards, WCAG 2.0, and is certified ISO 14289-1. Its design enables people with motor disabilities to browse through this PDF using keyboard commands. Accessible for people with visual impairments, it has been tagged in full, so that it can be transcribed vocally e-accessibility publication by screen readers using any computer support. It has also been tested in full and validated by a visually-impaired expert. e-accessibility publication Photos: Technip photo library, Thierry Gonzales, Jean Gaumy/Magnum, Patrick Zachmann/Magnum, Harry Gruyaert/Magnum, Steven Shea, Kevin Gibson, Oelker Jan/Areva, Statoil Hydro, ExxonMobil, all rights reserved. This document is printed on Heaven 42. April 2013. Design and production: Aristophane. Société anonyme with a share capital of 86,283,684.89 euros 89 avenue de la Grande Armée 75116 Paris France Tel. : +33 (0)1 47 78 24 00 589 803 261 RCS Paris SIRET 589 803 261 00223 www.technip.com
