Corporate Responsibility 2012 www.j-lauritzen.com 2 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s corporate responsibility: Jens Søndergaard Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Communication Phone: +45 33 96 84 01 Email: jso@j-l.com Kathrine Geisler Corporate Responsibility Manager, Corporate Communication Phone: +45 33 96 84 35 Email: kge@j-l.com about this report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communication on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this report is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. Printed by: KLS grafisk hus A/S, Denmarks most green graphic house J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 3 Table of contents About J. lauritzen 4 CEO statement 5 highlights 2012 6 outlook 2013 7 human and labour rights 8 environment & climate 10 responsible business conduct 12 Lauritzen Bulkers 14 Lauritzen Kosan 18 Lauritzen Tankers 22 Lauritzen offshore 24 4 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 About J.lauritzen J. Lauritzen A/S (JL) was founded in 1884 and is owned by the Lauritzen Foundation. We have grown and developed our operations considerably during the last decade and thus remain one of Denmark’s leading shipping companies. Part of our strategy is to spread risks across the different business areas. Today we have four business units with different growth drivers and cycles and each specifically positioned to their respective markets. We operate a modern, diversified fleet of bulk carriers, gas carriers, product tankers and dynamically positioned support vessels for the offshore industry that are all engaged in operations worldwide. JL is headquartered in Copenhagen with overseas offices in China, Japan, Philippines, Singapore, Spain and USA. THE LAURITZEN FOUNDATION The Lauritzen Foundation is a commercial foundation with the objective to support Danish shipping, entrepreneurship and humanitarian work. The Lauritzen Foundation was created in 1945 in conjunction with the 50th anniversary of the steamship company ”Vesterhavet”, founded by Ditlev Lauritzen in 1895. It was always the foundation’s aim to help support projects within Danish shipping, arts, trade, education and industry. Today the foundation supports both national and international humanitarian work. In 2012, the Lauritzen Foundation supported projects associated with JL’s business activities and community activities, such as a joint scholarship award with a social profile at Nanyang Technological University (maritime programme) in Singapore and a donation was given to support the humanitarian work of the Princess Benedikte Institute in Brazil. Support was also given to “On Course for a Better World” project, initiated by the Danish Business Authority. The project will provide examples of how the Danish shipping industry contributes to the UN’s Global Compact. The Lauritzen Foundation and JL jointly supported the World’s Best News campaign, a campaign that provides information every year about the progress made with the UN Millennium Goals. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 5 CEO statement 2012 was characterised by oversupply in major In 2012, we contributed to the development of a shipping markets, surplus shipbuilding capacity, pioneering responsible procurement programme low economic growth and tight credit conditions. (p. 13), we participated in the Maritime Anti-CorJL was obviously influenced by these circumruption network in order to take up the fight stances and with a net loss of USD (350)m, our against facilitation payments in the industry (p.12) 2012 result was very unsatisfactory. and worked with peers and suppliers to find new energy efficiency solutions for our fleet (p. 10, 11, Even in challenging times, our corporate respon16, 20). sibility effort continues and we are demonstrating our dedication through our commitment and conWith the aim of making sustainable progress in stant support for the UN Global Compact’s ten some of the areas that are deemed most chalprinciples on responsible business conduct. lenging in shipping, we engage in collaboration with business partners, peers, suppliers as well We have increasingly as regulatory authorities. We believe that working noted that our corporate closely within the industry is crucial in order to responsibility activities obtain sound solutions – and we look forward to are valued by our clients continuing the work in 2013. and business partners Torben Janholt As global operators conducting our business in President & CEO segments with high and ever-increasing requirements in terms of safety, security and protection Jan Kastrup-Nielsen of the environment, we are used to collaborating Executive Vice President & COO closely with our clients and suppliers on deliverAs from 26 February 2013, President & CEO ing transportation solutions. The Lauritzen name has been synonymous with corporate accountability for over a century and we intend to keep it that way by engaging in open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders From left: Jan Kastrup-Nielsen and Torben Janholt 6 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 highlights 2012 During 2012, we further strengthened and forKey initiatives in 2012 malised the Group’s corporate responsibility (CR) The following main initiatives and actions were effort both within the Group and in industry coltaken during the year: laborations. • Completion of a responsible procurement Policy commitment programme together with another Danish The Group’s CR policy was developed by our inshipowner, see p.13. terdisciplinary CR committee in 2012, and is • As part of our anti-corruption compliance based on the Group’s core values and internationprogramme, we conducted awareness sesally recognized principles for social, environmensions and published internal information matal and ethical business conduct. The policy has terial, see p. 12. been approved by JL’s Board of Directors and Ex• Ongoing participation in the Maritime Antiecutive Management. Corruption Network, see p. 12. • Implementation of our Group Energy EffiCR strategy process ciency Project, which aims to enhance fuelOur CR work continued in 2012 with the aim of efficiency and cut emissions whilst achieving aligning and prioritising existing and future CR savings on costs, see p. 10. initiatives such as responsible procurement and • Introduction of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol an anti-corruption compliance programme. This (GHGP), the most widely-used international was supported by a materiality assessment proenvironmental accounting tool for greencess that started in 2011 and has served as a tool house gas emissions, see p. 10. for guiding us in prioritising our focus areas. • Climate partnership with DONG Energy for our head office in Copenhagen, see p. 11. “we emphasize working with international recognized principles as they create a global level playing field for our Corporate Responsibility effort” Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen, executive vice president & CFO, J. Lauritzen A/S Chairman of the Danish Committee on Corporate Governance Materiality assement process: 2011 2012-2015 Signatory to UN Global Compact Strategy and reporting focus UN Global Compact gap analysis conducted Corporate level Internal workshop on risk and opportunities related to corporate responsibility Human Rights Labour conditions UN’s endorsement of the UN Guiding Diversity principles on Business and Human Rights Security Climate and environment 2012 Anti-Corruption Second assessments with internal stakeResponsible procurement holders Community engagement projects JL’s corporate responsibility focus presented and approved at the Board’s strategy Business unit level seminar Health and safety Executive Committee discussed specific Security projects Environment Business conduct Increased reporting requirements (Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a) J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 7 outlook 2013 Even though 2013 will be another challenging year for shipping, we shall continue our corporate responsibility effort. Combined with our CR strategy, we will further develop targets for each of the prioritized areas – although it is clear that we shall need to balance our effort and prioritise as we go along. ongoing effort Key Group priorities for 2013 will be to: • Continue the Group’s Energy Efficiency Project, which aims to enhance fuel-efficiency and cut emissions whilst achieving savings on costs. • Host a joint training day in early 2013 in conjunction with another Danish shipowner for maritime purchasing officers and other relevant employees to learn about the responsible procurement programme, the Guiding Principles, auditing and other relevant themes. • Continue to develop our anti-corruption compliance programme and implement a legal review process and a risk assessment process that will contribute to systematic monitoring of JL’s exposure to facilitation payments. • Use the UN Guiding Principles as a tool and a description of the process required in the way we work to respect human rights. NETWORK & COMMITTEE PARTICIPATION In 2013, we shall continue with our network participation efforts that contribute and add value to our corporate responsibility work. In early 2013, we are amongst others engaged in the following networks: • UN Global Compact Nordic network • The Danish Shipowners Association’s CR committee and related working groups • The Danish Shipowners Association’s Technical Committee and related working groups • Piracy Focus Group • The Green Ship for the Future • The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network 8 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 human and labour rights Ambitious and highly competent employees, who The first Nanyang Technological University sturespect and adhere to the business ethics and culdent who is studying in the maritime programme tural heritage on which JL is founded, are playing of NTU in Singapore, received the scholarship esa more important role than ever and are essential tablished last year by the Lauritzen Foundation for our continuing growth and development. and J. Lauritzen Singapore. The scholarship provides financial support to young talented candicommitted to respect human rights dates who apart from experiencing financial diffiAs a shipowner and operator with world-wide opculties, must also show sound academic results, erations, we are facing challenges ashore and at be active in community service or other voluntary sea when it comes to human rights and labour activities with a positive social impact. conditions. The present scope of the Group’s social responsibility programme ashore focuses on During 2012, JL employees had seats on national corporate human resource issues such as compeand international committees and advisory tency development, terms of employment, diverboards, and were invited to speak at conferences sity and recruitment. Aboard JL’s vessels, social in Denmark and abroad, for example on impleresponsibility is closely linked to health, safety menting corporate strategy, financial manageand security issues, see p. 15, 18, 19, 22, 24, 25. ment, governance and corporate responsibility in the maritime industry, LNG as substitute marine Competency development fuel and other industry-specific topics. During the year, JL’s first candidates embarked on a two-year commercial shipping programme deTerms of employment veloped in conjunction with other major Danish In line with previous years, we reviewed our emshipping companies and the Danish Shipowners’ ployment terms and policies in order to ensure Association. The programme is conducted in Engthat these meet industry standards and reflect the lish which makes it possible to include employees environment we are part of. The annual review from our overseas offices. also served to ensure that we meet our CR goals and obligations. Our responsible procurement programme is based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, read more on p. 13 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 9 diversity Employee development A policy and action plan for diversity was adopted At year-end 2012, JL’s total headcount was 1,341 in 2012 and applies to all management levels. We compared to 1,384 in 2011, with a total of 166 define diversity in terms of gender, cultural width, working at head office in Copenhagen, 55 in the extensive experience and new inspiration. overseas offices, 4 in site teams, and 1,116 at sea, cf. Figures 1-2. In 2012, we succeeded in strengthening diversity at management level both at head office and in In 2012, staff turnover was 14.6% compared to Singapore in corporate positions, chartering and 14.3% in 2011. The staff turnover was mainly operations. caused by employees transferring to Axis Offshore Pte. Ltd. and a considerably turnover Recruitment among our student employees in part-time posiA modest number of new personnel joined us in tions. Average years of service decreased to 9.2 in 2012, with most replacing employees who had 2012 compared to 9.3 years in 2011, and average left either the Danish organisation or one of our age remained 44.3 years in 2012. overseas offices. We had no problem in recruiting well-qualified candidates for all vacancies. Figure 1: total workforce at 2010-2012 year-end 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2010 2011 2012 Seagoing Head office Overseas offices Site teams Figure 2: Distribution of workforce year-end 2012 Seagoing Head office Overseas offices Site teams 10 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 environment & climate Each business unit is required to manage its opcosts. Thus all divisions have intensified their eferations in compliance with all applicable national forts to reduce fuel consumption and emissions. and international laws and regulations. Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans (SEOur Group environmental policy is also for JL to EMP) will be made for all vessels during 2013. further endeavour to mitigate pollution by estabWithout a proper monitoring and analysis platlishing relevant operational procedures, to demform, it is difficult to assess the effects of saving onstrate accountability by reporting our environmeasures, so we are investing significantly in mental performance and to follow the hardware and software to provide more accurate development of environmental improvement data for fuel consumption and emissions. technologies relevant to our business. Emissions reporting Environmental initiatives and actions As part of the Energy Efficiency Project and the Our environmental initiatives are anchored in top Group’s efforts to demonstrate accountability for management supported by the technical departenvironmental performance, JL’s Executive Comment of each business unit and further facilitated mittee decided to change the scope of the Group’s by knowledge-sharing from JL’s Technical Comemissions reporting in 2012. This led to the adopmittee which serves as a coordinating forum. tion of a greenhouse gas accounting system and related processes. We have a range of clients that are increasing their From 2012 onwards, JL will be using the Greenfocus on minimizing their house Gas Protocol (GHGP), which is the most environmental impact widely-used international environmental accounta focus that matches our ing tool for greenhouse gas emissions. This environmental initiatives change in emissions reporting affects the compaand actions rability of the environmental data reported in previous years. However, we are confident that the During 2012, we continued to develop the Group’s change in the scope of our reporting will increase joint Energy Efficiency Project. The overarching the materiality and transparency in the Group’s objective of the project is to enhance fuel-efficienoverall CR reporting. cy and cut emissions whilst achieving savings on J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 11 Shipping & the environment In addition to the ‘do-nothing option’ in which The past few years have seen increasing awaremore costly low-sulphur diesel fuels are used, ness of climate change and related challenges there are in practice two alternative solutions: 1) due especially to emissions. install a scrubber to remove sulphur from the exhaust stream on vessels or 2) switch to LNGThere is no doubt that 2012 was a very difficult based machinery. year for practically all shipping markets. This combined with high oil and bunker prices has Both technologies are still in development and a generated momentum and new business opporperiode of two years seems very short for develtunities for greener sailing where fuel savings oping robust, affordable technology. equate to lower costs and an improved bottomline as well as beneficial for the environment in We are not only following developments closely terms of lower emissions. However, not all the we have also been involved in a study led by the environmental challenges that we face have a Danish Maritime Authority looking at the chalclear business case. lenges in providing LNG supply infrastructure in Northern Europe. Ballast water While both the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and the US Coast Guard are working to finalize their upcoming regulations for ballast water treatment, the dates these regulations will CLIMATE take effect remain unclear. PARTNER As it looks now, ballast water treatment will beIn 2012, JL engaged in a climate partnership with come mandatory on some vessels as early as DONG Energy in order to systematically reduce 2014. energy consumption at head office in Copenhagen. Throughout 2012, JL has been working to make sure that our vessels will be compliant in due time This partnership has been kicked-off with external although there is still uncertainty about the deconsultants making an energy audit at the Copentails of the regulations, approval procedures for hagen office to outline the potential energy reducsystems as well as enforcement, which makes tions at our office facilities. preparations challenging. Irrespective of these uncertainties, compliance costs are forecast to be As a climate partner, we have committed ourvery significant. selves to support renewable energy by purchasing electricity from wind turbines with RECS certifiJL wishes to support innovation, and so systems cates, which are issued and controlled in accorother than those approved by IMO are being condance with internationally accepted rules for tradsidered for implementation but we are also ining renewable energy. volved in proof of concept and approval testing of new systems by allowing testing on board JL vesWe expect to achieve energy savings, reduce our sels. costs whilst learning from experts and getting inspiration for our work with reduction of our carbon New emission regulations footprint at our office facilities. Further new emission regulations from IMO, EU and US will enter into force in the next few years. The maritime industry is thus working hard to develop suitable solutions. 12 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 responsible business conduct Maintaining a high level of corporate integrity is international organizations to target corrupt pracimportant to us as respect and accountability are tices in challenging environments and to seek soamong our core values. lutions to the root causes of such corrupt practices. anti-corruption Our Anti-Corruption policy states zero tolerance MACN was formalized and a secretariat set up in towards bribery. The policy further commits us to 2012, and a set of guiding principles was drafted work proactively against facilitation payments to assist members in developing adequate proceand to apply mechanisms to monitor and reduce dures. such payments. Compliance programme As a shipowner and global operator, JL acknowlThe development of an Anti-Corruption compliedges that some of the Group’s employees may ance programme continued in 2012 with the aim face demands for facilitation payments. We also of implementing the Group’s Anti-Corruption poliacknowledge that eliminating such payments is cy. crucial and can only be achieved over time through joint action by the global shipping com internal awareness sessions were conducted Industry approach in 2012 and we developed We participate in the Maritime Anti-Corruption and published Network (MACN) together with representatives information material from different areas of the shipping industry. A legal review process and a risk assessment proThe purpose of the network is to share best praccess that will contribute to systematic monitoring tice and to harmonise anti-corruption policies and of JL’s exposure to facilitation payments has been approaches. One of the ambitions of the network developed and will be implemented in 2013. is to seek support from governmental bodies and “Transparency is paramount in fighting corruption on a global scale in an honest and fair manner” Jan Kastrup-Nielsen, EVP & COO , as from 26 February 2013 CEO of J. Lauritzen A/S J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 13 responsible procurement Joint approach During the year, we completed the development The programme has been developed together of a responsible procurement programme. The with another Danish shipowner and other Danish programme consists of a common industry toolshipowners are considering to adopt the probox that also includes a Supplier Code of Congramme. duct, a Supplier Self-Assessment questionnaire and an implementation plan. Our ambition is to develop a common approach in order to ensure uniformity and to avoid suppliers Aligning with new demands from having to comply with many different codes Our responsible procurement programme seeks of conduct. Going forward, this will be a cost-efto align expectations and addresses both human fective approach that will mitigate the resources and labour rights, environmental protection and needed for monitoring and audits. Further, a joint tackling corruption in the supply chain. action approach will provide leverage for ensuring that suppliers actually do make improvements in Based on the UN Global Compact and the UN the field of human and labour rights, protection of Guiding Principles on Business and Human the environment and anti-corruption issues. Rights, the programme is designed to meet new requirements from the UN, EU and OECD on BusiIn 2013, JL and another Danish shipowner will ness and Human Rights. host a joint training day for maritime purchasing officers and other relevant employees to learn about the programme, the Guiding Principles, auditing and other relevant themes. “We select suppliers for our responsible Procurement programme based on spend, dependency and frequency ” Henrik Steffensen, vice president, head of procurement, J. Lauritzen A/S THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS Since UN’s Human Rights Council unanimously endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in 2011, the Guiding Principles and ‘their spirit’ have been accepted and embedded in guidelines (e.g. OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises) and legislation (e.g. Danish Financial Statements Act, Sec.99a). In other words, endorsement of the Guiding Principles has made them the first universally accepted reference points for managing adverse impacts on human and labour rights. For us, the Guiding Principles provide guidance, tool and a description of a process that will assist us in our endeavour to respecting human rights, and thus the translation into practice of the first six principles of the Global Compact to which we are committed. 14 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers has during the past years beAt the end of 2012, the combined fleet comprised come a global industrial service provider of dry more than 100 handysize, handymax, panamax bulk transportation. A transition that is steadily inand capesize bulk carriers including short-term creasing the volume of voyage related business charters. At year-end, the average age of the done directly with clients and in 2012 longer carowned fleet was 2.3 years. go contracts were made with significant industry players. Fleet management Technical management, including crewing for Focus is on developing client proximity and cusLauritzen Bulkers’ fleet of owned bulk carriers, tomised services by offering clients competitive, was undertaken in 2012 by New Century Overreliable and efficient global transport services. seas Management Inc., Manila, Fleet ManageCritical mass minimises ballast voyages and enment Ltd., Hong Kong and Synergy Maritime Pte., ables us for example to reschedule and match Singapore. agreed laycan windows in load ports. Our young, efficient fleet provides superior speed/consumpThe in-house technical department works closely tion ratios. Further Lauritzen Bulkers’ trading platwith external technical management providers on form covers all time zones for client convenience. all aspects of achieving safe, reliable and cost-effective vessel operations, with thorough due diliOur dry bulk business activities have grown siggence being used to select these providers. nificantly in recent years and today around 50% of our operations are in the Pacific Rim. Three scheduled dry dockings were completed in 2012. Unscheduled off-hire for Lauritzen Bulkers’ Lauritzen Bulkers was the runner-up as “Ship Opowned fleet came to 0,29 % in 2012 (0.31 % in erator of the Year” in Lloyd’s List Awards Asia 2011). 2012. “Our people are our most important asset for our clients they are the company and add real value to the service that we deliver” Peter Borup, president, Lauritzen Bulkers J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 15 Health & Safety With ship management outsourced to external ALIGNING WITH service providers, the in-house technical department is used to align expectations and monitor RIGHTSHIP performance on achieving safe and efficient operWe monitor overall fleet safety performance and ations. energy efficiency in order to comply with applicable national and international rules and regulations To ensure the highest level of safety and perforas well as increasing client requirements. mance, Lauritzen Bulkers continuously benchmarks external ship managers’ safety perforDue to Lauritzen Bulkers’ constant endeavours to mance by way of KPIs, systematic vessel visits maintain a low-risk and energy-efficient profile, and office audits. This close collaboration with the dry bulk division enrolled with ship vetting speship managers is the key to providing safe, relicialists RightShip in 2012. able and cost-effective shipping. The average risk rating of the owned fleet was 4.9 During 2012, our technical department conducton the RightShip vetting scale (with 5.0 as the best ed vessel visits, office audits and attended crew rating) in mid-December 2012. seminars. These efforts enable us to have a constructive dialogue with our ship managers and Further RightShip’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) envicrew. ronmental rating (a simple GHG rating from A-G) of Lauritzen Bulkers’ owned fleet included B, C In the event of incidents or accidents, comprehenand D vessels in the end of 2012. sive emergency procedures enable us and our managers to cope effectively and provide assurWe are satisfied with our ratings and will continue ance that lessons learned are managed in order to our efforts as we see these as a value-adding tool prevent any recurrences. in our endeavours to become a preferred carrier. The tonnage department thus uses an assessment Security tool to help us in identifying the most energy-effiWhen entering high-risk areas, we follow the cient and overall cost-effective vessels to join the Group’s overall security guidelines. dry bulk fleet. Simply because a low-risk profile and environmental commitment match our busiThe guidelines state that before scheduling a voyness fundamentals as well as clients’ demands. age into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must have been conducted by an independent external Business cases for ten energy improvement projparty. ects were outlined by Lauritzen Bulkers during the year and are due to be carried out in 2013. When fixing a voyage, specific route and port/ area assessments should be obtained from an independent external party in order to support the master of the vessel. During the voyage, third party vessel surveillance during the critical part of the route should be obtained in order to support the master of the vessel and to protect the crew and cargo. In 2012, Lauritzen Bulkers had 10 transits in highrisk areas. JL’s guidelines were followed and there were no incidents relating to these transits. 16 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Environment PARTNERING ON Following fleet expansion and renewal over the ENERGY EFFICIENCY past few years, Lauritzen Bulkers owns and operates a young, energy-efficient fleet comprising Lauritzen Bulkers’ Vessel Energy Renovation more than 100 vessels with an age profile considPlans (VERP) is an extensive fleet performance erably below the industry average. catalogue that also covers optimisation of auxiliary consumption, including pumps, fans and air conditioning, and has already seen a major suc“With more than 100 cess in the form of a system for regulating seavessels at sea, we water cooling. This was enabled through close obviously have an impact collaboration with the Danish Grundfos Group, on the environment. one of the world’s leading pump manufacturers. our duty is to reduce this impact to the Shipboard seawater cooling systems normally least possible” pump a given amount of water designed to cool the engine and other systems in a hot, tropical Søren Roschmann, senior technical manager and climate. This means that vessels sailing in cooler head of technical department, Lauritzen Bulkers climates waste a lot of energy pumping the same amount of water as they would in the tropics. The We prioritise continuous performance monitoring basic function of the system developed for our and follow-up on daily operations. Thorough interhandysize bulkers is to ensure that all operating departmental project implementation enables us temperature parameters for the engine and other to share improved efficiencies. systems are kept within certain limits. The system is designed to reduce demand on pumps in The tonnage and technical departments pay close line with the actual temperature of the seawater attention to vessel optimisation projects that inoutside, in effect, to pump enough water to proclude a focus on engine room auxiliary systems, vide sufficient cooling but no more. hull and propellers as well as identifying newbuildings and charter vessels with the most enerThis was a pioneering effort and one for which gy and cost-efficient performance. Lauritzen Bulkers, as a part of JL, and Grundfos were well matched: “Right from the beginning of Careful voyage planning improves overall operathe project, JL was keen on exploring the possitional efficiency. Dedicated supercargo support bilities of the idea, and was very quick to say “OK and supervision during operations, along with let’s do it’”. JL and Grundfos made an excellent eco-speeding, arrival management, weather routteam for the project. We both wanted to make it ing and trim optimisation, all boost overall voyage work – and thanks to great cooperation from the and energy-efficiency. crew, we did.” said Kim Kirkegaard, Business Development Manager, Grundfos. Even though 2012 was a challenging year for Lauritzen Bulkers, a range of different initiatives was This success is backed up by Søren Roschmann, prioritised in order to support efforts to reduce head of Lauritzen Bulkers technical department: fuel oil consumption and subsequently SOx, NOx “The results have been impressive. We’ve been and CO2 emissions. able to cut energy consumption on pumps by 35 to 50 per cent, depending on the climate where we’re sailing. This can potentially translate into one to two per cent overall fuel savings.” J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 17 Key initiatives in 2012: • Detailed Vessel Energy Renovation Plans (VERP) developed for 10 vessels • Participation in the “Effective Operations of Ships” project initiated by Force Technology • Partnership with the Danish Grundfos Group on an energy saving pump regulation system • Mewis Duct, Propeller Boss Cap Fins and OptiSave pumps all devices for efficiency improvements has been installed on two partowned newbuildings • Trim optimisation for a series of ten vessels Outlook 2013 In 2013, we shall strengthen our energy efficiency programme, continue to monitor the performance of each vessel helping to cut emissions and provide more precise documentation on each vessel for the benefit of our clients and the environment. table 1: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emmision 2012 Total fleet CO2 8.03 SOx 0.14 NOx 0.21 Capesize CO2 5.53 SOx 0.10 NOx 0.14 Handymax CO2 8.59 SOx 0.15 NOx 0.22 Handysize CO2 12.54 SOx 0.22 NOx 0.32 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 18 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Lauritzen Kosan As a global provider of safe, reliable ocean transour seafarers, protection of the environment as portation solutions for liquefied gases including well as our clients cargo. With many years of expetrochemical gases and energy gases (LPG), perience and know-how, our Fleet Management Lauritzen Kosan operates a modern, versatile is continuing to build on this solid foundation fleet, consisting of semi-refrigerated vessels, ethcombining technology and new methods using ylene carriers and fully-pressurized gas carriers our sense of entrepreneurship and creativity in constructed to handle a variety of sensitive carturning problems into opportunities. goes. Six scheduled dry-dockings were completed durOur long-term clients include some of the world’s ing 2012 (six in 2011). Unscheduled off-hire was largest and most demanding companies in the 3.0% in 2012 (2.3% in 2011). energy and petrochemical industries. We have an excellent record of safety, reliability in handling Health & Safety volatile cargoes and ensuring high-quality operaWe are committed to providing a safe, healthy tions through innovative and sustainable transworking environment and our ambition is that noportation solutions, which makes us an attractive body should suffer from our operations. Considerbusiness partner. ing our activities, some of our daily routine work operations are potentially dangerous and regretAt the end of 2012, the controlled fleet comprised tably we experienced accidents in our business in 43 gas carriers with an average age of 8.7 years. 2012. The LTIF came to 1.49 in 2012. Our focus on The fleet consists of a portfolio of owned, partimproving the safety culture for all employees is owned and chartered vessels as well as vessels essential to us and we are determined to provide committed by partners. the facilities, training and protective equipment necessary to ensure the best possible conditions FLEET MANAGEMENT for all our employees. We shall continue to focus Our in-house Fleet Management department foon strengthening our culture of embracing safety cuses on high performance and safe operations until we reach our goal of incident-free operathat give top priority to the health and safety of tions. “During 2012, dialogue with some of our long-term partners indicated that our company values and corporate responsibility are being valued as a supplement to our vetting and technical performance.” Thomas Woeideman, president, Lauritzen Kosan J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 19 Our Seafarers Our crews have been involved in the implementaOur skilled seagoing personnel are recruited from tion process by way of surveys. External pre-imthe Philippines, Spain and Cuba. Respect and tolplementation MLC audits have also been done. erance for individuals and understanding national MLC is seen as an opportunity to accelerate and and cultural differences are some of the key istake our crew management up to the next level, a sues which enable us to understand each other process being carried out together with internal and work efficiently together. Biannual crew semias well as external crew management stakeholdnars are used to communicate specific topics and ers. provide dialogue and discussions. Our cadets are our future and highly valued assets and we strive to build a strong culture and good COMPANY work practices for our future managers. Strengthening and educating our experienced managers is SAFETY CULTURE also a significant pillar in our strategy for developIn 2009, Lauritzen Kosan Fleet Management deing our crew and general performance. Our specided to launch our ambitious ‘one culture’ procially designed leadership and management program a program to ‘win the hearts and minds’ of gram will continue throughout 2013. Kosan employees with the clear ambition of being a better, safer business partner. The first tier was Recognizing that a sound, well-balanced mental the three day safety and culture awareness coursenvironment is essential to be able to carry out es which all crew attended. On the basis of the duties on board, Lauritzen Kosan continues to aim Awareness Courses, we launched the second tier at creating a good recreational environment for the Leadership and Management Courses for all our seafarers. An important part of welfare and senior officers which empowered our leaders on well-being for our seafarers is the ability to keep in board with our management culture and tools. contact with family and friends. Besides providing Recognition of the need to further strengthen our phone cards, most of our vessels have internet culture is based on the strongest possible commitconnections which can be freely used by all crew. ment from all parts of the organization ashore and at sea. These endeavours will be continued during Retention rates for 2013. seagoing personnel are satisfactory and were During the 2012 safety campaign, the focus was above 94% in 2012 on work routines and fatigue prevention. Fatigue is recognised in the industry as a significant conRetention rates for seagoing personnel are satistributory factor for breaches of safety. Our focus factory and were above 94% in 2012. Again in was to map and understand work routines on 2012 we received a very fine rating of 4.38 out of board to be able to minimise rest hour violations. 5.00 at our annual internal performance assessTo achieve this, we targeted the implementation of ment. The assessment covering 11 business asnew user-friendly software, ran interviews with pects with a total of 68 questions was completed crew, made changes to procedures and responsiby Lauritzen Kosan crew. The input received from bilities, and did analyses of work routines and held the assessment is used for improvement initiadiscussions on work and watch schedules. Effitives for our business. cient planning and ulitisation of resources for our management on board are seen as providing the The Maritime Labour Convention (MLC), which potential for increased performance. comes into force in August 2013, has further improved working conditions for our crews and will be creating a level playing field for shipowners. 20 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 SECURITY In 2012, Lauritzen Kosan had 73 transits in highA significant part of the liquefied and petrochemirisk areas and there were no incidents relating to cal gases that we carry is transported through these transits. some of the high-risk regions of the world and piracy therefore remained at the top of our agenda Environment throughout 2012. To mitigate exposure to these Lauritzen Kosan is strongly committed to minirisks, anti-piracy counter-measures include close mise the environmental impact of our operations. internal dialogue, monitoring risk patterns, use of A dedicated team of engineers is continuously external experts’ risk assessments and the emworking on combining the newest technology ployment of professional armed guards when and methods to reduce the adverse environmentransiting high-risk areas. tal impacts. Further, we participate in internal and external pi2012 saw the launch of REJUICE, an energy-effiracy focus groups to share strategies, counterciency project. It aims to save fuel with a positive measures and experience. In the process of effect on the environmental impact while reducadapting to the ongoing changes of the threat ing fuel costs. REJUICE has three work streams, pattern, our contingency plans are continuously each aimed at optimising sub-areas but all leadevaluated and external companies are employed ing to a substantial reduction of our carbon footto assess our ability to respond to an attack or an print. actual hijacking. Drills are also conducted throughout the year and the links between exterThe projects covered by the REJUICE program are nal technical managers, manning agencies and important building blocks in the Ship Energy Effinext-of-kin are tested. ciency Management Plan (SEEMP) which will be “At all times Lauritzen Kosan strives to be a leading player among the shipping companies – there are no shortcuts to environmental success.” Peter Justesen, vice president and head of fleet management, Lauritzen Kosan figure 3: saving potentials in % of total fuel consumption identified 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% 14% 16% 18% 1.1 Speed management 2.0% 1.2 Weather routeing 2.0% 1.3 Cargo operations 1.0% 1: Total, voyage performance 5.0% 2.1a Propeller polishing 2.5% 2.1b Hull management 1.2% 2.2 Trim & draft optimisation 1.2% 2: Total, ship performance 4.9% 3.1 Main engine performance 2.6% 3.2a Auxiliary engine performance 0.2% 3.2b Auxiliary engine utilisation 1.1% 3.3a Power consumption campaign 1.0% 3.3b Frequency controllers 1.0% 3: Total, engine and consumers 5.9% LK TARGET after 2 years 10.0% J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 21 introduced on board all our vessels during 2013. tion, while tackling corruption in the supply chain. SEEMP will have a significant effect on how we It is based on the UN Global Compact and the operate our vessels in future and will be an inteUN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human gral part of our Environmental Management SysRights. See p. 13 for further information on the tem (EMS). Including SEEMP initiatives in the programme. EMS aspect register allows us to integrate our environmental initiatives associated with the Outlook 2013 ISO14001 Management System. In 2013, Lauritzen Kosan Fleet Management will continue to build on our already solid foundation Business conduct of experience. By demonstrating respect and tolDuring the year, we completed the development erance of individuals and understanding of naof a joint responsible procurement programme tional and cultural differences we will work dediwhich seeks to align expectations and address cated with the human element in our strive human and labour rights, environmental protectowards an incident free operation. table 2: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emmision 2012 Total fleet CO2 106.28 SOx 1.65 NOx 2.72 Ethylene CO2 100.12 SOx 1.73 NOx 2.57 F/P CO2 134.90 SOx 1.86 NOx 3.44 S/R CO2 88.63 SOx 1.32 NOx 2.27 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 22 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Lauritzen Tankers Lauritzen Tankers is a global provider of safe and Health, safety & crewing cost-efficient ocean transport of oil products Lauritzen Tankers is committed to a strict focus on ranging from light chemicals including vegetable health, safety and security. This is being achieved oil to petroleum products and fuel oil. by comprehensive safety procedures, a focus on security and maintaining efficient operations. From our head office in Copenhagen, we control a fleet of medium range product tankers employed We work closely with external technical managby first-class counterparties. Vessels not covered ers and monitor their performance. In 2012, we by long-term contracts are commercially and opattended the annual Wallem Fleet Officers Meeterationally managed by Hafnia Tankers, Copenhaing in Bangalore. This was an excellent opportunigen, a company in which Lauritzen Tankers has a ty to meet officers serving on our tankers and it shareholding. proved fruitful in terms of exchanging thoughts and ideas on a wide range of subjects, as well as aligning expectations between ship and shore. “Having a customer portfolio that includes We continue to engage and encourage crewing some of the world’s by experienced, responsible multinational seafarlargest oil companies ers. Crews are selected for their skills in order to requires a highly match our business profile and this is done in professional approach close collaboration between our external techniwhere close dialogue and cal management service providers and our techskilled employees are nical and operational departments, ensuring conessential” structive dialogue and mutual understanding. Erik Donner, president, Lauritzen Tankers VETTING At year-end of 2012, the controlled fleet comprised 18 owned, part-owned, and time-chartered In 2012, our fleet of seven owned tankers was vessels as well as vessels committed by partners. inspected 23 times by oil majors. There was a The average age of the tankers fleet was 3.6 special focus during the year on improving peryears. formance under the Oil Companies International Marine Forum’s (OCIMF) Ship Inspection Report Fleet Management Programme (SIRE). We operate a continuity Technical management of owned ships is providtraining programme for office staff and crew in ed by Wallem Ship Management in Hong Kong order to comply with the strict SIRE requireand Bergen as well as MMS in Singapore and ments. This ensures that our vessels are always Lauritzen Tankers’ technical department works well prepared for these demanding inspections. closely with both suppliers on all aspects of achieving safe, cost-effective, responsible vessel Our improvement goals were reached and we operations. enhanced our performance and achieved an average of 3.9 observations per vetting, which is There were zero dry-dockings in 2012 (zero in better than industry average of 5.7. Crew-related 2011). The unscheduled off-hire for Lauritzen observations accounted for an average of 2.7 of Tankers’ owned fleet was 0.8% (1.3% in 2011). the total observations. The last 1.2 observations related to office and vessel construction observations. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 23 Security When entering high-risk areas, we follow the Group’s overall security guidelines. During 2012, Lauritzen Tankers had five transits in high-risk areas. JL’s guidelines were strictly adhered to and there were no incidents relating to these transits. Environment Lauritzen Tankers controls a fleet of modern, high capacity, medium range product tankers with an age profile considerably below industry average, which ensures energy-efficient operations. In 2012, a range of different initiatives was prioritised in order to support our ongoing efforts to reduce fuel oil consumption and SOx, NOx and CO2 emissions. The key initiatives in 2012 were: • Introduction of a six month propeller cleaning schedule • Development of a weather routing system for voyages of over four days • Development of Ship Management Energy Efficiency Management Plans (SEEMP) for all tankers • Selection of an engine monitoring system for implementation in 2013 Outlook 2013 In 2013, Lauritzen tankers will introduce advanced trim optimizing programmes on board selected vessels. table 3: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emmision 2012 MR CO2 10.73 SOx 0.19 NOx 0.28 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 24 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 Lauritzen offshore Since its establishment in 2008, Lauritzen OffFleet Management shore has focused on advanced, dynamically poHigh quality fleet management is vital in the offsitioned vessels to support the rapidly growing shore industry and all issues relating to crewing, offshore oil exploration and production sector technical, health, safety and environment issues with shuttle tankers. are managed by in-house experts, providing assurance for compliance with the requirements Supporting the production of crude oil from deeplaid down in applicable national and international water reservoirs is a complex process that rerules and regulations. quires sophisticated technology and specialised vessels, as well as professional and experienced There were zero dry-dockings 2012 (two in 2011). operators with uncompromising attention to safeUnscheduled off-hire for the shuttle tanker fleet ty. Our DP2 shuttle tankers provide station-keepwas zero in 2012 (also zero in 2011). ing technology for deep and ultra-deep water production facilities in order to ensure safe handling crewing of crude oil from production well to refinery or All officers for our offshore vessels are carefully storage. selected by our in-house crewing personel. For ratings, we continued to work closely with skilled, At year-end 2012, offshore activities comprised proven crew managers in 2012 to ensure high rethree shuttle tankers. The average age of the shuttention rates. Offshore is a very competitive segtle tanker fleet was 5.3 years. ment for crewing and we focus on continuity training for officers and ratings with specialized Lauritzen Offshore is also involved in Accommocourses and training in order to live up to our clidation and Support Vessels (ASV) in a joint venents’ expectations. ture with Hitec Vision, Norway. Read more on www.axisoff.com “Having long-term contracts with first-class contractors and oil majors is a trademark for Lauritzen Offshore.” Erik Donner, president, Lauritzen Offshore J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2012 25 Health & safety Environment Lauritzen Offshore is committed to providing safe We continually seek to minimise our environmenworking conditions in often multicultural and tal impact and adhere to the Group’s overall envimultilingual working environments. We consider ronmental policy. Further, an environmental manour employees our most valuable asset, and it is agement system that is accredited to the our strongest belief that well-being, job satisfacinternational ISO 14001 standard is implemented. tion, safety and environmental awareness are all The ISO 14001 helps us in aligning with industry closely interlinked. We promote our goals by way requirements as well as best environmental manof good human relations with our employees. agement practices. This is backed by well-considered management systems certified to the highest international Business conduct standards to ensure the well-being of our crews, During the year, we completed the development the cargo we carry, and the environment we work of a joint responsible procurement programme in. which seeks to align expectations and address human and labour rights, environmental protecLost Time Injury Frequency tion, while tackling corruption in the supply chain. (LTIF) was zero in 2012 It is based on the UN Global Compact and the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Ensuring a sound, healthy environment is a nevRights. See p. 13 for further information on the er-ending task which we take pride in developing programme. and refining. In 2012, Lauritzen Offshore took the first steps towards introducing a new IT system to outlook 2013 manage our safety and environmental systems In 2013, one of the focus areas will be main and on a single common IT platform. The new system auxiliary diesel engine optimization. We shall be offers a significantly improved overview of our introducing new engine monitoring software on safety and operational procedures and checklists. all our vessels, enabling us to make an advanced Incident reporting and follow-up investigations analysis of engine condition and performance. have also become more user-friendly with the The program generates comparison reports, maknew system. We consider it paramount that the ing it relatively easy to compare engines and vestools we use in performing our daily tasks are sels throughout our fleet, so providing us with a easy to use. We therefore see the new IT system useful tool in keeping our engines fully optimized as supporting our strategy of making safety and at all times, ensuring low fuel consumption and a environmental awareness a part of our work rouhigh level of engine reliability. tines and part of our mindset. table 4: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emmision 2012 Shuttle CO2 6.68 SOx 0.11 NOx 0.17 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. Financial year: Auditors 1 January – 31 December KPMG Osvald Helmuths Vej 4 PO Box 250 DK-2000 Frederiksberg Head office Owner J. Lauritzen A/S Lauritzen Fonden 28, Sankt Annae Plads 28, Sankt Annae Plads PO Box 2147 DK1291 Copenhagen K DK-1291 Copenhagen K Phone: +45 3396 8425 Phone: +45 3396 8000 Fax: +45 3396 8434 Fax: +45 3396 8001 Email: lf@lauritzenfonden.com Website: www.j-lauritzen.com Website: www.lauritzenfonden.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 China Singapore J. Lauritzen Shanghai Co. Ltd. J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. Unit 2306, Chong Hing Finance Center 1 Harbour Front Avenue No. 288 Nanjing Road West #13-01/02 Keppel Bay Tower Huangpu District, Shanghai Singapore 098632 China 200003 Phone: +65 6275 8000 Phone: +86 21 6358 0066 Fax: +65 6275 7208 Fax: +86 21 6358 0077 Japan Spain J. Lauritzen (Japan) K.K. Gasnaval S.A. Kioicho Building 3 A, 3-12 PAE Ibarrabarri Kioicho Edificio A-1 Chiyoda-ku C/Iturriondo 18 Tokyo 102-0094 E-48940 Leioa, Vizcaya Japan Spain Phone: +81 3 3237 7431 Phone: +34 94 479 5600 Fax: +81 3 3237 7858 Fax: +34 94 416 7316 Philippines USA Lauritzen Kosan Representative Office Manila J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. 6th floor, Glass Tower 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 No. 115 Don Carlos Palanca Jr. Street Stamford, CT 06901 Legaspi Village, Makati City 1229 USA PHILIPPINES Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Phone: +63 2856 7929 Fax: +1 203 964 0350 Fax: +63 2813 1129
