Global Transport and Logistics 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Contents Corporate Social Responsibility number of employees is the right track for DSV............................................................3 Number DSV in brief......................................................................................4 30,000 24,000 Performance 2012.......................................................................6 18,000 Targets 2013..................................................................................7 12,000 Corporate Social Responsibility at DSV.................................8 6,000 Environment and climate.........................................................11 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Business ethics and anti-corruption....................................14 Employees and working environment.................................16 Geographical distribution of employees Non-financial highlights............................................................18 Global Reporting Initiative content index...........................21 ■ Nordic countries – 20% CSR Policy......................................................................................23 ■ Other Europe – 66% ■ Asia – 11% ■ Americas – 3% CSR timeline 2009 Joins UN Global Compact Board of Directors 2010 adopts the CSR Strategy Implementation of the DSV Code of Conduct Board of Directors 2011 adopts CSR targets First CommunicaThis CSR Report is the third Communication on Progress tion on Progress (COP) Report of DSV to the United Nations Global ComReport pact since DSV joined the initiative in 2009. The Report Board of ­Directors 2012 covers the period 1 January – 31 December 2012. adopts the DSV ­Supplier Code of ­Conduct 2 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Cont ent s Corporate Social ­Responsibility is the right track for DSV DSV has taken major steps in 2012 to improve the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance of the Group. We have focused on several initiatives during the year which have boosted the Group and strengthened the platform for our CSR work across our global organisation. Our work in relation to climate/environment and employees also continues at full speed. It is therefore a pleasure to note that we have achieved by far most of the targets established a year ago and that we are ready to set the bar higher and increase our efforts in the coming years. CSR – part of everyday life Our CSR strategy has formed the basis of the Group’s CSR activities in 2012, which have resulted in a number of local and global initiatives. The DSV Group is characterised by a flat, decentralised organisational structure which accommodates local market conditions, cultures and languages. This also applies in relation to CSR, enabling the local DSV companies to work with measures and solutions that arise Jens Bjørn Andersen, CEO of DSV A/S from local initiatives but also observe the overall targets and expectations communicated by Group Management. DSV has opted to focus the CSR efforts on a few relevant issues with a view to promoting concrete action aimed New targets for the future at our business activities. It is important to DSV that all Group Management can conclude that almost all targets employees regard CSR as a natural part of their daily work. have been achieved in 2012 and that we are on the right At times, CSR may have an air of philanthropy to it when track as concerns the remaining targets. Management has the good cause is right in front of us, but we can create far therefore adopted a number of new targets intended to more value to society when we let CSR go hand in hand drive the continued improvement of our CSR performance. with our operations and thereby strengthen our position in These targets include the objective to cover more distant the market. parts of the value chain and focus on raising our suppliers’ Our initiatives to avoid occupational accidents, our focus awareness of and compliance with the DSV Code of Conon evergy saving measures and formulation of clear guideduct. lines for our employees on their interaction with customers, DSV intends to continue the efforts in line with the CSR suppliers and authorities are all examples of specific initiastrategy and targets set by Group Management; a CSR tives which are a result of our CSR approach and which are stra-tegy with clear targets focusing on the employees, the meaningful to the individual employee and to the Group as business and the parts of our supply chain closest to our a whole. operations. By this Progress Report, DSV wants to express the Company’s continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact initiative and the 10 fundamental principles and encourages all business partners of the Group to support the initiative. Jens Bjørn Andersen 2 0 1 2 D SV cor por ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y r e po rt – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y is t he right t r ac k f or DSV 3 DSV in brief Global transport and logistics. DSV is a global supplier of transport and logistics solutions. The Group has operations in more than 70 countries and approx. 22,000 employees worldwide. Product development The transport and logistics market is DSV Air & Sea 260,000 tonnes of air freight per year constantly moving, which poses great equal to 2,500 Boeing 747 freighters. challenges on a company like DSV to continuously refine and improve our products and services. We see our customers adopting an increasingly professional approach to supply chain management, and it is of great importance to DSV to have the competencies required to offer a powerful concept to new as well as existing customers. DSV Solutions 2.3 million m2 warehousing facilities in Europe equal to 400 football fields. Several interesting projects are ongoing and we expect to accelerate the roll-out DSV Air & Sea of two new products in 2013: “DSV 730,000 20’ containers per year equal to 55 x Emma Mærsk. Daily Pallet” a time-sensitive concept DSV Road linking more than 200 European locamore than 200 terminals across Europe. tions with daily departures, and “DSV X-press” worldwide express delivery of documents and small shipments. Both products have considerable potential and will be rolled out across the Group in the course of 2013. DSV Solutions Handles 200,000 order lines – per day. DSV Road Operates more than 17,000 trucks in Europe every day. DSV Air & Sea DSV Road DSV Solutions The Air & Sea Division organises transWith a complete European network, the DSV Solutions specialises in logistics ports of cargo by air and sea. The DiviDSV Road Division is among the top solutions across the entire supply chain, sion offers conventional freight services three transport companies in Europe. The including freight management, customs through its global network supplemented Division offers full and part load services clearance, warehousing and distribution, by a Project Department. The Division through a strong network of more than information management and e-business has approx. 6,000 employees and own 200 terminals across Europe. The Divisupport. The Division has approx. 5,000 operations in more than 70 countries. sion has approx. 10,000 employees and employees and own operations in 16 own operations in 32 countries. European countries. 4 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – DSV in brief Revenue* 44,912 DKKm Air & Sea Road Solutions 42% 47% 11% EBITA* 2,540 DKKm 54% 36% 10% Employees** 21,932 number of 30% 45% 25% * External revenue and EBITA after elimination of internal transactions. ** Including Group functions. DSV has 18,000 employees and more than 300 branch offices and terminals across Europe STÆRK POSITION I MARKEDET DSV has 31 branch ofDSV has 81 branch fices in North America offices and 2,300 em– Portland, Oregon ployees in 16 countries is the latest addition in the Asia/Pacific area In 2012 DSV Air & Sea Logistica Ltda. was In 2012 Argentina After the acquisition ­established in Brazil Chile and Peru became of Swift Freight DSV’s full-fledged members network in Africa of the DSV family ­includes 15 countries Countries in which DSV has its own companies 201 2 DSV corpor at e soc ial responsibilit y report – DSV in brief 5 Performance 2012 Progress achieved on 2012 targets: Environment and climate Road: Air: Sea: 15.3% 36.0% 68.6% Target 1: Subcontractors required to lower their carbon dioxide emissions with the aim to improve DSV’s energy efficiency per transport activity by 15% by 2015 0% 100% compared to 2010 figures. Target 2: The Road Division (including its subcontractors) must use Euro 5 engine vehicles for at least 50% of all road transports by 2013. 0% 100% Target 3: Automatic energy management systems must be installed or screening for potential energy savings carried out in 75% of all DSV buildings by 2015. 0% 100% Target 4: 75% of all DSV locations must collect paper in offices and paper, plastic and cardboard in terminals and warehouses for recycling by the end of 2012. 0% 100% Business ethics and anti-corruption Target 1: All employees must have received information on the applicable DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2012. 0% 100% Target 2: The number of reported new violations of the DSV Code of Conduct must be zero. 0% 100% Target 3: All executive employees must have completed training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2012. 0% 100% Employees and working environment Target 1: DSV complies with internationally proclaimed human rights. 0% 100% Target 2: Subcontractors of the DSV Group must be encouraged to observe the DSV CSR Policy. 0% 100% Target 3: DSV satisfies national legislation on labour standards. 0% 100% Target 4: DSV must reduce the rate of occupational accidents every year and by 25% in 2012 compared to 2010 results. 0% 100% Target 5: Registration of absence due to occupational injury/illness as from 2012. 0% 100% 6 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Perf orm anc e 2 0 1 2 Targets 2013 DSV focus areas and targets for 2013: Environment and climate Road: Air: Sea: 15.3% 36.0% 68.6% Target 1: Subcontractors required to lower their carbon dioxide emissions with the aim to improve DSV’s energy efficiency per transport activity by 15% by 2015 0% 100% compared to 2010 figures. Target 2*: The Road Division (including its subcontractors) must use Euro 5 engine vehicles for at least 60% of all road transports in 2013. 0% 100% Target 3: Automatic energy management systems must be installed or screening for potential energy savings carried out in 75% of all DSV buildings by 2015. 0% 100% Target 4: 75% of all DSV locations must recycle paper in offices and paper, plastic and cardboard in terminals and warehouses by the end of 2013. 0% 100% Business ethics and anti-corruption Target 1: The DSV Code of Conduct must be communicated and made available to all employees. 0% 100% Target 2*: The number of reported Category A violations of the DSV Code of Conduct must be zero (Category A is the most comprehensive reporting category 0% 100% of the Whistleblower Programme). Target 3*: All managers must have completed training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2014. 0% 100% Target 4*: 25% of all DSV entities must have carried out an internal CSR audit by the end of 2013. 0% 100% Employees and working environment Target 1: DSV complies with internationally proclaimed human rights. 0% 100% Target 2: DSV must reduce the rate of occupational accidents every year and by 25% in 2013 compared to 2010 figures. 0% 100% Target 3: DSV satisfies national legislation on labour standards. 0% 100% Target 4*: All subcontractors of DSV must be encouraged to observe the Supplier Code of Conduct, and the Code must have been communicated to 75% of all 0% 100% subcontractors of the Group (measured by total value of procurement) by the end of 2014. *) new target 2012 DSV corpor at e soc ial responsibilit y report – Target s 2 0 1 3 7 Corporate Social ­Responsibility at DSV DSV still has high focus and continues to make progress on Corporate Social Responsibility. Targeted efforts are made within a few, relevant core areas with the aim to achieve concrete, measurable results. DSV focuses on the following three essential CSR areas: annual general meeting environment and climate, business ethics and anti-corruption, and employees and working environment. These areas have been selected as they have the highest board of directors relevance to the core business of DSV and therefore are areas where DSV is in a favourable position to exert influence. audit committee The focus areas are also considered to be of major importance to the stakeholders of DSV, i.e. customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and the environment and society executive board group functions in general. The issue areas are described in the DSV CSR strategy Division management Division management Division management and each area is supported by a number of targets to drive Air & SeA Road Solutions progress in the field of CSR. The targets have been adopted by the Board of DirecOrganisation tors, and CSR is a permanent item in the annual cycle of the Board which includes the annual task of reviewing the CSR reporting at DSV Communicating progress on key focus areas DSV’s view on and approach to CSR build on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. This Report deals with these prinThe UN Global ­Compact principles ciples in the following key issue areas of DSV: environment and climate, business ethics and anti-corruption, and employees and working environment. The reporting parameters of the Global Reporting InitiaMateriality DSV CSR tive (GRI) are also a source of inspiration. Where possible and a ­ ssessment reporting model relevant, the GRI guidelines and indicators have been used in preparing the CSR report to assure transparency and frame of GRI guidelines reference. The approach used in the preparation of this Report and sector-specific is unchanged from the 2011 COP Report. initiatives 8 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV Group’s internal Code of Conduct and its Supplier Code of Conduct. The decisions made by the Board of Directors are subsequently implemented by the Executive Board. As an embedded element of Management’s responsibilities CSR is a high-focus area of the Group, and DSV thereby sends a clear signal to the entire organisation about the importance of CSR to all Group companies. Follow-up and adjustment of targets In 2011, the DSV Management adopted a number of targets. One or more activities were established for each target to ensure that efforts are made to achieve the CSR targets. Management evaluated the targets during the year and concluded that most of them have been achieved and that DSV is on track to achieve the long-term objectives. To further accelerate the CSR performance of the Group, several new targets have been adopted. Various new and upObviously, the greatest impact is achieved on the actividated activities have also been established for each target. ties directly controlled by DSV, but considerable influence is also achieved in relation to the subcontractors used by DSV Increased internal reporting for the physical transportation of cargo. DSV contracts with DSV has introduced biannual internal reporting of various hauliers, shipping companies and airlines and is therefore CSR data to better be able to follow up on the implemennot directly responsible for the performance of the actual tation of policies, guidelines and targets by the DSV comtransport activity. panies. The internal processes put in place to validate the The transport service providers of DSV comprise a internal CSR reports are also still in focus. Major customers diverse group of enterprises; from a few large, well estabof the Group receive regular reports on some of these data lished global regular business partners of DSV within air for use for the customers’ own CSR reports, etc. and sea freight to hundreds of hauliers operating very small businesses with only a few trucks and employees and which DSV value chain challenges are loosely affiliated with DSV. This diversity complicates The work towards achieving the CSR objectives mainly the task of implementing the Group’s CSR strategy among concern the activities controlled directly by the Parent its suppliers and implies that different methods must be company or subsidiaries of DSV and the employees of used to communicate and implement the CSR policies these companies. ­externally. DSV’s sphere of influence decreasing influence • Industry organisations • Labour unions • Employees • Neighbours to • Governments and other • values and activities • Transport ­locations ­legislative bodies in DSV A/S and subsisubcontractors • Sponsorships and • Supranational legislative diaries • Other subcontrators ­charitable donations bodies 2012 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e sponsibilit y report – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV 9 High awareness of business ethics among Paying tax is also corporate DSV companies social responsibility In 2011, the DSV Code of Conduct was updated and circuThere is an ongoing public debate about corporate lated to all Group companies, and all employees have been tax payments and the alleged lack thereof. DSV made aware of its contents and thereby of the guidelines complies with the legal standards and upholds a on business ethical conduct in their daily interaction with high ethical standard in this respect. However, DSV customers, suppliers and competitors. Furthermore, the is under an obligation to apply the legislation in the DSV Code of Conduct is available to all employees at the most effective manner within the framework of corporate intranet. these standards with a view to maximising profits. Although it can be established that the Code of Conduct DSV demonstrates social responsibility by paying has been communicated to all employees of the Group, the corporation tax, withholding tax, VAT, excise duDSV Management wants to further increase awareness of ties, etc. Furthermore, the Group’s investments in the guidelines. For that reason, training and tests were conoperational development and strengthening of its ducted among the senior executives of all DSV companies market position contribute to job creation and are and divisions in 2012. also an example of social responsibility. The investments made in regards to the latter activities are Outlook eligible for tax allowances, which reduce the corpoAs described in this Report, DSV continues its efforts to ration tax. This is a fully legal practice designed to achieve the CSR targets established for the Group. The benefit national economy. Group also focuses on building a solid awareness of the Code of Conduct, both internally among employees and externally in terms of the requirements made on suppliers. 10 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV Environment and climate The burning of fossil fuels is by far the major contributor to pollution caused by the transport industry. For that reason, partnering with subcontractors to reduce emissions is of special importance to DSV in terms of protecting the environment and climate. Effective transportation is a crucial prerequisite for an efficient and high-growth society. Historically DSV has grown DSV Spain has reduced its carbon emissions by sevboth through organic growth and through acquisitions and eral tonnes in just one quarter by shifting freight intends to continue to develop its business. from road to rail. Every month, 50 truckloads are Increased operations entail an increase in the energy carried by rail from the Barcelona area to Luxemconsumption of our suppliers which perform the physiburg. After the 15-hour and 1000 kilometre train cal transportation of cargo. As transportation is based to a ride, the cargo is reloaded onto trucks again and large extent on fossil fuels, a growing energy consumption carried to the customers. The customers of DSV leads to increased burning of fossil fuels and thereby inSpain are showing a great interest in rail transport creased emissions of CO2 and other substances. and DSV Spain aims to offer more rail transport soDespite the fact that the means of transportation belutions in future to the extent possible considering come more fuel efficient for every new generation, we the potential of the existing railway network. must focus on improving the sustainability of the existing stock of vehicles on the basis of current technology. First of all, this can be achieved through more fuel efficient driving, intermodal transportation solutions and use of biofuels. Global air and sea freight providers However, these initiatives have little significant effect on increasingly energy efficient carbon dioxide emissions here and now. The air and sea transport providers used by DSV are typiWith the aim to promote a positive development DSV cally regional and global companies, which each focus on has set a number of targets for the internal processes at optimising operations. Both types of suppliers make efforts DSV and targets aimed at the suppliers providing transport to minimise fuel consumption, e.g. by means of optimised services for the Group. route planning, adaptation of speed relative to distance and change of equipment. Reduced CO2 emissions through more These measures are reflected in an improved overall efficient transport solutions energy efficiency among the subcontractors of DSV. Thus, As a general objective, DSV must reduce the carbon emisthe overall energy efficiency measured in carbon emissions sions of suppliers and own operations. Therefore DSV has per consignment improved by 3% for DSV’s air transport set a concrete target of a 15% improvement of the energy activities and 8% for the shipping activities compared to efficiency of all transport activities by 2015 compared to 2011. Compared to 2010, which is the basis for the target 2010 figures. of a 15% reduction, we are also on track to deliver on the This means that DSV must continue to work with the objective. For air freight, the overall energy efficiency imsuppliers to improve fuel efficiency and that DSV must proved by more than 5% and for sea freight by more than continue its efforts to optimise capacity utilisation per unit. 10%. An optimum utilisation of the space available on the individual means of transportation will benefit the environment A fragmented road freight market and can be achieved, e.g., by ensuring a good and effective In 2012, DSV Road operated in a fragmented and highly planning of the cargo volumes available in the business netcompetitive market with focus on domestic transports, work. The transport market is still highly fragmented and typically resulting in many departures and short distances. characterised by many small and medium-sized transport In addition, the overall fuel consumption of the trucks used providers. Ranking among the top players in the market, by DSV (own and suppliers’) dropped by 2.7% on average. DSV has an extensive network and thus a good basis for This is a result of several factors, including weather conmaximising capacity utilisation. ditions, driving style, traffic density and route planning. The 2012 D SV co r po r at e soc ial responsibilit y report – Environm ent and c lim at e 11 energy efficiency of the Road Division dropped by almost According to the target set, at least 50% of the trucks 9% compared to 2011, but has improved by more than used by the Road Division (own and subcontractors’ trucks) 2% compared to 2010. The Road Division aims to change must have Euro 5 engines by the end of 2013. We are this by focusing on multimodal transport solutions, offerpleased to note that this target was met already in 2012 as ing more eco-friendly products and working together with 57% of all trucks used by DSV satisfied the standard. Mancustomers to switch to night distribution due to far better agement has therefore decided to adjust the target so that road passability. at least 60% of the trucks used by DSV (own and subcontractors’) must be Euro 5 vehicles by the end of 2013. Progress through collaboration and measurement Massive reduction in emissions of harmful DSV partners with several customers to reduce the emissubstances sions from transport operations. The current EU requirements on truck exhaust emissions A specific calculation of transport emissions based on will soon be replaced by a new Euro 6 standard, which inkey figures from DSV’s suppliers and actual cargo volumes troduces stricter limits on the emissions of pollutants and carried for the customers is used in assessing the emission harmful substances from trucks. As from 2014, all new reduction potential of the transport operations. Improvetrucks must satisfy this standard. Emissions of the toxic ments can be obtained through better planning of shipsubstance nitrogen oxide (NOx) from a Euro 6 vehicle will ments, use of intermodal transportation, etc. thus be reduced by approx. 95% as compared to trucks certified according to the Euro 1 standard, which was the Green Freight Europe prevailing standard from 1992-1996. As a step towards expanding our cooperation with the customers, DSV joined the Green Freight Europe programme in 2012. The organisation is a newly established independent joint programme for enterprises and transport operators to promote knowledge sharing and implementation of sustainability improvements and to track improvements by providing a common platform for collecting, analysing and monitoring carbon emissions from European road freight operations. Green Freight Europe already has a long list of members among both large and small European manufacturers and transport operators, and DSV expects that it will soon become the leading independent voluntary programme for reporting and improving environmental perforIn 2012, DSV Sweden combined several locamance of road freight transport in Europe. tions in one newly built transport and logistics facility at Landskrona, Sweden. The building Euro standard targets for DSV Road has been constructed with focus on sustainManagement has set a target for the Road Division’s use of ability and use of energy saving elements. As a trucks that meet the highest emission standard applicable. result, the energy consumption of the building This target has been set to assure that we make optimum is 25% lower than for buildings constructed use of the newest technology. according to local standards. Energy efficiency (CO2 g/tonne-km) NOx emissions (g/km) from DSV road – per transport activity transport activities CO2 g/tonne-km NOX emissions 1,000 ■ 2010 8 ■ 2011 7 ■ 2012 100 6 5 10 4 3 0 2 Container Air Road 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 shipping transport transport % 900 12 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Environm ent and c lim at e 750 600 DSV’s and subcontractors’ trucks are certified accordAs a result of the implemented measures, emissions from ing to different Euro standards, and 96% of all the trucks the operation of DSV’s locations have been reduced for the comply with the Euro 3 standard as a minimum. Hence, second year running and by just over 16% compared to as a result of the Euro emission standards, nitrogen oxide 2011. The consolidation of locations in different companies emissions from the trucks used by DSV have been reduced and countries is an ongoing process and, when deemed by 34% per kilometre over a 5-year period and by almost necessary, new facilities are built which can often accom56% over the last 10 years. modate several activities at the same location. Some of the advantages of constructing new buildings is that it is posImproved operation of buildings and waste sible to optimise the operation of the building according to sorting procedures the companies’ business activities and optimise the facility’s The DSV Management has also established internal targets energy efficiency already at the construction stage. for improving the energy efficiency of the Group’s buildings and introduction of waste sorting procedures at DSV locaGlobal recycling target tions. Another internal target states that 75% of all DSV locations The energy saved in the operation of own buildings must have implemented waste collection procedures for means lower emissions, and Management has adopted a the recycling of paper, plastic and cardboard by the end of target according to which 75% of all DSV companies must 2012. have carried out energy efficiency analyses of their buildIt is difficult to measure the positive effect of waste reings and implemented any relevant energy saving measures cycling measures on emissions, but the recycling of waste by 2015. does contribute to reducing the consumption of resources. Other steps have also been taken to reduce energy conDSV is close to achieving this target as almost 73% of all sumption at the DSV locations, and which initiatives are the DSV locations have implemented procedures for collecting most effective varies greatly among the local companies. recyclable materials like paper, cardboards and plastic. ConFor example, at some locations most of the energy is used tinued efforts are made to meet the target in 2013. for heating of terminals and offices, whereas at other locations it is used for air conditioning and charging of battery powered forklifts. However, central management of heating, air conditioning, ventilation and lighting contribute to reducing the total energy consumption at all locations. 2012 D SV co r po r at e soc ial responsibilit y report – Environm ent and c lim at e 13 Business ethics and anti-corruption In 2012, DSV has worked on raising the level of awareness of business ethics across the organisation and among suppliers. Operating across many different cultures all over the world, not only helps build a solid awareness of the Code of ConDSV finds it essential that all employees share the same duct but also makes the principles an integral part of our business ethical belief: that all commercial agreements must business activities. be concluded by equal partners on a fair and transparent basis. Anti-corruption In order to ensure that this is the case in business transCorruption is recognised to be one of the world’s greatest actions involving DSV a number of guidelines are stipulated challenges. It is a major hindrance to sustainable developin the DSV Code of Conduct, which constitutes the very ment and has a disproportionate impact on the very fabric basis of the Group’s CSR initiatives in relation to business of society. The impact on the private sector is also considethics and anti-corruption. The guidelines have been forerable – it impedes economic growth, distorts competition mulated so as to serve as a source of information as well as and represents serious legal and reputational risks for a guide on ethical conduct for the employees in their intereveryone involved. action with customers, competitors and suppliers. DSV wants a transparent and fair market and has formulated a clear policy that prohibits our employees from Increased information on business ethics accepting or offering bribery of any kind. Management adopted a number of targets in relation to business ethis in 2011 with the aim to promote the implementation of the corporate Code of Conduct. The work towards achieving these targets continued in 2012. First of all, efforts have been made to ensure that the Code of Conduct is made available to all employees of the Group. This objective has been met as the information has been distributed to all employees and the rules have been published on the corporate intranet. Management has therefore revised the target to maintain a high level of awareness. As a means to achieve this new employees are informed about the Code of Conduct and where they can view and download the Code. Training and tests of managers Another target established by Management was that all senior executives of the Divisions and companies of the DSV Group must have completed a training programme and related tests on the Code of Conduct by the end of 2012. The training was conducted as a mandatory e-learning programme including a final test among more than 200 employees with a satisfactory outcome. The DSV Management has therefore decided that managers at all levels must have completed a similar training programme before More than 200 managers of all companies the end of 2014. The training and tests specifically aimed and Divisions completed training and tests in at executives are supported by a broader training prothe DSV Code of Conduct in 2012. gramme for other employees of the Group. This initiative 14 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Business et hic s and ant i-corrupt ion Although anti-corruption measures break the norm in A detailed Whistleblower Programme Manual has been some countries, the firm policy of the Group is fairly easy made and is available to all employees at the corporate to administer for the employees. The work to maintain a ­intranet. high level of employee awareness about and respect for The Whistleblower Programme has been in force since this policy and to support and further develop local antithe final quarter of 2012, and no reports have been recorruption initiatives is an ongoing process at DSV. ceived yet that are covered by the Programme. This means that the final target for this issue area has Active fight against facilitation payments also been achieved. The target stated that there should By its worldwide operations, DSV is faced with a highly be no violations of the DSV Code of Conduct in 2012. In complex problem related to corruption that is difficult to connection with the introduction of the Whistleblower combat: the so-called facilitation payments. DSV supports Programme, Management has decided to adjust this target. the abolition of facilitation payments, but understands that Whistleblower reports are divided into three categories acit is a practice which is widely used in certain countries and cording to the severity of the reported issues. The revised regions and which the employees of DSV experience in target states that there must be zero reports of issues covtheir daily work. ered by the most severe Whistleblower reporting category. In 2012, DSV analysed the scope of the problem among the companies that face this challenge in their day-to-day Code of Conduct for suppliers operations. It can be concluded that it requires extraordiIn 2012, DSV formulated the Supplier Code of Conduct nary efforts to refuse or minimise demands for facilitation – a common set of business ethics rules and requirements payments without risking an adverse effect on our operafor the suppliers of the Group. Obviously, the requirements tions. made on the suppliers of the Group are not very different The DSV Management has therefore decided to examine from the internal DSV Code of Conduct as the suppliers the possibilities of eliminating facilitation payments. Conmust adhere to the same high standards as DSV. sequently, a pilot project will be launched which is to work The guidelines describe what DSV considers appropriate towards an elimination of facilitation payments through business conduct from its suppliers and thereby also the targeted efforts in some of the affected countries, dialogue conduct that is expected from the suppliers when performthrough relevant networks and other relevant initiatives. ing services on behalf of or supplying products to DSV. The DSV companies implemented the Code in the beginning of Global Whistleblower Programme the year and the rules and guidelines have subsequently implemented in 2012 been communicated to the main suppliers of the DSV comA global Whistleblower Programme was launched across panies. the DSV Group in 2012. Management has decided to set a target for the comThe Programme consists of a hotline and a website munication of the Code of Conduct by the DSV companies through which employees, managers and Board members to their suppliers. According to this target, each company can report any situations, events and circumstances that must have communicated the DSV Supplier Code of Conseem wrong or are direct violations of the DSV policies and duct to at least 75% of its suppliers, measured by the total guidelines. value of procurement from these suppliers, by 2014. The Programme is managed by an external provider and allows whistleblowers to submit anonymous reports. DSV regards the Whistleblower Programme as an effective tool for monitoring and analysing reported events. Also, it allows Management to gain an insight into and learn about any violations and respond to them. Examples of the difference between bribery and facilitation payments Bribery Facilitation payment You need a permit, but do not fulfil all criteria to obtain You need a permit and do fulfil all criteria, however the emit. You offer the employee handling the permits a sum of ployee handling the permits demand a small sum of money money to issue the permit. By this you make the employee to issue the permit straight away. The employee states that handling the permits change his mind and issue the permit it will take a week longer to issue the permit without payeven though you do not fulfil all necessary criteria. ment. If you pay a small sum of money you will not make the employee change his mind, but only work faster and speed up the process issuing the permit. 2012 D SV co r po r ate so cia l responsibilit y report – Business et hic s and ant i-corrupt ion 15 Employees and working environment Reduction of occupational accidents and job satisfaction are the cornerstones of DSV’s efforts in relation to employees and working environment. Employees and working environment is an obvious focus tasks as they are mainly engaged in office work. Indeed, the area in relation to the CSR strategy and initiatives of DSV. rate of occupational accidents dropped a pleasant almost Employees are the backbone of DSV, whether they plan the 29% compared to last year. shipments, load and unload cargo at the terminals, find the This means that the total rate of occupational accidents best possible transport solution for the customers or work for the Group declined by almost 19% compared to the to develop our business in general. DSV aims to minimise results for 2010. Despite the efforts to prevent and reduce the number of occupational injuries and accidents, and idethe number of accupational accidents, we have to realise ally eliminate this issue altogether, by focusing on minimisthat the target of a 25% reduction relative to the 2010 ing the risks and raising employees’ awareness of safety. level has not been achieved. Management has therefore set various targets with the Any type of occupational accident, regardless of the view to maintaining and nurturing a positive working enviconsequences it may have for the employee, is a major ronment at all DSV locations. concern and cannot be accepted. DSV therefore continues Another important objective of DSV is to meet and comits efforts to further reduce the number of work-related ply with internationally proclaimed guidelines and national accidents with the aim to continuously improve perforprovisions on labour rights. It is therefore a pleasure to note that, once again, no violations were registered by the Group in the past year. Any violations can be reported through the Whistleblower Programme described above. Fewer occupational accidents at DSV Management has set an ambitious target stating that the number of occupational accidents must be reduced by 25% compared to 2010 figures. Several companies have subsequently been involved in a joint initiative to share knowledge and best practice on the prevention of work-related accidents. Furthermore, companies across the Group have been engaged in various local initiatives, from risk mapping and management to registration of “near accidents” and causal analyses of accidents. It is a pleasure to note that the initiatives have led to a major overall decline in the number of occupational ­accidents as well as in the rate of occupational accidents A safe working environment and job satisfacamong the employees of DSV. Occupational accidents detion are important elements of DSV’s initiaclined notably among hourly workers in particular, down by tives in relation to employees. The occupational almost 10% compared to the year before and a reduction health and safety management standard OHSAS of almost 18% compared to 2010, when the target was 18001 is one the tools applied by the compaadopted. All Divisions have worked with various initiatives nies of the Group. Several Group companies and contributed to reducing the number of occupational have implemented the OHSAS 18001 standard, accidents. Overall, the number of reported accupational which means that the proportion of DSV em­accidents dropped by almost 100 compared to 2011. ployees covered by the standard increased also Traditionally, the salaried employees are less likely to sufin 2012. fer a work-related accident in connection with their daily 16 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Em ploy ees and w orking environm ent mance in this area. The initiatives mentioned above will Occupational accidents per million working hours continue and further efforts will be made in a number of DSV companies where the effect of the initiatives has not Rate of occupational accidents yet fully materialised. By these measures DSV expects to 18 ■ 2010 achieve the target in 2013. 15 ■ 2011 12 ■ 2012 Absence due to occupational injury 9 Registration of absence from work as a result of occupational accidents was introduced in DSV in the beginning of 6 the year. The data quality has been improved during the 3 year and the data will be used internally for further analysis. 0 A qualitative target for absence due to occupational injury/ Group Air & Sea Road Solutions illness has therefore been established for the time being, and DSV expects to set a quantitative target in 2013. Employee turnover Satisfied DSV employees % The DSV Group has worked on and announced an adjustment of overheads in response to the global financial crisis, 30 ■ 2010 resulting in a minor increase in employee turnover in 2012. 25 ■ 2011 Employee turnover increased in all three Divisions, however 20 ■ 2012 the total number of employees at DSV increased slightly 15 compared to the previous year despite the adjustment. Absence due to illness among the employees of DSV re10 mained on a stable and low level, maintaining the same low 5 level as in 2011 among both employee groups. The total 0 rate of absence of the Group corresponds to an average of Group Air & Sea Road Solutions 7.9 days of absence in a year for every employee of DSV. Absence due to illness % 4 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 3 ■ 2012 2 1 0 Group Air & Sea Road Solutions 2012 D SV co r po r ate so cia l responsibilit y report –Em ploy ees and w orking environm ent 17 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Group 2010 2011 2012 Key figures Employees (full-time employees) Group 21,300 21,673 21,932 Salaried employees 13,253 13,423 13,570 Hourly workers 8,047 8,250 8,362 Emissions (‘000 tonnes) CO2 emissions – Group 3,297 3,336 3,131 CO2 emissions – Container shipping 619 587 518 CO2 emissions – Air transport 1,154 1,174 1,099 CO2 emissions – Road transport 1,447 1,523 1,471 CO2 emissions – Buildings 77 52 43 Water (‘000 m3) Total water consumption 317 297 288 Indicators Gender ratio (%) Women • • 38% Men • • 62% Employee turnover (%) Group 22.7 15.6 17.9 Salaried employees 18.8 15.5 17.2 Hourly workers 29.0 15.6 19.2 Absence due to illness (%) Group 3.4 3.2 3.2 Salaried employees 2.9 2.8 2.8 Hourly workers 4.4 3.9 3.9 Occupational accidents (per million working hours) Group 11.3 11.0 9.2 Salaried employees 2.8 2.8 2.0 Hourly workers 25.8 23.2 21.1 18 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Non-f inanc ial highlight s of t he DSV Group 2010 2011 2012 Indicators, continued Energy efficiency (g/tonne-km) CO2 per consignment – Container shipping *11.5 *11.2 10.3 CO2 per consignment – Air transport 762.0 745.0 721.1 CO2 per consignment – Road transport 82.2 74.1 80.3 Quality management standards (%) ISO 14001 34 42 46 ISO 9001 71 75 74 OHSAS 18001 15 19 23 Anti-corruption (%) Employees who have received information about anti-corruption policies and procedures 85 94 100 Human rights (%) Employees who have received information about human rights policies and procedures 80 94 100 Implementation of CSR Policy (%) DSV entities which have produced a self-declaration of compliance with the CSR Policy of the DSV Group 78 94 100 Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic (%) DSV locations which collect paper, cardboard and/or plastic from offices, terminals and warehouses for recycling • 62 73 Screening of buildings for potential energy savings (%) DSV entities which have performed a screening of their buidlings to identify any energy savings potential • • 70 2 0 12 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo nsibilit y report – Non-f inanc ial highlight s of t he DSV Group 19 Accounting policies for non-financial data Employees Quality management standards Average number of full-time employees for the year. Percentage of DSV entities certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001. Calculation proEmissions portionate to the number of employees of the certified CO2 and NOX emissions from transport activities are calcuenterprises. lated based on the average fuel utilisation ratios and CO2 and NOX emissions reported in respect of trucks owned Anti-corruption and human rights by DSV and subcontractors from transportation of DSV Number of employees of the enterprises which have infreight, partly on data from DSV’s own traffic management formed their employees about the CSR policies and prosystems, including data on the freight volumes carried to cedures of DSV that must be followed relative to the total and from various destinations. CO2 and NOX emissions from employees of the Group. buildings are calculated based on direct consumption of electricity, gas, oil and water at own locations. Implementation of CSR Policy Number of enterprises that have evaluated their compliGender ratio ance with the CSR Policy of the DSV Group relative the to Female and male proportion of total number of employees total number of Group enterprises. at year-end. Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic Rate of employee turnover Number of DSV locations which have implemented systems Number of employees leaving the Group during the year for collection of paper, cardboard and/or plastic waste for relative to the average number of employees calculated recycling relative to the total number of Group locations. on the basis of monthly surveys of the actual number of A few entities have operations at leased premises. Such ­employees at the end of the month. premises are not included in the statistics. Rate of absence Screening of buildings for potential energy savings Number of days of absence due to illness relative to numNumber of DSV entities which have performed a screenber of working days during the year adjusted for maternity/ ing of one or more of their buildings to identify any energy paternity leave, agreed holidays and national public holidays. savings potential relative to the total number of DSV entiAbsence due to illness is measured on the basis of wage/ ties. salary system records. Comments Rate of occupational accidents * Improved shipping data quality of DSV’s Traffic ManageNumber of reported occupational accidents resulting in ment System has made it possible to calculate the avermore than one day of absence per million working hours age cargo weight per TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit) during the year. in 2012. Previously, average weight was based on data reports from individual customers. Due to the increased acEnergy efficiency curacy of calculations based on 2012 data, the energy efEmissions from consignment relative to freight volume and ficiency results for 2010 and 2011 have been recalculated transportation distance. and restated using these data. 20 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Non-f inanc ial highlight s of t he DSV Group Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organisation that has produced a set of indicators and guidelines for sustainability reporting. The index indicates the location of information relevant to specific GRI indicators. Information Level of GRI Indicator available at 1) fulfilment 2) Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO CSR p. 3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR pp. 7 36, CSR pp. 8 10 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation CSR p. 24 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services CSR p. 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR pp. 8, 16 27 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CSR p. 24 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates CSR pp. 4 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR pp. 34 36 2.7 Markets served CSR pp. 4 5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization (number of employees, number of operations, net sales, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity and quantity of products or services provided) AR pp. 10 27 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period CSR pp. 18 19 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period CSR p. 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR p. 8 3.3 Reporting cycle CSR p. 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents CSR p. 24 3.5 Process for defining report content CSR pp. 8 – 10 3.6 Scope of the report CSR p. 8 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report CSR pp. 8 – 10 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations etc. CSR pp. 8 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CSR pp. 18 19 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports CSR pp. 18 19 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope of the report CSR pp. 18 19 3.12 GRI overview CSR pp. 21 22 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib i lit y report – Global Report ing Init iat ive (GRI) cont ent inde x 21 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index (continued) Information Level of GRI Indicator available at 1) fulfilment 2) Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organization AR pp. 3133, CSR p. 8 4.2 The roles of the chairman of the Board and the CEO AR p. 31 33, CSR p. 8 4.3 Members of the Board AR pp. 31, 77 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board AR pp. 31 – 36 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives AR p. 32 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AR pp. 31 – 33 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications of the Board members AR p. 31 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation CSR pp. 8 – 17 4.9 Procedures for the Board to overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance CSR pp. 8 – 9 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance CSR pp. 8 – 10 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed CSR pp. 8 – 10 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses CSR p. 2 4.13 Memberships in associations CSR p. 12 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CSR pp. 8 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CSR p. 8 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement CSR pp. 8 – 10, 15 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement CSR pp. 8 – 10, 15 Performance Indicators Economic management approach AR pp. 7 – 9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR pp. 10 – 15 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change CDP Environmental management approach CSR pp. 8 – 13 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CSR p. 18 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CSR p. 18 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CSR pp. 12 – 13, 18 – 19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services CSR pp. 12 13 Labour Practises management approach CSR pp. 16 – 17 LA1 Workforce by employment type, employment contract and region CSR pp. 2, 5 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender ad region CSR p. 18 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities CSR pp. 16 – 18 Human Rights management approach CSR pp. 14 – 15 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained CSR p. 19 Society management approach CSR p. 14 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption CSR p. 19 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures CSR p. 19 1) AR = Annual report, CSR = CSR report, CDP = Reporting to CDP 2011 2) = Full reporting, = Partial reporting 22 2 0 1 2 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report – Global Report ing Init iat ive (GRI) cont ent inde x CSR Policy UN Global Compact DSV’s CSR Policy Environment Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary • DSV is committed to offering sustainable transport and ­approach to environmental challenges. logistics systems which result in the lowest possible depletion of resources and strain on the environment. Therefore, Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to the business concept of DSV is constantly being developed ­promote greater environmental responsibility. and improved so that the products and services of the Princple 9: Businesses should encourage the development Group always reflect our environmental considerations. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • DSV will lead an open and constructive dialogue with authorities, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, and other stakeholders about the environmental and safety conditions related to the activities of the Group. DSV has a clear conception of its responsibility so that we comply with public authority requirements at all times. • Our suppliers are selected on the basis of professional business parameters, including assessment of their environmental and social responsibility policies. Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption DSV wants: in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • to make sure that all employees of the Group observe general principles of business ethics; • to support the work against bribery, facilitation payments, certain types of gifts, entertainment, travel costs, etc.; • to provide guidance on charitable donations and rules on contributions to political parties and NGOs; Human Rights Human and Labour Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the • DSV supports and wishes to comply with internationally protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. proclaimed human rights. • DSV recognises and supports equal human rights and is Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not against discrimination and differential treatment in emcomplicit in human rights abuses. ployment and working conditions, whether based on race or gender, or sexual, religious or political orientation or ethnical or social background. • DSV recognises employees’ right to join a union and to Labour collective bargaining. DSV supports a constructive diaPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of logue between employer and employee. a­ ssociation and the effective recognition of the right to • DSV is against all kinds of forced employment and workcollective bargaining. ing conditions. • DSV does not employ children and recognises international Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of standards of minimum age for children and that youths all forms of forced and compulsory labour. should work in different types of employment than adults. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective aboli• Employees of DSV must receive a letter of confirmation tion of child labour. of their employment conditions if so required by national legislation. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of • The remuneration of DSV employees meets or exceeds discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. statutory or agreed national industry minimum standards. • DSV complies with current national legislation and agreed standards relating to employee working hours. 2 0 1 2 DSV corpor at e soc ial responsibilit y report – CSR Polic y 23 Global Transport and Logistics DSV A/S Banemarksvej 58 2605 Brøndby Denmark Tel. +45 43 20 30 40 E-mail: csr@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR No. 58 23 35 28 Graphic production: meyer & bukdahl as Published 20 February 2013
