sustaınabılıty report 2011 2012 sustaınabılıty report 2011 2012 1 about the report We believe that we need to cooperate with stakeholders in order to build a sustainable future; and we understand that such cooperation will prove fruitful only when an atmosphere of honest, transparent and accountable communication is established. The sustainability reports we have been issuing since 2010 convey the social, environmental and economic impacts of our operations to our stakeholders in an objective and holistic manner. The content of these reports is comprised of our commitments to Anadolu Efes sustainability priorities, the performance improvements we have achieved in these fields and our future goals. The information presented in this report covers the performance recorded in the period between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2012. In the coming years, we aim to issue these sustainability reports annually. We are continually improving our sustainability report which encompasses Anadolu Efes brewery operations. While the previous report covered the operations of Efes Turkey, Efes Russia1 and Efes Kazakhstan, this year Efes Georgia and Efes Moldova were also included in the reporting scope. For the upcoming periods, our goal is to encourage the individual country operations to issue their own local sustainability reports. The Anadolu Efes 2011-2012 Sustainability Report has been issued in compliance with the ‘Level B’ application of the G3.1 Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative. The indicators shown on the G3.1 Guidelines have been taken into account in preparing the data that comprises the main content of this report, while GRI-recommended methods and techniques have primarily been used in monitoring the quantitative performance indicators. In addition, sector-specific performance evaluation methods and the set of Communication on Progress (CoP) principles defined by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which we signed in 2011, have been taken into consideration in the preparation of the report’s content. The document titled ‘Anadolu Efes 2011-2012 Sustainability Reporting Index’, featuring additional details on numeric details of our sustainability performance and the use of the GRI and UNGC reporting principles, can be found on the corporate website, www.anadoluefes.com. Sustainability practices and performance outcomes regarding Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., a subsidiary of Anadolu Efes, can be found in corporate responsibility reports published on the website www.cci.com.tr. 1 In March 2012, strategic partnership of Anadolu Efes and SAB Miller has been announced. During the integration period, the performance data of former SAB Miller operations in Russia and Ukraine were not included in the report. In the coming years, data of the new operations will be included in the scope of next report. Presıdent’s Statement We believe we can sustain a better life together with the communities in which we operate. Our goal is to generate a positive impact for all our stakeholders through the sustainable development model. The third sustainability report we are issuing provides a comprehensive look at what we have achieved thanks to the Efes Positive Impact Plan, and at our future goals. Dear Stakeholders, Since the founding of our company 44 years ago, we have been focused on creating sustainable value for our stakeholders. Today, we are the world’s 11th largest and Europe’s fifth largest beer producer, thanks to the strategy and practices we have developed based on this goal. The years 2011-2012 was a period of new initiatives taken in parallel with our growth-oriented targets. We took the first steps regarding the strategic cooperation we established with SABMiller plc, one of the largest global beer producers, in the Russian and Ukrainian markets. Finalisation of the operational integration process in line with this partnership, which was begun in 2012, will be one of the short-term priorities of Anadolu Efes. In the reporting period, we also gathered our sustainability practices under a single programme to enable a more holistic approach. Our sustainable development model, which we call the ‘Efes Positive Impact Plan’, is based on sustainable value generation for Anadolu Efes and the communities in which it operates through the management of business priorities in accordance with our corporate values, and through the systematisation of our achievements. Our aim is to improve our business success while contributing to the provision of a better life for future generations in social, economic and environmental terms. For us, climate change is not only one of the most alarming environmental and social issues facing the world today, but also something that poses a significant risk to the sustainability of our business. For this reason, we have adopted a proactive attitude and made significant efforts to reduce the impact of our operations on climate change. During the reporting period, we made a series of achievements in terms of producing more beer while consuming less energy, water and resources, and producing less waste and fewer emissions. This reporting period was a success not only in terms of our environmental performance but also in the improvement of our social and economic performance. In 2011, we became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, which emphasized our commitments, particularly those related to the protection of human rights and the extension of such commitments even further throughout our value chain. We also contributed to the development of local economies through projects that support economic development in our value chain. I believe that our sustainability approach will enable Anadolu Efes’s continued growth and development. I would like to express my gratitude to all of our valued stakeholders, notably our Board of Directors, employees, dealers and other business partners, our suppliers and our investors, for the support they have given and the confidence they have placed in us throughout our journey. Alejandro Jimenez President 3 Anadolu Efes Brewery Operatıons Our vision oriented towards sustainable growth seeks to continuously expand our operations’ geographic scope and Efes Kazakhstan become the most admired beer company in the markets in With a population of 16.7 million and 28 litres of annual which we operate. This way, we create permanent value for beer consumption per capita, Kazakhstan is one of the our shareholders and make a positive impact on the world. most important markets in its region. Efes Kazakhstan is the market leader in the country with the help of the new As a result of the sustainable-growth-oriented approach brands it has introduced in response to market trends and the company has maintained since its founding, Anadolu its effective distribution network. Efes has expanded its operations to six countries and its Efes Kazakhstan operates two breweries. export network to more than 80 countries. In terms of sales Efes Georgıa volume, Anadolu Efes ranks as Europe’s fifth-largest and the world’s 11th-largest brewer. Georgia has a population of 4.5 million and an annual beer-consumption-per-capita level of 19.4 litres. The Market Outlook fact that Efes Georgia has solidified its market-leader position with a high market share in the reporting period With the sustainable-growth-oriented approach it has adopted strengthens expectations that its market share will continue since its founding, Anadolu Efes has managed to expand its to rise in the future. operations to six* countries. With the world’s largest brewers Efes Georgia operates one brewery. mapping out their growth plans on this geography, it is foreseen that the market will expand while the competition continues to intensify. Meanwhile, new regulations for the brewery sector were also noted during the reporting period. AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2011-2012 Efes Turkey Bely Medved (Russia) With a population of 74.7 million and rising national income 2011 Effie Brand of the Year – 2nd place in Beer Category levels, Turkey presents great potential for brewery operations. 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Grand Gold Medal With its annual beer consumption per capita around 12 litres, it Bely Medved Light (Russia) provides growth opportunities for the sector. 2011 Effie Brand of the Year – 3rd place in Beer Category Efes Turkey operates five breweries, two malt houses and one 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Gold Medal hops production facility. Chisinau (Moldova) Efes Russıa 2011 The Golden Mercury – Socially Responsible Brand of the Year Grand Award Russia is a huge market for brewery operations with its 2012 The Golden Mercury – Most Trustworthy and Best population of more than 140 million and annual beer Reputed Brand Grand Award consumption per capita surpassing 69 litres. New consumption Chisinau Blonda (Moldova) trends towards a preference for local brands and dark, aromatic 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Silver Medal products were observed during the reporting period, while an Chisinau Draft (Moldova) increase in special consumption taxes has applied pressure on 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Gold Medal the market. Efes Russia reached second place in this highly Efes Pilsen (Turkey) competitive market as a result of the partnership agreement 2012 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Silver Medal sealed with SABMiller within the reporting period. 2012 iTQi – Gold Medal Efes Russia operates eight breweries and five malt houses. Efes Pilsener (Russia) Efes Moldova 2011 Effie Brand of the Year – 3rd place in Beer Category Efes Xtra (Turkey) Moldova has a population of 3.5 million and an annual 2012 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Gold Medal beer-consumption-per-capita level of 43 litres. Despite the Gold Mine Beer (Russia) challenging market conditions, Efes Moldova maintained its 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Silver Medal leader position with a high market share during the reporting Mariachi Dry (Turkey) period. 2011 Stevie Awards – Best New Product of the Year Efes Moldova operates one brewery. Natakhtari Lemonade (Georgia) 2011 Monde Selection Bruxelles – Silver Medal *Due to its integration to Anadolu Efes in March 2012, data regarding Ukraine beer operations is not included in the reporting scope of this period. anadolu efes sustaınabılıty management We believe we can establish the conditions for sustaining a better life by cooperating with our stakeholders. We therefore focus our business strategies on maintaining a sustainable positive impact. performance evaluatıon Anadolu Efes ensured the efficient management of its Within the framework of the Efes Positive Impact Plan, the sustainability priorities through the practices implemented in performance delivered in the priority areas is monitored the previous periods. The managerial maturity level achieved through objective indicators complying with GRI standards. The made it possible for Anadolu Efes Sustainability Management outcomes are shared through the annual sustainability reports. to be positioned on a more holistic, comprehensive, Most of these priorities are also amongst the main components powerful and strategic ground in the reporting period. of the corporate performance evaluation process, thus The Efes Positive Impact Plan, which was drawn up in light of integrating sustainability goals with the systems for evaluating the motto ‘Sustaining a Better Life’, forms the basis for individual and corporate performance. The achievements of the strategic infrastructure of the sustainability management employees at every level influence their earnings through the at Anadolu Efes. performance-based remuneration system. stakeholder engagement efes posıtıve ımpact plan The success of the Efes Positive Impact Plan relies on its The Efes Positive Impact Plan, through which we intend ability to meet stakeholder expectations and to cooperate to contribute to the establishment of a better life for future with them in realising common goals. Anadolu Efes operations generations, is guided by four fundamental behaviour patterns: owe their success to practices guided by the collective mind. More detailed information on the Efes Positive Impact 1Emphasize Values Plan and sustainability management is available at 2Focus on Priorities www.anadoluefes.com. 3Energize Stakeholders 4Sustain Achievements Efes Positive Impact Plan Emphasize Values We believe in people, knowledge, entrepreneurship and synergy Focus on Priorities Water Energy & Product Packaging Consumption Emissions Responsibility Enhancing Value Talent Operational Community Chain Management Reliability Development Energize Stakeholders Stakeholder Dialogue Sustain Achievements Corporate Policies Systems & Processes 5 sustaınabılıty progress chart * our prıorıtıes and commıtments Our Achıevements Our Targets water management We are producing In the reporting period, in comparison to • In 2015 we will reduce specific water more beer using less 2008, consumption per unit product in breweries water. • We reduced water consumption by 19% by 35% compared in breweries and by 22% in malteries. to 2008. • We reduced wastewater discharge • We will reduce wastewater discharges in line by 24% in breweries and by 19% with water consumption reduction targets. in malteries. • We will continue to carry out water recycling and reuse projects. • We will work through water consumption and develop new methods for reduction. • We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives related to the protection of water resources. energy and emıssıons management We are reducing our In comparison to 2008, • In 2015, we will reduce specific energy carbon footprint by using • We reduced energy consumption in consumption and specific emissions per unit energy resources more breweries by 14% and emissions by 12%. product in breweries by 25%. efficiently. • The energy consumption trend in malteries, • We will keep giving preference to which had been on the increase since low-carbon production technologies and 2008, was reversed in 2012. A 3% reduction packaging practices in the supply chain. was achieved in energy consumption and • We will employ renewable resources in our emissions compared to 2011. energy portfolio. • We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives for combating climate change. • We will continue with logistics optimisation and route planning practices that increase efficiency in distribution operations. • We will maintain practices for reducing the environmental impact of coolers in all country operations. enhancıng the value chaın In order to generate • We trained 4.069 grocers in 24 cities • In 2013 we will support the development more added value, through the ÇABA Project. of the hops production rate in Turkey and we are enhancing our • We generated $30 million in total business increase our procurement amount. value chain. volume through the Agriculture Support • In 2013 we will initiate studies on a model to Programme in Turkey. evaluate the sustainability performance of • We included Akdane and Toprak varieties in our suppliers. our registered barley portfolio. * All commitments, achievements and targets indicated in this chart have been calculated and disclosed within the limits of country operations in the reporting scope. In upcoming periods, these indications may vary according to possible changes in the reporting scope. product responsıbılıty We are working to create • We launched a new website, • We will maintain studies on consumera customer base that www.drink-moderately.com, in order oriented quality systems. enjoys beer responsibly to inform customers about responsible • We will mainstream activities regarding the and is familiar with beer consumption. enhancement of quality awareness among culture. • We conducted responsible consumption consumers. campaigns in Turkey, Russia, Kazakhstan, • We will continue with marketing activities Georgia and Moldova. conducted in line with our marketing principles. • We will conduct all marketing activities in line with a responsible consumption approach. operatıonal relıabılıty In order to be a • We improved our performance • In 2013 we will develop solid waste trustworthy neighbour, measurement studies regarding OHS by performance evaluation indicators. we conduct safe and defining common criteria in line with the GRI • We will increase the rate of solid wastes environmentally friendguidelines. disposed through reuse, recovery and use ly operations. • We installed an inactive yeast drying facility as by-products. at Efes Turkey’s Lüleburgaz Brewery. communıty development • We created a 2,000-bed additional We care about the accommodation capacity in the Çoruh Valley • We will increase local supply rates by expectations of the through the DATUR Project, increasing promoting local products and supply communities in which regional tourism income to 1 million TL. channels. we operate, and support • We introduced 626 new certified tourism • We will increase community investments in their development. professionals from five different cities to the all country operations. tourism sector through the Tourism Ambassadors Project. talent management • We increased training-hours per employee by In order to become a 29% when compared to 2008. • In 2013-2014, we will develop the preferred employer, • We provided employees at every level with performance management approach in all we provide a fair work development opportunities through corporate Anadolu Efes operations. environment in which learning and improvement programmes such employees’ talents are as Efes Leadership Pathway, Efes Mindshare valued. and Efes Mentoring. • We emphasised our commitments to labour and human rights by signing the U.N. Global Compact. • We facilitated the improvement of talent management understanding by establishing the Supply Chain Talents Development Directorate. packagıng management We reduce material • We reduced primary material consumption • We will seek to reduce packaging weight per consumption through amount per unit product sold with one-way unit product and new packaging material use. greener packaging packaging by 10% when compared to 2008. • We will give preference to greener packaging practices. • Our returnable packaging system has applications. helped save an average of 200 ktons glass annually. 7 water management Water Consumption Trend in Breweries 5.5 5.3 specıfıc water consumptıon (hl/hl) 12 .5 4.8 total water More clean water resources will be required to sustain 4.6 consumptıon (mıllıon m3) a better life in the future. Every year, we consume less 12 .0 water in our breweries and malteries, thus protecting 4.5 11.5 our most significant raw material for ourselves and for society. 10.6 10.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 our aım ıs to reduce water consumptıon by 35% as of 2015. Water Consumption Trend in Malteries as of 2012, we have achıeved 8.3 specıfıc water consumptıon (m3/ton) 52% of thıs goal*. 7.5 7.4 total water consumptıon 6.9 (mıllıon m3) 2 .1 2 .0 2 .0 6.4 Water management is one of the areas we have marked 1.8 for continuous improvement, and Efes has continued its long-term reduction trend in its water consumption rates thanks to the projects implemented during the reporting 1.6 period. water consumptıon 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thanks to the practices realized during the reporting period, Anadolu Efes, reduced its specific water consumption to 4.5 hl/hl. Therefore, compared to 2008, 19% less water consumed during the beer production. Reducing its water consumption by 13%, Efes Kazakhstan achieved the EFES TURKEY AFYON MALTERY: highest improvement performance during the period. Thus, STEEPING UNIT UPGRADE specific water consumption was reduced by 38% in Efes Kazakhstan, 36% in Efes Georgia, 21% in Efes Russia, 17% As part of a two-phase project launched by the in Efes Moldova and 9% in Efes Turkey compared to 2008. Afyon Maltery in November 2010, the system used Within the period, Efes Turkey achieved the lowest water to transfer the green malt to the steeping vessels consumption level in beer production by 4.0 hl/hl. was initially improved to save 30,000 m3 of water. Through the practices launched in 2011, Anadolu Efes The second phase of the project was subsequently malteries accelerated the downtrend in water consumption completed by implementing various other process which was slowing down in 2010. As of 2012, Anadolu Efes innovations enabling the reuse of the water used in malteries achieved to produce by using 22% less water the steeping vessels, saving an additional 17,000 m3 compared to 2008. of water as a result. Reduction in water consumption was aimed via several projects such as process improvement, behavioural change, increasing recovery and preferring more efficient equipment. * 500.000 m3 of water saved annually as a result of projects Target and realization figures are calculated on the basis of operations conducted in the period 2011-2012. in the reporting period and 2008 annual figures. EFES MOLDOVA VITANTA BREWERY: Wastewater Trend in Breweries AUTOMATED CONTROL OF WATER specıfıc wastewater CONSUMPTION IN BEER PASTEURIZATION 4.1 (hl/hl) 3.9 PROCESS total wastewater 3.5 More effective control of water consumption was enabled 9.4 3.3 (mıllıon m3) through this project launched in August 2012, with 8.9 8.4 3.2 the development of software that manages the beer pasteurization process. As a result of the project, more 7.6 7.1 than 5,000 m3 water was saved in 2012. It is expected that more than 15,000 m3 water will be saved this way in 2013. wastewater management 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Guiding principles for wastewater management at Anadolu Efes are focused on reducing wastewater volume and pollution loads at the source through improved efficiency and better recovery practices, and on ensuring their discharge in line with the limits set by legal regulations. Production activities in all plants are managed in line with Wastewater Trend in Malteries these principles, so that environmental impact is minimised specıfıc wastewater 6.5 (m3/ton) while ensuring efficiency. 6.1 6.0 total wastewater In 2012, Anadolu Efes breweries discharged 24% less 1.7 5.4 (mıllıon m3) wastewater in comparison to 2008. Specific wastewater 1.6 1.6 discharge was reduced 45% in Efes Kazakhstan, 25% in 5.3 Efes Russia, 43% in Efes Georgia, 22% in Efes Moldova and 14% in Efes Turkey operations between 2012 and 2008. In the reporting period, the Efes Turkey operation 1.4 recorded the lowest specific wastewater discharge figures 1.3 with 2.6 hl/hl. A similar trend occurred at Anadolu Efes malteries, where by 2012, specific wastewater discharge was reduced by 19% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in comparison to 2008 and recorded as 5.3 m3/ton. wastewater treatment facılıtıes Anadolu Efes is continuing to invest in its facilities to AWARD FOR MOSCOW BREWERY: ensure that the wastewater generated by its production processes is discharged without having a negative impact Anadolu Efes’s proactive attitude regarding water on the environment. The principal factor considered in management was acknowledged by its stakeholders determining these facility investments is the establishment during the reporting period. Mosvodokanal, the of the necessary facility configuration to operate with a water distribution and sewage services provider for minimal environmental impact while remaining financially the Moscow region, honored Efes Russia’s Moscow sustainable and up-to-date. For this reason, Anadolu Efes Brewery with its ‘Most Rational Water Consumer’ award continues to make facility-upgrading investments despite based on the brewery’s consumption culture and its its current performance being fully in compliance with attention to detail in complying with regulations. environmental regulations. Likewise, Anadolu Efes prefers facility investments that result in a higher reduction of environmental impact even if it means incurring additional costs. The wastewater treatment facility investments made in the reporting period at Efes Moldova’s Vitanta Brewery and Efes Georgia’s Natakhtari Brewery are among the best examples of this approach. 9 Energy and Emıssıons Management We are reducing our carbon footprint in all our operations through the smarter use of energy resources. Therefore we are not only increasing our efficiency but also reducing our environmental impact and creating a positive momentum for sustaining a better life. Energy Consumption Trends in Breweries we aım to decrease our total energy specıfıc energy 42.4 consumptıon (tj) consumptıon (kWh/hl) 39.3 energy consumptıon by 25% 3,453 36.9 36.7 36.6 by 2015. 3,241 by 2012, we have achıeved 3,211 3,037 55% of thıs target *. 2 ,961 In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes undertook a series of improvements to enhance its energy-and emissions-management performance, which is one of the company’s main priorities. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In early 2011, the entire Efes Turkey operations were certified under the ISO-50001 Energy Management System Standard. Energy Consumption Trends in Malteries By updating the electrical energy emission factors used in total energy specıfıc energy the greenhouse-gas calculation in line with the WBCSD/WRI consumptıon (tj) consumptıon (kWh/ton) Greenhouse Gas Protocol and IPCC Guidelines, the reliability of 1.074 1.054 1.050 calculation was enhanced during this period. 1.013 1.042 Energy Effıcıency 997 1,027 996 As a result of projects conducted in Anadolu Efes breweries, direct energy consumption fell by 224 TJ and indirect energy 950 consumption by 57 TJ during the reporting period. Specific energy consumption was reduced by 14% when compared to 926 2008, reaching the level of 36.6 kWh/hl. The highest reductions were recorded by Efes Kazakhstan operations, where energy consumption fell by 7% in the reporting period. Efes Turkey recorded the lowest energy consumption levels across all 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 operations with 28.2 kWh/hl. In the same period, the energy consumption trend in malteries, which had been on the increase since 2008, was reversed in 2012. EFES RUSSIA’S KAZAN BREWERY: Specific energy consumption at Anadolu Efes malteries fell by 2% REPLACEMENT OF THE AIR COMPRESSOR UNIT in comparison to 2011, dropping to the level of 1,050 kWh/ton. During an equipment upgrade in the brewery’s compressed air network, the air compressors used in the Kazan Brewery were replaced with energy-efficient versions, leading to a 20% decrease in energy requirements. Due to this project the brewery’s annual energy consumption fell by 6 TJ and its * Target and realisation figured are calculated on the basis of operations in the emissions were reduced by more than 500 tons of CO2e. scope of the reporting and 2008 annual figures. EFES TURKEY’S ADANA BREWERY: NEW ENERGY RECOVERY SYSTEM EFES MOLDOVA’S VITANTA BREWERY: The Adana Brewery planned to reduce the heat-energy requirement of its brewing unit by 25% and the electrical REPLACING OF THE BOTTLE WASHING energy requirement by 20% through investment MACHINE in an energy recovery system in 2011. Following implementation, a higher-than-expected performance With a project conducted at the Vitanta Brewery level was achieved, resulting in a 26% reduction in heat in 2012, equipment used to clean one-way bottles energy and a 23% drop in electrical energy use. The was replaced, enabling savings of over 100,000 m3 Adana Brewery therefore managed to reduce its energy in natural gas, over 72,000 kWh in electricity and consumption by 13 TJ and its emissions volume by more over 5,000 m3 in water consumption as well as the than 750 tons of CO2e annually. prevention of 126 tons of CO2e greenhouse gas emissions. Energy Effıcıency Projects Process improvement projects carried out and efficient equipment compared to 2008, falling to 9.8 Kg CO2e/hl. Increase trend in preferences made during the reporting period facilitated the maltery operations, continuing since 2008, has been ceased in 2012 prevention of more than 80 TJ in energy consumption and over and 2% of decrease was achieved compared to the previous year. 6,000 tons of CO2e greenhouse gas emissions. In the reporting period, Efes Kazakhstan operations recorded effıcıency ın dıstrıbutıon the highest amount of emission reductions with 7%, while Efes Georgia recorded the lowest emissions level across all Anadolu operatıons Efes operations with 5.8 ton CO2e/hl. Distribution operations make up a significant share of total Emission Trend in Breweries energy consumption and emissions levels. Route planning, logistics optimisation and other improvement projects initiated 11.2 Total Emissions (kton Specific Emissions CO2e) (kg CO2e/hl) in previous terms continued to show positive results during this 10.3 reporting period. 253 9.9 9.8 9.8 Distance base improvements have been made in plant-to-plant, plant-to-warehouse and plant-to-client distribution operations, 237 reducing distribution distance, which was 3.77 km/hl in 2010, to 233 3.64 km/hl in 2012. 225 energy effıcıency ın coolers 221 Anadolu Efes places coolers at its sales points to ensure product quality and the consumption of its products at their ideal 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 temperatures, and has been carrying out cooler-improvement projects to decrease related energy consumption and emissions. In the previous periods, the replacement of equipment significantly reduced cooler-related energy consumption. In the reporting period, Emission Trend in Malteries Anadolu Efes began to prioritise devices that use environmentally Total Emissions Specific Emissions friendly refrigerant gases in its new cooler purchases. The (kton CO2e) (kg CO2e/ton) new-generation coolers provide a 20-30% improvement in energy 254 249 250 efficiency compared to the older versions. The majority of the 247 247 new-generation cooler procurement was made for the company’s 67 Turkey operations; the goal for the upcoming periods is to expand 66 this practice to its operations in other countries. In the periods ahead, Anadolu Efes plans to purchase LED-lit coolers with advanced 65 electronic controls so that 20% more energy can be saved. 63 63 greenhouse gas emıssıons During the reporting period, the total amount of emissions at Anadolu Efes breweries was reduced by 16 ktons CO2e to reach 221 ktons 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CO2e. The specific emissions value was reduced by 12% when 11 enhancıng the value chaın We are enhancing our value chain in order to generate higher added value. Through business development projects and agricultural support programmes, we aim to create a positive impact on the business values of our stakeholders while reinforcing our corporate sustainability. we have brought the MODERN GROCERY STORE PROJECT experıence we gaıned (ÇABA): ın barley productıon ın The ÇABA Project aims to support small grocery turkey to moldova and stores in becoming more competitive and modern in terms of their management, service quality, conducted our fırst trıal productivity and profitability. Feasibility work on plantıng there. this project was completed in 2010 and field work began in 2011. Within the scope of the field work, an Anadolu Efes specialist team will visit around 20 cities annually for four years to train participating grocers. Anadolu Efes not only creates positive value for farmers through its agricultural support and R&D programmes but In the reporting period, 24 cities were visited and also ensures the sustainability of its raw material supply 4.069 member grocers of the Turkish Federation in terms of quality and amount. Thanks to the business of Groceries and Dealers were trained. Since the development projects the company has initiated, the start of the project, 5.710 grocers in 29 cities have productivity, business volume and working norms of business been trained. The project improves the capacities partners have been improved, providing mutual benefits. of the grocers regarding management processes and allows customers to receive better service. As a conscientious, reliable and transparent customer, Applications to participate in the ÇABA Project are Anadolu Efes expects its suppliers to comply with relevant increasing daily and a close tie is being established legal regulations, adopt the business-ethics norms between Anadolu Efes and small grocers thanks to a of Anadolu Efes and place the utmost importance in business plan based on a win-win understanding. fundamental norms such as human rights, operational health and safety and environmental protection. That expectation was reinforced with the signing of the U.N. Global Compact in 2011. For the upcoming periods, Anadolu Efes plans to establish support and control mechanisms to support for agrıculture ensure full compliance of suppliers with these principles. Anadolu Efes began R&D studies on barley and hops for malt production in 1982 in order to establish the busıness development ın the continuity of its main agricultural raw material supply. In 1987, Private Sector Research Establishment approval value chaın was secured from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock to officially record these R&D studies. Anadolu Efes continued its improvement projects in business development practices regarding suppliers, The Anadolu Efes aims to supply its entire demand dealers, distributors and sales points. The Modern for malt barley and hops from local producers within Grocery Store Project (ÇABA), launched in 2011, focuses the contractual production model framework, and on increasing the competitive edge of small grocery stores by its own registered species, thus removing any in terms of their management, service quality, productivity dependency on imports. and profitability. The company has 15 barley and seven hops types save 12-24% on electricity consumption, 18-22% on registered and direct contact with 1,500 farmers via its fuel consumption and 20-25% on water consumption contractual production model. compared to the most common barley varieties produced in Turkey. Including the Akdane and Toprak types Malt is an important semi-finished raw material that gives developed in 2011, the number of registered barley beer its taste and colour. The quality of the malt directly varieties developed as a result of the R&D projects carried affects the quality of beer produced. Not all barleys can out since 1982 has increased to 15 in total. be used in malt production. In order to obtain quality malt, the barley used in its production needs to possess some A perennial plant, hops gives beer its bitter taste and special characteristics. aroma while increasing its durability. Anadolu Efes meets its needs for hops through Tarbes, which develops and The malted barley varieties that have been improved in registers new hops varieties that are of high quality and terms of quality and productivity through plant breeding well-adapted to the production region. To date, Tarbes has and R&D studies are being offered to farmers along with registered seven new hops varieties. information on the seed varieties. During the annual vegetation period, agricultural engineers train farmers Tarbes holds regular meetings for farmers to provide in production techniques. As a result of these initiatives, information on techniques that yield high-quality products; farmers’ productivity and income are increased while the it also provides financial support for farmers. As a environmental impact is minimised. Anadolu Efes is also result of these efforts, hops production area increased continuing its studies of malted barley production in its by 49.3% while the alpha acid production of the fresh own facilities while playing an active role in the malted hops produced per unit area surged by 72.2%. With the barley development projects of the Ministry of Agriculture, improvement of irrigation capacity, a 70% increase in hops Turkish universities and the Scientific and Technological production and a related boost in hops procurement from Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK). the local market is expected. Water and energy use in the malting process are taken You may find the document “Common Mind in Agriculture” into consideration when developing new barley varieties. featuring more detailed information on Anadolu Efes Atılır and Fırat seeds, both developed by Anadolu Efes, Agriculture Program. Barley Registration Year Hops Efes 3 1992 Efes Aroma 1997 Ege Erciyes Güney Efes 98 1998 Anadolu 98 Angora 1999 TARBES 99 Anadolu 99 Çumra 2001 2001 Pazaryeri 2001 Çatalhöyük 2001 Başgül 2003 Atılır 2005 Fırat Meriç Erciyes 2006 Yıldız 2007 Durusu Akdane 2011 Toprak 13 product responsıbılıty We believe our products add a positive value to social life when enjoyed by responsible consumers familiar with beer culture and we are working to develop the consumer experience in that direction. prices. The main point of consideration during product-quality improvement practices is ensuring the continuity and consistency our aım ıs to promote of the tastes demanded by consumers while further developing responsıble consumptıon of our quality norms. The level of customer satisfaction Anadolu Efes has built up our products ın all countrıes through its product and service quality has always been an ın whıch we operate. we wıll important factor in the company enjoying a pioneering position in every market in which it operates. To that end, Anadolu Efes expand the scope of these carries out surveys to learn about consumer expectations, and work to improve customer satisfaction is carried out accordingly. programs that we launched ın The result of such efforts enabled Efes Russia to advance in 2011 from its previous 11th-place position in satisfaction creation to 2011 ın the upcomıng perıods. fourth place in a survey of Russian retailers. product labellıng and The product responsibility understanding of Anadolu Efes can be briefly summarised in the following principles: ‘producing the world’s ınformıng consumers highest quality beer’, ‘acting responsibly during the marketing process’ Anadolu Efes believes it is a fundamental right for consumers to and ‘creating positive value for stakeholders’. We provide high-quality have access to all necessary information regarding every product products in varieties demanded by our customers. We also create they purchase. That is why its product information is shared awareness among consumers so they can enjoy beer culture while through channels that consumers can easily access, primarily consuming responsibly, including helping to develop suitable occasions product labels, websites and customer-support lines. and conditions for that purpose. All Anadolu Efes products are labelled with their contents to a product portfolıo management degree beyond local regulatory requirements. The information on the product labels, such as the production site, product The goal of Anadolu Efes’s product portfolio management is to create amount and expiry dates are standard on all products; in products that appeal to beer-lovers’ expectations in terms of quality and addition, the packages reaching the end consumers feature taste, and to make them available at suitable locations and at reasonable information about the product contents and alcohol percentage Efes Russia Don't Drink and Drive! along with warnings about responsible consumption and recycling. a high standard of presentation quality and ambiance. The goal is The product labels are meticulously designed to keep consumers to meet various customer expectations through creating revamped from having any incorrect perceptions about the product, consumption points with different concepts. The experience gained especially regarding its alcohol content. from these practices, which vary according to the different cultures in individual countries, supports the development of synergy between With the exception of people under the legal drinking age, all Anadolu Efes operations. The Beer House Improvement Projects stakeholders can access product information through the corporate are implemented in Turkey through Efes Beer Cafe and ‘Streets of and product websites. Consumers can also receive detailed Conviviality’ practices; in Russia through Beercity Express, Efes information regarding products by calling the support lines listed on Raspopoff and Liga Stawok practices; and in Moldova through the product labels. Every request made on the support lines, which the Beer Street concept. Hundreds of consumption points were also handle customer suggestions and complaints, receives careful redesigned in the reporting period as part of this project. consideration and response. Projects focused on increasing the knowledge of sales-point developıng the beer culture employees and consumers also play an important role in the development of beer culture. Through its Efes Club Professional Anadolu Efes is working to establish a refined beer culture Programme, Efes Turkey provides various social development throughout its entire operational geography. Activities carried out for options and trainings for employees of its on premise outlets, this purpose include not only those that introduce new tastes and covering topics such as service, presentation, hygiene, beer choices to consumers, but also those that improve consumptionculture and products that can be consumed along with beer. Efes point service quality and information-provision practices. Kazakhstan and Efes Moldova operations also carry out similar Anadolu Efes creates its brand portfolios in line with local tastes projects. Efes Turkey, Efes Russia and Efes Moldova operations while appealing to different consumer preferences. In order to meanwhile provide information on the beer production processes and provide customers with different tastes, Efes Turkey introduced products to various stakeholder groups, especially consumers and new options during the reporting period. More information on business partners, through facility visits. During said visits, visitors Anadolu Efes products is available on the corporate website, get to witness the production technology and quality of Anadolu Efes www.anadoluefes.com. facilities and are provided with information about brewery processes and products. In 2012, 275 people participated in Efes Russia’s The Beer House Improvement Projects first initiated in 2000 by ‘Open Brewery Project’ visits to the Moscow, Kaluga, Kazan, Ufa, Efes Turkey aim to keep beer culture alive in establishments with Ulyanovsk and Novosobirsk breweries. 15 responsıble consumptıon Having producers who follow responsible marketing principles is a prerequisite for ensuring responsible consumption. In line with this approach, Anadolu Efes implements its marketing communication projects within the framework of national laws, norms set by sector initiatives and principles defined on a corporate scale. In its communication projects, Anadolu Efes neither uses any content that may encourage customers to consume its products irresponsibly nor uses any content that could be considered to be discriminatory, politicised or not in conformance with the values of society in general or those of a particular community. In addition, Anadolu Efes ensures that its products are sold at sales points that comply with legal requirements, including not selling alcoholic beverages to consumers below the legal drinking age. Efes conducts field projects to inform consumers about the risks of irresponsible alcohol consumption and to raise awareness about responsible consumption behaviours. In this regard, a more proactive understanding was adopted and various new awareness raising projects were launched. Country operations focus the projects on country specific issues by taking cultural differences into consideration; thus practice fields and types differ by country. efes russıa Conducting all marketing communication practices in line with the principles of the Russian Beer Manufacturers’ Association, of which it is a member, Efes Russia launched the ‘Are You 18? Prove It!’ project in 2011 with participation from the Russian Ministry of Interior and various youth organisations. In the scope of this project, compliance of sale-points with legal age requirements for consumption is supervised while awarenessraising activities are conducted through advertising, communication meetings and conferences. Through another campaign launched in Moscow Region in 2012 Efes Russia works for prevention of driving under influence. The campaign emphasizes that person driving under influence are risking other individuals together with themselves. efes kazakhstan Having begun activities to promote responsible consumption of its products in 2011, Efes Kazakhstan also launched a campaign entitled ‘Know Your Limits! Consume Responsibly’ to raise awareness about the dangers of drunk driving under the influence and excessive alcohol consumption. efes georgıa In the reporting period, Efes Georgia operations worked to prevent drunk driving under the influence via a communication campaign launched under the slogan ‘It Is Not Worth It’. Another initiative, called ‘Don’t Worry! Be Healthy’, is being spearheaded by First Lady Sandra Roelofs and carried out in cooperation with the Alliance for Safe Roads, Toyota Georgia, GPI and the U.S. Consulate. efes moldova With a project launched in 2011, Efes Moldova aims to prevent underage drinking. Communication practices conducted in the scope of the project seek to raise awareness among young people about the effects of alcohol and responsible consumption behaviours. In an effort to gather all of its field projects under a single roof and create awareness among consumers from across its operational geography regarding the responsible consumption of alcoholic beverages, Anadolu Efes Headquarters launched the www.drink-moderately.com website. The website features responsible consumption projects and provides information regarding the dangers of driving under the influence and the consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. www.drink-moderately.com Efes Moldova Campaign Against Under-18 Drinking Efes Kazakhstan Don't Drink and Drive! 17 operatıonal relıabılıty evaluation criteria formed on the basis We believe the key to sustaining a better life together with our stakeholders of GRI indicators. In this way, the health lies in their perception of us as a trustworthy neighbour. To this end, we and safety data showing the general work to have a positive impact by carrying out safer, greener operations. performance of company operations are covered in this report. Employees at all facilities regularly receive health examinations, while healthcare teams provide continuous consultancy and awareness-raising activities at company we target a zero-accıdent rate and a facilities. Thanks to the work of these maxımızıng of the recyclıng of solıd wastes. teams, no cases of occupational illness were encountered at any operations during ın 2012, we recorded an ınjury rate of 1.22 and the reporting period. The company’s employee healthcare practices also have a recycled 95.7% of the solıd waste produced. positive impact on operational continuity by reducing general workplace absenteeism. Despite various cases of safety risks Anadolu Efes lays the basic groundwork opportunities to improve occupational health observed during the reporting period, for its operational reliability by providing and safety performance in their areas of Anadolu Efes employees did not suffer any customers with the products they demand duty. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes fatal accidents. in the expected amounts, at the expected staff received a total of 70,000 personOccupational Health and Safety times and in the expected locations while hours of training on occupational health and Committees organised at the production complying continuously with the best safety. facilities have contributed significantly possible safety and environmental norms. to the development of Anadolu Efes’s In line with the occupational health and occupatıonal health safety management processes established safety performance. Committees comprising the workplace doctor, work and safety on the basis of the OHSAS 18001 Standard, risk assessments are carried safety supervisor, union representative, Ensuring the health and safety of all out at all Anadolu Efes operations and foremen and employee representatives stakeholders involved in Anadolu Efes preventive measures are taken accordingly. operations, and the company’s employees Occupational accidents that occur in spite OHS Data 2011 2012 in particular, is an indispensable part of of these measures are examined and our working culture and a goal towards additional efforts are made to ensure that Injury Rate 0.93 1.22 which company business processes and such accidents are not repeated. workplace conditions are continually Lost Day Rate 13.82 18.25 During this reporting period, the improved. The importance of the human measurement techniques developed during factor in improving occupational health Injury Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / previous terms within the framework of and safety requires the enhancement of Total work hours. local regulations and working cultures employee awareness and the establishment Lost Day Rate: Total number of missed days x by individual country operations were 200,000 / Total work days of a culture of safety. To this end, Anadolu supplemented with common performance Efes employees are provided with training as members, in addition to the related company managers, act as forums for EFES TURKEY LÜLEBURGAZ BREWERY: discussing current risks, causes of previous incidents and future measures to be taken INACTIVE YEAST DRYING FACILITY in order to enhance workplace health A yeast-drying facility similar to the one installed at the Adana Brewery and safety conditions. The demands and during the previous reporting period was put into place at the Lüleburgaz expectations of all Anadolu Efes employees Brewery in 2011. The unit reduced the annual wastewater COD amount are evaluated in the committees’ decisionof the brewery by 300 tons while saving more than 480 GJ of energy making and implementation processes in communication with the union and employee annually at the wastewater-treatment facilities, decreasing emissions representatives. by approximately 65 tons CO2e. envıronmental safety As an environmentally friendly company, a this period, Anadolu Efes made around Various new practices and investments leading element of our sustainability values $21 million in environmental expenditures were launched during the reporting period is ensuring that Anadolu Efes operations do to ensure positive developments regarding to enhance waste-management efficiency. not have a negative environmental impact the environmental impact of its operations. For instance, thanks to an agreement within our operational geography. We are Of this total, $17.3 million was invested in signed in 2011, Efes Turkey’s Ankara therefore careful not to locate production waste-disposal and emission-management Brewery began to send waste sludge to facilities in regions that are either of high improvements while $3.7 million was cement plants instead of disposal facilities biodiversity value or under protection. We spent on environmental protection and so it could be reused as an alternative also try to ensure that our operations do not management costs. fuel. This reuse of waste sludge has cause a negative impact on biodiversity in had a positive impact on environmental Every Anadolu Efes production facility terms of water resources, air quality, land performance while reducing the costs follows waste-disposal procedures availability or species diversity. Thanks for waste transfer and disposal. Efes designed in line with the relevant legal to Anadolu Efes’s working principles Kazakhstan’s Almaty Brewery meanwhile regulations, with the goal of reducing waste and improvement studies, no significant improved the efficiency of its storage at its source and developing disposal negative impact was observed during the capacity by investing in machinery that methods for reusing the waste produced, reporting period on biodiversity value or shreds and presses aluminium cans for thus leading to minimal environmental environmental quality within our operational recycling. impact. In 2011 and 2012, 447 ktons and geography. 427 ktons of solid waste and by-products The by-products from beer and malt It is important to provide employees with were produced, respectively, as a result production, particularly yeast and spent the technical knowledge they need to carry of Anadolu Efes brewing and malting grain, can be reused as a valuable raw out required investments and management processes. Of the solid waste and material by various businesses, such as improvements regarding environmental by-products produced, 94% was recovered those in the feed and pharmaceutical performance. To this end, employees taking in 2011, a ratio that increased to 95.7% in industries. Through this practice, part in Anadolu Efes operations received 2012. The remaining waste was disposed by-products are returned to the economy 5,579 person-hours of environmental of in line with the legal methods determined without creation of environmental impact training within the reporting period. During according to its type and class. and waste disposal costs are also reduced. 19 contrıbute to envıronmental protectıon The golden steppe eagle, which holds a very special place in Kazakhstan’s natural world and is a local cultural symbol for the country, is facing extinction. Inclusion on the “Red List” of species that need to be taken under protection is the most obvious sign of the danger facing the golden steppe eagle. Efes Kazakhstan launched its ‘Contribute to Environmental Protection’ campaign in 2012; through this campaign, it invites people to contribute to practices and activities that will help ensure the protection of golden steppe eagles, which appear on the logo for Efes Kazakhstan’s Karagandinskoe brand. The campaign, conducted in partnership with the Kazakhstan Zoology Institute and the Sunkar Raptor Birds Reproduction Centre, aims to support the production of ornithological reports on the natural habitat of golden steppe eagles and the reasons for their decrease in numbers; the preparation of new data to update Kazakhstan’s Red List; and the breeding of golden steppe eagles in captivity and their introduction to the wild. Efes Kazakhstan has produced a special commemorative package in order to ensure the financial resources necessary for the initiation of this project, and has channelled a portion of the funds from the sale of these products into the campaign. A total of 1,329,602 commemorative products were sold in the six months that the campaign ran. In line with the principle of transparency, an international independent auditing institution monitored the fundraising activities within the scope of the campaign. 21 communıty development We care about the expectations of the communities in which we operate and support their development. Through our operations, we seek to have a positive impact on the growth of local economies and the enriching of socio-cultural life. Anadolu Efes believes that increasing Local recruits make up the majority year, music and cinema for the 25th year, the level of socio-economic and socioof Anadolu Efes workforce, with the dramatic arts for the 21nd year, archaeology cultural welfare of the communities in percentage of local senior executives for the 17th year and projects aimed at which it operates is of utmost importance increasing from 51.7% in 2010 to 62.3% development of tourism for the seventh in achieving its sustainability goals. With in 2012. Anadolu Efes likewise prefers year. this in mind, Anadolu Efes conducted to utilise local products and local supply projects during the reporting period that channels wherever possible. sports support local economic and socio-cultural Accordingly, in the reporting period, Anadolu Efes’s largest community development. Anadolu Efes’s local procurement practices investment in sports is the Anadolu Efes contrıbutıon to local accounted for 88.4% of total procurement by operation and 68% by expenditure. Local Sports Club. Established in Turkey in 1976, the basketball club is the first and only economıes procurement practices, while contributing to Turkish club to win the European Korac Cup local economic development, also prevent and to participate in the Euroleague and Brewery operations play a supportive supply dependency. Superleague Final Four. The ‘First Step with role, both directly and indirectly, in the Anadolu Efes Basketball Schools Project’, development of local economies. The most Various field practices carried out by Anadolu Efes contribute directly or indirectly initiated in 2004 with the cooperation of the significant aspect of the impact created is Directorate of Youth and Sports, operates that each investment in brewery operations to the stimulation of local economies, the increasing of employment opportunities 36 centres in 34 locations, including leads to multiplied positive value creation Northern Cyprus and Sarajevo, and in other related operations. For instance, of and the improvement of small enterprises’ business volume, profitability and provides basketball training for 3,000 young the €818 million in added value created by athletes. In addition to basketball, Efes 2010 beer sales in Turkey, where Anadolu productivity. Art and cultural events held annually in numerous cities and projects Turkey also maintains its long-time support Efes is the market leader, only €371 million for football. Along with sponsoring the was attributed to brewery operations such as ÇABA that aim to improve the value chain can serve as examples of field Turkish National Football Teams for the past while the remainder was generated by 11 years, Anadolu Efes has also supported related sectors such as supply, tourismpractices that have positive impacts on local economies. the organisation of the Efes Pilsen Futsal entertainment services, retail and, in League to encourage indoor football. Efes particular, agriculture. In addition, of the 53,570 people employed in the production communıty ınvestments Georgia sponsored the Georgian National Basketball, Football and Rugby Teams and sale of beer products, only 2,400 are in 2011, while Efes Moldova installed Anadolu Efes cares about the community directly employed by the brewer companies. sporting equipment in open public spaces expectations in the countries where The sector report prepared by Ernst & as part of an urban infrastructure support it operates and provides support for Young upon the request of The Association programme that aims to make exercise education, health, sports, culture and the of Beer and Malt Producers of Turkey can and sport a habit among a large majority arts. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes be accessed at www.anadoluefes.com. continued its support for sports for the 40st of the population. In 2012, Efes Moldova our aım ıs to support economıc and socıo-cultural development ın our operatıonal geography. ın the reportıng perıod, we contınued our practıces supportıng the revıval of local economıes and our ınvestments ın programs that further educatıonal, musıc, sports and other cultural actıvıtıes. demonstrated its contribution to sports by Moldova supported the Face of Friends and guiding. Rafting tours were launched on the supporting numerous basketball, football, Efes Turbo Carnival festivals and concerts Çoruh River and Barhal Stream. A ceramic rugby, motorsports and other activities by rock bands Alternosfera and OMC. In the workshop was established in the region and attended by thousands of people. same year, Efes Moldova also supported the Uzundere Association of Female Labour numerous activities aimed at improving the Empowerment (UZKADER) enabled local health educational and social lives of university women to generate income through their students. handcrafts. In İspir and Uzundere, a total of As a matter of responsible marketing, 102 people were provided training about the Anadolu Efes contributes to health and education not under the name of its alcoholictourısm ıs the future rich flora of the region. During the reporting period, the Çoruh Valley’s income from beverage brands but through annual programme tourism exceeded 1 million TL. donations to Anadolu Group’s corporate Through its ‘Tourism is the Future foundation, Anadolu Education and Health Foundation. The Anadolu Foundation has Programme’, Efes Turkey aims to foster efes tourısm traınıngs established more than 40 educational, the sustainable development of tourism Since 2007, Efes Turkey has been health and other social-services institutions. activities in the country. organising the Tourism Ambassadors It provides scholarships for 900 students Certificate Programme in cooperation with each year while the Anadolu Health Village, eastern anatolıa Boğaziçi University’s Lifelong Training established in 2005 in cooperation with Johns Hopkins Medicine International, provides free tourısm development Centre. In the reporting period, 626 participants were granted certificates from healthcare for at least 10% of its patients. project (datur) the programme. In the second phase of the programme, entitled ‘Tourism Ambassadors Culture and Art The DATUR Project, launched in 2007 with the cooperation of the United Nations in Charge Project’, three new local associations were founded in Van, Malatya Anadolu Efes has taken on a pioneering and Development Programme, the Republic of and Karadeniz Ereğlisi to undertake leading role in supporting arts and cultural Turkey’s Ministry of Culture and Tourism projects for the development of tourism in activities in its countries of operation. In and Efes Turkey, aims to support the these regions and to provide employment 2012, Efes Turkey organised the 23rd Efes regional development of Eastern Anatolia for certificate holders. The Efes Tourism Pilsen Blues Festival, the 11th Efes Pilsen by enhancing its tourism potential through a Trainings Project has thus far established One Love Festival and the 4th Miller Festival sustainable tourism model. During the 2011 eight local associations and introduced while maintaining its support as a sponsor activity plan, 26 new guesthouses were more than 3,000 trained personnel into the of the International Istanbul Film Festival for established, increasing total accommodation tourism sector. the 25th year. In 2011, Efes Georgia hosted capacity by 2,000 beds. The region’s first the Tbilisi Beer Festival and the ‘So What If trekking route was mapped in YusufeliFor more information on Efes Turkey’s It Is Winter?’ projects, both of which enjoyed İspir and hundreds of young people were Tourism is the Future Programme and its high levels of participation. In 2012, Efes trained in trekking, camping and tour projects, visit www.gelecekturizmde.com. 23 talent management Productivity and creativity are the talents that enable us to sustain a better life. In order to become a preferred employer, we provide a fair work environment in which employees’ talents are valued. of Anadolu Efes’s total workforce. Due to the nature of duties performed, women make up 9.2% of blue-collar employees, ın 2011, we solıdıfıed our commıtment to 36.2% of white-collar workers and 8.9% of senior executives. provıdıng a faır workıng envıronment by Anadolu Efes provides equal opportunities to all employees becomıng a sıgnatory to the ungc and by in all HR processes, particularly in remuneration, benefits and ıncreasıng our traınıng-hours per employee performance management, which are conducted on the basis of to 22 hours, a 29% jump from 2010. merit and other objective factors. Anadolu Efes supports a healthy balance between work and private life for all its employees. Therefore, we seek to increase operational productivity and efficiency in order to With 5,918* employees as of year-end 2012, Anadolu prevent overtime work, as well as encouraging employees’ Efes strives to ensure that its workforce is comprised of regular use of their annual leaves. The decisions made by well-educated, hardworking, creative and highly talented many talented individuals to leave their jobs in order to care individuals. The necessary atmosphere is provided for for newborn children results both in a loss of skilled workers retaining human resources, strengthening talents and for the employer and the hindering of the employees’ personal achieving high performance while offering a work-life balance career development. Due to societal reasons, this situation has befitting human dignity. a particularly strong negative impact on female employment. For similar reasons, many employees fail to return to work human rıghts following parental leaves. To address this issue, Anadolu Efes provides an environment in which employees can balance Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct is the core policy document their work and private lives in a way that meets their childcare regulating the company’s approach to human rights in the needs. Anadolu Efes employees take parental leaves in line workplace and related practices. The document, which is in with the national regulations of the countries in which they are effect across all countries of operation, is binding for the entire based and after they return to the workplace, they are offered Anadolu Efes workforce. Anadolu Efes also supports and abides various opportunities to take leave for special occasions. Such by internationally recognised agreements and initiatives such policies have resulted in all female employees returning to work as the U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Anadolu following their parental leaves. Efes emphasised its commitment to supporting human rights by becoming a signatory of the U.N. Global Compact in 2011. Anadolu Efes does not tolerate child labour, or forced or compulsory labour, and expects the same attitude from its Anadolu Efes regards the personal and cultural diversity of its business partners. Anadolu Efes employees freely exercise employees as enriching criteria for the company’s organisational their collective bargaining, unionisation and organisation culture. Anadolu Efes employees are never subjected to any rights. In this respect, trade unions in which Anadolu Efes form of discrimination based on their religion, language, race, employees are members can freely organise in operation ethnicity, gender or any other kind of personal attribute. As of centres, and Anadolu Efes assumes responsibility on its part the end of 2012, 1,446 female employees accounted for 24.4% in enabling the exercise of these rights through constructive *Employees working for SABMiller's Ukraine and Russia operations and for and productive relations built with trade unions. As of year-end business partners are excluded. 2012, 1,882 Anadolu Efes employees were covered under moldova ANADOLU EFES EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS 388 / 7% 18-25 georgıa 505 / 9% 349 / 6% 46+ female 1,135 / 19% 1,446 / 24% kazakhstan russıa blue collar 826 / 14% 2,578 / 44% 2.576 / 43% male 26-35 whıte collar 36-45 2,511 / 42% 3,340 / 56% turkey 4,472 / 76% 1,767 / 30% 1.779 / 30% Employees By Location Employees By Gender Employees By Age Group Employees By Status collective bargaining agreements. While in most countries of Through its implementation of various programmes, Anadolu Efes operation the ratio of blue-collar employees under collective provides personal and professional development opportunities bargaining agreements stands above 90%, in overall numbers for its employees at all levels and seeks to create a talent-and across Anadolu Efes operations, the figure stands at 66%. performance-improvement-oriented culture across the entire This difference is mainly due to national variations in the organisation. In this regard, in addition to the programmes prevalence of unionisation activities. Also, because there organized locally, corporate development programmes organized by are no union activities aimed at white-collar employees in Headquarters appear in the development agenda of Anadolu Efes. most countries of operation, overall unionisation across all As part of this initiative, the Efes Leadership Pathway Programme Anadolu Efes employees stands just above 32%. The most aims to increase the adaptability and responsiveness of managers significant factor enabling employees to exercise their rights to the rapidly changing conditions of working life. Participants are is their knowledge and level of awareness of these rights. In equipped with the personal and professional skills needed to manage this regard, Anadolu Efes provides awareness and training their own duties and responsibilities, and those of their employees, opportunities on human rights for its employees. In the more effectively in line with the common management understanding reporting period, 210 Anadolu Efes employees received 1,434 that Anadolu Efes expects its executives to possess. The Efes person-hours of training on human-rights-related subjects. Mindshare Programme meanwhile seeks to develop the management skills of mid-level managers in order to prepare them for future roles employee development and within the company. Finally, the Efes Mentoring Programme aims to performance management facilitate experienceand information-sharing across generations by supporting the personal and professional development of managers and directors in regard to their current and future positions. Anadolu Efes evaluates employee performance by measuring the degree to which corporate and individual performance targets, set with regards to objective criteria in the annual plan, are met. These results are used in identifying improvement requirements, career-planning decisions and performanceEQC: EFES QUALITY CIRCLES PROJECT based remuneration processes. All employees, with the exception of those under collective bargaining agreements, The Efes Quality Circles Project is an effective tool are subject to the performance evaluation process. In line for translating an understanding of sustainability into with the company’s transparency principle, all employees employees’ business practices and behaviour patterns, receive feedback regarding the results of their performance and for expanding this sustainability approach across evaluations, development and career plans. the organization. Through this project, Anadolu Efes has increased the efficiency of communication amongst its Anadolu Efes provides training opportunities for its employees employees and contributed to their skills development by in various areas in order to satisfy development and supporting innovative ideas. Under the framework of the performance improvement requirements. In the reporting EQC, 84 projects were developed in 2011 and 101 projects period, training hours per employee increased by 29% in 2012, across five countries of operation. 46 of these compared to 2008 and reached nearly 22 hours. In total, projects were carried out in 2011 and 42 were carried out 275,000 person-hours of training were provided to Anadolu in 2012. Efes employees in 2011 and 2012. 25 packagıng management We are producing more beer while using less material and ensuring that packaging waste is reclaimed and recovered. We are therefore providing consumers with products in perfect quality and confidence while reducing the environmental impact of their packaging. Packaging practices play a significant role in ensuring that several times, reducing the need for new materials. The Anadolu Efes products are provided for consumers with the design and technical properties of the preferred packaging promised taste and quality, that the corporate message is spread material contribute to reinforcing its durability, which in turn and that the products are directly consumed with confidence. increases the amount of reuse, further reducing the need to Packaging practices, however, cause an environmental impact due to the materials consumed and the waste produced. Anadolu Efes is working to minimize this impact through reducing the USING LIGHT-WEIGHT GLASS BOTTLES weight of its bottles and packaging materials while implementing Packaging durability is crucial for the delivery of products good reuse and recovery practices. to beer lovers in the most suitable fashion. Packaging materıal use materials are therefore produced at an optimum weight. The design projects carried out by Anadolu Efes in Anadolu Efes aims to reduce the one-way-packaging-material cooperation with packaging producers focus on lightweight per distributed product through projects focused on lightweighting packaging materials without compromising weighting and packaging optimisation practices that are conducted their durability. This process, in addition to alleviating the in cooperation with packaging suppliers. As far as products with environmental impact of material and energy consumption, one-way packaging are concerned, Anadolu Efes managed to emissions and waste production, also ensures a cost reduce the weight per sales volume of the PET material used by advantage. Thanks to the project initiated by Anadolu 13% and the weight per sales volume of the glass bottles used by Efes in 2011, the weight of the company’s 33 cl Draft Beer 10% in the reporting period. Thus the total weight of packaging per bottle was reduced from 230 grams to 210 grams. A similar sales volume was reduced by 10% in comparison to 2008. project reduced the weight of the 50 cl Steinie Beer bottles The environmentally friendly aspect of the returnable products used for one-way export products to 275 grams. stems from the fact that the packaging material can be reused our goal ıs to reduce the consumptıon of packagıng materıal and ıncrease ıts recyclıng. ın the reportıng perıod, we reduced the use of one-way glass bottles, savıng an annual average of 200 ktons of glass through the use of returnable glass bottles. use new materials. Anadolu Efes saves 200 ktons of glass unfit for use. Anadolu Efes ensures the dispersing of packaging on average every year. Thanks to its returnable packaging wastes at the source, their storage in production plants and practices in the reporting period. These practices also reduces recycling by authorised companies while authorised institutions the indirect environmental impacts, such as energy and water are responsible for reclaiming and recycling the one-way consumption along with CO2 emissions, caused by packaging packaging materials. material production. Since returnable packages need to be In the reporting period, 39,158 tons of glass, 7,711 tons of more durable, they weigh more than one-way ones. In addition metal, 4,610 tons of plastic and 6,660 tons of paper and to its light-weighting projects, Anadolu Efes aims to reduce cardboard were reclaimed and recycled. All reclaimed one-way consumption of new materials through design practices focused packaging material waste was recycled. Therefore the level on enhancing the durability of returnable packaging. of availability of the network and other facilities required for Anadolu Efes supports the reuse of secondary packaging reclaiming and recycling materials in the country of operation materials that protect its products until they are delivered to has a direct impact on the recycled packaging waste ratio. consumers, while also facilitating handling and storage, such The Efes Turkey operation, for instance, accounts for 75% of as wooden pallets, plastic boxes and crates, and the recycling the total recycled packaging waste volume since the recycling of materials such as paper and cardboard, plastic bands and options in Turkey are better organised than they are in other shrink wrap. countries in which Anadolu Efes operates. Packaging waste reclamation practices for Efes Turkey are conducted by the recyclıng Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Recycling Foundation (ÇEVKO), of which Anadolu Efes is a founding Anadolu Efes supports the primary disposal through recycling of member, and 40% of the metal, glass, plastic, cardboard and the primary or secondary one-way materials delivered, the scrap paper package waste was reclaimed and recycled in 2012. materials created during production and the materials deemed 27 contacts The ‘Anadolu Efes 2011-2012 Sustainability Reporting Index’ document, featuring more details on the implementation of the GRI and UNGC reporting principles as well as performance figures pertaining to the reporting period, can be found under the sustainability section of the corporate website, www.anadoluefes.com. To receive more information or communicate your suggestions regarding the Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report, please contact: Mustafa Levent İLGÜN Anadolu Efes Corporate Communications Director E-mail: mustafa.ilgun@anadoluefes.com Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. Efes Headquarters Esentepe Mh. Anadolu Cd. No: 1 Kartal 34870 Istanbul, Turkey Tel: +90 (216) 586 80 00 Fax: +90 (216) 387 46 40 Web: www.anadoluefes.com Reporting Consultant: www.kiymetiharbiye.com Design & Execution: www.santaadworks.com Print: www.sprintmatbaa.com Legal Disclaimer The Sustainability Report (The Report) has been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. (ANADOLU EFES) within the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the U.N. Global Compact. All information and opinions contained in this Report, which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided by ANADOLU EFES and have not been independently verified for this purpose. This Report has been prepared solely for information purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this Report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of ANADOLU EFES shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this Report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However ANADOLU EFES (or EFES) does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, neither ANADOLU EFES nor any of its subsidiaries, or their respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communication in connection with the Report. www.anadoluefes.com anadolu efes 2011-2012 sustaınabılıty reportıng ındex foreword Dear Stakeholders, Anadolu Efes Sustainability Reporting Index document, as an addendum to the Through the Efes Positive Impact Plan we aim Sustainability Report, is also prepared with the at contributing establishment of a better and same scope and boundry settings in line with more sustainable life. Hence we submit our GRI Guidelines. sustainability practices to the review of our stakeholders via sustainability reports that we More information on Efes Positive Impact Plan publish. In these publications, we provide the is available under the Sustainability section at information you would like to know about our www.anadoluefes.com. For further information operations in the most holistic and complete you may contact Anadolu Efes Corporate manner possible. We further improve these Communications Directorate. practices with your feedbacks. This year’s report content and format was prepared in a reader-friendlier way in line with our intended readers’ overall expectations, as were suggested by the feedbacks we have received.“Anadolu Efes Sustainability Reporting Index” document seeks to cater to the expectations of readers seeking more detailed information. ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 1 economıc performance / operatıonal summary 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Production by Volume 22.7 22.6 24.0 23.0 28.5 Beer Production (Mhl)* Malt Production (ton) 204,820 216,534 269,790 257,473 251,004 Capacity Beer Production Capacity (Mhl) 35.3 35,0 35.2 35.2 43.7 Capacity Utilization Rate in Beer Production (%) ** 60.0 64.0 68.0 65.0 65.0 Malt Production Capacity (ton) 254,000 267,000 290,000 290,000 293,656 Capacity Utilization Rate in Malt Production (%) ** 80.6 81.1 93.0 88.8 85.5 Total Sales by Volume Beer Sales (Mhl) 22.6 22.1 24.2 23.0 28.4 Malt Sales (ton) 3,247 123.5 295.0 * 1Mhl= 1,000,000 hl; 1 hl= 100 liters ** Capacity Utilization Rate= Production Volume (Mhl) x 100 / Average Capacity economıc performance / fınancıal Summary 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net Sales (1,000 TL) 3,668,917 3,811,067 4,168,793 4,761,266 6,416,835 Beer Sales 2,515,566 2,579,829 2,746,591 3,006,106 4,291,363 Others 1,153,351 1,231,238 1,422,202 1,755,160 2,125,472 Profit From Operations (1,000 TL) 627,515 647,981 693,624 605,120 765,684 Profit From Operations Margin (%) 17.1 17.0 16.6 12.7 11.9 Net Income (1,000 TL) 309,678 422,588 503,640 341,175 606,870 Net Income Margin (%) 8.4 11.1 12.1 7.2 9.5 EBITDA (1,000 TL) 854,694 916,614 1,019,004 953,416 1,255,302 EBITDA Margin (%) 23.3 24.1 24.4 20.0 19.6 Total Assets (1,000 TL) 5,123,529 5,430,041 5,588,831 6,420,709 11,644,803 Net Financial Debt/EBITDA 1.3X 0.9X 0.8X 1.2X 0.8X Earnings per Share (TL) 0.69 0.939 1.119 0.758 1.071 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 BB BB BB BB+ BBBCredit Ratings (S&P) (stable) (stable) (positive) (positive) (stable) Baa3 Credit Ratings (Moody’s) (stable) Corporate Governance Rating (%) 80.96 82.71 84.00 85.46 89.39 2 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX economıc performance / dırect economıc value 2010 2011 2012 Direct Economic Value Generated (1,000 TL) 4,168,793 4,761,266 6,416,835 Total Revenues 4,168,793 4,761,266 6,416,835 Direct Economic Value Distributed (1,000 TL) 1,920,985 2,162,601 3,035,328 Operating costs 1,051,601 1,245,220 1,747,719 Employee wages & benefits 471,805 559,438 798,036 Payments to capital providers 246,532 221,024 277,097 Shareholders 216,000 202,500 266,447 Board Members 21,682 13,154 0 Founders 8,850 5,369 10,650 Payments to government (gross taxes) 127,846 117,476 189,073 Community investments 23,201 19,443 23,403 Direct Economic Value Retained (1,000 TL) 2,247,808 2,598,665 3,381,507 economıc performance / local procurement operatıons Local Procurement By Expenditure By Number of Suppliers (%) 2011 2012 2011 2012 ANADOLU EFES 70.0 66.0 89.0 88.0 (Consolidated) ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 3 socıal performance / employee demographıcs 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 6,226 6,422 6,348 6,227 5,918 Total Number of Employees Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 4,642 1,584 4,840 1,582 4,812 1,536 4,743 1,484 4,472 1,446 Employees by Status Blue Collar 2,604 419 2,721 370 2,577 311 2,414 269 2,341 237 White Collar 2,038 1,165 2,119 1,212 2,235 1,225 2,329 1,215 2,131 1,209 Employees by Contract Type Indefinite Contract 4,552 1,511 4,738 1,527 4,769 1,473 4,674 1,419 4,447 1,426 Temporary Contract 90 73 102 55 43 63 69 65 25 20 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements By Number 1,989 1,915 1,833 1,831 1,882 By Share in Total Workforce (%) 31.95 29.82 28.88 29.40 31.80 By Share in Blue Collar 65.80 61.95 63.46 68.24 73.00 Employees (%) Employees by Employment Type Full Time 4,642 1,584 4,840 1,582 4,812 1,536 4,743 1,484 4,472 1,446 Part Time 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees by Age Group 18-25 630 250 604 216 472 196 452 186 323 182 26-35 2,125 660 2,191 701 2,185 672 2,112 645 1,894 617 36-45 1,221 377 1,314 376 1,405 387 1,430 389 1,414 353 46+ 666 297 731 289 750 281 749 264 841 294 Employees by Education Level University & Above 1,762 965 2,006 987 2,050 1,011 2,123 1,020 2,208 1,091 Other 2,880 619 2,834 595 2,762 525 2,620 464 2,264 355 99 97 92 89 91 Disabled Employees 66 33 64 33 63 29 60 29 60 31 EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS IN 2012 Total Workforce by Age Group 9% Total Workforce by Gender 19% and Location 18-25 3,000 26-35 42% 811 Female 36-45 30% 2,500 Male 46+ 2,000 265 1,500 1,000 219 1,514 1,765 Total Workforce 500 93 58 by Education Level 607 295 291 0 University 2,619 Turkey Russia Kazakhstan Moldova Georgia and Above Other 3,299 4 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX socıal performance / senıor management demographıcs 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 47 51 58 53 45 Total Number of Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Managers 44 3 48 3 53 5 47 6 41 4 Senior Managers by Age Group 18-25 0 0 0 0 0 26-35 9 12 10 7 7 36-45 28 31 34 35 25 46+ 10 8 14 11 13 Senior Managers by Nationality Local 20 26 30 33 28 Expat 27 25 28 20 17 2011 2012 senıor management demographıcs Senior Managers Senior Managers by Gender by Nationality Female Expat Male Local 9% 11% 38% 38% 2011 2012 2011 2012 89% 62% 91% 62% socıal performance / operatıonal health and safety performance 2011 2012 Total Hours Worked 12,492,376 12,010,044 Injury Rate* 0.93 1.22 Occupational Disease Rate** 0 0 Absentee Rate*** 4,260 3,323 Fatalities 0 0 * Injury Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours: The factor 200,000 used in calculations derived from 100 employees X 40 work hours X 50 weeks as indicated in GRI Framework. ** Occupational Disease Rate: Total number of occupational disease cases x 200,000 / Total work hours *** Absentee Rate: Total number of missed days x 200,000 / Total work days – Absences emerged from all incapacities of any kind preventing employees to work such as work related injuries, diseases and etc. are included in the calculation except for permitted leave absences as a part of employees’ legal rights such as annual leaves and maternity/paternity leaves. ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 5 socıal performance / Employee Traınıngs 2011 2012 Total Number of Attendance 6,670 6,164 Blue Collar 2,681 2,961 White Collar 3,989 3,203 Total Hours of Trainings (person x hour) 151,670.50 126,690.05 Blue Collar 53,444.50 44,704.00 White Collar 98,226.00 81,986.05 Average Hours of Trainings (Total 24.36 21.40 Hours/Employee) Blue Collar 19.92 17.34 White Collar 27.72 24.55 Employee Trainings on Human Rights 2011 2012 Total Attendance (number %) 97 1,6% 113 1.9% Total Training Hours (person x hour) 733 701 Employee Trainings on OHS 2011 2012 Total Attendance 2,235 2,535 Total Training Hours (person x hour) 34,928 34,554.80 Employee Trainings on 2011 2012 Environmental Management Total Attendance 1,781 868 Total Training Hours (person x hour) 3,207 2,372 socıal performance / average traınıng hours per employee 30 24.36 21.90 21.92 21.40 20 16.60 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 socıal performance employee turnover 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 115 134 143 154 199 Employees on Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Parental Leave 30 85 31 103 120 23 138 16 61 138 Employees Returned 89 121 135 125 156 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7.13 6.10 6.33 6.92 7.52 Average Seniority Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female (years) 6.71 7.39 5.98 6.50 6.29 6.60 6.55 6.84 6.86 7.84 6 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX socıal performance / employee turnover 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1,560 (25%) 840 (13%) 1.117 (18%) 937 (15%) 817 (14%) New Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Hires* (Number-%) 1.190 370 636 204 789 328 697 240 583 234 (26%) (23%) (13%) (13%) (16%) (21%) (15%) (16%) (13%) (16%) New Hires by Age Groups* (Number %) 18-25 664 (75%) 323 (39%) 338 (51%) 324 (51%) 264 (52%) 26-35 635 (23%) 390 (13%) 540 (19%) 510 (18%) 443 (18%) 36-45 169 (11%) 91 (5%) 144 (8%) 74 (4%) 89 (5%) 46+ 92 (10%) 36 (4%) 95 (9%) 29 (3%) 21 (2%) Employees Left* (Number %) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1,347 (22%) 1,104 (17%) 915 (14%) 1,092 (18%) 1,016 (17%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 1.006 341 810 294 621 294 426 666 759 257 (22%) (22%) (17%) (19%) (13%) (19%) (9%) (45%) (13%) (16%) Employees Left by Age Group* (Number %) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 18-25 397 (45%) 259 (32%) 184 (28%) 194 (30%) 178 (35%) 26-35 549 (20%) 477 (16%) 459 (16%) 588 (21%) 562 (22%) 36-45 216 (14%) 206 (12%) 125 (7%) 161 (9%) 190 (11%) 46+ 185 (19%) 162 (16%) 147 (14%) 149 (15%) 86 (8%) * Percantage values are calculated as the rate of number of indicated employees to total workforce. socıal performance / employee turnover Employee Turnover by Age Groups Employee Turnover by Gender 21 86 100% 89 80% 190 100% 234 257 46+ 60% 443 80% 36-45 562 60% Female 40% 26-35 40% Male 18-25 583 759 20% 264 20% 178 %0 0% New Hires Employees Left New Hires Employees Left ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 7 envıronmental performance / water wıthdrawal 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Water Consumption in Breweries (hl/hl) 5.5 5.3 4.8 4.6 4.5 Total Water Consumption in Breweries (million m3) 12.5 12.0 11.5 10.6 10.1 Ground Water 5.1 5.5 5.3 5.4 5.0 Municipal 7.4 6.5 6.2 5.2 5.0 Specific Water Consumption in Malteries (m3/ton) 8.3 7.5 7.4 6.9 6.4 Total Water Consumption in Malteries (million m3) 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.6 Ground Water 1.3 1.8 1.9 1.7 1.4 Municipal 0.8 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 envıronmental performance / water consumptıon trends 8.3 5.5 Water Consumption Trend Water Consumption Trend 5.3 in Breweries 7.5 7.4 in Malteries 4.8 6.9 4.6 4.5 6.4 12.5 12.0 11.5 10.6 10.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Water Consumption Specific Water Consumption (hl/hl) Total Water Consumption Specific Water Consumption (m3/ton) (million m3) (milyon m3) envıronmental performance / wastewater dıscharge 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (hl/hl) 4.1 3.9 3.5 3.3 3.2 Total Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (million m3) 9.4 8.9 8.4 7.6 7.1 Sewage System 8.1 7.6 7.2 6.4 5.6 Surface Water Body 1.2 1.4 1.2 1.2 1.3 Specific Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (m3/ton) 6.5 6.1 6.0 5.4 5.3 Total Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (million m3) 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.4 1.3 Sewage System 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.8 Surface Water Body 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 envıronmental performance / wastewater dıscharge trends Wastewater Discharge Trend in Breweries 6.5 Wastewater Discharge Trend in Malteries 4.1 3.9 6.1 6.0 3.5 5.4 3.3 3.2 5.3 9.4 8.9 8.4 7.6 7.1 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.4 1.3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Wastewater Specific Wastewater Total Wastewater Specific Wastewater Discharge (million m3) Discharge (hl/hl) Discharge (million m3) Discharge (m3/ton) 8 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX envıronmental performance / energy consumptıon Energy Consumption in Breweries 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Energy Consumption in Breweries (kWh/hl) 42.4 39.3 36.9 36.7 36.6 Total Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 3,453 3,211 3,241 3,037 2,961 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 2,229 2,083 2,093 1,905 1,869 Natural Gas 2,087 1,953 1,891 1,772 1,724 Fuel Oil 130 124 196 126 138 Diesel 12 6 7 7 8 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 1,224 1,128 1,148 1,132 1,091 Electricity 887 850 842 845 830 Steam 337 279 306 287 262 Energy Consumption in Malteries 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific Energy Consumption in Malteries (kWh/ton) 1,013 1,042 1,054 1,074 1,050 Total Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 926 997 1,027 996 950 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) Natural Gas 435 508 550 519 455 Fuel Oil 44 1 0 0 0 Diesel 2 2 2 2 2 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 288 290 292 291 287 Electricity 130 130 139 135 128 Steam 158 160 153 156 159 envıronmental performance / energy consumptıon trends Energy Consumption Trend in Breweries Energy Consumption Trend in Malteries 1,074 42.4 1,054 1,050 39.3 1,042 36.9 36.7 36.6 1,013 3,453 3,211 3,241 3,037 2,961 926 997 1,027 996 950 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Energy Consumption Specific Energy Total Energy Consumption Specific Energy Consumption (TJ) Consumption (kWh/hl) (TJ) (kWh/ton) ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 9 envıronmental performance / effıcıency ın dıstrıbutıon 2010 2011 2012 Distribution Distance per sales volume (km/hl) 3.77 3.47 3.64 Forklift Fuel Consumption per sales volume (kg/hl) 0.08 0.07 0.08 envıronmental performance / emıssıons 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Specific GHG Emissions in Breweries (kg CO2e/hl) 11.2 10.3 9.9 9.8 9.8 Direct 5.9 5.4 5.2 4.9 5.0 Indirect 5.3 4.9 4.6 4.9 4.9 Total GHG Emissions in Breweries (ktons CO2e) 253 233 237 225 221 Direct 134 122 126 113 112 Indirect 119 111 111 111 109 Specific GHG Emissions in Malteries (kg CO2e/ton) 247 247 249 254 250 Direct 145 150 153 154 149 Indirect 102 97 96 100 101 Total GHG Emissions in Malteries (ktons CO2e) 63 66 67 65 63 Direct 37 40 41 40 37 Indirect 26 26 26 26 25 envıronmental performance / ghg emıssıon trends Emission Trend in Breweries Emission Trend in Malteries 11.2 10.3 9.9 9.8 9.8 254 250 249 247 247 253 233 237 225 221 63 66 67 65 63 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Emissions Specific Emissions Total Emissions Specific Emissions (ktons CO2e) (kg CO2e/hl) (ktons CO2e) (kg CO2e/ton) 10 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX envıronmental performance / solıd waste 2010 2011 2012 Total Waste Disposal (kton) 438 447 427 Recovery* 395 421 408 Other 42 24 18 Recovery Ratio (%) 90.4 94.2 95.7 envıronmental performance / waste dısposal Waste Disposal in Breweries and Malteries 4.3% Recovery 5.8% Others 9.8% 10 11 12 20 20 20 90.2% 94.2% 95.7% envıronmental performance / packagıng 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Glass Saved by Two-Way Packaging Practices (kton) 234 221 213 221 199 Reclamation & Recycling 2011 2012 Reclaimed One-Way Packaging Materials (ton) 36,391 21,748 Glass 25,628 13,530 Metal 3,986 3,724 Plastic 2,980 1,630 Cardboard & Paper 3,796 2,864 * Solid wastes and by-products are included. ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 11 reportıng ındex UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Profile Disclosures President's Full 1.1 Statement 3 President's Full Statement 3 Anadolu Efes 1.2 Sustainability 5-7 Management Corporate www: Sustainability Website 2.1 Contacts 28 Full Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 2.2 Operations Corporate www: Brands Website www: Anadolu Efes>Main Subsidiaries Full 2.3 Corporate www: Anadolu Efes>Management>BOD and Committees Website www: Operations 2.4 Contacts 28 Full Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 2.5 Operations Corporate www: Operations Website Anadolu Efes Full 2.6 2012 Annual 4-5; Report 21 Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 2.7 Operations Corporate www: Operations Website Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 Operations Anadolu Efes 2.8 Sustainability 2-4 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Corporate www: Investor Relations>Shareholder and Investor Relations>Share Price Website Information www: Anadolu Efes>Capital Structure www: Investor Relations>Shareholder and Investor Full 2.9 Corporate Relations>Announcements>2011 Website www: Investor Relations>Shareholder and Investor Relations>Announcements>2012 Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 2.10 Operations Water 8-9 Management 3.1 About the Report 2 Full 3.2 About the Report 2 Full 3.3 About the Report 2 Full 3.4 Contacts 28 Full About the Report 2 Full 3.5 Corporate Website www:Sustainability 3.6 About the Report 2 Full 3.7 About the Report 2 Full About the Report 2 Full 3.8 Corporate Website www:Sustainability When disclosing environmental performance data, in order to the audience Full gets a more comprehensive idea, in addition to the measurement criteria defined by GRI, we also employed production volume specific performce About the Report 2 values which have a common use within the sector. When disclosing brewery 3.9 operations based parametres, we employ performance values per 1 hectolitres of beer produced. Respectively, for disclosing malting operations based parametres, we employ performance values per 1 tons of malt produced. CSD and FAD products are also included in specific data. Corporate Website www:Sustainability 12 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level About the Report 2 Full 3.10 Corporate Website www:Sustainability 3.11 About the Report 2 Full Contacts 28 Full Anadolu Efes 3.12 Sustainability Reporting Index 12-20 2011-2012 3.13 Legal Disclaimer 28 Full Principle 1 Corporate www: Anadolu Efes>Management>BOD & Committees Full 4.1 Principle 10 Website www:Sustainability Principle 1 www: Anadolu Efes>Management>BOD & Committees Full 4.2 Principle 10 Corporate www: Anadolu Efes>Management>Beer Group Management Website www:Sustainability Principle 1 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 10 Sustainability Reporting Index 5 4.3 2011-2012 Corporate www: Anadolu Efes>Management>BOD & Committees Website Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 10 Management 24-25 Operational 18-21 Reliability 4.4 Anadolu Efes 2012 Annual 96Report 106 Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 10 Management 24-25 Anadolu Efes 4.5 2012 Annual 116 Report Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 1 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 10 Code of Conduct Anadolu Group Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes 4.6 2012 Annual 111-113 Report www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct>Ethical Corporate Rules and Code of Conduct Website www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct>Code of Business Conduct www:Sustainability Principle 1 Corporate www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Full 4.7 Principle 10 Website Conduct>Compliance Report Principle 1 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 10 Sustainability 5 Management Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct 4.8 Anadolu Group Code of Conduct www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct>Ethical Corporate Rules and Code of Conduct Website www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct>Code of Business Conduct www:Sustainability Principle 1 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 10 2012 Annual 112Report 115 4.9 Corporate www: Sustainability Website Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 10 Management 24-25 Anadolu Efes 4.10 2012 Annual 111-113 Report Corporate www:Sustainability Website ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 13 UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 7 Anadolu Efes Full Sustainability 5-7 Management Anadolu Efes 1144.11 2012 Annual 115 Report www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Corporate Conduct>Compliance Report Website www:Sustainability Principle 1 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 10 Sustainability 5-7 Management 4.12 Talent 24-25 Management Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 1 Packaging Full Principle 10 Practices 27 4.13 Product 16 Responsibility Corporate Full 4.14 Website www:Sustainability About the Report 2 Full Anadolu Efes 4.15 Sustainability 5 Management Corporate www:Sustainability Website Anadolu Efes Full Sustainability 5-7 4.16 Management Corporate www:Sustainability Website Product Labeling Full and Consumer 14-15 Support lines are one of the most actively used tool that our stakeholders, Information primarily consumers, submit information requests about Anadolu Efes. Among these submissions, beside product information, most frequently received 4.17 Anadolu Efes 103inquiries are about special offers, events and conditions to become an 2012 Annual 106 Anadolu Efes dealer. Report Corporate www: Investor Relations>Shareholder and Investor Relations>General Website Assembly>2011 Disclosures on Management Approach Principle 1 President's Full Principle 4 Statement 3 Principle 6 Principle 7 Anadolu Efes Brewery 4 Operations Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management Water 8-9 Management Energy & 10-11 Emissions DMA EC Talent 24-25 Management Enhancing the 12-13 Value Chain Product 14-17 Responsibility Community 22-23 Development Anadolu Efes Sustainability 2-7 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Corporate www:Sustainability Website 14 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 7 President's Full Principle 8 Statement 3 Principle 9 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management Water 8-9 Management Energy & 10-11 Emissions Packaging 26-27 Practices DMA EN Operational Reliability 18-21 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 10-13 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Anadolu Group Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct Corporate www: Yatırımcı İlişkileri>Kurumsal Yönetim ve Çalışma Prensipleri Website www:Sürdürülebilirlik Principle 1 President's Full Principle 3 Statement 3 Principle 6 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management Talent 24-25 Management Operational 18-21 Reliability DMA LA Anadolu Efes Sustainability 4-7 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Anadolu Group Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct Corporate www: Investor Relations>Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct>Code Website of Business Conduct www:Sustainability Principle 1 President's Full Principle 2 Statement 3 Principle 3 Principle 4 Anadolu Efes Principle 5 Sustainability 5-7 Principle 6 Management Talent 24-25 Management DMA HR Enhancing the Value Chain 12-13 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 3, 7 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 10 President's Full Statement 3 Anadolu Efes Brewery 4 Operations Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management Enhancing the 12-13 DMA SO Value Chain Community 22-23 Development Anadolu Group Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct Corporate www:Sustainability Website ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 15 UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 1 President's Full Principle 8 Statement 3 Anadolu Efes Brewery 4 Operations DMA PR Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management Product 14-17 Responsibility Corporate www:Sustainability Website Performance Disclosures Anadolu Efes Full EC1 Sustainability 3 Reporting Index 2011-2012 President's Partial Statement 3 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 Management EC2 Water 8-9 Management Energy & 10-11 Emissions Corporate www: Sustainability Website All Anadolu Efes employees benefit public social security system in Full compliance with binding legal regulations for the business unit they work in. Members of the Anadolu Efes, who are working in Turkey operations, can EC3 also participate volutarily in Individual Pension System. When employees participate to the pension system with a contribution no less than 2% of their gross salary, Anadolu Efes contributes to the fund with an additional 2%. Thus, premium amount paid increases two folds. Since its initial launch in 2007, Anadolu Efes has been participating in the Full Turquality Programme, which was organized by the Government of Turkey to support the recognition of Turkish brands overseas. In the scope of this programme, various efforts to present Turkish brands to the world receive EC4 50% financial support from the Turkish government. Participation in executive training programmes organized within the Turquality Programme also contributes to human resource development. Brandawareness activities held abroad by Anadolu Efes in 2011 received 4 million TL and 7.2 million TL in 2012 in financial support through Turquality and similar initiative programmes. Principle 1 All Anadolu Efes employees are remunerated with salaries equal or above Full local minimum wages defined by binding legal regulations for business EC5 unit they work in. Ratio of wages compared to local minimum wage varries according to the employee status and country of operations. No different measures applied according to the gender. Anadolu Efes Full Sustainability 5-7 Management Community 22-23 Development EC6 Enhancing the Value Chain 12-13 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 3 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 6 Talent Full Management 24-25 Community 22-23 EC7 Development Anadolu Efes Sustainability 4-5 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Enhancing the Full Value Chain 12-13 Product 14-17 Responsibility EC8 Community 22-23 Development Anadolu Efes Sustainability 3 Reporting Index 2011-2012 16 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Enhancing the Full Value Chain 12-13 Product 14-17 Responsibility Community 22-23 EC9 Development Anadolu Efes Sustainability 3 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 8 Water Full Management 8-9 Packaging 26-27 EN1 Practices Anadolu Efes Sustainability 8, 11 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Water Full Principle 9 Management 8-9 Packaging 26-27 EN2 Practices Anadolu Efes Sustainability 11 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Energy & Full Emissions 10-11 EN3 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 9 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Energy & Partial Emissions 10-11 EN4 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 9 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 9 Sustainability 5-7 Management Anadolu Efes EN5 Sustainability 9-10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Energy & 10-11 Emissions Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 9 Sustainability 5-7 Management Energy & 10-11 EN6 Emissions Anadolu Efes Sustainability 9-10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 9 Sustainability 5-7 Management Energy & 10-11 EN7 Emissions Anadolu Efes Sustainability 9-10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Water Full Management 8-9 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5-7 EN8 Management Anadolu Efes Sustainability 8 Reporting Index 2011-2012 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 17 UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 8 Since no water bodies employed such as RAMSAR or other protected Full EN9 resources, no water resources used by Anadolu Efes is under stress according to the criteria expressed in the indicator. Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Partial Principle 9 Sustainability 5-7 EN10 Management Water 8-9 Management Principle 8 Operational Full EN11 Reliability 18-21 Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. Principle 8 Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. No such impact Full EN12 occured during the reporting period. Principle 8 Since Anadolu Efes operations has no significant impact on habitats, no Full EN13 restoration or protection practices carried out other than general practices performed due to the Anadolu Efes Environmental Management Scheme. Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Sustainability 5-7 Management Water 8-9 EN14 Management Operational 18-21 Reliability Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 8 During the reporting period, no impact on species with extinction risk Full EN15 detected by or reported to Anadolu Efes. Principle 8 Energy & Full Emissions 10-11 EN16 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Energy & Partial EN17 Emissions 10-11 Principle 7 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 8 Sustainability 5-7 Principle 9 Management Energy & 10-11 EN18 Emissions Anadolu Efes Sustainability 10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Sustainability 5-7 Management Water 8-9 EN21 Management Efes Sustainability 8 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Operational Full Reliability 18-21 EN22 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 11 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Most of the wastewater occured in Anadolu Efes operations is discharged Full EN25 to sewage system. Biodiversity value of no receiving environment is harmed since wastewater discharged only after the quality level required by legal regulations is ensured. Principle 7 Water Full Principle 8 Management 8-9 Principle 9 Energy & 10-11 Emissions Packaging 26-27 Practices EN26 Operational 18-21 Reliability Anadolu Efes Sustainability 11 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Corporate www:Sustainability Website 18 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 8 Anadolu Efes Full Principle 9 Sustainability 5-7 Management Packaging 26-27 EN27 Practices Anadolu Efes Sustainability 11 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 8 Energy & Full Emissions 10-11 EN29 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 10 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 7 Operational Full EN30 Principle 8 Reliability 18-21 Principle 9 Talent Full Management 24-25 LA1 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 4 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 6 Full Anadolu Efes LA2 Sustainability 7 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Within Anadolu Efes workforce, there is no part-time employee and only a few Full LA3 number of temporary employees. Temporary employees have equal benefits with full time employees within the duration of their employment contract. Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 3 Management 24-25 LA4 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 4 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 3 Possible changes in company operations or working conditions and Full workplaces of employees are annouced before the execution of the changes, LA5 according to minimum notice periods indicated in applicable legal regulations. These periods can vary according to the operation country regulations and to the employee seniority. Collective bargaining agreements regulate minimum notice periods for covered employees. Principle 1 Operational Full LA6 Reliability 18-21 Principle 1 Operational Partial Reliability 18-21 LA7 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Talent Partial Management 24-25 LA10 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 6 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Talent Full LA11 Management 24-25 Talent Full LA12 Management 24-25 Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 6 Management 24-25 LA13 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 5 Reporting Index 2011-2012 Principle 1 Just as in all other subjects, no gender based remuneration practice is Full Principle 6 possible between Anadolu Efes employees. All employees receive equal LA14 basic salary unless they perform same job. Salaries can vary according to performance bonuses, overtimes and similar payments. Talent Partial Management 24-25 LA15 Anadolu Efes Sustainability 6 Reporting Index 2011-2012 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 19 UNGC Response GRI Indicators References Page Description Indicators Level Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 2 Management 24-25 Principle 3 HR3 Principle 4 Anadolu Efes Principle 5 Sustainability Principle 6 Reporting Index 6 2011-2012 Principle 1 Full HR4 Principle 2 During the reporting period, no such case has occured. Principle 6 Principle 1 Talent In all Anadolu Efes operations, collective bargaining, organization and Full Principle 2 Management 24-25 unionization rights are secured. All employees are free to become a member Principle 3 of the trade union which they prefer and to benefit collective bargaining HR5 practices. Anadolu Efes expects all suppliers to adopt similar working Enhancing the 12-13 Value Chain principles. During the reporting period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against the exercise of these rights. Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 2 24-25 No child labor is employed in any Anadolu Efes operation. Anadolu Efes Management expects all suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting HR6 Principle 5 Enhancing the period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major supplier Value Chain 12-13 operations against exercise of this principle. Principle 1 Talent Full Principle 2 24-25 No Anadolu Efes operation employs forced or compulsory labor. Anadolu Management Efes expects all suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the HR7 Principle 4 Enhancing the reporting period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major Value Chain 12-13 supplier operations against exercise of this principle. Principle 1 Talent All security personnel working in Anadolu Efes operations receive training on Full HR8 Principle 2 Management 24-25 human rights principles and pratices during their vocational training. HR11 During the reporting period, no such case has occured. Full Anadolu Efes Partial Sustainability 5-7 Management Enhancing the 12-13 SO1 Value Chain Community 22-23 Development Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 10 Anadolu Efes All company organization is periodically subject to both internal and Anadolu Full 2012 Annual 114Group auditing processes. All company accounts, records and documents are Report 115 audited quarterly by Anadolu Efes Audit Committee. SO2 Corporate www:Sustainability Website Principle 1 Anadolu Group Full Principle 10 Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes, in line with its activities, manages its relations with public authorities within the limits of close communication and information exchange; SO5 can participate cooperation activities as a corporation or as a member of a Anadolu Efes sectoral organization in case of an invitation. However, according to working Code of Conduct principles, Anadolu Efes does not conduct lobbying activities for company’s interest; does not support individuals or groups carrying out the same. Principle 10 Anadolu Group Full Code of Conduct Anadolu Efes subscribes to no political ideology or agenda; accordingly does SO6 not declare any political opinion or position; does not directly or indirectly Anadolu Efes support any political party, movement or initiative. Code of Conduct Principle 1 Product Full PR2 Responsibility 14-17 During the reporting period, no such case has occured Principle 8 Product Full PR3 Responsibility 14-17 PR4 Principle 8 During the reporting period, no such case has occured Full Anadolu Full Efes Brewery 4 PR5 Operations Product 14-17 Responsibility Product Full Responsibility 14-17 PR6 Corporate www:Sustainability Website PR7 During the reporting period, no such case has occured Full PR8 Principle 1 During the reporting period, no such case has occured Full 20 ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX You can access Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report 2011 at www.anadoluefes.com For further information and feedback; Mustafa Levent İLGÜN Anadolu Efes Corporate Communications Director mustafa.ilgun@anadoluefes.com Contacts: Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. Headquarters Esentepe Mh. Anadolu Cd. No:1 Kartal 34870 İstanbul, Türkiye T: +90 216 586 80 00 F: +90 216 306 25 17 LEGAL DISCLAIMER: Anadolu Efes 2011-2012 Sustainability Reporting Index Document (Document), has been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. (Anadolu Efes) as an addendum to Efes Sustainability Report 2011 within the reporting principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All information and opinions contained in this Document which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided to by Anadolu Efes and have not been independently veriﬁed for this purpose. This Document has been prepared solely for information purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this document constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of Anadolu Efes shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this document does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this document’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However Anadolu Efes (or EFES) does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, Anadolu Efes or none of its subsidiaries, or their respectives advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Document or in any other information or communication in connection with the Document. ANADOLU EFES 2011-2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING INDEX 21
