Sustainability Report 2012 The global leader in door opening solutions Sustainability highlights 2012 1 ASSA ABLOY in brief 2 CEO statement 4 Sustainability Challenges and opportunities 6 Goals and performance 7 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working 8 Customer value and innovation process 10 Supply chain integrity 15 Manufacturing 18 Reducing environmental impact in operation 18 Water and waste 21 Organic solvents and surface treatment 23 People People make it all happen 26 Sustainability Report 2012 Careers in ASSA ABLOY 27 The global leader in A safe place to work 29 door opening solutions Growing with care 30 Gender balance and diversity 31 Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders 32 External recognition 33 Dialog with SRI community and analysts 34 International guidelines leading the way 36 Community outreach 37 Governance Governance 39 Organizational responsibility 40 Code of Conduct 41 Anti-Bribery Policy 42 Acquisitions – risks and opportunities 44 Reporting Reporting principles 46 GRI content index table 47 Glossary 49 Contacts 50 The Sound of Silence Students thrive in learning environments without unwanted distractions. Patients need rest to heal. Band rehearsals produce beautiful music but may be disturbing to some. Classrooms, healing environments and music Reader’s guide rehearsal rooms all share the same challenge. ASSA ABLOY has published a sustainability report They need to contain or keep unwanted sound each year since 2006. The report describes the out while maintaining an everyday aesthetic Group’s sustainability initiatives and addresses for each building environment. issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as the most To meet the challenges that sound can important to its stakeholders. The report is aimed present, ASSA ABLOY offer Sound Transmission at experts and professionals with an interest in Class (STC) rated door openings. These door ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability performance, includopenings provide sound suppression of both ing analysts, investors and nongovernmental airborne and/or structure borne vibrations. A certified door, frame, threshold, gasket and organizations. door bottom assembly can silence the sound As signatory to the UN Global Compact, so noise is reduced and privacy maintained. ASSA ABLOY will submit this report to the UN ASSA ABLOY’s Ceco, Curries, Graham, Global Compact as its Communication on ProgMaiman and SMP doors combined with ASSA ress report 2012. The sustainability report is ABLOY’s Pemko hardware can provide thirdaligned with the Global Reporting Initiative party certified STC-rated solutions for wood guidelines, ASSA ABLOY declares reporting in and hollow metal door openings ranging from accordance with level B (see pages 47–48 for GRI STC 30 to an industry leading rating of 55. content table). The data presented in this report Thanks to ASSA ABLOY’s solutions, any has been collected over the calendar year and room in any building can receive the rating includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. For further needed without compromising aesthetics. Classroom distractions are minimized with information regarding the sustainability report STC 30 door openings, patient rooms provide and its reporting principles, see page 46. enhanced peace and quiet with STC 33 openings and music rooms become private Greenhouse gases emitted though the production of this printed matter, including paper, other materiperformance spaces with STC 40 solutions. als and transport, were offset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation ­project in Uganda. Sustainability highlights 2012 • Number of reporting units increased to 293 from 256. • 795 sustainability audits were performed in low-cost countries, compared to 493 in 2011. • Increased reporting of environmental data on water usage and greenhouse gases. • Independent social compliance audits were performed in Romania and China. • Employee survey carried out with close to 28,000 participants. • More than 6,000 employees participated in anti-bribery training. About this report This report, along with additional information available online, explains the Group’s sustainability performance in 2012. Unless otherwise stated, all information refers to activities undertaken between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012. The 2012 data is based on 293 entities, compared to 256 entities in 2011. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 1 Lock and lock systems Mobile keys Access control Door closers ASSA ABLOY is the global leader dedicated to satisfying end-user and convenience. ASSA ABLOY is represented on both mature and emerging markets worldwide, with leading positions in much of Europe, North America, Asia, Australia and New Zealand. SHARE OF GROUP SALES BY REGION 2012 EUROPE NORTH AMERICA 47% 29% ASIA 16% SOUTH AMERICA 2% AFRICA 1% AUSTRALIA 5% NEW ZEALAND Schools and offices Museums Homes Hospitals 2 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Electromechanical locks Entrance automation Industrial doors Digital locks in door opening solutions, needs for security, safety As the world’s leading lock group, ASSA ABLOY offers a more complete range of door opening solutions than any other company on the market. Since its formation in 1994, ASSA ABLOY has grown from a regional company into an international group with 47 SEK 47 billion in sales around 43,000 employees and sales of around SEK 47 billion. In the fast-growing electromechanical security segment, the Group has a leading position in areas such as access control, identification technology, entrance automation and hotel security. Industry Arenas Railway Stations and Airports Hotels ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 3 CEO statement Sustainability as a driver for growth ASSA ABLOY continued its progress In our innovation and product development processes, we conduct life-cycle assessments that start from the towards fulfilling its sustainability goals design phase and continue through to the recovery and we are on track to meet our goals phase. The selection and development of solutions, for 2015. We have gone from annual materials, suppliers, manufacturing and logistics is governed by systematic processes that promote to semi-annual internal sustainability resourceand cost-efficiency. reporting and conducted 795 supplier The ASSA ABLOY Group welcomes the building sustainability audits in 2012 – a record industry’s adoption of new norms and standards that contribute toward energy efficiency and a life-cycle number. We are embracing sustainabil(cradle to grave) approach to the handling of materials. ity in our product innovation process In 2012, we continued our progress toward fulfilland continued to develop more susing our sustainability goals for 2015. We have made improvements in areas such as energy and water containable products. sumption, introduced measures to reduce hazardous waste and phased out certain types of solvents by Sustainability is integrated throughout the value chain investing in new processes. Nearly 300 entities, includand supports our business strategy for global market ing all newly acquired companies, representing about presence, product leadership and cost efficiency. Our 99 percent of our business now submit sustainability sustainability goals and initiatives support the entire reports. The scope of our reporting has been expanded process from sourcing, product development, manufacto include water consumption, greenhouse gases and turing, logistics and sales to installation. Target setting is ozone-depleting substances. We have also gone from a corporate responsibility, while the actions are impleannual to semi-annual internal sustainability reporting. mented and results are achieved within the divisions. Our focus on sustainability has revealed areas where ASSA ABLOY is the market leader in the global shift we need to improve. For example, carbon emissions from mechanical to electromechanical solutions for at some newly acquired companies are still too high. locks, doors and windows. Our position creates opporWe will continue our efforts to reduce emissions by tunities for intelligent solutions and products that can investing in new technologies and reviewing existing “ASSA ABLOY remains comgreatly contribute to energy and cost savings. processes. mitted to the principles of Demand for sustainable products is increasing. This Our sustainability work also includes the perforthe UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, is an opportunity for ASSA ABLOY and we are embracing mance of our supply chain. This is a challenge, given labor, the environment and sustainability on a large scale. We are producing prodASSA ABLOY’s rapid expansion in emerging markets. anti-corruption. This report ucts in a more environmentally friendly manner that In 2012, we conducted 795 supplier audits – more contains our annual combetter meet our customers’ needs while also lowering than double the number completed in 2011. munication on progress.” their total cost of ownership. 4 CEO STATEMENT ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CEO statement Internally, training is provided for skills and career development, and also to support the improvement of our sustainability performance. In 2012 we conducted comprehensive anti-corruption training and commissioned independent internal social compliance audits to asses our performance. Our long-term efforts to improve the gender balance in management positions will continue. I want to thank the investors who participated in the SRI roundtable discussions in 2012. Stakeholder dialogue is an important means of sharing knowledge and experience. Our employees’ knowledge, skills and commitment drive our sustainability work. With that in mind, I would like to thank all employees for outstanding efforts during the year. I hope that this report will be valuable to you, and give a fair and in-depth picture of the sustainability activities within ASSA ABLOY. Stockholm, 4 April 2013 Johan Molin President and CEO ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CEO STATEMENT 5 Challenges and opportunities Challenges and opportunities ASSA ABLOY’s most important sustainThe Group’s most important sustainability opportunities are related to ASSA ABLOY product offerings that ability challenges are related sourcing, are sustainable; either inherently or because of what resource consumption, dependence they can do for our customers or to create a more suson certain input materials, expansion tainable environment. of manufacturing in low-cost countries To manage opportunities, ASSA ABLOY will: and health and safety in manufacturing. • Create products that fulfill our customers’ demands • Create products that our customers want to buy To mitigate challenges, the Group will: • Increase our knowledge of customers’ future • Reduce resource and energy consumption demands • Reduce carbon emissions • Increase efficiency in our production • Improve water and waste management • Improve health and safety performance in manufacturing • Improve sustainability performance within the supply chain – focus is to ensure compliance with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct Skanska thriving on sustainable practices Skanska, with activities in the US, Europe and Latin America, is one of the world’s leading construction and development companies, and an industry frontrunner when it comes to sustainability. Sustainability is just another aspect of good business practice in Skanska’s view, and it selects suppliers who share this opinion. When it comes to sustainability issues, the construction industry – at least in some parts of the world – has made major strides in the past five years. “There is a much greater commitment to safety, there is more attention to waste reduction by the construction industry and people are starting to wake up to the issues of embedded carbon in materials and energy efficiency,” says Noel Morrin, senior vice president of sustainability at Skanska. Read the full version at www.assaabloy.com/sustainability Materials under scrutiny Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) are becoming increasingly the building project, and explained that EPDs would be necessary in important for construction and property management companies order to be considered as a supplier. Suppliers were given a year to such as Norway’s Statsbygg. work on their declarations. Statsbygg manages about 2.7 million square meters of floor space “There’s a cost involved in doing EPDs,” Zdena Cervenka, a senior and owns 2,350 buildings in Norway and abroad on behalf of the Norweadvisor at Statsbygg, acknowledges. “But companies are gaining very gian government. In 2006, Statsbygg started requiring EPDs, beginning important knowledge about their own production and how they can with a new government building project. reduce its environmental impact. We have seen that many suppliers An EPD is a certified environmental declaration developed in accorare making improvements.” dance with the ISO 14025 standard. It is designed to provide relevant, verified and comparable information about the environmental impact Read the full version at www.assaabloy.com/sustainability of goods and services. Prior to getting started with EPDs, Statsbygg informed potential suppliers about the most important materials in 6 CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Goals and performance Many improved KPI´s 2012 Most of the sustainability KPI´s improved The overall goal for 2012 was for ASSA ABLOY to ensure a systematic implementation of the updated sustainduring 2012 – for the Group as well as ability program throughout the Group in order to for the divisions. In 2010, ASSA ABLOY achieve the defined short and long-term targets. updated its sustainability priorities With 293 reporting units, it is important to ensure a high level of knowledge of the Group’s sustainability with goals and targets set to run until priorities in all parts of the organization and to share 2015. The program is based on the information and best practices between entities. The Group’s risk assessment procedures, ASSA ABLOY Sustainability database and analysis tool is a key element for tracking performance and identifying covers material sustainability issues areas where improvements can be made. and mandates measurable results. Since 2010, the divisions are obliged to identify and report the most material environmental risks for each individual entity, and also to explain how these risks are managed. PERFORMANCE REPORTING FLOW Collection and Data analysis Short-term targets Long-term targets validation of data Using the 2011 data as a baseline, the 2012 data was progress every six months to ASSA ABLOY Group. collected and analyzed in order to understand the status Each division is fully responsible for the implementaquo and to set longand short-term targets. tion of the sustainability program within its entities and, Each company is obliged to set targets for the comin several cases, a monthly follow-up of the prioritized ing year for all of the main KPIs and will report on KPIs and defined actions is conducted. Material KPI Improvement Target¹ Area 2010 2011¹ 2012¹ 2010 – 2012 2015 Environmental KPI Number of manufacturing entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable management systems 69 75 912 +223 1102 KPI, Greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2/Value added (tonnes/SEK M) 15.4 14.8 13.9 –9.9% –10% KPI, Energy consumption/Value added (MWh/SEK M) 39.4 37.2 34.9 –11.4% –15% KPI, Water/Value added (m3/SEK M) 135.2 124.6 115.8 –14.5% –15% KPI, Hazardous waste/Value added (kg/SEK M) 293 191 176 –39.9% –15% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tonnes) 32.3 21.6 17.2 –46.7% –75% Social KPI KPI, Percentage of spend in low-cost countries represented by sustainability audited suppliers 80%4 90%5 90% >90%6 Injury rate 7.8 8.9 9.0 +16% –15% Injury lost day rate 141 161 173 +23% –15% Suppliers – Sustainability appraisals – Code of 376 493 795 Conduct requirement for all suppliers Sustainability sustainability sustainability sustainability audits of suppliers in risk category audits 4 audits 5 audits 5 Gender diversity See page 34 See page 34 See page 31 1 For comparable units. 2 For comparable units. Number of entities covered by certificates and corresponding certifiable systems for North American units amounted to 100. Number of entities with significant environmental impact not yet covered by ISO14001 or other certifiable environmental management system amounts to 10. 3 The development is a combination of an increased number of certified entities and recently acquired companies with ISO14001 certification. 4 Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan. 5 Countries covered: China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and Philippines. 6 Countries covered: All low-cost countries. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GOALS AND PERFORMANCE 7 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working Sustainability in line with our vision Sustainability is one of the drivers in ASSA ABLOY can cut production costs while also acting in a more sustainable manner. By being systematic, the ASSA ABLOY value chain. By placexploring various means of reducing production mateing ASSA ABLOY in a broader context, rials, optimizing product components and streamlinthe Group can better understand the ing production as well as transport methods, ASSA ABLOY reduces its environmental impact and increases sustainability risks and opportunities cost-efficiency. in the business. Relevant sustainability factors are considered in business plans, decision-making processes and busiManaging the sustainability risks and opportunities will ness principles. In keeping with the Group’s long-term help ASSA ABLOY grow and remain profitable. It will also risk-management strategy, sustainability is an integral support ASSA ABLOY’s vision: part of the approach to value-chain management – • To be the true world leader, the most successful and from design to recycling. innovative provider of door opening solutions ASSA ABLOY has defined four environmental sustain• To lead in innovation and provide well-designed, ability priorities that support the Group’s vision and convenient, safe and secure solutions that give true strategy, and frame the targets set by each division. added value to our customers The priorities until 2015 are: • To offer an attractive company to our employees • Targets set for all sustainability KPIs, covering all entities and the Group Supporting the strategy • Coordinated implementation of environmental ASSA ABLOY is a world leader in its market and a premanagement systems mium brand. The Group has achieved this by utilizing the • Increased capabilities for data analysis and strengths of the brand portfolio, by increasing growth benchmarking in our core business and by being successful in expand• Increased focus on sustainable products ing into new markets and segments. To fully exploit the brand portfolio across diverse segments, it is necessary The procedures put in place to maintain quality and to identify and manage business opportunities related manage environmental impact have been successful. to sustainability performance and to understand the Sustainability targets and policies have been implemarket. The Group’s expansion into new markets is facilimented throughout the Group, and each division is tated by a strong brand and a good reputation, which is responsible for identifying its greatest environmental earned in part by acting in a responsible way. impact and presenting an action plan to address the By considering the environmental impact from issues. the design phase onward, using resources efficiently and applying the reduce-reuse-recycle principle, SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR VALUE CHAIN Innovation New products are evaluated from a life-cycle perspective. Many recently s Inn er ov developed products save energy as a result of improved insulation and m ati to intelligent control of various door opening solutions. Cus on Sourcing Employees The Group’s suppliers in risk areas are evaluated from a sustainability perspective. Mar Suppliers failing to comply with the Group’s requirements are encouraged to Code of Conduct rese make improvements or risk being phased out. and Governance rcin g ket p Sou Manufacturing nce Manufacture of the Group’s products should be carried out safely and with the lowest possible environmental impact. Hazardous processes are gradually Manufacturing being phased out and replaced by eco-friendly alternatives. 8 ASSA ABLOY’S WAY OF WORKING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ASSA ABLOY’s way of working Energy-efficient doors system from Entrance Systems Challenge The ICA Group has set a target to reduce its carbon emissions by 30 percent between 2006 and 2020. ICA has made a strategic investment in a pilot project at the ICA store in Sannegården, Gothenburg Sweden, using energy-conserving technology. Solution ASSA ABLOY Entrance Systems has supplied two energy-efficient Besam RD3L revolving doors to ICA. This is a high-capacity door opening solution, which is 20 percent more energy-efficient than any other current automatic door system – thanks to its use of enhanced insulation and low-energy bulbs. The door is designed to ensure separation between internal and external environments. Result In this pilot project, ICA has managed to reduce energy consumption by around 35 percent, compared to a five-year-old ICA store. Besam’s revolving doors are responsible for about a third of this energy reduction. The reduction is equivalent to the annual energy consumption of two medium-sized Swedish households. In addition, the indoor environment has improved as temperatures remain more or less constant and noise and exhaust fumes from outside are excluded. The pilot project was successful and ICA estimates that it could reduce its carbon emissions by 30 percent. ICA intends to apply these energy-reducing principles in the construction of new stores. Improving indoor air quality Challenge Volatile organic compounds are chemicals used to manufacture and maintain building materials, interior furnishings, cleaning products and personal care products. These carbon-based chemicals evaporate or can easily get into the air at room temperature. Since some volatile organic compounds pose health risks, ASSA ABLOY needed to eliminate them from its processes and products. Solution Volatile organic compounds are emitted by a wide array of products including paints, glues and adhesives. By eliminating certain materials, ASSA ABLOY has achieved both GREENGUARD Indoor Air Quality Certification and GREENGUARD Children & Schools Certification for seven of its brands: Ceco, Curries, Fleming, Graham, Maiman, Rite Door, and Security Metal Products. Door and frame products from these brands meet or exceed stanMarket presence dards such as UL ISR 102, and contribute to the construction of ASSA ABLOY follows its Code of Conduct, respects high-performance green buildings in accordance with rating systems the laws and regulations governing business ethics such as LEED. in the countries in which it operates, and requires ASSA ABLOY’s participation as a founding sponsor of the Health all of its partners to do the same. Product Declaration (HPD) Collaborative has also established leadership to provide standardized disclosure of product contents, Customers emissions and health information. ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to supply high-quality products that fulfill customer requirements, have Result Anyone wishing to comply with rating systems such as LEED or the a long life, are manufactured with minimal use Collaborative for High Performance Schools (CHPS) can safely rely on of resources, and have a minimal environmental products from a wide range of ASSA ABLOY brands. CHPS originated impact throughout their life cycle. in California, but is growing in popularity across the US as the green movement spreads across the country. Worldwide, there is increased demand for buildings that are environmentally responsible and resource-efficient. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ASSA ABLOY’S WAY OF WORKING 9 Customer value and innovation process Sustainability – an integral part of product innovation It is easier to design s­ ustainable products ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to develop new product concepts that are innovative in the way they solve customer than it is to reduce the environmental problems and create customer value, while being based impact of existing ­products and ASSA on more sustainable solutions and processes. IncreasABLOY is committed to getting it right ingly, customers require products that have a minimal environmental impact and ASSA ABLOY is committed the first time – at the moment of to helping them meet this challenge. conception. ASSA ABLOY considers the entire life cycle of products and focuses on finding creative ways to apply engiSince buildings account for about 40 percent of all neering expertise in areas where the greatest improveenergy consumption, there has been an increased focus ments can be achieved. The Group looks at the bigger on sustainability in the building industry over the past picture, as a product’s environmental impact can vary couple of years. As a result, it is becoming increasingly greatly depending on the type of application that it is common for buildings to be sustainability-certified, used in. and environmental product declarations (EPDs) to ASSA ABLOY believes that its commitment to susbe required for construction products. Similarly, it is tainability can reduce costs and create value for its expected that new security products will be designed customers, as sustainable products and processes are with the environment in mind. inherently more efficient in their use of resources. Every attempt is made to ensure that newly designed products use as little energy as possible. In the long run, ASSA ABLOY can save money for both the Group and its customers by making sustainability an integral part of the product innovation process. Powershield Steel Doors 10  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 New platforms reduce both energy consumption and cost Challenge ASSA ABLOY made an effort to develop a completely new range of locks and panic devices that could be used in most commercial applications. The idea was to upgrade many of the mechanical devices to electro­ mechanical solutions. Furthermore, the challenge was to develop platforms that reduced the number of parts and materials used – thereby improving production efficiency. Solution To achieve its goal, ASSA ABLOY began by improving several processes – for instance, R & D competence centers were set up in Central Europe in order to concentrate knowledge and engineering. Engineers were trained in implementing more efficient production processes and ASSA ABLOY gave significant weight to input from customers, received both in the project specification phase and in regular reviews. A complete range of central platforms was designed based on an integrated bus system for easy connection of products and functions, and a new eco-design concept was implemented – together with the CAD Sustainable Design Module. Result T  he new platforms have reduced both energy consumption and cost. This is a result of more efficient use of components and materials, as well as improved production process efficiency. The new platforms have also led to a more adaptive product that is able to meet specific customer needs. ASSA ABLOY has now developed a wide product portfolio that ranges from standard to high-tech locking solutions, and for which 20 patents have been granted. Challenge To provide a high-performance security door offering, tailor-made to meet each individual customer’s needs, with sustainability embedded from concept through to completion. Solution Powershield’s new-generation steel doors are designed to support architects, specifiers and contractors working on projects ranging from commercial office space and health-care applications to data protection units and pharmaceutical facilities. Doors are manufactured with 48 percent recycled steel and are almost fully recyclable.  Powershield high-performance acoustic doors from ASSA ABLOY Security Doors are manufactured from steel, which provides a greater mass than other raw materials and therefore considerably limits the transmission of sound.  Extensive research has been conducted to create a combination of materials that produce improvements in insulation and stiffness. This, in turn, helps to limit the vibrations of the door, resulting in improved acoustics and sound control. Result Powershield has produced a complete range of high-performance doors that meet specific customer requirements. The use of recycled material and the recyclability of the doors themselves mean that virtually nothing will go to waste, but can instead be reused when the product ceases to be useful.  The research focus on stiffness and insulation has resulted in excellent thermal properties yielding a low U-value. This makes Powershield’s steel doors highly energy-efficient, ensuring thermal comfort while also reducing the end user’s operating costs and environmental impact.  Delivering sound reduction of up to 45dB, ASSA ABLOY Security Doors’ new-generation steel doors are proven to effectively manage sound transmission. They have been used at the Cork School of Music in Cork, Ireland, where the combination of acoustic properties and attractive aesthetics has resulted in a functional and modern facility. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 11 Customer value and innovation process Sustainable innovation ASSA ABLOY is committed to sustainASSA ABLOY’s long-term planning is influenced by the same reduce-reuse-recycle principle that forms this able product innovation based on a product innovation process, with the aim to develop process of understanding long-term products that are as upgradable and exchangeable as trends and customer needs, complepossible. mented by a dedication to minimizing Customer needs come first waste of time, effort and money. ASSA ABLOY always aims to understand its customers’ needs so that it can create products they want to buy. Based on lean innovation principles, the ASSA ABLOY Products with enhanced sustainability performance are Product Innovation Process consists of several modules no different, as they can only benefit the environment if including product management, voice of the customer customers want to buy them. and efficient delivery of innovation projects. The voice of the customer process helps us to colLong-term trends, generation planning and techlect, analyze and translate into useful knowledge everynologies are addressed through product management. thing from longer-term customer needs and trends to Insights about customer needs, meanwhile, are colhighly detailed decisions related to specific products or lected via voice of the customer, forming the foundation components. for the development of relevant, value-creating offerings. Finally, the efficient delivery of innovation projects Reducing inefficiencies and waste ensures that no time, effort or money is wasted when Across the Group, the reduce-reuse-recycle principle developing high-quality products or services. guides the manner in which innovation projects are developed. Projects are run according to lean innovaThe ability to look ahead determines our future tion principles and supported by a gateway process A wide variety of factors contribute to ASSA ABLOY’s that ensures each stage of the project is completed product management process, including long-term satisfactorily. social, political, economic, technological and customer A “front-loading” approach to problem-solving is trends, as well as developments in market standards and encouraged. In other words, every effort is made to regulations. With these considerations in mind, generaidentify potential problems as early in the project as tion plans are devised for new products and entirely possible because it will be more costly to solve these new technologies. This approach makes financial sense problems later on. Concepts are carefully evaluated because the market will reward a proactive approach to against customer needs and sustainability benchmarks sustainability. before moving into the engineering design phase. CHANGE IN PRODUCT MIX 2000 2012 SEK 14 billion SEK 47 billion Mechanical products, 66% Mechanical products, 36% Electromechanical products, 20% Electromechanical products, 24% Security doors, 14% Entrance automation, 22% Security doors, 18% 12 CUSTOMER VALUE AND INNOVATION PROCESS ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Customer value and innovation process PRODUCT INNOVATION PROCESS The ASSA ABLOY Product Innovation Process is based Management on lean innovation principles and consists of several modules, including product Voice of the customer / management, voice of the Product management Lean / Gateway process Voice of the technology customer and efficient delivery of innovation projects. Organization Values and principles Once a concept has been validated and approved, it is and design stage, thereby ensuring that all sustainability further developed during the specification and design aspects are taken into consideration in the developphase. The gateway process requires all project leadment of the product and the manufacturing process. ers to apply the environmental checklist before they The checklist guarantees that sustainability aspects are are given the go-ahead to proceed beyond the process considered when developing new products. Product’s energy consumption reduced by 15 percent Challenge ASSA ABLOY sought to develop a fire door application that would offer high holding forces, various status indications, as well as excellent performance in case of fire. Among the design challenges was the issue of finetuning between mechanical, electrical and electronic components. Another challenge was finding the right balance between performance, reduced power consumption and a decreased use of raw materials. Solution Electric strike 143 is a certified product for fire door applications. It provides high holding forces and indicates whether the door is locked or not and/or if the strike is blocked. In case of fire, the device automatically keeps the door shut. When developing the Electric strike 143, ASSA ABLOY managed to improve the manufacturing process. In some cases, this entailed a complete change of manufacturing technologies. The final product was then based on both hardwareand software-optimized electronics, as well as a solenoid designed with fewer components. Result The improved manufacturing process brought a 15 percent reduction in the product’s energy consumption. The solenoid design resulted in significant waste reduction. Finally, fewer components and both energy and cost savings resulted in an overall improvement in product performance. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CUSTOMER VALUE AND INNOVATION PROCESS 13 Customer value and innovation process Striving for improvement Value-chain analysis of key product groups and enviA global council – representing the various functions ronmental risk areas is also within the global council’s within innovation and design, as well as the divisions remit. R&D units will use the results of this analysis to within the Group – ensures that sustainability is part of fine-tune their sustainable design efforts. the innovation process. The council develops and shares A global council to drive and coordinate sustainbest practices, reviews methods and tools, and sets tarable innovation in all divisions, and have put in place an gets and communication policies. initial framework to drive sustainability in innovation across the Group. O  ptimal energy efficiency achieved with Trio-E Door and other Group hardware Challenge The Science Center at Wolf Ridge Environmental Learning Center is located on a 2,000 acre campus in northern Minnesota. Climate conditions in this region are some of the harshest in the continental US, with winter temperatures as low as –50º F and snow accumulation of over 100 inches annually. A replacement door for the west entrance had to be able to withstand these difficult conditions. Given Wolf Ridge’s educational mission, the project presented a three-pronged challenge: securing heating efficiency, modeling sustainable technologies and teaching conservation practices. Solution Specifying cohesive Group products for the project met the challenge on all fronts. A Curries Trio-E Door with Thermal Break frame provided the primary barrier, supported by McKinney NRP hinges, a Corbin Russwin 5200 Series exit device, Norton 7500 Series Door Closer, and Rockwood kick plate. Pemko accessories included threshold, rain drip, and auto door bottom. The integrated ASSA ABLOY solution creates a near perfect seal against the elements. Result Extensive testing by engineers, staff and students included blower tests and infrared imaging. The results are impressive, resulting in an 88 percent improvement in thermal retention for the opening. A significant carbon reduction was realized, as well as a valuable teaching tool for Wolf Ridge. 14 Customer value and innovation process  ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Supply chain integrity Developing supplier relationships and securing supply chain integrity For ASSA ABLOY, working with supFour priorities Starting in 2012, the sourcing organization set four pripliers to improve sustainability orities: refine the audit method; perform calibration performance throughout the value audits; audit suppliers representing 90 percent of ASSA chain is an important task that has no ABLOY’s spend in Asian low-cost countries; and begin to widen the scope of low-cost countries included in the end point. Systematic auditing is an sustainability audit program. important tool in managing risks and During 2012, ASSA ABLOY developed a method to identifying potential synergies. ensure that its sustainability audits are in line with international standards. While the audit template is in accordance with international standards, it is still based on the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. ASSA ABLOY’s existing sustainability auditing strucSustainability ture has been further refined in order for the Group to reach its goal of auditing 90 percent of the spend on auditing training in suppliers in Asian low-cost countries. During the year, the scope of the supplier sustainBogotá, Colombia ability audit program was expanded to include suppliers in South and Central America, Eastern Europe and In order to develop suppliers in Latin and Central Africa. In total, the Group has about 2,000 direct mateAmerica and include them in the sustainability rial suppliers based in low-cost countries. audit program, ASSA ABLOY must first train its Audit leaders in Asia, South and Central America own local employees. In June 2012, training took and Eastern Europe were trained in order to achieve the place at ASSA ABLOY Cerracol in Bogotá, Colombia. targeted number of audits. The training also ensured a The participants were appointed sourcing and consistent approach to scoring suppliers. supply managers from Sargent Manufacturing Company, EMTEK Products, Grupo Industrial Audits and results in 2012 Phillips, ASSA ABLOY Occidente, Yale La Fonte, Including follow-up audits, 795 sustainability audits ASSA ABLOY Chile and Cerraduras de Colombia. were completed in 2012 – compared to 493 audits in The objective was to learn about risk assess2011. At year-end, 806 (461) active suppliers had satment, how to conduct an audit, and how to isfied the minimum sustainability and quality requiredevelop suppliers in Latin America according to ments and were classified as reliable. Group Supply Management Sustainability guideThese activities resulted in an audited spend in lines and processes. The focus was on five critiexcess of 90 percent in Asian low-cost countries. At the cal categories: business ethics; workers’ rights; end of 2012, 10 (19) suppliers were blacklisted by the health and safety; environment; and management ASSA ABLOY Group – meaning they are not allowed systems. to be assigned any new business by any ASSA ABLOY The training was led by Group Supplier Quality entity. and Sustainability Manager Anders Wirsenius. In 2012, 40 (15) internal auditors underwent training in the ASSA ABLOY audit method and scoring principles. Part of the training process involved performing actual audits in order to harmonize the scoring of individual areas of the ASSA ABLOY standard review list. Calibration audits During the year, three calibration audits were performed in China. Calibration audits are important in ensuring that suppliers are scored in the same way, regardless of auditor and geography. A calibration audit ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY 15 Supply chain integrity involves a team of senior ASSA ABLOY auditors from varASSA ABLOY must first complete a self-assessment and ious divisions, together with managers from Group Supthen undergo a sustainability audit. ply Management, auditing a number of suppliers during The objective of the audit is to minimize risks of a weeklong process and then comparing their scores. non-compliance among suppliers. The sustainability The need for calibration audits will increase along with audit process is the main tool used to evaluate how well the number of audits and internal auditors. potential and existing suppliers meet the requirements. Both the self-assessment and the on-site audit checklist Organization for sustainable supply management are designed to verify whether or not the supplier is in Group Management sets the sustainability targets and compliance with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct. the overall framework, whereas each division is responEach division is responsible for performing audits sible for the implementation and maintaining a sustainwhen required and their audit reports are submitted to able supplier base. the Group’s supplier database. Group Supply Management leads a Sustainability Steering Council with representatives from each diviScoring Principles – The Traffic Light System sion. The Council coordinates activities and follows up Audit scores are linked to a color-coded system in on progress. All divisions follow the same guidelines and which green means that the supplier is approved, yelprocesses, which are provided by Group Supply Managelow that the supplier is approved on condition that it ment. The divisions report to the Sustainability Steering resolve outstanding issues within an agreed time frame, Council on a monthly basis. and red that the supplier is not approved. Both red and yellow statuses can be revised based on evidence of a The sustainability audit process corrective action plan, well-documented progress and It is a requirement by contract that an ASSA ABLOY firm commitment from the supplier. Contracts with supplier complies with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Consuppliers may be subject to termination in case of nonduct. As stated above, the long-term objective is to compliance that is not remedied within an agreed time develop the relationship and enhance the level of frame. If a supplier is scored “red” for longer than six sustain­ability performance downstream. Prospective months, the contract is terminated. suppliers of direct material of low cost countries to Distribution of supplier spend Results of audits in low-cost countries Europe, 39,6 % Grow, 22 % Asia, 38,4 % Fix, 77 % North America, 17,1 % Exit, 1 % South America, 2,6 % Australia, New Zealand, 1,7 % Africa, 0,6 % In 2013, the yellow score will be divided into three colors, yellow, orange and purple. number of suppliers SHARE OF purchases IN LOW-COST COUNTRIES Number % 10,000 60 9,000 50 8,000 7,000 40 6,000 30 5,000 4,000 20 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Reducing the number of suppliers helps to cut costs and improve The share of the Group’s total purchases of raw materials, components ­quality. Through a concerted effort, ASSA ABLOY has reduced its total and finished goods from low-cost countries has increased from 38 pernumber of suppliers by 17 percent over the past five years. cent to 55 percent over the past five years. 16 Supply chain integrity ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Supply chain integrity Looking back at the audit results, the biggest problem purchasers. Confidentiality is ensured by assigning user areas are health, safety and workers’ rights. Some suprights and limiting updating rights to accredited and pliers have underestimated the importance of these trained administrators. issues to their overall performance and to their customThe database enables several key performance indiers overall performance. cators to be followed up and is an important means of A large number of ASSA ABLOY’s suppliers are curidentifying and developing preferred suppliers. rently scored “yellow”. During 2012, the decision was taken to differentiate further between these suppliChallenges and focus going forward ers and divide the yellow band into three levels, yellow, As the ASSA ABLOY Group grows and new markets such orange and purple. The system will be adjusted accordas South and Central America and Eastern Europe are ingly in 2013. included in the audit program as well as new suppliers through acquisitions, it becomes increasingly important The ASSA ABLOY supplier data base ensure a consistent approach. ASSA ABLOY’s suppliers in selected low-cost countries During 2013, supplier sustainability audits will be are listed, graded and tracked in a supplier database. conducted in new markets and ASSA ABLOY Supply The database ensures transparency and that the purManagement will continue to develop systematic prochase organization has access to consistent information cesses, templates and scoring principles to manage about the suppliers’ performance. The supplier database challenges. is available on the Group intranet for access by selected AUDIT PROCESS AND TRAFFIC LIGHT SYSTEM Long-term Supplier development and consolidation Mid-term Targets and measurements Supplier risk assessment Supplier On-site Audits Supplier Development Self-Assessment Scoring Principles Grow Traffic Light System Ongoing Sustainability Fix Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit Audits are designed to assess risks within areas such as business ethics, supplier is approved on condition that issues are resolved within an workers’ rights, health and safety, and environment. The ASSA ABLOY agreed time frame, and red that the supplier is not approved and will auditing process is always the same, regardless of the type of supplier not be given any new business until the problems have been resolved or auditor. (as verified by a follow-up audit within a maximum period of six The audit is carried out using a sustainability audit checklist, which months). In 2013 the yellow band will be divided into three levels. lists a number of criteria and questions the auditor uses to calculate a If the supplier fails to improve its performance, it is blacklisted and score according to ASSA ABLOY’s Scoring Principles – The Traffic Light ASSA ABLOY will end the professional relationship. Some criteria in the System. The checklist was updated during 2012 to remain relevant. audit checklist are of such significance that they are called “stoppers”. The Traffic Light System links the scores to three colors: green, yelIf a supplier fails to comply with these ASSA ABLOY standards, it is low and red. Green means that the supplier is approved, yellow that automatically rated “red” – regardless of its performance in other areas. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY 17 Manufacturing Reducing environmental impact in operation An assessment of ASSA ABLOY’s Performance 2012 Total energy consumption for comparable units production processes shows that increased by 1,000 MWh or 0.2 percent compared to energy consumption and associated 2011. The normalized result – i.e. energy intensity – carbon emissions are responsible for improved by 6.1 (5.5) percent in 2012. The target for 2015 is to reduce energy intensity by 15 percent commost of the Group's impact on the pared to 2010 (see page 8). The accumulated improveenvironment. ment of the energy intensity since 2010 is 11.4 percent. Total carbon dioxide emissions related to energy conASSA ABLOY faces a major challenge in seeking to sumption for comparable units, with unchanged emisreduce its environmental impact while simultaneously sions factors, decreased by 3,300 tonnes or 1.2 percent increasing its capacity and expanding into markets such compared to 2011. Emissions intensity for comparable as China, where the energy mix is dominated by fossil units improved by 5.8 percent (4.3) percent compared to fuels. At the same time, the Group must cope with the 2011, which results in an accumulated improvement of increased transportation needs of its expanding supply 9.9 percent compared to 2010. The target for 2015 is to chain. reduce the carbon dioxide emissions by 10 percent comASSA ABLOY is dependent on energy and the Group pared to 2010 (see page 7). In 2012 the carbon dioxide is vulnerable to the consequences of extracting energy emission factors used for different types of energy were from exhaustible resources. Examples of such conseupdated in order to reflect current international stanquences include increasing prices as a result of dimindards on national and global levels1. With respect to the ishing supply. current mix of energy sources and the geographical locaThe Group has been working for many years to tions of the Group's entities the new factors represents a reduce its environmental impact and has been successreduction of the calculated carbon dioxide emission by ful in excluding certain hazardous substances, replac10 percent. The new factors have been applied when ing energy-intensive materials, reducing the amount of calculating the total carbon dioxide emissions for 2012. material used to produce products without compromisThe evaluation of the total emissions and intensity ing on quality or function, creating synergies in its proimprovements have been made with unchanged factors duction processes, and so on. This initiative has no end between 2011 and 2012 in order to reflect implemented point and ASSA ABLOY has identified a number of areas improvements as correctly as possible. of priority for 2011–2015: In 2012, 8.7 (10) percent of the energy used came • Coordinated implementation of environmental from renewable sources. ASSA ABLOY will continue management systems looking for ways to make its energy supply more • Increased capabilities for data analysis and efficient and cleaner. benchmarking 1 The emissions factors have been updated for the 2012 calculations: • Increased focus on minimizing waste • Electricity emission factors are based on data on electricity production for 2010, as published by International Energy Agency (IEA, 2012). • For district heat the emissions factors are calculated as a weighted average Energy consumption and related carbon emissions of energy sources for heat production per country, based on data from 2009 as published by the International Energy Agency (IEA, 2013). Reduced energy consumption is a top priority for all fac• Emission factors for oil, coal and gas are based on data published by the tories and companies within the Group. The reported United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2006). data forms the basis for performance evaluation and benchmarking. Metrics such as energy consumption per CHANGE IN PRODUCTION STRUCTURE square meter and energy consumption in relation to % number of hours worked can be used to compare the 100 sustainability performance of similar entities. Increased 80 taxes on emissions and oil prices emphasize the fact High-cost countries, that ASSA ABLOY’s ability to run its business in an effi60 Full production cient and environmentally sensible manner is closely High-cost countries, 40 Assembly linked to the cost of resources. Low-cost countries, Although ASSA ABLOY has reduced its total energy 20 Production Acquired production consumption, this has unfortunately not resulted in an units 0 overall reduction in carbon emissions due to its increased 08 09 10 11 12 reliance on fossil fuels in countries such as China. An increasing volume of standard production has been transferred to internal and external units in low-cost countries. The production process has been improved, while local presence on end-customer markets ensures fast delivery and efficient assembly of customized products. 18 MANUFACTURING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Manufacturing Efforts to phase out substances country specific legislative initiatives. The use of ODSs with global warming impact is related recently acquired door producing entities in Extended reporting was introduced in 2012 for greenChina. It is our goal to phase out the use of ODS with house gases and ozone-depleting substances. As a result, environmental friendly alternatives. it became apparent that two units use substances with a global warming potential of 725 and 1,430 respecGreenhouse gas emission related to tively. The majority of the total calculated CO2-effect substances in industrial processes 2011 2012 is related to a recently acquired entity. Efforts to substitute these substances are ongoing. ASSA ABLOY is Calculated CO2-emissions1 (tonnes) 192,000 192,000 1 benchmarking both internal and external best practices. Emission factors are based on data published by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC, 2007). The extended reporting does also include substances that destroy the ozone layer in the stratosphere. As far Ozone-depleting substances 2011 2012 as these ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are conOzone-depleting substances in cerned, we comply with the Montreal Protocol and with tonnes of R11 equivalent 2 (tonnes) 27.3 27.3 2 R11 equivalence measures ozone depleting potential. Energy consumption MWh 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ Direct energy – oil 9,000 23,000 34,400 31,200 35,100 – gas 191,000 174,000 176,600 179,200 188,200 – coal 67,200 76,300 66,900 – Total 200,000 197,000 278,200 286,700 290,200 Indirect energy – electricity 260,000 261,000 291,200 316,000 312,600 – district heat 22,000 33,000 35,700 29,300 30,300 – Total 282,000 294,000 326,900 345,300 342,700 TOTAL ENERGY USE 482,000 491,000 605,100 632,000 633,200 ¹For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 693,000 MWh, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. TOTAL ENERGY USE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION RELATED TO ENERGY CONSUMPTION CO2 TOTAL MWh Tonnes 700,000 250,000 600,000 200,000 1 500,000 Total greenhouse gas emissions related to energy consumption 150,000 400,000 amounted to 246,900 tonnes, including units acquired dur300,000 100,000 ¹ Total energy consumption ing the year and increased 200,000 amounted to 692,400 MWh, reporting. 50,000 2 including units acquired durThe emissions factors have 100,000 been updated for the 2012 ing the year and increased 0 reporting. 0 calculations: See page 18. 08 09 10 11 12¹ 08 09 10 11 12 KPI, TOTAL ENERGY/VALUE ADDED KPI, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION RELATED TO ENERGY CONSUMPTION CO2/VALUE ADDED MWh/SEK M % Tonnes/SEK M % 40 8 20 8 30 6 Annual improvement, % 15 6 Annual improvement, % 20 4 1 10 4 1 Due to implemented changes Due to implemented changes in reporting and calculation in reporting and calculation principles (see page 49), principles (see page 49), 10 2 5 2 KPI-reference values are not KPI-reference values are not available for 2008 to 2009. available for 2008 to 2009. 2 0 0 2 For comparable units. 0 0 For comparable units. 08¹ 09¹ 10² 11² 12² 08¹ 09¹ 10² 11² 12² ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MANUFACTURING 19 Manufacturing Energy consumption at facilities meter and energy consumption per worked hour. In Analysis revealed that about 50 percent of the energy order to identify areas for further improvements, enticonsumption in large manufacturing units was related ties producing similar types of products are compared. to factors independent of production volume such as The analysis was developed further during the year and heating, ventilation, lighting, office equipment, and now includes climate data per geographical site. Heatso on. In order to reduce energy consumption, ASSA ing and cooling are important drivers of total energy ABLOY has consolidated its manufacturing footprint. consumption in certain areas and this data is carefully The consolidation will continue and steps will be taken monitored. to streamline and specialize the production of certain products, thereby increasing efficiency in terms of utiliTransport zation of machines, equipment and floor space, as well Efforts continue to reduce the environmental impact of as allocation of competence. Streamlining will allow transportation as the Group expands. One solution is to ASSA ABLOY’s production facilities to work at full capaclocate assembly close to the customer, thereby enabling ity while supporting efficient working practices and a more flexible and efficient supply of goods. high standards of quality. A database has been established to store the geoAn understanding of the main drivers behind energy graphical locations of all suppliers of direct materials, as consumption is a prerequisite if further reductions are well as all ASSA ABLOY factories and sales companies. At to be achieved. A detailed mapping of consumption in the end of 2012, the GPS coordinates of 12,500 (4,000) several units has been conducted, resulting in targets suppliers had been entered into the database. The databeing set for energy consumption for the following year. base is connected to ASSA ABLOY’s central purchasing Energy consumption is also continuously monitored in database, which enables transportation impact estimaeach unit. Performance metrics and targets are promitions based on purchased value, weight of purchased nently displayed, and employees are encouraged to goods and mode of transportation. The system can also come up with ideas for improving efficiency. An increasbe used for optimization and coordination of transporing number of entities have adopted equipment for tation within the Group, as well as from suppliers in difmore intelligent energy-consumption control. ferent geographical regions. The implementation of the The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability database and analysis system will continue in 2013. tool contains current and historical data per entity as well as a set of standardized measures of energy performance – for example, energy consumption per square 20 MANUFACTURING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Manufacturing Water and waste Systematic improvements to waste During 2012 the Group’s collection of water-consumption data was expanded to include information about management and efforts to reduce recirculated water, quality of water discharged, users, water consumption continue to be and how the water is used. This enhanced data set important elements of ASSA ABLOY’s enables a more detailed analysis and allows for more precise corrective measures to be taken. drive to reduce its environmental Technological innovation in the recirculation and impact, increase efficiency and reuse of water has resulted in a decrease in water intencut costs. sity during the past years. Reduced water consumption in the plating processes also means less water to heat, which in turn saves energy. Water Emissions to water are monitored in accordance Efforts to improve water efficiency have focused on with local regulations. ASSA ABLOY units that manage facilities with painting or plating operations as these chemicals are properly licensed and registered with the consume the most water. The 20 largest entities in local authorities. terms of water consumption account for more than 70 percent of the Group’s total water consumption. The Water performance operations responsible for the highest levels of water 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ consumption are located in the US and China. The ASSA 3 ABLOY Sustainability database and analysis tool is used Purchased water (1,000 m ) 1,763 1,765 1,819 1,775 1,729 Water from on-site wells to benchmark comparable units and thereby identify (1,000 m3) 104 91 256 300 374 areas for further improvement. Analysis capabilities Total water consumption were developed further in 2012 with regard to process (1,000 m3) 1,867 1,856 2,075 2,075 2,103 types and volumes of products painted or plated in parKPI, Water/ Value added (m3/SEK M)² NA NA 135.2 124.6 115.8 ticular production lines. The aim is to reduce operating ¹ For comparable units. Total water consumption was 2,594 (1,000 m3) including costs and environmental impact. units acquired during the year and increased reporting. ² Intensity values are calculated for comparable units, (see page 46), reference values are not available for 2008 to 2009. WATER BALANCE Water withdrawal Water usage Water discharge Municipal pretreated (60%) Sanitary and drinking (26%) Water purchased (68%) Industrial processes (60%) Municipal untreated (22%) Recirculated Other recipients pretreated (3%) Water from local wells (32%) Cooling (6%) Other (8%) Other recipients untreated (15%) ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MANUFACTURING 21 Manufacturing Waste Hazardous waste It is a priority within ASSA ABLOY to minimize waste 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ related to packing and waste created directly and indiMetal sludge (tonnes) 895 751 728 660 633 rectly by its manufacturing processes. Various waste Oil for recycling (tonnes) 878 769 564 490 351 data are important indicators when keeping track of Other types of toxic waste (tonnes) 2,688 2,694 3,211 1,932 2,216 materials used in production. One of the consequences Total hazardous waste of continuous efforts to reduce waste is a need to (tonnes) 4,461 4,214 4,503 3,082 3,200 reduce the number and amount of materials used. This, KPI, Hazardous waste/ in turn, will reduce energy consumption. Value added (kg/SEK M)2 NA NA 293 191 176 In 2012 the total amount of waste in the manufac1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous was 3,554 (tonnes) including turing companies was 66,000 (59,600) tonnes, of which units acquired during the year and increased reporting. 2 Intensity values are calculated for comparable units; reference values are not 80.8 (80.3) percent was recycled. A number of comavailable for 2008 to 2009. panies have reduced their use of packaging materials, switched to less environmentally damaging packaging Non hazardous waste materials and, in some cases, also introduced reusable/ 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ recyclable containers. The increased use of electronic Household incinerated orders and integrated information flows between (tonnes) 1,001 1,778 1,515 1,975 2,395 Household deposited systems has also reduced the number of printed (tonnes) 5,339 5,340 5,593 6,364 5,418 documents. Paper and cardboard for Various metals are sorted by type to assist in the recycling (tonnes) NA NA NA 2,621 3,586 Plastic waste for recycling recycling of their content. Cutting oil is extensively fil(tonnes) NA NA NA 382 440 tered and cleaned so that it can be reused in manufacOther types of waste turing. Certified companies appropriately dispose of (tonnes) 2,993 3,530 4,633 2,812 3,111 any hazardous waste that cannot be reused. The intenTotal (tonnes) 9,333 10,649 11,740 14,153 14,949 sity value forhazardous waste continued to decrease KPI, Non hazardous waste/Value added and was reduced by 7.9 percent for comparable units (kg/SEK M)2 NA NA 757 755 824 compared with 2011. The corresponding accumulated 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non hazardous was 16,599 (tonnes) reduction since 2010 amounts to 40 percent. including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. 2 The ASSA ABLOY Sustainability database and analyIntensity values are calculated for comparable units; reference values are not available for 2008 to 2009. sis tool contains current and historical data per entity as well as a set of standardized metrics for waste perRecycled metal formance evaluation – for example, generated waste per worked hour. Companies producing similar types Tonnes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ of products can be compared in order to identify best Waste metal for recycling (tonnes) 38,700 35,800 39,000 42,300 43,400 practices and areas where improvements can be made. 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 46,000 tonnes, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. 22 MANUFACTURING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Manufacturing Organic solvents and surface treatment Chlorinated organic solvents such as Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents perchloroethylene (PER) are often used PER CONSUMPTION for surface treatment of metals, includTonnes ing degreasing, cleaning and pretreat80 ment before plating. 60 ASSA ABLOY has been working systematically for many 40 years to reduce and, in the long run, eliminate its use of perchloroethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI). 20 While ASSA ABLOY measures its use of several different organic solvents, perchloroethylene (PER) is included in 0 08 09 10 11 12 the sustainability report because they are the most environmentally hazardous organic solvents. Most entities have replaced the above solvents with less environmenTRI CONSUMPTION tally harmful alternatives such as ultrasonic cleaning and wateror steam-based processes. Tonnes 5 Performance The phase out of PER continued in 2012 and 4 a further reduction of the number of sites using PER was achieved. The use of TRI in 2012 was related to a recently 3 acquired entity and alternative solutions are being investi2 gated. Total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents was reduced by 7 percent compared to 2011. Commit1 ment to reducing the use of chlorinated organic solvents 0 will continue with the aim to cease using them. 08 09 10 11 12 Increased reporting has shown that other types of organic solvents are being used, primarily as solvents for PER AND TRI TOTAL CONSUMPTION paint. The total consumption in 2012 amounted to 933 tonnes of which recently acquired entities account for the Tonnes majority. The use of these types of organic solvents will 50 step by step be replaced by more environmental friendly solutions. Alternative processes are being investigated. 40 30 Surface treatment Products and their components need surface treatments 20 to meet high standards of durability, corrosion resis10 tance, quality and finishing. 0 In most cases, the surface treatment processes are 08 09 10 11 12 highly complex and require accurate process controls. Care must also be taken to ensure the correct concentraSurface treatment processes under change tions of active chemicals are used in order to achieve the desired results. Parts are treated in sequential baths and PROCESSES UNDER CHANGE cleaned in water tanks before each new sub process commences. Using modern cleaning technologies, the waste Number water can be recirculated back into the process multiple 12 times, thereby minimizing water consumption, saving 10 energy and reducing costs. ASSA ABLOY has long-estab8 lished expertise in the surface treatment field, including processes such as passivation, anodization and plating 6 4 Performance During 2012, the conversion of another 2 three surface treatment processes were initiated. These 0 activities are planned to be completed in 2013. 08 09 10 11 12 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MANUFACTURING 23 Smart ECO automation Challenge Automatic doors fitted with traditional radar open every time someone passes by – even if they have no intention of entering. In areas such as malls where large numbers of people are moving about on a daily basis, this can be a problem. Energy is wasted and the indoor environment is affected in a negative way. Solution ASSA ABLOY Besam has developed a one-directional impulse device, known as an ECO-radar, that is able to determine the direction in which pedestrians are moving. Doors fitted with this device will open automatically only if a pedestrian is walking directly toward them. The system maintains a safety zone of 200 mm. Result Doors fitted with the ECO-radar device open half as often as conventional automatic doors, thereby saving energy. The indoor climate also remains more temperate, which further reduces energy costs. Customers who fit ECO-radar to an existing door can expect to see a return on investment within one year, or even sooner if the ECO-radar is installed from the beginning. Several customers have reported energy savings as a result of using the ECO-radar. Energy-management system increases efficiency Challenge Sargent Manufacturing production facilities routinely conduct Kaizen studies that examine the efficiency of various operations within the building, such as assembly line functionality or accounting and customer service processes. If such lean practices can be applied to the processes within the building, then surely the building itself can also become more efficient. The facility in New Haven, Connecticut, sought to develop and implement a plan to better control overall facility power usage and become more energy-efficient. Solution By linking each of the major building operational platforms into a Siemens energy-management system, the facility management team is able to monitor and control the power usage of 72 pieces of equipment, including the HVAC system, boilers and air compressors. The energy management platform enables Sargent to set up time schedules that tell different pieces of equipment when to turn on and off. On weekends, for example, the heating and air-conditioning are programmed to turn off automatically, while other energy-hungry devices such as the 675 horsepower air compressors are powered down. Result The entire facility is now tied into the system, producing annual savings of USD 180,000 in energy costs, all while reducing the building’s carbon footprint. From a convenience standpoint, the energy-management system performs diagnostic monitoring of each component and warns when something is amiss. The system can also be controlled remotely via smartphone or tablet computer. 24 CASE STUDIES ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 LED lighting reduces energy consumption Challenge The amount of energy needed to light a 288,000-square-foot production floor with existing compact f­ luorescent fixtures creates a substantial cost to the overall building operating budget. Fortunately, new technologies are emerging to lessen this energy burden. The Sargent Manufacturing production facility in New Haven, Connecticut, is lowering its lighting energy requirements by installing new LED fixtures. Solution The LED fixtures are 50 percent more efficient than the T-5 fluorescent models that are being replaced and generate the same level of illumination. The older fixtures also contain mercury and must be carefully disposed off to avoid accidental release of the hazardous material. In addition, each fixture has an occupancy sensor that will shut off if no one is in the area. A total of 1,000 fixtures are being upgraded with the LED technology and are expected to last 10 years with little or no maintenance. The local power company is subsidizing 50 percent of the replacement cost. At year-end 2012, the replacement project was 20 percent complete. Result Once all the LED fixtures are in place, Sargent will see its lighting costs reduced by USD 100,000 annually. The normal payback time for this project would be four years, but thanks to the utility company incentive, the payback time will be cut in half to two years. Performance wise, the LED lights emit a slight bluish tint compared to the ­yellow of the T-5 fluorescent models, but employees have reported no difference in working conditions. Security Intersects with Sustainability Challenge Facilities are faced with the challenge of increasing security within the restraints of their existing budget with minimal disruption to the building. Together with the growing trend of sustainable building design, many facilities seek to leverage existing infrastructure while maximizing energy efficiency and achieving sustainability goals. Solution To meet this end-user security challenge, Group brands Corbin Russwin and SARGENT have developed IP-enabled Power over Ethernet (PoE) and WiFi locking solutions that utilize existing infrastructure to expand access control. These high performing electronic access control solutions, particularly PoE locks, help achieve numerous sustainability goals. The ­Corbin Russwin Access 800 IP1 PoE lock easily brings online access control to more doors and provides substantial advantages, including minimized components – access control functions (e.g. door position monitoring and request to exit sensor) are incorporated in one lock body rather than separately purchased and installed components. This PoE lock uses 50 percent less power per activation than traditional access control solutions using PoE, and significantly less standby power than ­traditional access control. Facilities also re-use existing building infrastructure adding to the overall ROI savings. Result The Access 800 IP1 exemplifies a new generation of energy-efficient, sustainable access control products. When the total Life Cycle Assessment of a PoE system is considered, the result is less energy and material used during manufacturing, shipping, installation and use. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Case studies 25 People People make it all happen ASSA ABLOY is a global company with employer, how they perceive health and safety in their workplace and if everyone is given equal opportunities. around 43,000 employees in more than All employees should have annual performance 70 countries. The ambition is to take reviews. The employee survey addresses this matter and advantage of the size and resources of employees are asked whether the reviews have taken place or not. a large organization and at the same The survey is carried out every 18–24 months. The time operate with the speed and sense most recent survey took place in March 2012, with of entrepreneurship characteristic of nearly 28,000 respondents. The results in 2012 show a slight improvement in all areas compared to the previa smaller company. This is why ASSA ous survey (2010). ABLOY has a decentralized structure. The results have been broken down into 275 units, making them more relevant to all employees and Decisions are made close to the local market by those enabling appropriate actions to be taken at the local who understand it the best. ASSA ABLOY wants each level to achieve further improvements. employee to feel that he or she has the mandate to make decisions and impact their work situation. Everyone should feel that they contribute to their company EMPLOYEE SURVEY RESULTS FROM 2012 and ASSA ABLOY as a whole. RELATED TO SUSTAINABILITY The overall objective of the employee develop1* 2 3 ment activities is to help achieve and sustain the goals 3,9 4 5 6 7 of growth and profitability. In order to do that, ASSA 3,8 8 3,7 ABLOY strives to have people with the right skills and 3,6 competencies in the right place at the right time, and 3,5 3,4 to provide a safe and sound working environment. 2012 2010 A regular dialog between manager and subordinate about performance and development is a key com* Question 1 added 2012. ponent for employee development. According to the Questions and results relating to sustainability, ASSAABLOY employee survey in 2012, 75 percent of the on a scale of 1–5: employees have had performance and career development reviews during the last 12 months. Measured over How well do the following statements the last 24 months 82 percent of the employees have correspond to your opinion? had performance and career development reviews. 1. My unit provides equal opportunities to men Throughout the Group, business is delegated with and women (3.91) great trust to the divisions and their entities. ASSA 2. My unit shows environmental responsibility ABLOY expects its employees to show respect to one (3.87) another, create and maintain a safe and healthy work3. My unit values diversity among its employees place, express themselves, i.e. to respect the Code (3.86) of Conduct. The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is an 4. I am treated with fairness and respect at my unit important document, guiding everyday work. It is avail(3.79) able in 22 languages and all employees must adhere to 5. I would recommend ASSA ABLOY as a good place the Code. New employees participate in an “Entrance to work (3.78) to ASSA ABLOY” program, which – among other things – 6. My unit shows responsibility regarding the familiarizes them with the Code of Conduct. health, well-being and work environment of its employees (3.78) The ASSA ABLOY Employee Survey 7. My unit has high ethical and moral standards The ASSA ABLOY Employee Survey is an efficient means (3.77) of finding out what the employees think about their 8. I can openly and with respect express my views work situation, how they perceive ASSA ABLOY as an and opinions within my unit (3.70) 26 PEOPLE ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 People Careers in ASSA ABLOY People turn our values and strategy actions; cost efficiency, innovation and market leadership. The program was launched in 2011, replacing an into action, making them our most earlier ASSA ABLOY-IMD program. valuable resource. ASSA ABLOY offers In 2012, 84 leaders participated in one of the above all employees the opportunity to perprograms. form and develop according to their Scholarship Program potential. The Group provides a work The ASSA ABLOY Scholarship Program provides the environment where people can make opportunity for employees to work at a Group company other than their own for a few months. The purpose is a difference – employees have freedom to share knowledge and experiences, and learn from to act and accountability. other cultures and ways of working. The program is open to all employees. During 2012, six employees ASSA ABLOY takes great interest in the employees proparticipated in the program. fessional development in order to attract and retain the employees it needs to achieve continued success. ASSA Talent Management Process ABLOY provides the opportunities, but each employee ASSA ABLOY’s Group-wide Talent Management Process is in charge of his or her own professional development. aims at supporting career development and ensuring availability of the resources, skills and competencies Training and development needed to meet future challenges. The process Two Group-wide development programs are run yearly involves all levels of the organization and includes a and offered to a number of ASSA ABLOY’s senior leadstructured approach to succession planning and career ers. One is the internal “MMT” program, in which the development. participants learn more about all parts of ASSA ABLOY’s business and operations, develop a network with colJob posting leagues from other countries and businesses, share It is ASSA ABLOY’s philosophy that the employees must best practices and identify new business opportunities. take charge of their professional careers. As a conThis is of particular importance to ASSA ABLOY, given sequence, all job openings are posted on the Group the many acquisitions. “MMT” therefore also plays intranet. Internal candidates are given priority, provided an important role in successful integration. Since its they have comparable qualifications to those of exterlaunch in 1996, 419 leaders from 36 countries have nal candidates. participated in the program. The second program, the ASSA ABLOY-IMD “Boosting Market Leadership Program”, has the primary objective of supporting the implementation of the three strategic ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 PEOPLE 27 People Boosting market leadership A new IMD program brought ASSA ABLOY’s most senior Maria Bergving, leaders together for an intensive week of learning and vice president of marketing and communications, networking. ASSA ABLOY Entrance Systems More than 250 of ASSA ABLOY’s most senior man“IMD was a great experience, a chance to meet colleagues from agers from 32 countries have participated in executive all over the world and from all parts of the Group. The proeducation programs from IMD, a world-leading business gram was well prepared and very relevant to the challenges school, since ASSA ABLOY began its collaboration with we see in boosting our market leader­ship, covering issues and the Swiss institution in 2005. The latest program, called cases that could be taken right back into the daily business, as Boosting Market Leadership, was launched in 2011. well as leadership challenges in order to manage change. All in all, it was good learning that I bring with me in both my strateThe program, which is held once or twice a year, gic and operational work.” Allen Wong, vice president of focuses on key strategic priorities, market leadership, operations and technology, innovation and growth. It is designed to give senior ASSA ABLOY Asia Pacific, found immediate application for models leaders within the ASSA ABLOY Group a relevant and about incentives and values. inspirational learning experience. Debra Spitler, Allen Wong, vice president of operations and techvice president of mobile access solutions, HID Global nology, ASSA ABLOY Asia Pacific, has participated in two “The IMD program provided valuable insights and tools that IMD programs, most recently in late 2011. “It was a very can be used to streamline the new product development progood experience,” Wong says. “I learned a lot and it was cess, resulting in a shorter time to market and a faster time to quite intense, but enjoyable. I learned as much from the revenue.” knowledge and views of my colleagues in the class as from the IMD program itself.” Wong has already applied two models he learned John Middleton, about at the program, one regarding incentives and the market region manager, UK, Middle East and Africa other to do with values. “The program is very relevant to “Apart from the very relevant case studies that gave us insight our job and our leadership development,” he says. The into how other corporations dealt with similar strategic issues main benefits for Allen were learning new ways of thinkthat we face as a Group, I found the group work extremely ing, how to adapt new models, and most importantly, stimulating. The way the groups are mixed up gives one the “reflecting on my style of management so that I can be opportunity to interface with many colleagues from across the more effective.” Group and to exchange ideas. In particular, the ‘Must Win Projects’ represented the perfect selection of people from across the Group facing similar challenges.” The IMD collaboration Together with the IMD business school, ASSA ABLOY has organized a learning experience for the Group’s most senior leaders. “­Boosting M ­ arket Leadership” is the name of the most recent program. MMT in 2012 Rebecca Yim, ASSA ABLOY Asia Pacific This is a great opportunity to Efforts to accelerate implementation of the corporate learn from colleagues with strategy continue with the ongoing MMT educational different job functions who program for senior leaders. Every year, the management can share their knowledge training initiative – first started in 1996 – welcomes a and experience. It creates an new group of participants who are nominated by their open forum for discussions. respective divisions. The overall objective of MMT is to develop internal networks within the global organization, thus facilitating sharing of best practices and enabling participants to detect new business opportunities within their markets. The program is an important tool for building a cohesive culture that spans all divisions and immersing acquired companies into the corporate strategy. MMT is a one-year program consisting of three modules. Each module focuses on one of the three strategic actions. Participants work together throughout the year to address a strategic issue for the Group. Employees that have completed the program speak enthusiastically about its virtues. 28 People ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 People A safe place to work A safe and sound workplace is a where applicable. The committees report on health and safety performance and take the lead on measures for basic requirement for any employee, improvement. The safety committees are responsible and ASSA ABLOY strives to create for ensuring that adequate training is provided. a work environment in which risk Risks in our operations is minimized. A risk mapping shows that ASSA ABLOY’s health and safety risks are mainly related to cutting and crushing Everybody is expected to contribute to a safe workplace injuries and production-related noise. Heavy lifting and and the individual responsibility is the foundation of traffic pose the biggest risks in service and maintenance. the ASSA ABLOY health and safety strategy. Each manRisk management is part of the everyday health and ager has the responsibility to map risks, take proactive safety work at all units. measures and ensure the right behavior. This includes facility reviews, monitoring that safety equipment is Learning from each other used in a proper way, ensuring that employees have ASSA ABLOY wants to utilize the knowledge and experadequate training and education, and that appropriate tise that exists within the Group. One way to achieve actions are taken where needed. this is to systemically share best practices and thereby The production units have their own health and learn from real experiences. safety committees, which include union representatives Injury lost day rate, total1 Injury rate, total1 200 12 150 9 100 6 50 3 0 0 08 09 10 11 12² 08 09 10 11 12² 1 I njury lost day rate in lost days per million hours worked. Injury rate in injuries per million hours worked. 1  2  For comparable units. The total injury lost day rate was 171 including units For comparable units. The total injury rate was 9.1 including units acquired 2  acquired during the year and increased reporting. From 2012 the reporting of during the year and increased reporting. From 2012 the reporting of injuries injuries and days lost due to injuries includes data from ASSA ABLOY enties and days lost due to injuries includes data from ASSA ABLOY enties performing performing service or installation. service or installation. Humberto De La Vega, Leif Lippestad, TrioVing Wendy Bowman, HID Global Learning all aspects of ASSA ASSA ABLOY Americas I found it valuable to ­interact ABLOY’s global operations EMS & OEM Group with people representing gives us a better sense of I think the most valuable different parts of the Group the opportunities in front point is developing relationand get a sense of how ASSA of us. By working together ships with colleagues from ABLOY functions cohesively and ­taking advantage of our across the globe and getting on a global scale. MMT Group knowledge we can different perspectives on our teaches us that part of the react quickly when a market business. I can apply this learning experience is to opening presents itself. knowledge to my day-to-day openly share our knowledge activities and improve my with others when performing group’s performance in areas our daily job. such as voice of the customer outreach. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 People 29 People Growing with care ASSA ABLOY grows organically and through acquisitions. well as the implementation of remedial actions where Relocation of production is part of creating a more effineeded. ASSA ABLOY has commissioned external audits cient manufacturing structure. When moving into new since 2009, with a focus on higher-risk countries. In regions and integrating new units, it is important to 2012, external audits were performed in China and understand the new context and to work to ensure that Romania. The audit in Romania revealed impressive the business is run in line with ASSA ABLOY’s policies improvements within a short space of time. The audit in and the Code of Conduct. The ability to grow with care China detected certain issues that need to be addressed will have an impact on ASSA ABLOY’s performance as and local management will take actions accordingly. developing our business in new regions will remain an important part of the strategy for the foreseeable future. ASSA ABLOY believes that it is valuable to compleINDEPENDENT SOCIAL COMPLIANCE AUDITS 2009–2012 ment the internal reviews of the implementation of the Code of Conduct with independent external social 2009: Mexico City, Mexico and Johannesburg, compliance audits. These audits focus on compliance South Africa with the Code of Conduct and the general working and 2010: Xiaolan, China and Johor, Malaysia social conditions covering areas such as human rights, 2011: Shanghai and Suzhou, China working conditions, labor rights and conditions, health 2012: Bucharest, Romania and Shenfei, China and safety and compliance. Normally, two audits are performed per year. The external audits have helped to develop a more systematic approach to these issues, as Employees’ voices heard through the ASSA ABLOY EWC The ASSA ABLOY European Works Council (AAEWC) is a forum where 24 European employee representatives meet with representatives from Group management to get information and discuss the business situation, the development of the Group and pending issues. This is an important forum for dialog on principle matters. Please tell us about the AAEWC and your work AAEWC has a dialog with Group management about the busiI am Chairman of AAEWC, the only international employee ness and facilitates the information flow downstream. We forum within the Group. AAEWC was formed in 1996 as an collect opinions from around the Group and aspire to contribagreement between ASSA ABLOY and employee reps from Euroute to two-way communication. pean countries. The agreement is renegotiated every fifth year. 30 PEOPLE ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Gender balance and diversity ASSA ABLOY believes that diversity is a strength within Diversity of nationalities and cultures the organization and strives to achieve higher levels of A high degree of diversity of nationalities across the diversity among its employees at all levels of the organiorganization is achieved by relying on local staff at all zation. Initiatives include a systematic effort to increase levels of the Group. Recruitment is normally conducted the number of women in senior positions. In 2010, locally and the vast majority of employees, including ASSA ABLOY put a gender diversity policy in place to senior management, are local. More than 90 percent guide its work in this area. A target has been set for 30 of the managers in the local entities are hired from the percent of managerial positions to be held by women local community. by 2020. Progress toward this target is reviewed every six months. Women at different levels of the organization The work of promoting women into senior positions Percentage of women includes efforts to increase the percentage of women Level 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 participating in ASSA ABLOY’s leadership and develop2 – reports to CEO 0 0 0 0 18 ment programs. 3 – reports to level 2 11 15 16 15 16 The recruitment process is an important element in 4 – reports to level 3 17 18 18 19 18 5 – reports to level 4 23 20 24 26 23 achieving a better gender balance. Consequently ASSA Level 2–5 – – – 24 22 ABLOY gives priority to the underrepresented gender in All employees 40 39 37 35 35 connection with recruitment, provided the candidates’ In 2012, the definition has been revised to include only managerial and specialist qualifications are equal. It is also a goal to have a candipositions. This has had a negative impact on levels 4 and 5. date from the underrepresented gender on the shortlist for each vacant position. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION Number Men Europe, 15,904 50,000 Women North America, 7,631 Central and 40,000 South America, 850 Africa, 520 30,000 Asia, 16,802 Australia and 20,000 New Zealand, 1,055 10,000 0 08 09 10 11 12 What does AAEWC typically work with during a year? My role on the Board includes participation in the commitWe run a different action plan each year. In 2012 we followed tee that follows up implementation of the Code of Conduct. up on the restructuring programs that have been implemented AAEWC works with information and education regarding the throughout the Group since 2006. As ASSA ABLOY grows, Code of Conduct. develops and moves its bases of production, it is important to oversee how the employees are affected. What do you think is characteristic of Acquired companies have expectations on ASSA ABLOY and ASSA ABLOY as an employer? on becoming a member of the Group. AAEWC strives to be proThe culture at ASSA ABLOY is open-minded. It is clear in the active in the acquisition process so that we can make the best organization that the employees are a cornerstone in the out of our part. Historically, AAEWC and the unions worked strategy. Every employee is entrusted with freedom and quite hard in Eastern Europe to create well-functioning forums responsibility. for employee involvement. Over time ASSA ABLOY has changed what it produces and Rune Hjälm, employee repWhich employee-related matters do you resentative on ASSA ABLOY where. We oversee the restructuring progress on the local level. consider the most important to ASSA ABLOY? Board of Directors since 2005, AAEWC can offer a different perspective and articulate factors Work environment, stress-related matters, involvement and representing all employees of importance that Group management might not have taken feedback, restructuring and social conditions, and wages. in the Group. Rune is Chairinto consideration. It does not mean that we try to alter the decision; we enable a more informed decision. man of ASSA ABLOY European Works Council (AAEWC), and joined ASSA ABLOY in 1982. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 PEOPLE 31 Stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders ASSA ABLOY’s stakeholders are those in dialog provides an important opportunity for ASSA ABLOY to communicate our ways of working. In 2012, who have a direct relationship with ASSA ABLOY carried out the annual round-table disus, are affected by us, or affect us. cussions and several one-on-one meetings with this Stakeholder groups that ASSA ABLOY group. The dialog, which has been ongoing for several years, has resulted in important input to ASSA ABLOY’s considers to be relevant to the Group’s strategies and daily work, as well as to how we commusustainability work and performance nicate on these matters. The topics raised in 2012 were are: customers, shareholders, investors, quite similar to those raised in 2011. Examples include: risks and risk management in sourcing; implementasuppliers, employees, local communition and follow-up of compliance with the ASSA ABLOY ties, non-governmental organizations Code of Conduct throughout the Group and in acquired and media. companies in particular; more detailed information on third-party audits in the supply chain and within the Group’s units, as well as further information on the stanThe level of impact and the nature of the relationship dard of suppliers; resource efficiency and the constant differ, which is reflected in the engagement approach. effort to reduce ASSA ABLOY’s environmental impact For example customers are involved in the product in sourcing and production. ASSA ABLOY’s opportunidevelopment process through Voice of the Customer, ties related to sustainable development continue to suppliers are engaged through the sustainability audit increase in importance. The investment community process, employees through the daily work as well as would like ASSA ABLOY to further elaborate on how trainings, the employee survey and work council, and it creates customer value through products and soluthe investment community through targeted dialogue tions that contribute to efforts to improve sustainability on sustainability issues as a complement to capital marperformance. The Group is committed to continuing kets day etc. to improve its communication and reporting on susThe investment community is an important staketainability performance to better meet the needs for holder group that offers input on their expectations, information among stakeholders. including best practices and risk management. Engaging ASSA ABLOYs operations in 2012 per stakeholder category, based on the Group income statement SEK m Customers Mechanical locks, lock systems and fittings, 46,619 electromechanical and electronic locks, entrance automation, security doors and hardware Suppliers Purchases of products and services, along –25,367 with depreciation, etc. Employees Wages, salaries and social security costs –12,705 Lenders Interest –802 State Taxes –1,617 Shareholders Net profit 5,125 Board’s dividend proposal –1,891 32 STAKEHOLDERS ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Stakeholders External recognition To ASSA ABLOY, external stakeholders Kempen & Co Kempen is a Dutch merchant bank that provides investare an important source of knowledge ment funds, among other financial services. ASSA and vital partners in advancing our ABLOY has been included in the Kempen SNS SRI Unibusiness. Various ratings and indices verse that, since 2003, invests in European companies which adhere to strict sustainability criteria such as have compared ASSA ABLOY’s sustainenvironmental, ethical and social standards. ability performance to that of its peers, and we value such initiatives. Below Folksam The Swedish insurance company Folksam conducts are some examples of how we rated annual studies of how companies manage their social in 2012. and environmental responsibilities. Folksam presents various reports and indices on corporate responsibility FTSE4Good Index among Swedish companies listed on the NASDAQ OMX FTSE is an independent company jointly owned by The Small, Mid and Large Cap. Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It produces various indices. The FTSE4Good Index aims to Corporate Responsibility Index facilitate investments in companies that meet globFolksam frequently issues a Corporate Responsibility ally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Index, which presents an analysis of how 245 Swedish ASSA ABLOY is included in the FTSE4Good Index. The companies voluntarily report their management of envicompany meets the stringent social, ethical and environmental and human rights issues. The most recent ronmental criteria of the global index company FTSE analysis was released in 2011, in which ASSA ABLOY was Group, and is positioned to capitalize on the benefits rated 42nd and received a score of 3.43. The maximum of responsible business practice. score is 7. FTSE4Good ESG Ratings: Supersector Leaders Carbon Disclosure Project In September 2012 ASSA ABLOY was included in the ASSA ABLOY has participated in the Carbon Disclosure FTSE4Good ESG Ratings: Supersector Leaders within Project (CDP) for six years. The CDP is an independent the Construction and Materials sector. It was a great not-for-profit organization working to drive greenhouse pleasure that gave us extra motivation to continue gas emissions reductions and sustainable water use by the everyday work to continue to enhance the Group’s businesses and cities. The CDP is backed by 655 institusustainability performance. tional investors holding USD 78 trillion in assets. Based For more information and additional details on on the voluntary reports to the CDP, an assessment of the FTSE4Good ESG Ratings methodology, please visit companies’ preparedness regarding risks and opportuwww.ftse.com/analytics/ftse4good-ESGRatings. nities related to climate change is presented annually. In the Nordic CDP report for 2012, ASSA ABLOY received a score of 38/100 (41/100). ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 STAKEHOLDERS 33 Stakeholders Dialog with SRI community and analysts Christina Olivecrona Johan Strandberg Analyst Sustainability, Second Swedish ESG analyst SEB Wealth Management National Pension Fund AP 2 We are thrilled to see that, during 2012, ASSA ASSA ABLOY operates in a large number of ABLOY has increased new business segments high-risk countries. The company makes a such as energy-efficient entrance solutions. good effort to handle issues of potential risk. Sustainability is certainly a business opporSuch issues are often related to ASSA ABLOY’s tunity for ASSA ABLOY, and the company has supply chain and include human rights violasuccessfully integrated sustainability into the tions and corruption. ASSA ABLOY’s Code of whole organization – including a clear division Conduct, Anti-Bribery Policy and sustainability of responsibility. However, ASSA ABLOY also audits are important risk-mitigation practices. faces inherent sustainability risks and we are Overall, we are pleased with the sustainpleased to see that the never-ending process of ability information that ASSA ABLOY provides. reducing environmental impact and managing At the same time, we believe that ASSA ABLOY social risks continued during 2012. could be more transparent with regard to the ASSA ABLOY is communicating its environrisks that follow from having a decentralized mental impacts in a good way but we would organization and expanding into emerging like more comprehensive data, especially markets. relating to targets and results. Regarding We would like ASSA ABLOY to develop social data, there is room for general improveits materiality analysis and key performance ments. Over the years, the information has indicators to focus on challenges closely become increasingly more detailed – but linked to its operations and where the comstill, information on acquisitions and associpany has a direct impact. Finally, diversity is ated sustainability management could be an aspect where we continue to ask for more more comprehensive. To us, the integration of information. acquired companies and ensuring compliance with the ASSA ABLOY guidelines are matters of particular interest. ASSA ABLOY has an open invitation to investors to participate in sustainability audits, which is very positive. Read the full version at www.assaabloy.com/sustainability 34 STAKEHOLDERS ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Anna Nilsson Josefine Ekros Emilie Westholm Head of Responsible Investments, Analyst – Responsible investments DNB Analyst Corporate Governance, Folksam Swedbank Robur The most material issue for ASSA ABLOY is ASSA ABLOY has been successful in handling Given recent corporate scandals and the new production and supply chain management. the environmental challenges that are most Swedish anti-bribery legislation and antiThis entails overseeing both in-house prorelevant to its business. The company has bribery code, awareness and expectations duction and purchasing. Given ASSA ABLOY’s also managed to make a connection between have reached a new high. Legislators have sizable and decentralized organization, its product portfolio and its sustainability made it clear that each company has the shaped by acquisitions, it is important for strategy. responsibility to find out about the risks it the company to focus on maintaining a high ASSA ABLOY’s environmental communifaces and to take appropriate action. and common standard at its own production cation is relatively thorough. We appreciated Folksam expects more information on sites. As the number of suppliers in low-cost that sustainability was included in this year’s anti-corruption management from ASSA countries is growing, it is fair to say that the capital markets day. Furthermore, we value ABLOY. In 2011 the Group issued an Anticompany’s supply chain has inherent risks. the fact that ASSA ABLOY performs social Bribery Policy, which is very positive. Now In the coming year, we expect ASSA compliance audits. However, we would like Folksam would like to learn more about the ABLOY to implement OHSAS 18001 and to more complete social data, including health implementation, risk mapping, anti-bribery provide more robust health and safety inforand safety measures and information relating training, follow-up, etc. mation. Also, we would like a more focused to near misses. ASSA ABLOY is constantly improving its definition of specific risks and opportunities Given ASSA ABLOY’s wide range of sourcsustainability management and performance; and clear sustainability criteria for mergers ing markets and its rapid expansion into new obviously we would like them to continue and acquisitions. Finally, ASSA ABLOY’s cormarkets, it is relevant for ASSA ABLOY to in that direction. Folksam really appreciates ruption risk management is another area of report a thorough risk analysis adapted for the increasingly transparent communicainterest. each market. Naturally ASSA ABLOY should tion on this subject and that the CEO speaks also report which measures it is taking to on behalf of the company regarding sustainrespond to these risks. ability performance. It sends the signal that sustainability aspects are managed by top management and are considered to be of strategic importance. Read the full version at www.assaabloy.com/sustainability ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 STAKEHOLDERS 35 Stakeholders International guidelines leading the way ASSA ABLOY’s long-standing committo actively promoting and respecting the 10 principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and ment to sustainability work is reflected anti-corruption in our operations and in relation to the in its partnerships and memberships. various ASSA ABLOY stakeholders. As a signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a ASSA ABLOY and the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report annually to the UN ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global Global Compact. We fulfill this obligation by issuing an Compact since 2008. Our affiliation with the UN Global annual Sustainability Report, which is communicated Compact means that we support and commit ourselves to the UN Global Compact. 36 STAKEHOLDERS ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Stakeholders Community outreach ASSA ABLOY has numerous opportuniASSA ABLOY believes that community outreach plays an important role in building trust in our organization, ties to contribute and give back to the thereby making our employees feel proud to represent local communities in which it operates. the Group. Community outreach is also part of being a These opportunities bring meaning good corporate citizen. The need for community outreach varies from one region to another. Some of the and joy to a great number of people, initiatives carried out during 2011 are outlined below. organizations and communities. ASSA ABLOY is a politically neutral company that does not engage in lobbying or contribute financial support to political parties or representatives. HID Global’s commitment to changing lives Company partners with Mission 500 to help children and communities in need throughout the world For the past four years, HID Global has partnered with Mission 500, a non-profit dedicated to serving the needs of children and communities in crisis through its cooperation with World Vision. ASSA ABLOY UK raises more than GBP 8,000 for charity Over a two-day period in September, 16 ASSA ABLOY UK employees participated in a 160-mile cycle from the ASSA ABLOY EMEA head office in Woking to the ASSA ABLOY UK head office in Willenhall to raise funds for national charity Victim Support. Victim Support helps victims overcome both the physical and psychological effects of crime. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 VingCard Elsafe donates security solutions to children’s charity In September, VingCard Elsafe announced its continued involveprovides children with life-threatening illnesses and their families ment with Give Kids The World Village (GKTW) in Kissimmee, with weeklong, fantasy vacations at no cost. Florida, and donation of state-of-the-art front desk and locking VingCard Elsafe has been working in partnership with Give Kids systems for the resort. The World Village since outfitting the original villas with electronic Give Kids The World Village officially opened in 1989 and has locks in 1989. Through the years, the villas have been kept up-totoday grown into a 70-acre resort housing 140 villa accommodate with new technologies. The latest contribution of Signature dations, entertainment attractions, whimsical venues, and fun RFID locks and the patented VISIONLINE wireless locking system specifically designed for children with special needs. Located near provides the resort with the most advanced security technology central Florida’s most beloved attractions, Give Kids The World available. ASSA ABLOY Americas partners with Yale School of Architecture for Vlock Building Project The Vlock Building Project has been a rite of passage for first-year students in the Yale School of Architecture (YSA) since 1967. Sargent has been a corporate sponsor of the program since 2004, supplying hardware and offering instruction and advice to the students. “We love to do this project, and we spend a lot of time with the students,” says David Higginson, director of business development at Sargent and McKinney. “We are a local manufacturer and multi-generational employer, and we love to be involved in the community.” 38 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Governance Governance ASSA ABLOY AB is listed on the Councils for Innovation, Sourcing, Operations and Human Resources – whose members include repreNASDAQ OMX Stockholm, Large Cap. sentatives from the Group and all divisions – handle The Group applies the Swedish Code sustainability issues related to their areas. The divisions of Corporate Governance. It is based and their units are responsible for complying with ASSA ABLOY’s policies and programs and for reporting to upon the principle of “comply or Head Office every six months, as requested. explain”, and primarily deals with the A Code of Conduct compliance committee is chaired organization and working methods of by the Group Senior Vice President of Human Resources, and its members include the person responsible for the Annual General Meeting and the environmental sustainability at Group level and two Board of Directors, as well as the manemployee representatives who are also members of the agement of and interaction between ASSA ABLOY Board of Directors. Among other things, the committee receives information from whistle-blowers these bodies. Furthermore, the ASSA and ensures such matters are handled in an appropriate ABLOY Code of Conduct forms the way. The committee meets twice a year. basis for the Group’s actions and The Group intranet includes two sites that are focused on sustainability. One site offers general inforbehavior. mation for all employees, while the other supports the sustainability managers and includes tools, best Sustainability governance and organization practices, access to the reporting database and all susThe Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for tainability indicators. Statistical reports and score cards identifying and managing existing and emerging risks. enable all of the ASSA ABLOY companies to monitor The Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk their performance and to compare themselves with management and decisions relating to sustainability other companies in the Group. policy, the Code of Conduct and strategy. Number of entities covered by ISO14001 certificates and Managing the sustainability agenda other certifiable environmental management systems In the ASSA ABLOY Group, sustainability issues are 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012¹ managed in a systematic and consistent way. The enviISO 14001 37 39 47 55 67 ronmental sustainability coordinators at the Group certifiable and divisional levels ensure that the necessary policies, systems 26 23 22 20 24 programs and tools for managing environmental issues Total 63 62 69 75 91² exist and are implemented, while the Human Resource functions at the Group and divisional levels are over¹ From 2012 sales companies are included in the reporting of environmental management systems. A part of the change is related to seeing and responsible for managing social and ethical increased number of certified entities as well as closing of units in matters. the restructuring program. 2 Total number of entities covered by ISO14001 and other certifiable management systems amounted to 100, including units acquired during the year and increased reporting. Environmental Social & Ethical R&D ASSA ABLOY Group Stefan Tisell, Krister Eriksson, Åsa Christiander, Head of Environmental Sustainability Head of HR Director Product Innovation Process EMEA Justin Sasse, Head of Operations Bill Harding, Head of HR Charles Robinson, Operations & Sustainability Analyst EMEA Americas Jeff Mereschuk, CFO¹ Jack Dwyer, Head of HR Aaron Smith, Director Sustainable Building Solutions Asia Pacific Allen Wong, Head of Operations Iker Zubia, Head of HR Mark Solari, Packaging Manager Entrance Systems Tobias Svensson, Responsible Process Maria Ewerth, Head of HR Mats Nordén, CTO ASSA ABLOY Excellence Entrance Systems HID Global Rodney Glass, Head of Quality and Michele DeWitt, Head of HR Ian Croston, VP Global Operations Manufacturing Engineering Hospitality Dolores Shore, Head of HR Dolores Shore, Head of HR Kristian Holmen, VP Engineering ¹ Eric Sejourne, VP Operational Development, will take over responsibility from 1 April 2013. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GOVERNANCE 39 Governance Organizational responsibility In ASSA ABLOY’s decentralized orgaASSA ABLOY sustainability council Within the ASSA ABLOY Group there is a sustainability nization, the responsibility for implecouncil with representatives from Innovation and menting the Code of Conduct and Production (environment) from all divisions. The counother related policies, as well as for cil meets three to four times per year. During these meetings, various aspects of sustainability related to identifying and managing sustainabilinnovation and production is discussed, action plans are ity risks, is delegated to each division set and ambitions are decided upon. Each participant is and overseen by the Executive Team. responsible for reporting back to his or her organization to ensure implementation. Within the divisions, the operational responsibility is delegated to each Monitoring progress factory or business. The procedures put in place to maintain and manage environmental and social impact have been successful. Sustainability targets and policies have been impleThe responsibility is not limited to ASSA ABLOY’s own mented throughout the Group, and each division is operations, but also includes the supply chain and supresponsible for identifying its greatest impact on the ply chain audits. Each division is further responsible for environment and presenting an action plan to address ensuring that current and new suppliers meet ASSA problems. ABLOY’s requirements. To effectively monitor progress and maintain a At Group level, performance is monitored via the systematic approach, ASSA ABLOY has developed a sustainability reporting process, which includes each database of all manufacturing companies’ sustainability company’s reporting of environmental risks that have indicator reports. In addition to the actual KPIs, the been identified as material and actions to mitigate database also includes best practices and tools. Details these risks. of measures taken by the various companies to reach Frequent divisional board meetings address risks, the Group sustainability targets have been entered into compliance and other sustainability-related matters. the database. ASSA ABLOY companies and divisions can The delegation of responsibility, implementation access information from the database to compare progand follow-up throughout the Group is well commuress and trends. In 2012, 293 (256) factories, sales units nicated and the accountability of each person and and offices reported. function with a particular responsibility is defined. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional boards Entrance EMEA Americas Asia Pacific HID Global Hospitality Systems Environmental Mapping Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainability Report process 40 GOVERNANCE ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Governance Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct covers business ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct covers: ethics, workers’ rights, human rights, Business ethics consumer interests, community out• Fair competition and • Records and reports antitrust legislation reach, environment and health & • Government • Bribery investigations safety. It provides the framework for • Fraud • Conflicts of interest ASSA ABLOY’s daily operations. • Entertainment, gifts, gratuities and donations The Code of Conduct sets forth principles that apply globally to employees, suppliers and other stakeholders. Workers’ rights, human rights, consumer It is based on the United Nations Universal Declaration interests and community outreach of Human Rights and connected UN Conventions such • Child labor • Employee privacy as the United Nations Global Compact, the Organiza• Forced or • Alcohol and tion for Economic Co-operation and Development bonded labor drug abuse Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, ILO Tripartite • Freedom of associa• Human rights Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational tion and collective • Consumer interests Enterprises and Social Policy, and the ISO 14001 envibargaining • Community ronmental management standard. • Workers’ contracts, outreach The ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is available in full working hours and • Environment, health in English, Spanish and Chinese, while a shortened version compensation and safety issues is available in 22 languages at www.assaabloy.com/code. • Diversity and • Environment and gender balance sustainability • Discrimination, At the core of everything • Health and safety harassment and ASSA ABLOY respects the laws of the countries in which equal opportunities it operates. The Code of Conduct does not replace legislation and if the two are in conflict, legislation takes precedence. If the Code of Conduct sets a higher standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. Whistle-blowing mechanism The Code of Conduct represents the minimum level of Any issue related to the Code of Conduct shall be action required for responsible business practices and dealt with at the local level whenever possible. sustainable development. Managers have the responsibility to ensure comThe full version of The Code of Conduct is given to all pliance with the Code of Conduct and to foster a managers and union representatives. The short version workplace culture in which any issue can be disis communicated and made available to all employees. cussed openly and without prejudice. New employees are required to read the Code of ConThe Code of Conduct includes a mechanism duct and agree to abide by it and any related policies. for whistle-blowing, by which employees and ASSA ABLOY monitors the implementation of the any stakeholders, anonymously or otherwise, Code of Conduct. Any non-compliance is handled withcan report suspected violations. During 2012 out delay. eight cases were reported, compared to three It is the division’s responsibility to ensure that the in 2011 and six in 2010. The cases reported in ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is communicated in 2012 included non-compliance with working a proper way, and that all employees have read and hour regulations, irregularities in the purchasing understood it. New employees receive training in ASSA process , undue influence. and discrimination. All ABLOY’s Code of Conduct as part of their introduction whistle-blowing cases are subject to thorough training, Entrance to ASSA ABLOY. investigations and appropriate actions are taken, In order to ensure that information about the Code depending on the outcome of the investigaof Conduct is given to the employees as expected, ASSA tion. Wherever possible, information on which ABLOY’s Global Employee Survey includes questions actions have been taken is also shared with the that address various aspects of the Code of Conduct. whistle-blower. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GOVERNANCE 41 Governance Anti-Bribery Policy By introducing an Anti-Bribery Policy Initiatives within the Anti-Bribery Compliance Program include risk assessments, employee training, third-party and a zero-tolerance approach to compliance and reporting. offenders, ASSA ABLOY has taken a Implementation of the Anti-Bribery Compliance Profirm stand against bribery. gram is an ongoing, top-down process. Each Division is responsible for implementing the Anti-Bribery Compliance Program and supporting tools are made available ASSA ABLOY is committed to growing its business and by the Group. conducting itself in accordance with the highest ethiAs part of the implementation process, each Divical standards and in compliance with applicable laws. sion’s management has received face-to-face training In light of the introduction of stricter anti-bribery legon the Anti-Bribery Policy. Furthermore, the Divisions islation, an “Anti-Bribery Compliance Program” was have identified which of their employees should receive launched in 2011 with the aim of ensuring that the anti-bribery training. During 2012, more than 6,000 Group meets international standards in this area. As employees within the Group have received training – part of the Anti-Bribery Compliance Program, the either face-to-face or online. Board of Directors adopted an Anti-Bribery Policy in All employees will be informed about who to turn to 2011, which supplements and expands on the Code if they have questions or need of support in connection of Conduct. with the Anti-Bribery Policy. Any suspected incidents The Anti-Bribery Policy is also available in a sumare to be reported to the nearest manager, Divisional marized version – the so-called “Key Messages”. The Compliance Officer, Group Legal, or through the Code Anti-Bribery Policy and the Key Messages are available of Conduct whistle-blowing function. in 17 languages. The Key Messages is also included – The implementation of the Anti-Bribery Compliance together with other important compliance policies Program is reviewed through the Group’s established such as the Group Legal Policy, the Export Control Policy process for internal control, including self-assessment in and the Anti-Trust Policy – in a booklet that is distriball operating companies and internal audit. uted throughout the Group. 42 GOVERNANCE ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Governance Environmental, social and economic benefits of wooden doors Challenge Awareness of deforestation and associated risks keeps increasing. At the same time, green construction is on the rise. This has led to an increased demand for more sustainable materials among manufacturers, builders and developers. More precisely, rapidly renewable and/or certified wooden raw materials are needed. ASSA ABLOY’s challenge is to provide such products at a reasonable price. Solution ASSA ABLOY wooden door companies Graham and Maiman offer products made with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified wood. The Chain of Custody certification verifies that the materials used were grown, harvested, replenished and transported to the manufacturing facility in ways approved by the FSC. The materials used are also kept separate from non-certified products, or mixed only as approved by the FSC. In addition, each brand’s doors feature many nonvirgin wood components classified as recycled or renewable. For example, particle board used in the core of a standard Graham door or a Maiman Thermal Fused door contains between 75 and 100 percent recycled wood fiber. Graham also offers products with agrifiber cores, i.e. cores made with any fibrous material generated from agricultural/bio-based products. Such cores are both recycled and rapidly renewable, and make up at least 78 percent of a door. Result FSC Chain of Custody certification makes it possible for consumers to choose products in line with responsible forest management. Showing double digit growth in this product category, ASSA ABLOY’s wooden door solutions meet the need for a more sustainable product while also bringing the company one step closer to realizing its sustainability ambitions. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GOVERNANCE 43 Governance Acquisitions – risks and opportunities Acquisitions continue to represent The operational due-diligence phase not only helps ASSA ABLOY to decide whether or not to pursue the an important part of ASSA ABLOY’s acquisition, but also to understand and plan for the strategy. It is a strategy for expanwork that would need to be done if the acquisition were sion into new geographic markets, completed. Operational due diligence includes elements such as site visits and a comprehensive review of all strengthening the product offering, aspects of the operational, commercial and adminisaccelerating innovation and enabling trative activities. The major findings are recorded and the Group to meet customer demand evaluated from a risk point of view. This evaluation will determine whether there are any issues that need to more rapidly. be resolved before or after the acquisition is closed, or whether the process should be terminated altogether. With a history of more than 200 acquisitions, ASSA Examples of issues that can arise include those relatABLOY has established an efficient process for bringing ing to the use of chemicals, applications for appropriate new companies into the Group. This includes the review permissions and compliance with legislation. If necesof sustainability-related issues and taking steps to help sary, ASSA ABLOY brings in external experts as advisors. newly acquired companies raise their standards where Examples of aspects that are covered by the legal necessary. The successful integration of acquired compadue-diligence phase include employment contracts, nies is an important part of the process of managing risk. payment processes and wages, insurance and taxes. ASSA ABLOY realizes the importance of acquiring The preand post-acquisition process sound companies that share its values and business The Group-wide acquisition process is divided into practices. Ensuring that acquired companies are four phases: strategy, assessment, implementation and smoothly integrated into the Group helps to reduce risk integration. Each phase has its own pre-defined activiand create success. Before an acquisition is completed, ties, decision points and documentation requirements. ASSA ABLOY informs the new Group company about Within these phases there are three main due-diligence the way in which ASSA ABLOY does business, including processes: financial and tax; legal; and operational. There information about the Code of Conduct. It is in the best are sustainability elements to the legal and operational interests of the Group that both parties know as much due-diligence phases in particular. about each other as possible. ASSA ABLOY’S DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITIONS 2007–2012 2007 – Expansion in Asia 2008 – Wireless 2010 – Acquisitions strengthen 2011 – Global leader in 2012 – Acquisitions strengthen A new brand strategy is launched, technology launched customer offering in Asia entrance automation Entrance Systems range with ASSA ABLOY as the master The new Aperio wireless Acquisition of Pan Pan, China’s Acquisition of Crawford Entrance Acquisition of Dynaco, a leading brand. The Group acquires technology is launched, making largest manufacturer of highSolutions and FlexiForce, which producer of high-speed doors iRevo in South Korea, a major it easy for customers to upgrade security steel doors, King Door strengthen the customer specialized in sales to a global player in digital door locks. their access control systems. Closers, South Korea’s leading offering in industrial doors, network of distributors, Guoqiang, Other acquisitions: Aontec Other acquisitions: Beijing manufacturer of door closers, docking solutions and garage a Chinese window hardware (Republic of Ireland), Baodean Tianming and Shenfei (China), Paddock, the UK’s leading doors. An agreement was manufacturer and 4Front, a (China), Powershield (UK), Gardesa and Valli &Valli (Italy), manufacturer of multi-point locks, signed to acquire Albany Door leader in docking systems. Pyropanel (Australia), Pemko Copiax (Sweden), Cheil (South ActivIdentity, a leader in secure Systems, a global leader in Other acquisitions: Securistyle and La Force (USA), Alba Korea) and Rockwood (USA). identity solutions (USA), Security automatic high-speed doors. (UK), Traka (UK), Frameworks (Israel), Esety (Italy), Integrated Metal Products (USA), LaserCard Other acquisitions: Swesafe (USA), Helton (Canada) Engineering (Netherlands) 2009 – Strong results (USA), and Swesafe (Sweden). (Sweden), Portafeu (France), and Sanhe (China). and Portronik (Canada). despite weak market Other acquisitions: Interest in Metalind (Croatia), Electronic Acquisition of the Ditec Group, Agta Record (Switzerland). Security Devices (USA), and In addition to the acquisitions a leading company in automatic Angel Metal (South Korea). listed here, ASSA ABLOY doors, industrial doors, highhas acquired a number of speed doors and gate automation. smaller companies. Other acquisitions: Portsystem (Sweden), Maiman (USA) and Cerracol (Colombia). 44 GOVERNANCE ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Pre-acquisition, a desktop analysis is performed of the Recognized risks target company’s supplier base. Two categories are ASSA ABLOY has identified the following main areas mapped; big suppliers and critical components. The of potential risk related to acquisitions: mapping involves the Group Supply Management and • Significant environmental pollution (soil, ground aims at identifying risks and potential synergies. Postwater and air) acquisition, associated suppliers are automatically • Supplier base in low-cost countries included in the Group’s supplier database, which is • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous continuously assessed and audited. substances • Poor business ethics • Proper permissions Acquisitions strengthen Entrance Systems range Acquisition of Dynaco, a leading producer of high-speed doors specialized in sales to a global network of distributors. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GOVERNANCE 45 Reporting Reporting principles In retrospect ASSA ABLOY is dedicated to improvNUMBER OF REPORTING UNITS When ASSA ABLOY began focusing on sustainability, ing its sustainability communication in it prioritized manufacturterms of transparency, scope, quality 300 ing because of its impact on the environment, as well as and the frequency of information. This 250 health and safety. is the Group’s seventh Sustainability 200 In 2005, ASSA ABLOY implemented its first formal Report. ASSA ABLOY reports on GRI 150 internal reporting system. application level B. 100 The system encompassed 50 several quantitative and Communication 0 qualitative indicators and 08 09 10 11 12 Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability reportcovered the more significant ing database are important tools for communication. operations from an environWe believe this provides a more accurate picture of Externally, the Group web site www.assaabloy.com and mental/health and safety what is going on in the Group. perspective. the annual Sustainability Report communicate to a From 2010 ASSA ABLOY uses the same principle In 2007, a separate reportwider public. for calculating carbon emissions as in the annual Caring database was developed The Group also frequently presents its sustainability bon Disclosure Project-report. Previous reporting has and the scope of reportapproach to external audiences, such as analysts and been based on the same CO2 factor for all countries in ing on sustainability was investors. expanded. the Group. The selected method gives a more relevant Between 2008 and calculation on the actual carbon emissions since it Changes in reporting management 2009, the number of units takes into account how electricity is generated in difIn 2009, the Group moved from a reporting structure reporting on sustainability ferent countries. In 2012 the CO2 emission factors have that focused on geographical sites to one based on increased from 80 to 181 been updated with respect to current international operational units – also called base units. This means – including sales units and standards. that the reporting structure and data are similar to offices. Between 2009 and 2010, those used for Group-level financial reporting and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 3.0 the number of reporting therefore support the integration of sustainability into This report covers the 2012 reporting year. It covers all units increased from 181 to all areas of operations. As of 2012 the units reports ASSA ABLOY operations, as well as those of our suppli204. In 2011 the number of sustainability performance every six months (internal ers. For the reporting of indicators, the scope of 293 reporting units increased to reporting). 256. The increase since 2009 units has been defined. Joint ventures are included if Compared to 2011, the number of entities reportis related to acquisitions of ASSA ABLOY holds a majority of the shares. Sustainabiling on sustainability in 2012 has increased from 256 new companies. ity indicators are reported by companies that have been to 293 due to acquisitions. The reporting units include ASSA ABLOY has further part of the Group since at least the end of the first quarsales units and offices. The number of reporting units developed its reporting syster of 2012. Units with less than 10 employees do not has also been affected by the reduction in the number tem with improved analysis report on sustainability indicators. of factories and increased outsourcing. As of 2012 the capabilities and consolidaThe report has been developed with guidance from tion of data. sustainabilityreporting includes water consumtion, a number of standards and with substantial input from greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances. investors and available rating schemes, in particular the From 2012 all sales companies and officies use appliGRI Guidelines. ASSA ABLOY reports on level B of the calbe parts of the full factory reporting form. This gives GRI by self-declaration. (See cross-reference to the GRI an improved coverage regarding e.g. waste generation, on pages 47–48). water usage and injuries. ASSA ABLOY reports its sustainability performance annually. This is the seventh Sustainability Report. The Changes in calculation principles most previous Sustainability Report, for 2011, was Reported normalized KPIs are based on currency-neuissued in April 2012. tral monetary values and value added rather than sales, in order to minimize the effect of currency fluctuations GRI audit and the ongoing restructuring of the Group. By using ASSA ABLOY has not submitted the sustainability report value added as a measure, the normalized values are for 2012 to a third-party audit. KPMG Sweden has peralso not affected by the outsourcing of manufacturing. formed an application check and confirms that ASSA ABLOY reports on GRI level B. 46 REPORTING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Reporting GRI content index table ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Report 2012 applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines 3.0, applicaFully reported tion level B. The table below indicates where information can be found; Sustainability Report (if nothing else Partly reported is stated) or Annual Report (AR). The table covers all core indicators as well as additional indicators that are Not reported applicable to ASSA ABLOY’s operations. The colors of the symbols indicate if the respective indicators are fully, AR = Annual Report 2012 partially or not reported on. PROFILE Page PROFILE Page reference Degree reference Degree 1. Strategy & analysis 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board members AR 69–70 1.1 CEO statement 4–5 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 4–6, 8–9, 39, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 4–5, 6, 8, 12, 41–42, 44 15–18, 30, 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 39–40 44–45 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance AR 69–70 2. Organizational profile Commitments to external initiatives 2.1 Name of the organization Back cover 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 2–3 precautionary principle is applied 10, 36 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 39–40 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, AR 40–41 principles or other initiatives 4, 36, 39, 41 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Back cover 4.13 Memberships in associations 33, 36 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 2–3 Stakeholder engagement 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 68 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 32–33, 36 2.7 Markets 2–3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 2.8 Scale of the organization stakeholders with whom to engage 32 2–3 4.16 Stakeholder engagement 26, 30–38 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 46 AR 63–64, 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 105–106 through stakeholder engagement 26, 30–35 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 33 5. Economic indicators 3. Report parameters DMA Economic performance; risk 4–5, 8 management, targets, plolicies etc. AR 1–11 Report profile Economic performance 3.1 Reporting period 46 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 32 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 46 AR 79, 83 3.3 Reporting cycle 46 EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organization 4–6, 8, 10, 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back due to climate changes 12–14, 18–22, cover 34–35 Report scope and boundary EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined AR 67, 103– benefit plan obligations 104, 108–109 3.5 Process for defining report content Inside cover, 7, 32, 46 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 3.6 Boundary of the report Inside cover, Market presence 46 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 46 compared to local minimum wage 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 46 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles 46 EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements hired from the local community 31 of information provided in earlier reports 46 Indirect economic impact 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 46 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes 37–38 GRI content index EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, 3.12 Table identifying the location of the including the extent of impacts Standard Disclosures in the report 47–48 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 6. Environmental performance indicators seeking external assurance for the report 46 DMA Environmental performance; risk 4 –10, 12–14, management, targets, plolicies etc. 39–41, 44–46 4. Governance, commitments & engagement Materials Governance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 19, 22–23 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 39–40 AR 68–75 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 22 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role in the organization AR 69, 70-71 Energy 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 18–19 AR 71–73 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 18–19 to provide recommendations to the board AR 68–69 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 70, 77, and efficiency improvement 18–20 108–109 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 10–14, 18–20, 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board AR 71 renewable energy based products/services 24–25 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 REPORTING 47 Reporting Fully reported Partly reported Not reported AR = Annual Report 2012 PROFILE Page PROFILE Page reference Degree reference Degree EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy 10–14, 18–20, Diversity & equal opportunity consumption and results 24–25 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 31 Water employees according to diversity indicators AR 109 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 21 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Biodiversity Human rights EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected Investment & procurement practices areas/areas of biodiversity value HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses 15–17, 44–45 EN12 Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity HR2 Suppliers that have undergone screening Emissions, effluents & waste on human rights, and actions taken 1, 4, 15–17 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 18–19 HR3 Training and education of employees in human rights EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Non-discrimination EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 10–12, 18–21 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 41 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 19 Freedom of association & collective bargaining EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective 15–17, 30, EN21 Total water discharge 21 bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 44–45 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 22 Child labour EN23 Number and volume of significant spills No significant HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 15–17, 30, spills reported incidents of child labour and actions taken 44–45 to Group level Forced & compulsory labour in 2012. HR7 Operations identified as having significant Products & services risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 15–17, 30, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental 4, 6, 10–23, labour and actions taken 44–45 impacts of products and services 44–45 Society EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Community SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s Compliance impacts on communities Transport Corruption EN29 Environmental impact of transports 20 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 42, 44–45 7. Social performance indicators SO3 Employees trained in the organization’s DMA Social performance; risk 4–9, 26–32, anti-corruption policies and procedures 42 management, targets, plolicies etc. 34–42, 44– 46 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 41 Employment Public policy Employees SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying 37 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 31 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political contract and region AR 109 parties, politicians and related institutions 37 LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age Anti-competitive behaviour group, gender and region SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour No such cases LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees AR 94 in 2012 Labour/management relations Compliance LA4 Percentage of employees covered SO8 Monetary value of fines for nonNo such cases collective bargaining agreements compliance with applicable laws in 2012 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes Product responsibility Health & safety Customer health & safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety management-worker health and safety committees impacts of products and services are assessed 10–13 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Product & service labelling lost days, work related fatalities 29 PR3 Type of products and service information required LA8 Education, training, prevention and by procedures, and percentage of products risk-control programs in place subject to such information requirements Training & education PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee including results of surveys 12 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Marketing communications that support employees’ career development 27–29 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and LA12 Employees receiving regular performance voluntary codes for marketing communications and career development reviews 26 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with No such cases regulations concerning the use of products and services in 2012 48 REPORTING ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Glossary 5S principles Indirect energy 5S is a key element of Lean and stands for Sort, Set in Electricity and heating. order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain. Injury rate Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Measure of injuries per million hours worked. The Carbon Disclosure Project, or CDP, is an independent non-profit organization compiling the world’s Injury lost day rate largest database of corporate climate change inforMeasure of days lost due to injuries per million hours mation. CDP harmonizes climate change data from worked. local organizations from around the world to assist in the development of international carbon reporting ISO 14001 standards. A global, certifiable standard for environmental management systems created by the International Carbon footprint Organization for Standardization. A CO2 measurement of the impact of human activities on the environment, in terms of the amount of KPI greenhouse gases produced. Key Performance Indicator. CO2 Lean Carbon dioxide. Lean production philosophy is about using as few resources as possible. The focus is on just-in-time Direct energy production, which means that materials, parts and Energy generated and utilized on site from oil, gas, etc. products are in the right place at the right time. Striving for continuous improvement is an integral part of the EBIT Lean philosophy. Earnings before income and tax. LEED Energy conservation Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. The practice of decreasing the quantity of energy used, for example through efficient energy use. NGO Non-governmental organization. Gateway process ASSA ABLOY’s product development is based on a Organic solvents structured Gateway process, which means all projects Perchloroethylene and trichloroethylene. must pass through six different stages from concept to installed product. PER Perchloroethylene. Global Compact A UN initiative that encourages companies to apply RoHS sustainable and socially responsible principles. European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive. Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Global guidelines for sustainability reporting, SRI version 3.0. Socially Responsible Investment. Greenhouse gas missions TRI Gases from the atmosphere that contribute to the Trichloroethylene. greenhouse effect, for example CO2 and methane. Value added EBIT plus total cost for personnel. Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Photo: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among others. Print: Elanders AB, Falköping, April 2013. ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in door opening solutions, dedicated to satisfying ASSA ABLOY AB end-user needs for security, P.O. Box 70 340 safety and convenience SE-107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Telephone +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 www.assaabloy.com Fax +46 (0) 8 506 485 85 Contacts Environmental sustainability: Stefan Tisell, ASSA ABLOY AB Director Production Processes and Environmental Sustainability stefan.tisell@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Social and ethical matters: Krister Eriksson, ASSA ABLOY AB Senior Vice President Human Resources krister.eriksson@assaabloy.com Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00
