SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 0 0 1 8 5 0 6 3 4 5 0 6 2 5 0 0 0 1 4 5 0 6 8 8 5 0 0 9 4 1 0 6 4 2 1 0 0 2 4 6 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 3002 2002 1002 1 0 0 1 8 0002 0 6 4 0 9 8 991 8991 0 5 4 2 2 7 0 0 8 2 3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IT'S IN OUR HANDS. BANK HAPOALIM 2-3 CONTENTs 4-33 Introduction, summary of sustainability and CSR activities, and profile of the bank 4-6 Messages from the Chairman of the Board and the CEO 7-19 Profile, scope and quality of the report 20-27 Social responsibility, then and now 28-33 Assimilating the bank's vision, adopting responsible initiatives and promoting corporate responsibility 34-195 Detailed presentation of sustainability and CSR activity 34-113 Resource management 34-69 Logistical resources and the environment Living with the environment 70-113 Employees Quality of life and well-being 114-195 Creating value 114-161 Customers, products, and services The best interests of the client 162-195 Creating value for society and for the economy – Empowering society and the community 196-199 Ethics and compliance 200-203 The bank's profile 204-212 Corporate Governance 213-223 GRI index and Global Compact Introduction 4-5 Chairman and CEO Message of specialized financing for small enterprises, and provides these enterprises with guidance through business and organizational consulting as well as suitable services. The bank has also created a large-scale marketing arena for small enterprises, to promote their exposure to the general public in Israel. A notable milestone in this process was Small Business Day, a first-of-its-kind initiative launched by the bank to encourage the public to buy from small enterprises throughout Israel. The bank routinely and continuously works to strengthen its relationships with customers and to respond to their needs. This year, the bank expanded its activities in the area of financial freedom for customers. These include tools for household budget management, personal financial planning services designed to help achieve balanced everyday financial behavior, and an extensive ongoing media campaign to raise awareness of prudent financial conduct for the general public. Along with the promotion of customers' financial capabilities for the long term, the bank also seeks to generate direct value for them. This year, the bank launched the Cash Back Club, which created immediate financial value for its customers while promoting thousands of enterprises. As an organization providing a range of services to its customers and to the public, in recent years we have worked to make the bank's services and premises accessible to people with disabilities. This year, we continued to plan and implement our strategy of making all branches and facilities accessible to people with various types As Israel's leading bank, Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to assimilating the values of sustainability and of disabilities. corporate social responsibility. This concept is rooted in the bank's vision, strategy, and operational practices, and promotes the creation of value for its various stakeholders. The bank's approach is reflected, in practical The bank integrates environmental values with its business activities, and views this effort as an opportunity terms, in its response to customers' long-term needs and life events, promotion of financial freedom for the to create economic value both for its customers and for the economy, while promoting national goals and public, development of the bank's human capital and work environment in dialogue and partnership with its contributing to the protection of the environment. Over the last year, the bank expanded the scope of its employees, recognition of environmental needs, and investment in the community. financing solutions by developing and offering solutions in the various fields of sustainability: solar energy, water desalination, natural gas fueled power plants, various factories and institutions replacing costly and polluting This is the bank's sixth annual report on sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The report describes the traditional fuels, recycling, energy efficiency, and more. In 2012, as part of its internal environmental practices, bank's ongoing activities in this area and presents the implementation of CSR values, at the various levels of its the bank became the first financial institution in Israel certified under the ISO 14001 international standard of activity, to its stakeholders. This report describes the bank's achievements in 2012 as well as long-term trends. environmental management. This recognition is a leap forward in the bank's position as an organizational system implementing high-quality environmental practices while reducing effects to the environment. Bank Hapoalim, as the leader of the banking system in Israel, is positioned at a key junction of economic activity. The bank views this status as an opportunity to carry out business processes and ventures that contribute We have continued to promote a unique employment environment, based on a concept that views our employees to the growth of the Israeli economy. As part of a strategic effort, the bank worked during 2012 to promote as partners in the creation and development of a values-driven organizational culture. One expression of this small enterprises, based on the approach that this sector is the backbone of the Israeli economy and one of concept is the multiple channels used routinely for dialogue and feedback with our employees and the employee its most significant growth drivers. The establishment and operation of small enterprises is one way to promote union, and some of the most advanced employee well-being services in Israel. Extensive resources and efforts entrepreneurship and financial freedom in Israeli society. The bank has promoted an extensive infrastructure are invested in this area, and the results are apparent in our everyday routines. The percentage of female Introduction 6-7 Message from the Head of Corporate Social Responsibility executives at the bank is gradually rising, and currently stands at 50.7% – significantly higher than the job-market This is the sixth report published by Bank Hapoalim for its stakeholders. Each report in turn surveyed a full year average. Our consistent support for employees in academic programs contributes to the ongoing increase in of activity within our overall sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan. the percentage of employees who hold academic degrees, currently at 57.6%. This approach contributes to The reports reflect varied, thorough, organized, systematic action. The sustainability and CSR reports released employees' personal development while creating added value for the organization. by Bank Hapoalim describe the bank’s journey, from the inception of the plan to the present day, to assimilate corporate social responsibility. Each report focuses on different highlights, according to the key areas of activity The bank is an integral part of Israeli society, from which it draws its abilities and its strength. This awareness in the preceding year: has led the bank to invest in Israel's society and community through a range of programs and initiatives. The In 2007, we described the project of initiating this activity, including in-depth diagnosis, formulating work plans by bank views education as the most important foundation for the promotion of equal opportunities and increased specialized committees, creating infrastructure for future action, and describing many projects in this field. well-being. This year, the bank continued to support a large number of educational projects for children and adolescents throughout Israel, contributing to excellence and to the reduction of social inequalities. As a reflection In 2008, we focused on solidifying and developing a working infrastructure and on planning numerous activities of the bank's values, employee volunteering was promoted through the creation of a formalized organizational in the areas of sustainability and CSR. structure to manage this activity, advancing volunteering as a core area for the bank and providing guidance, In 2009, we reported on the expansion and improvement of the designated infrastructure for managing the plan, measurement, and monitoring of volunteering at the bank. The number of employees who volunteer grew and on the development of a network of relationships with parties involved in sustainability and CSR in Israel. significantly over the last year. As an additional part of its community involvement, the bank has launched an initiative to connect all of its branches with local activities in their communities, so that they become a part of In 2010, Bank Hapoalim took another step forward in the process of assimilating the values of CSR and promoting the social fabric in their neighborhoods. the creation of shared value for the bank and its stakeholders, in all levels of its activity. In 2011, the bank focused on expanding its sphere of influence in the core areas of social responsibility, through The accomplishments briefly described above are presented in detail in Bank Hapoalim`s sixth sustainability and dialogue with its stakeholders and initiatives for the creation of a wide range of projects. CSR report. These actions, and its commitment to sustainability and CSR values, have earned the bank a place at the top of the local and international ratings in this field. However, there is still much to be done. Responsibly maximizing value for all of its stakeholders is at the core of the bank's vision and strategy. In the coming years, we will proudly continue to apply sustainability and CSR values in all of the bank's activities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 ECONOMIC, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUMMARY Yair Seroussi Zion Kenan SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009 Chairman of the board of directors President and CEO ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 0 0 1 8 5 0 6 3 4 5 0 6 2 5 0 0 0 1 4 5 0 6 8 8 5 0 0 9 4 1 0 6 4 2 1 0 0 2 4 6 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 4002 3002 2002 1002 1 0 0 1 8 0002 0 6 4 0 9 8 991 8991 0 5 4 2 2 7991 0 0 8 2 3 È˙‡‰ „Â˜‰ ‫חברה‬ ‫וקהילה‬ ‫לקוחות‬ ‫דו ח קיימות‬ ‫אחריות חברתית‬ ‫סביבתית וכלכלית‬ ‫סביבה‬ ‫עובדים‬ 2007 ‰·È·Ò ˙ÂÓÈÈ˜ Á“Â„ ÌÈ„·ÂÚ ˙ÂÁÂ˜Ï Ω ˙È˙¯·Á ˙ÂÈ¯Á‡ ˙ÈÏÎÏÎÂ ˙È˙·È·Ò ‰¯·ÁÂ ‰ÏÈ‰˜ ≤∞∞∏ ≥π Introduction 8-9 In 2012, we deepened the integration of CSR values into our corporate strategy and our community and Content and Scope of the Report environmental activities, and made progress with the formalization of these areas at the bank, as the involvement This report on sustainability and corporate social responsibility refers to the calendar year 2012, and is current of units and officers of the bank grew significantly. as of the end of the first quarter of 2013. The report also includes objectives and plans for the coming years. We believe that this report is the best indicator of our actions and plans. A wide range of processes and activities were carried out, including the following: The bank continues to maintain its tradition of reports at the highest level of quality, meeting all of the requirements ■ A cross-functions process at the bank`s various units aimed to assimilate the bank's vision, which is based of the core metrics and most of the additional metrics in the newest, most advanced reporting framework of the on values such as sustainability and financial freedom; Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), G3.1, as well as all of the financial sector supplements. ■ Implementation of our strategic efforts to promote small enterprises in Israel through extensive financing, This report covers all of the bank's material impacts in the area of CSR. However, the report does not address business and organizational consulting offered to the enterprises by the bank, creation of a marketing platform Isracard Ltd. Isracard is an independent company, with a separate management and Board of Directors. It for increased awareness and exposure of small enterprises, and collaboration with a range of organizations operates in accordance with proper corporate-governance rules. The company is preparing to publish its own in the Israeli economy; CSR report, according to the schedule delineated by the Supervisor of Banks. ■ Formalization of environmental management through the bank's ISO 14001 environmental management The process of determining the content of the report involved identifying the target audiences and stakeholders certification, in compliance with the requirements of both Israeli and international standards; likely to make use of the report: Bank Hapoalim employees, suppliers, customers, analysts, community ■ Promotion of environmentally conscious behavior, through the examination of advanced innovative solutions organizations, regulators, policymakers, and more. The report extensively discusses matters deemed by the for energy efficiency; bank to be of special importance for one or more of the following reasons: ■ Continued implementation of the perennial work plan for the promotion of a diverse workforce at the bank; ■ The bank has (or may have) substantial influence in a particular area; ■ Expansion of activities in the area of financial freedom for customers, through online household budget ■ The bank's stakeholders attribute high importance to the issue; management tools, expanded personal financial planning meetings, and the creation of a media arena to ■ World leading banks in the area of sustainability and CSR attribute high importance to the issue. raise awareness of prudent financial conduct for the general public; The scope of discussion of subjects of secondary importance is therefore narrower than the scope of discussion ■ Expansion of financing solutions by developing and offering banking products for the sustainability sector, on essential subjects. All areas described in the report contain full information and were given full attention. which create economic value for customers and the economy while also contributing to environmental protection; This year's Sustainability and CSR Report is available in Hebrew and English on the bank's website, for convenient and environment-friendly distribution and reading. The report has also been printed on recycled ■ Integration of social responsibility considerations into the bank's procurement processes through the paper for distribution to the bank's branches for the benefit of customers and visitors. As part of the drive for formulation of specialized policies and work plans in this area; transparency and openness, as in earlier reports, the quantitative data are accompanied by in-depth analyses, ■ Expansion of the program for collection of electronic waste in city centers, in collaboration with local explanations of long-term trends, and detailed descriptions of key infrastructure projects. municipalities, with the employment of workers with disabilities, and exposure to approximately 800,000 Data: Methods of Measurement, Evaluation, and Assurance residents; Most of the data in the report were generated by the bank's existing information systems, in accordance with the ■ Continued investment in the community, in educational and other projects, and in contributions to the Israeli GRI reporting requirements and the bank’s judgment of the matters relevant to our stakeholders. The information economy as a whole, with expanded volunteering by bank employees, including 1,200 employee's children was collected regularly and routinely throughout the year, however some of the data were collected at the end who volunteered during the summer vacation; of the reported period. The information is organized in a comprehensive database encompassing data on the reported period as well as perennial data. All of the information in the report is presented through the various ■ Development and expansion of dialogue with the various stakeholders in the area of CSR in Israel. indices. Data are presented using comparative analyses referring to the reported period and to long-term trends. Introduction 10-11 Process Controls for Implementation of the CSR Plan at Bank Hapoalim A small part of the data involves the use of estimates and evaluations. Estimates and evaluations, where used, An external control process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's self-report based on an were diligently checked and validated, and are clearly noted in the report. independent opinion from a professional observer. The bank decided to expand the control process with regard to the report's fairness on sustainability and CSR. The expansion of these processes and the We recognize the importance of auditing and external assurance of our work and of the accuracy of the involvement of additional sources of assurance enable the bank to learn from feedback received from data accumulated as the plan moves forward. Accordingly, we have decided to continue to maintain external auditing of our reporting. on four levels: the corporate social responsibility implementation process; the those conducting the process and provide stakeholders with verification of the report's reliability. accordance of the report pursuant to GRI guidelines; the completeness of the report on our carbon footprint, and compliance with GRI reporting standards. GRI examined this report and assigned it the highest grade of The current report underwent four assurance processes, each focusing on a different aspect of the A+ for completeness and scope of content. report: The readers of this report, our stakeholders, will use it to evaluate and judge our performance and the extent ■ The CSR department at BDO Ziv Haft performed routine process controls and examined the to which we have met their expectations. We are committed to making use of their comments and feedback in CSR implementation process at the bank; order to learn from them and continue to examine ourselves. ■ The quality assurance center for CSR reports at the CSR Institute of the College of Law and Business performed a due-diligence examination of the report, in accordance with GRI and I would like to thank all of the employees and managers involved in every level of the bank’s work, who contribute to these activities each day, and who helped create this report. AccountAbility directives; ■ The Good Energy Initiative examined the quality of the report with regard to the bank's carbon footprint; ■ The report was examined by GRI and found to comply with the highest reporting standards, earning a score of A+. Avraham Bar-Ilan Head of Corporate Social Responsibility BDO Ziv Haft: Process Control for CSR Plan Implementation at Bank Hapoalim Direct e-mail: avraham.barilan@mailpoalim.co.il General This is the seventh year in which the Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Department of the BDO Consulting and Management Group has accompanied Bank Hapoalim in implementing its sustainability and CSR program. The group’s activities focus on monitoring the process and progress of the program for sustainability and social, economic, and environmental responsibility. BDO consultants’ close work with the bank allows a professional opinion based on an examination of the bank's processes throughout 2012 and up to the end of the first quarter of 2013. Comments and questions can also be sent through the CSR section of the Bank Hapoalim website at The bank has continued to implement and instill sustainability and CSR values, in accordance with the www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr. trajectory formulated following the establishment of the plan in 2008 and implemented in the subsequent 1 Consultants in the group collected the data processed for this report. This opinion therefore focuses on the bank's work process. In order to maintain independence, the examination of the report for the purposes of assurance in compliance with GRI requirements was performed by an independent third party, Center for Sustainability Reports Assurance (CSRA). Introduction 12-13 four years. The results achieved by the activities reflect this progress. Our examination of processes and Findings, Conclusion, and Recommendations outcomes indicates that progress has been made in three key areas: developing data infrastructures and reporting; learning and instilling processes and legislation; and examining the results of activities. This assurance process encompassed an examination of the bank’s conduct in the implementation and absorption of its sustainability and CSR plan. The process controls allow the bank to receive feedback Description of the Process and evaluation of its practices, and to delineate future objectives accordingly. We found that progress was made in 2012 in the three areas described above, in accordance with the established trajectory. In The Bank Hapoalim Group performed process controls with regard to the bank's areas of activity, designed addition, the measured results achieved by the activities reflect this progress. However, we would suggest to ascertain progress in the implementation of the CSR and sustainability plan. As part of these controls, five areas to be maintained and reinforced: the bank's progress in three strata of activity was examined, as the basis for feedback on the plan's implementation: ■ Achieving shared value – In our examination of the outcomes of development of responsible banking products, we discovered that the development of new responsible and sustainable banking products 1. Development and maintenance of the information infrastructure and metrics for corporate had been expanded (financing of environmental and social projects). This year, the bank significantly social responsibility management – Consultants in the department examined the CSR management promoted business processes enabling small enterprises to achieve growth and stability. The financial system at the bank, as an area in which integrative management is essential. As part of this process, freedom drive was deepened and laterally integrated into the activity of additional units. Financing we examined the support provided by the CSR Administration at the bank to the various units, its for large-scale environmental projects (use of natural gas, water desalination, renewable energy, and interaction with the units, the summarization of results, collection of information, and continued more) was expanded and the number of initiatives in this area increased. Specialized activities aimed process optimization. In addition, we reviewed the processes of deriving information and processing at protecting the environment while promoting social causes, both within the bank and for the public, it into current metrics for the examination of the bank’s performance in the various areas and in were significantly expanded. The absorption of CSR values into the bank's core activities was deepened comparison to goals and objectives set by the bank. in 2012, realizing shared value for the bank and its stakeholders through various areas of activity. This trend should be maintained and expanded into additional channels, with an emphasis on the bank's 2. Assimilating CSR and sustainability values in core activities and in the various units – In this core business activities; area, we examined the process of organizational change emerging as part of the implementation of ■ Strategic guidance – Further to the introduction of CSR into the work of the Board of Directors, under CSR at the bank. In this context, we examined the relevance and added value of the various issues the responsibility of the chairperson, we believe that strategic management and implementation in this for units' activity, as well as the way in which these issues were being absorbed into the activity of the area could be strengthened by the establishment of a CSR committee of the bank's board of directors; units of the bank, and whether an ongoing learning process was occurring as a result. The control process also encompassed an examination of the method of development and implementation of ■ Learning and implementation – A substantial improvement is apparent in the promotion of organizational new issues arising from reports by the various units. learning, and in learning outcomes, in some units, as a result of the introduction of CSR considerations into their core business activities: formalization of the environmental management system in collaboration 3. Examination of the results of program implementation (effectiveness of absorption) – In this with several units and officers of the bank, integration of social and green criteria into the procurement stage, we examined the ways in which the bank had improved its performance on the various metrics, system, continued implementation of the multi-year plan for diverse employment, systemic promotion led new initiatives at the various units for activity in this area, developed new banking products, and of accessibility of the bank's services to people with disabilities, and promotion of financial freedom created dialogue with stakeholders, while broadening its influence in the Israeli public. The examination for customers. In view of the achievements in the area of learning, progress in this direction should we conducted at this stage enables us to complete the circle of process controls, in that it examined be encouraged further, expanded in units that have carried out the initial stages, and implemented in the relevance of the information and metrics generated during the CSR program and the effectiveness additional units. In the area of training and development of CSR awareness, emphasis was placed on the of the issues' implementation relative to the goals set in advance. connection between CSR and intra-organizational dialogue, through extensive use of the organizational Introduction 14-15 Report Assurance portal as a central platform for communication with employees. In addition, a connection was identified Introduction between Poalim Campus, as the bank's training center, and training content related to sustainability and CSR. Accordingly, we recommend expanding CSR and sustainability activities in this area and The Corporate Social Responsibility Assurance (CSRA) center is an academic facility engaged in developing specialized training courses in this area for all employees; quality assurance of environmental and social reporting. The center is part of the Corporate Social Responsibility Institute at the College of Law and Business. In April 2013, Bank Hapoalim asked the ■ Strengthening the bank's responsible branding – The bank views CSR as an inseparable part of risk center to perform a quality assurance process on its 2012 CSR report. The center receives payment management, and as such is developing its internal and external reputation as a responsible brand. On to cover the time invested in this process. The quality assurance process was fully independent, the internal level, the bank's employees appear to have an increased personal connection with CSR neither the center nor the Institute nor Mr. Liad Ortar (who performed the assurance) have business values, due to the meaningful employee involvement in the establishment and expansion of various consulting relationships with Bank Hapoalim. processes. Externally, the bank seems to be perceived as an Israeli leader in the implementation of the various levels of CSR. We therefore recommend strengthening and creatively disseminating the brand Methodology to encourage its absorption by employees, customers, and the greater public; ■ Strengthening dialogue with suppliers and with the general public – During the period covered by The external assurance process for CSR reports is this report, the bank continued to respond to the needs of the public and of other stakeholders, through conducted by a third party, which was not involved in innovative savings tools, proactive efforts to promote financial freedom, planning of procurement based on the writing of the report. The third party ascertains that environmental and social parameters, and encouraging the public to collect and recycle waste. Moreover, the information presented in the report is congruent with in view of decisions made during the reported period, we recommend continuing to strengthen the dialogue the three principles set forth in the AccountAbility quality with the bank's suppliers, its customers, and the general public through proactive outreach, in order to assurance standard AA1000APS: enhance the understanding of their needs and coordinate expectations. 1. Comprehensiveness – Fully addresses the reported subjects and encompasses a wide range In conclusion, we see a systemic effort to assimilate Corporate Social Responsibility in the activities of the of stakeholders; bank. The plan is backed by an organizational infrastructure designed to contribute to effective integration and practical attainment of significant results. The foregoing review contains several points which in our 2. Essentiality – Addresses the essential subjects in the activity of the company; opinion should be maintained and reinforced in order to improve the implementation of the plan and preserve the bank’s leadership in this area. Our recommendation to the bank is therefore to continue to 3. Responsiveness – Reports on subjects raised by stakeholders. follow its current trajectory for these activities. Dr. Jonathan Menuhin The report is also examined for compliance with five additional quality principles specified in the quality Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Department assurance standard AA1000AS Type 1 Moderate: BDO Consulting Group ■ Reliability of information – Examination of the information sources presented, including calculation methods and supporting documents; ■ Clarity – Examination of clear and coherent presentation to stakeholders; Introduction 16-17 ■ Comparativeness – Examination of the ability to compare reported subjects with similar Recommendations for improvement of reporting: organizations and over time; Financial disclosure of the volume of investment in social and environmental products – the bank extensively addresses business ventures it has promoted in the area of social and environmental ■ Accuracy – Quantitative examination of the data and calculations presented; products and services. Bank Hapoalim's stakeholders have an expectation to find financial disclosure in the report with regard to the value of the bank's social and environmental credit products. For example, ■ Timetables – Chronological congruence between the duration of execution of changes and the volume of credit granted to solar-energy projects and the number of green mortgages granted, etc; commitments and the timetables noted in the report. Social and environmental risks in financing – it emerges from the report that this approach is implemented at the bank, but content and quality are not indicated. A more detailed description is During the quality assurance process, a draft of the report was examined, several work meetings recommended, including disclosure of the methodology for management of environmental and social were held with advisors of the bank to clarify various issues, and a detailed feedback document risks in financing. with comments on the report was submitted. All of the comments were addressed and most were resolved in the report. Findings Sincerely, This is the sixth report from Bank Hapoalim; it maintains the Bank Hapoalim Liad Ortar tradition of environmental and social reporting, and was written in accordance Head of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report Quality Assurance Center with the GRI-G3.1 guidelines, at the highest level (A+). I hereby declare that Corporate Social Responsibility Institute Bank Hapoalim complies with the required scope of reporting and disclosure at College of Law and Business that level. Bank Hapoalim is a leading financial institution in Israel, operating in the financial sector. The report addresses many issues related to corporate social responsibility relevant to companies that provide financial services, and demonstrates improvement in the bank's activities in comparison to the preceding report, including accessibility of services (physical and digital), activity for customers in the digital sphere, provision of financial tools for better budget management, promotion of small enterprises, and promotion of business activity with diverse population segments, with an emphasis on the ultra-orthodox sector and on minorities. In addition, on the intra-organizational level, the report addresses the expansion of activity in the area of diverse employment, the creation of a system for responsible supplier management, and the documentation of the internal environmental management system in compliance with Standard 14001. Introduction 18-19 Carbon Footprint The Good Energy Initiative (Registered Non-Profit Association) is a social initiative devoted to climate Summary of Findings change. The organization works towards minimization of greenhouse-gas emissions, which accelerate climate change, while raising public awareness of this issue. The initiative plans and operates projects ■ The bank monitors and calculates greenhouse-gas emissions caused by electricity consumption, use aimed at saving energy and integrating renewable-energy technologies, with a community orientation. In of the vehicle fleet, consumption of paper and ink, emission of coolant gases, purchases of electronic addition, it assists public and business organizations in reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by gaining an equipment, new construction and renovations, employee flights and hotel stays, sewage production, understanding of their carbon footprint, providing guidance regarding measures to reduce this footprint and water consumption; at source, and performing carbon offsets. The initiative was founded with the assistance of the Heschel ■ The bank monitors and measures the reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions at source achieved by Center for Environmental Learning and Leadership, motivated by the ongoing escalation of the climate expanding customers’ use of direct banking and by recycling paper, cardboard, ink, electronic waste, and energy crises. and soft-drink bottles; Work Method ■ The reduction of emissions at source through the use of online banking is difficult to quantify, due to the Our work is based on prevalent principles for carbon calculation and marking, developed by the technical absence of thorough research on the subject and the inability to measure and assess the true savings work group of the British government. The data were adapted to Israel through the Israel Greenhouse Gas in paper consumption, movement of paper through the entire supply chain to the online-banking Emission Recording System Operating Rules and Reporting Guidelines, issued by the Samuel Neaman customer, emissions resulting from customers’ use of the internet, and in particular the reduced number Institute and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in April 2012. of branch visits using private vehicles. This report contains basic assumptions regarding online banking from the Pay-it-Green Alliance, which encompasses all of the major banks in North America, led by Emission coefficients used for these calculations are national figures published by professional entities the Federal Reserve; such as the Public Utility Authority Electricity, the Central Bureau of Statistics, and the Samuel Neaman Institute, which is linked to the Technion. Emission coefficients for imported products or products not ■ Note that activities with high environmental and social value described in this report are not reflected specific to Israel are congruent with the directives of the World Resources Institute and the Department numerically in carbon footprint reduction calculations. The collection of fluorescent light bulbs, including for the Environment in the UK, through the professional organization appointed on its behalf. mercury removal and safe disposal, as well as the separate collection and disposal of batteries, contribute to the reduction of various pollutants and toxins in employees’ environment, in waste-disposal facilities, Consumption data were supplied by the bank, at its own responsibility. and in the environment in general, but do not reduce the emission of greenhouse gases; Calculation and Reporting of Bank Hapoalim's Carbon Footprint ■ The bank does not measure greenhouse-gas emissions from employee travel in In 2012, the bank continued to improve its carbon monitoring and reporting, further to the transition to analysis private vehicles, production of solid waste, advertising, travel by suppliers and of its carbon footprint according to the prevalent international standards, effected during 2008-2011, and customers, consumption of disposable plastic, gardening services, and cleaning the reports to the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System beginning in 2010. services. Bank Hapoalim's total carbon footprint amounted to 101,696 tons of CO2eq in 2012. Greenhouse-gas GRI A+ Rating Assurance emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly derive from electricity consumption at the head-office This report on sustainability and CSR was submitted to the international organization GRI, which affirmed buildings and branches (72.3%), the vehicle fleet (7.9%), and construction work (5.9%). The decrease of that it meets the criteria for A+ level reporting, the highest grade. In 2012, for the second consecutive year, 5,000 tons of CO2eq in the carbon footprint from 2011 to 2012 resulted from reduced construction work the bank's report met the newest, most advanced GRI standard, G3.1. All of and greater efficiency in the consumption of various resources, as described in the Environment section. the data presented in the Sustainability and CSR Report of Bank Hapoalim for In addition, the formula for calculating coolant gas consumption was revised (for full data and a multi-year 2012 were taken from the database on factors with an environmental impact comparison, see the Environment section). established by the bank as part of its sustainability and CSR plan. Introduction 20-21 Then and Now Sustainability management and corporate social responsibility constitute a strategic and social philosophy that This stage concluded with the bank’s first CSR report, in 2007, which was assigned the top grade of A+ by GRI. is continually evolving. From the beginning, Bank Hapoalim has devoted extensive attention and resources to the various areas of social responsibility, as part of its routine operations. Assimilating CSR Values in All Levels of Activity The three years following the creation of the sustainability and CSR plan were dedicated to formalization and Identifying the Need: The Decision to Apply the CSR Approach regularization of the plan, in five primary organizational areas: The bank’s decision to create a sustainability and CSR program followed many years in which a range of Structure and authority The sustainability and CSR program is managed based on the matrix management activities in areas related to social responsibility were conducted by various units of the bank. For example, approach. In accordance with this method, the CSR officer is the integrator for this area. far-reaching efforts were undertaken in the areas of community relationships, energy savings and recycling. Against this background, a decision was reached in late 2006 to collect all of the initiatives and activities in the The CSR officer works collaboratively with the various unit heads; each unit administers its authority and area of sustainability and CSR into a single structure, allowing centralized and organized management, adding resources with respect to the specific aspect of CSR that falls within its duties. The corporate CSR officer is the momentum to the bank’s CSR efforts, and creating a powerful critical mass. The decision positioned the bank strategic leader in this area at the bank, coordinating with all of the bank’s stakeholders. The CSR officer's duties on par with the leading banks globally in the area of sustainability and CSR projects and initiatives. include integrating the totality of bank actions related to CSR, overseeing methodology, tools, and professional support, controls and reporting, change management and communications in this area, and building an upThe Launch to-date knowledge base. In accordance with this decision, Bank Hapoalim prepared to create and implement its CSR program. In order to realize this ambitious goal, the bank formulated a comprehensive CSR plan under the leadership of a seniorProcesses, metrics, and information Measurement is a fundamental element of management, allowing for level corporate CSR officer. The first step was to build an original model for our approach, relying on international goals to be set, progress to be monitored, and performance to be compared. Improving the measurement best practices and on a large number of specific performance metrics defined according to the bank’s needs. infrastructure allows enhanced controls to be applied to the various activities, and aims to promote efficient, In the next stage, a thorough and comprehensive diagnosis of the existing situation at the bank was carried effective management of the sustainability and CSR program at Bank Hapoalim. out. Specialized teams formed as part of this process discussed and validated all metrics, addressing their The sustainability and CSR plan is implemented at the bank based on a fundamental infrastructure including: significance, scope, and content, whether information necessary to examine the metrics existed at the bank, etc. In addition, the specialized teams collected the necessary information in the various areas. ■ Processes that gradually transform new initiatives in this area into routine activities at the relevant units; Based on the diagnostic process, the bank's situation was analyzed ■ Clear metrics for the various issues, allowing standardization of the plan and performance analysis over and compared to the desired situation according to optimal time; benchmarks. This gap analysis served as the point of origin for work plans designed to respond to the findings, aimed at bringing the bank ■ Extensive information collected from existing organizational systems or produced directly for the purposes to compliance with international standards in all aspects of its activity of the plan. related to CSR. Broad implementation In order to bridge the gaps between CSR in Israel and global developments, the decision was made to proceed rapidly on all fronts, from the earliest stages of the plan. To meet this ambitious goal, the plan was implemented and administered broadly, in a top-down process, with many units participating, and encouraged to develop bottom-up initiatives. A large number of projects were developed in order to realize the plan's objectives. Each new activity was first carried out as a pilot project; following the pilot and the process of drawing the necessary conclusions, the many projects were assimilated into routine work processes and procedures, with the aim of achieving ongoing administration comparable to other business processes within the organization. Branding, communication, and awareness In order to support change management and differentiate the various initiatives undertaken within the plan, a logo was designed for the organizing model the CSR Flower Introduction 22-23 accompanied by the slogan, Social responsibility it’s in our hands . In the spirit of this logo and slogan, each The bank invested extensive efforts in activities aimed at promoting shared value for the bank and its stakeholders, initiative launched as part of the plan was branded and widely communicated to the various levels of managers who are its partners in these activities. Achieving shared value is a key goal of the bank’s sustainability and CSR and staff at the bank. plan, aimed at genuine realization of the win-win principle, whereby all parties involved in this process benefit in their own ways. Basing such planning on the shared value principle has allowed Bank Hapoalim to focus on Subsequently, an extensive series of training sessions and talks on the topics related to the plan was developed, significant action that responds to essential needs arising in a changing environment. encompassing sustainability issues, healthy lifestyles, safe driving, CPR training, and workshops on caring for aging parents, parental authority, marital relationships, dangers to children on the Internet, and additional content As part of this process, the bank worked during 2012 to promote small enterprises, based on the philosophy under the heading of whole-person wellbeing. that this sector is the backbone of the Israeli economy and one of its most significant growth drivers. Creating such enterprises is a way of strengthening young people, disadvantaged population groups, and peripheral In addition, in order to leverage the impact of the sustainability and CSR plan with employees’ families and the regions, thereby promoting equal opportunities and financial freedom in Israeli society. The bank promoted the general public, the bank formulated and later updated a guide to environmental protection, including an extensive formation of an extensive financing infrastructure tailored to small enterprises, by establishing funds, providing section on energy efficiency, and promoted this issue through a large-scale advertising campaign. The guide guidance through business and organizational consulting, and offering suitable services. The bank also created contains practical, useful information on environmental subjects, and is aimed at providing the general public a widespread marketing arena to increase small enterprises' exposure to the general public in Israel. with tools for cost savings and protection of the environment. This year, the bank launched the Cash Back Club, which generates direct economic value for the bank's Dialogue and collaboration with stakeholders In order to extend the activities within its CSR plan, the customers and exposure for small enterprises. Club membership grants anyone who holds one of the bank's bank sought dialogue and collaboration with external stakeholders. In this context, a comprehensive mapping credit cards cash rebates to their current account on purchases from thousands of enterprises. The club process of community and environmental organizations that were potentially relevant stakeholders for dialogue promotes participation by small and mid-sized enterprises. Participation in the club offers these businesses an and collaboration was performed. A wide-ranging network of collaborations and connections was formed with opportunity to benefit from a broad marketing platform reaching a large number of customers, through television environmental and social experts, non-profit organizations, government agencies, entrepreneurs in areas related advertisements and a range of local and nationwide channels. to the environment and society, academia, and more. This web of connections enables the bank to exchange information and collaborate with a range of partners, thereby expanding its sphere of influence and strengthening Dialogue and expansion of the bank's external and internal sphere of influence are key means employed in the nationwide network of elements involved in this field. the bank's sustainability and CSR plan to understand the needs of the various stakeholders, provide a precise, suitable solution to these needs, and optimize work processes in order to influence diverse population groups The bank participated in a large number of conferences, sponsored events related to business and community in Israeli society and work towards the common good. The perception of dialogue as a means of planning affairs or environmental issues, and supported various websites dealing with sustainability and CSR. Over the last activities allows the bank to respond to essential needs that arise within its changing environment. During 2012, two years, the bank expanded its sphere of social and environmental influence to the general public in Israel. this dialogue was characterized by numerous collaborations with external stakeholders as well as with various These activities were carried out and expanded between 2007 and 2011. A detailed CSR report was produced units and functions within the bank. at the end of each year, in compliance with a strict transparency standard meeting the highest level of GRI In its dialogue with external stakeholders, this year the bank expanded its pioneering project for the collection requirements. Prior to the current report, five CSR reports were published (the last three reports were also and treatment of electronic waste, metals, and appliances. The project promotes environmental values such released in English) and presented to Bank Hapoalim's stakeholders, in Israel and internationally. as the importance of recycling, the prevention of environmental damage, and the reuse of resources, as well as Activity in 2012 social and national values, such as the employment of people with disabilities and education and absorption The sustainability and CSR efforts during 2012 focused on the expansion and development of activities related of recycling habits by the general public. The bank conducted extensive dialogue and collaborations with to the business and operational core of the bank, and on the expansion of its sphere of influence, based on municipalities and business firms participating in the project, and initiated a large-scale media campaign to continuous collaboration and dialogue. The process of developing and improving the specialized management publicize the project to residents of the relevant cities. The project began in Holon, and by the end of the year infrastructures in this area continued. In addition, activities with the sustainability and CSR social network in expanded to include Ashdod, Rehovot, Yavne, Rishon Lezion, and Shoham. Some 800,000 residents have Israel were substantially expanded. been exposed to this effort (for details, see the Community section). Introduction 24-25 Over the years, and more extensively in 2012, the bank has conducted a dialogue with academic institutions system, in accordance with Israeli and international standards; an ongoing comprehensive process of improving and with educational institutions in general. Universities have sought advice from the bank on instilling CSR as the bank's energy efficiency, including expanded installation of efficient LED lighting as the bank's main lighting a core subject in the relevant academic programs. The bank has also assisted various institutions by sharing option, deployment and upgrades of command and control systems for all properties, and deployment of virtual its professional expertise on the practical absorption of social and environmental values on campus, thereby servers and additional projects in the Green IT process; cooling and air-conditioning water reclamation project, in aiding education through action. The bank regularly responds to inquiries from students and academics seeking which the water is used to flush toilets, and examination of the possibility of installing electrical water meters at to study and research this area. the bank's facilities as part of water consumption management and reduction; continued gradual installation of environment-friendly carpets at the bank's facilities; expansion of the database and information collection system Another aspect of the dialogue conducted by the bank is its support for the development of business sectors for the bank's properties, and processing of data on energy and water consumption and on air-conditioning such as the transition to the use of natural gas in Israel, and the promotion of the energy efficiency field, which gas emission; expansion of the infrastructure for waste collection at the bank and for the collection of waste also serve national economic goals. The bank studies the relevant field through in-depth research, investigation brought from home by employees, and communication in this area, including collection of electronic waste, of the market, and continuous dialogue with industry players. Subsequently, the bank creates work plans, goals, fluorescent bulbs, expired medications, batteries, clothing, ink and toner cartridges and cardboard for recycling; and objectives based on internal collaboration by the relevant bank units. inauguration of the bank's building in Afula, which was built in compliance with green construction principles, Collaborations through dialogue among internal elements were also expanded during 2012. Formalization of and continued procedures for approval and standardization in construction projects of additional branches and environmental activities and the bank's ISO 14001 certification emerged from a process of extensive collaboration properties, according to the green construction standard 5281; with various units and functions at the bank, aimed at absorbing environmental practices as an integral, routine Employees – Continuation of the program aimed at instilling the bank's vision at its various units; implementation part of all of the bank’s units' and officers' activity (for details, see the Environment section). of the work plan for the promotion of diverse human capital and formation of closer relationships with nonEnergy efficiency has been promoted in consultation with many different functions within the bank, such as the profits and organizations specializing in diverse employment; increase in the number of female executives at Logistics Division, as well as external experts and companies. This effort aims to find and promote innovative the bank; increase in the percentage of academic degree holders (especially master's degrees or higher) and solutions by identifying gaps, examining technical and economic costs and benefits, channeling budgets, and continued support for employees in academic programs; promotion of a work-life balance policy by ensuring creating of orderly work plans to promote this issue (see details in the Environment section). that employees do not deviate from the prevalent work hours; certification of the organizational portal, a key work tool for communication and information, under the Israeli knowledge management standard SI 25006; continued Other areas significantly advanced during the reported period include the supply chain and accessibility to promotion of innovation through multi-year processes, based on a community, forum, lab, competition, and people with disabilities. The bank has embarked on the process of integrating social and environmental values the Innovation Festival, and investment in start-up ventures; continued investment in employee development into its purchasing procedures, and has created a new arena for internal dialogue with the Procurement Division at the Campus and on-the-job training at additional units; promotion of new initiatives for the improvement of and other functions, as well as an infrastructure for dialogue with the suppliers (for details, see the Community recruitment and mobility processes through the Human Capital Development Center; assistance for employees section). In the area of accessibility, significant, extensive activity has been conducted in order to continue the during Operation Pillar of Cloud in November 2012. long-term promotion of accessible service, at hundreds of the bank's facilities. This has been possible as a result of cooperation by several different functions within the bank's headquarters and field units (for details, Customers – Promotion of small enterprises in Israel in a strategic effort conducted by the bank through see the Customers section). financing, enterprises and organizational consulting, creation of marketing platforms for increased awareness and exposure of small enterprises, and collaboration with various elements of the economy; launch of the Cash Alongside the expansion and extension of existing activity and integration with all levels of activity at the bank, Back customer club, which grants cash rebates to credit-card holders and promotes the participation of small new initiatives were also developed during 2012. These initiatives were conducted on various levels, including: and mid-sized enterprises, creating a broad marketing platform reaching a large number of customers for small environmental resource management; human resource management; caring for employees; developing new enterprises; promotion of financial freedom for customers through personal banking, digital channels, and the products and services promoting customers’ financial freedom; contributing to economic, environmental, and creation of a communications arena to raise awareness of prudent financial conduct for the general public; social sustainability, and new community projects. continued promotion of savings and financial education for children based on the Dan the Saver program, New initiatives and significant activities developed and implemented during 2012 are briefly described below. through a television series teaching the values of saving and smart consumerism; promoting the creation of environmental value for customers and the economy by developing and offering banking products in the area Environment – Planning and execution of additional initiatives to save paper consumption at the bank (Paperless of sustainability (financing of power stations powered by natural gas, transition to use of natural gas, financing Branch, Mail Net); ISO 14001 certification, marking the formalization of the bank's environmental management of water desalination plants, and financing of facilities to derive energy from renewable sources); a continued Introduction 26-27 multi-year process of accessibility to customers; promotion of an internal service philosophy and absorption through lateral training for managers, surveys, measurement, and updates of work processes based on the units' activity; development of new, innovative applications for customer service in the direct channels, with an Transparency as the foundation of dialogue – our website as the reflection of Bank Hapoalim emphasis on dynamic customization to current work interfaces on smartphones and tablets and the creation for stakeholders and as a communication channel for feedback on its activities of new applications. The CSR section of the bank's website, at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/csr, reflects the bank's Society and the Community – Expansion of the bank's program for the collection of electronic waste, appliances, activity in the areas of sustainability and social responsibility. The website presents an appropriate and metals in cities throughout Israel: the initiative provides a systemic solution for this issue through the design, level of transparency for stakeholders with regard to events at the bank and delivers the maximum development, and placement of specialized containers, while organizing the process of collection and recycling possible amount of information, which is essential to dialogue. and communicating the project to residents; continued monitoring of the prevention of harmful employment of contractor employees in the areas of cleaning, cafeteria services, and security at the bank, and compliance The CSR section of the website is constructed in congruence with the organizing model of CSR with regulatory requirements; integrating environmental and social considerations into the bank's procurement activity at the bank, the CSR Flower. This structure provides users with quick, easy access to processes, and building work-process infrastructures; increased aid for Israel's society and community through all internal content and immediate transition between content segments. A link to Additional sponsorships and donations; continued promotion of strategic community projects in the area of education, such aspects of CSR , added in 2012, leads to other parts of the bank that conduct activities related as From Three to Five and Read & Succeed, and expansion of the number of community projects in which the to social responsibility. bank is involved; promotion of volunteering at the bank and an increase of the number of volunteers, including the 1,200 children of bank employees who volunteer during summer vacation, through integrative management In 2012, a video was added to the website summarizing the bank's annual CSR activities in by the nation-wide volunteering administration. a concise, entertaining, user-friendly format. The video was also enclosed with all copies of the report distributed on USB flash drives, and is available in English in the CSR section of the All of the new initiatives are described in detail in the relevant sections of this report. The descriptions address bank's website. qualitative and quantitative aspects, to the extent possible, as well as future objectives. The content of the CSR section of the website was prepared with the aim of reflecting all of the sustainability and CSR activities at the bank. The most important activities are highlighted, and links are provided to other sections of the website that offer practical tools in business areas related to sustainability and CSR, such as pages on solar-energy financing, tools for better financial conduct and green mortgages, and more. The bank has developed a feedback form designed for all stakeholders who visit the website. The feedback form invites visitors to the site to respond to the content reported in the bank's CSR reports or presented on its website. Feedback received is examined by the bank and methods of implementing the comments are considered. The location of this section within the website, the internal division into subsections, and the content itself are designed to display a full picture of the bank’s actions in the area of sustainability and CSR, including multi-year quantitative information. In 2012, the website earned the bank first place on the Transparency Index, for the fourth consecutive time. Introduction 28-29 Assimilating the Bank Hapoalim Vision Over the last three years, an ongoing process has been underway to assimilate the Bank Hapoalim vision, The Bank Hapoalim Vision is comprised of ten elements: with the aim of expressing the future projected for the bank at its best. The Bank Hapoalim Vision is a clear, powerful, meaningful description of our future as it can and should be. It also provides a structured Global, centered in Israel We are, and will remain, customers, investors, suppliers, the community, and the framework for charting our future course; declares our commitment to our employees, our customers, and a leading Israeli bank. Yet in today's world, under general public. The creation of value is based on four conditions of a globalized economy, a large top-tier pillars: the stability of the bank, which ensures its ability to all of our stakeholders; imparts meaning and a connection with our values to the objectives and initiatives bank must engage in international activities and offer its meet its obligations at any given moment and to support led by the bank; and empowers the bank in its leadership on the shared path to the challenges of the customers globe-spanning services. Our international the development of the economy; sustainable profitability, future. Values chosen for inclusion in the Bank Hapoalim Vision are intended to create an impact on the operations are an important growth driver for the long balancing risk and returns; promotion and cultivation of following three levels: term. sustainability principles, and a philosophy of genuine 1. Proud to belong – Our focus on our customers and our financial leadership are a source of pride and partnership with employees and customers. Leadership of the bank is mainly measured by its foster a sense of belonging for our employees; market capitalization, profitability, and return on equity, Excellence An organizational and personal stance but also by its operating efficiency, brand strength, 2. Committed together – The endeavor to create value for our stakeholders and our commitment to leading to success, and expressing the desire, CSR activities, upholding of sustainability principles, the cultivation of human capital on a path of compassion, integrity, openness, and accountability are responsibility, and commitment to be better, through contribution to the community, and professional ethics. aimed at nurturing a personal commitment to our shared journey, in which each person acts responsibly resolute and effective efforts. Excellence is the ambition The bank is strong on all of these parameters, and is and contributes to the success of all; to make the most of our inherent potential, to make working to improve and advance further. optimal use of available resources, and to set a high 3. In it for the long haul – The drive towards financial freedom for our customers, in congruence with Focused on the customer We are dedicated to standard for performance. the principles of sustainability and in encouragement of excellence and innovation, reflects a long-term responding to the changing needs and aspirations of our customers, during each stage of their lives, while creating Innovation Finding and promoting new initiatives commitment to improvement and empowerment. economic value for the bank and tailoring services to that generate business value and competitive advantage, The concept underlying the integration of these three dimensions and the fundamental motif of the Bank different sectors: households, private banking, small through processes that encourage employees to raise Hapoalim Vision is: Leading Growth Together. enterprises, commercial, and corporate. We believe that ideas and to think creatively and innovatively, throughout our focus on our customers is the key to our success the bank. This effort is aimed at improving processes and over any period of time. systems, developing new products and services, and The Bank Hapoalim Vision promoting business initiatives. Financial freedom This concept represents the To be a leading global financial institution, headquartered freedom and will of our customers and employees to Developing human capital The bank believes that in Israel, focused on its customers and working towards make good choices, based on their personal preferences, the human capital of any business organization is one their financial freedom. while taking responsibility for and understanding the of its most valuable assets. The bank considers its financial capabilities and possibilities open to them. employees to be partners, maintains a relationship with To create value for our stakeholders while upholding Sustainability principles These represent and reflect them based on mutual trust and respect, and strives to the principles of economic, social, and environmental environmentally conscious business conduct aimed enable them to succeed and to provide them with tools sustainability. at preserving and enhancing existing resources and for professional and personal development. To cultivate human capital and encourage excellence achieving economic, social, and environmental balance Fundamental principles: humanity, integrity, and innovation. for our own sake and for the sake of future generations. transparency These values embody the ethical and The bank believes that the adoption of these principles moral standards and principles that are the cornerstones To base our actions on the core values of compassion, supports its objectives and increases its value for the of our organizational culture, reflecting the bank's way integrity, openness, and accountability. long term. of life and rules of appropriate conduct. We will uphold Creating value for stakeholders The essential these values in our work relationships with each other, The vision consists of ten values. Practical applications of these values are demonstrated throughout the mission of a business enterprise is to maximize its value and in our connections with customers, suppliers, and sections of this report. in a way that serves all of its stakeholders: employees, the community. Introduction 30-31 Adoption of Responsible Initiatives, Promotion of Partnerships, and Transparent Reporting Throughout the years the bank has joined partnerships and initatives as follows: The bank is committed to its partnership with organizations working towards sustainability and CSR, and has adopted international standards of responsible conduct: 2011 Global Sullivan Principles of Social Responsibility – The bank adopted these principles as early as 2004, in the belief that the implementation of the principles would help achieve greater tolerance and understanding among peoples and promote a culture of peace. 2010 Maala Bank Hapoalim joined Maala in 2006 as a member of the organization’s business leadership. In ratings assigned by Maala for 2013, based on reported data for 2012, Bank Hapoalim was 2009 ranked at the top of the Platinum Plus class, the highest rating category. UN Global Compact – During 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined this UN initiative aimed at promoting economic development that is beneficial for the community and for future generations, and signed 2008 the ten principles of the initiative. The bank reports to the organization annually in order to maintain its commitment. 2007 FTSE4Good – The bank was added to the global FTSE4Good index of sustainability and social responsibility in the first quarter of 2011; the index measures the performance of approximately 2,400 business firms, and is considered the leading global index of sustainability and responsible 2006 investment. In the first quarter of 2013, Bank Hapoalim received the highest relative score in the banking industry (99) and was named a Super Leader in this sector. Voluntary reporting system on greenhouse gas emissions in Israel – In 2010, Bank Hapoalim 2004 was one of the first organizations to join the voluntary system for recording greenhouse gas emissions. This system is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Manufacturers’ Association. The bank updates this data and reports to the ministry annually. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Business transparency index – In 2012, Bank Hapoalim won the top rank in the transparency index. The bank has led this index since its launch four years ago. The index is published by Beyond Business and examines the extent of social and environmental transparency of companies traded on the TA-100 index. Introduction 32-33 Looking ahead The sustainability and corporate social responsibility program continues to be them partners for change in the broad circles of their social networks. a part of the strategic core of Bank Hapoalim. The program is ongoing, and Finally, the bank plans to support the strengthening of the social responsibility network in encompasses organizational infrastructures, information and measurement Israel non-profit organizations, academia, government agencies, local government, and systems, milestones, and controls, constituting an element of the bank's other professionals thereby contributing to the promotion and development of sustainability long-term vision. As extensively illustrated in the CSR report, structured work and CSR in Israel. This report presents detailed descriptions, addressing each dimension plans and planned future activities have been formulated. At the same time, of the key activities performed and planned at the bank. within its emphasis on innovation and entrepreneurship, the bank works to identify original ideas in this field and to bring these concepts to fruition through pilot projects. The projects are designed to test the feasibility of the ideas in light of societal, environmental, and economic considerations. Following the testing period, ideas that prove successful on these parameters ‫‏‏‬EMPOWERING THE SOCIETY THE CLIENT'S WELLBEING AND COMMUNITY IS IN OUR HANDS are implemented broadly across all units of the bank. IS IN OUR HANDS C ‫ ‏‬LIENTS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The bank intends to continue expanding the activities conducted within the ‫‏‬CREATING VALUE FOR THE ‫‏‬Value creation for customers: • A‫ ‏‬nswering the client's needs throughout the life cycle sustainability and CSR plan, on all dimensions, and to further enlarge its ECONOMY AND SOCIETY • ‫‏‬Providing accessibility to a variety of services ‫‏‬Value creation in distant circles of regardless of time and place sphere of influence with continual examination of the progress being achieved influence • ‫‏‬Service, complaint management and customer globally in this field. Bank Hapoalim believes that corporate responsibility • Suppliers satisfaction • Community • ‫‏‬Green products and services begins within the organization itself; this philosophy must be expressed first • Local economy • ‫‏‬Credit based on environmental considerations • ‫‏‬Designated service for special populations and foremost in the bank’s internal conduct, its responsibility towards its • ‫‏‬Enriching the financial knowledge of the customers employees, and its responsibility towards the environment. The bank plans ‫‏‬VALUE to strengthen and implement these values as extensively as possible. CREATION ECHELON Along with its continued progress in multi-year resource management and ‫‏‬R ESOURCE measurement, the bank will remain dedicated to expanding its business MANAGEMENT activities and identifying additional opportunities to create combined business ECHELON value for society and the environment, as in the range of activities aimed at L ‫ ‏‬IVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT ‫ ‏‬MPLOYEES' WELLBEING E achieving financial freedom for customers; expansion of the electronic waste IS IN OUR HANDS IS IN OUR HANDS collection project in cities throughout Israel, with employment of people R ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL R ‫ ‏‬ESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE with disabilities, and promotion of environmental values; and leadership in BEHAVIOUR EMPLOYEES M ‫ ‏‬anaging logistical resources while Dialogue, sharing and transparency financing solutions for projects that advance environmental causes, through considering the environment: Energy • An arena for personal and professional renewable energy, energy efficiency, promotion of the transition to natural efficiency, paper consumption, recycling and development waste management, water, green building, • Solidarity and friendship gas, water desalination, and more. transportation, working environment, • Wellbeing of the employees and their family ergonomics etc. • Equal opportunity The bank intends to continue to develop and expand the positive impact of its sustainability and CSR plan, and to leverage this influence through its employees’ families, its customers, and other stakeholders. Knowledge imparted to thousands of people helps them directly, while also making LIVING WITH 0 0 2 0 0 3 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 9 9 9 2 0 1 3 0 0 2 0 0 4 0 0 1 9 9 6 2 0 1 2 0 0 2 0 0 6 0 0 1 9 9 1 2 0 1 1 Y 2 0 1 0 THE ENVIRONMENT 0 0 2 0 0 7 0 0 1 9 8 8 2 0 0 9 2013 2 0 0 8 0 0 1 9 8 5 2012 2 0 0 7 2 0 0 6 0 0 2 0 0 191 0 2 0 0 1 9 8 1 2 0 0 5 2 0 0 4 2010 2 0 0 3 0 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 9 9 8 9 9002 2 0 0 2 2 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 1 1 X 0 0 9 9 8 1 2 0 0 0 1 9 9 9 1 9 9 8 0 0 2 0 1 2 1 9 9 7 0 0 2 0 1 3 0 0 2 0 1 4 0 0 2 0 1 6 2013 2003 2003 2002 2001 0 0 2 0 1 7 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 2 0 2 4 LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 36-37 Environmental Policy In recognition of the bank's social responsibility and the importance of sustainable environmental policies, Coping with Environmental Effects Bank Hapoalim has formulated a comprehensive, formalized policy in this area. The policy was delineated Banking products have an inherently low direct environmental impact, as they primarily operate in an office by professional bodies and constitutes an integral part of the bank's strategy. setting and take the form of services. Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim strives to minimize this impact. ■ The bank views environmental protection as a social value, managed as an inseparable component of This section describes the bank’s approach to the management of environmental resources (such as paper, its social responsibility; energy, and water) and to waste management and the prevention of pollution (paper, batteries, vehicle emissions, and more) – the main direct environmental impacts of Bank Hapoalim. This approach is implemented through ■ The bank recognizes that natural resources are an asset belonging to the public, the community, and the bank's environmental management system, which was certified under the international management future generations, in accordance with the principle of sustainable development; standard ISO 14001 during 2012. In addition, we address the expansion of public awareness of environmental ■ The bank seeks to achieve the proper balance between economic development and environmental issues and of the environmental costs and effects of banking products. protection in its business decisions; The bank involves its employees in this process both through internal changes in environmental practices ■ The bank complies with environmental regulations and laws, and adheres to the directives of environmental and through the attempt to maximize the impact of its overall environmental activities, in the hope that its protection organizations; employees will become agents for change in their own right. In accordance with its worldview, the bank aspires ■ The bank diligently endeavors to prevent environmental damage; to rigorously manage its direct environmental impact, with employee involvement whenever necessary, after the infrastructure for appropriate environmental conduct has been established. The bank engages employees ■ The bank is committed to managing its environmental impact in a manner that ensures continual in these processes based on the philosophy that their participation is essential for success. In addition, the improvement, by setting measurable targets and monitoring the achievement of its objectives; bank seeks to extend its influence on environmental conduct to employees' homes, which together with their ■ The bank will continually measure its impact on the environment, and will strive to understand ecological families number in the tens of thousands. To that end, the bank strives to supply its employees and their consequences and make decisions accordingly; families with information and tools on greener driving, recycling, saving energy, and more. ■ The bank will collaborate with other companies and public entities to promote environmental causes; This enlarges the bank's sphere of influence, so that its environmental effect encompasses a growing range, progressing from its internal environment to the external public environment. ■ The bank will work to assimilate environmental education among its employees, and will initiate and participate in community projects. The bank encourages extensive use of its products through online means, thereby improving service quality The bank recognizes the added value associated with the implementation of this environmental policy, on while reducing environmental impact. A multitude of channels are currently available to customers at any place two main levels: and time, so that a substantial part of their activity with the bank can be conducted without visiting a branch. The year 2012 saw continued expansion in the use of direct and online channels such as the call center, the The integration of environmental values with the economic values of efficient use of logistical resources e-banking website, smartphone and tablet applications, the Mail Net service, and more. As noted, this trend generates shared value for the profit line of the bank’s financial statements and for the protection of the minimizes the environmental impact of banking products, in that it often eliminates the need for the customer environment; to visit the branch in person (leading to pollution savings) and, obviously, saves paper (see details below). A policy of environmental responsibility makes it possible to improve the work environment, contributing to The use of bank branches also carries relatively low environmental impact, due to the broad distribution better quality of life for employees at work and higher workplace satisfaction. of Bank Hapoalim branches and the extensive network of ATMs, self-service stations, and self-service Obeying the Law information delivery stations, located adjacent to and outside The bank is aware of its legal duties in connection with environmental protection and prevention of environmental of branches. Customers can visit a branch or use a damage, and acts accordingly. No substantial fines or sanctions have been imposed upon the bank for self-service station conveniently, with minimal violations of environmental laws or regulations. travel and environmental impact. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 38-39 Bank Hapoalim also takes responsibility for the indirect environmental impact of banking products. The Clients chapter of this report addresses the management of these environmental effects, with an emphasis on services and products that promote sustainable development and generate environmental value for the economy and the general public, while also generating financial value for its customers. The Environmental Management System – ISO 14001 The Clients chapter also addresses the management of the indirect environmental effects of the bank: Within the bank's CSR values and commitment to protecting the environment, promotion of environmental value through the bank's customers and prevention of negative effects through and as another element of the ongoing improvement process in this area, in customers' activities. The bank promotes the creation of environmental value for its customers and for the late 2012 the bank completed the certification process for its environmental economy as a whole by developing and offering banking products in the various areas of sustainability, management system, in accordance with the international standard ISO 14001. such as financing of gas-driven power stations, financing of renewable energy generation facilities (thermoBank Hapoalim is the first financial institution in Israel to attain organization-wide solar, photovoltaic, pumped storage, etc.), financing of water desalination plants, and more. In addition, certification under this standard. the Clients chapter describes the ways in which the bank prevents the formation of negative environmental The environmental management system is another step towards the formalization effects through environmental risk management when granting credit. In this context, the bank has of long-term processes underway at the bank, aimed at reducing the consumption adopted an environmental risk management policy in accordance with the directives of the Supervisor of of environmental resources, cutting back costs, and minimizing the bank's Banks carried out a formal training program for all relevant employees, and acted to assimilate advanced environmental impact. The goal of the process is to instill environmental management work processes in this area that are appropriate for a commercial bank. In that context, it is important as an integral, routine part of the activity of all units and functions at the bank. to distinguish between commercial banks that provide financing to independent business entities and The system promotes organized work processes in the various interfaces used investment institutions that become interested parties and thus bear responsibility for the activity and at the bank for environmental management, addressing all milestones and the management of the investee entities. completion of processes. Controls are applied to ensure compliance with legal requirements as well as with norms in this area. The system can contribute to From Consumption Management to Resource Management strengthening trust between the bank and the various stakeholders in its wider The bank views consumable materials as resources to be managed from an environmental and business spheres of influence: social and economic organizations, national and municipal perspective, rather than as an inevitable but undesirable component of its routine expenses. Consequently, organizations, green organizations, and more. key environmental resources consumed by the bank are managed according to the following parameters: Implementing the system involved a series of activities involving professional ■ Creation of a measurement infrastructure allowing monitoring of trends and identification of areas functions at the bank as well as external stakeholders. The certification process needing improvement; began by identifying areas in which the organization's activities affect the ■ Establishment of a multi-year comprehensive work plan; environment and examining alignment with legal requirements. Working procedures ■ Validation of forecasts from the planning stage and analyses of variance in performance for learning and control processes were then established, including definition and identification purposes; of work interfaces of the employees in the relevant positions within the organization, and a comprehensive policy for all of the bank's environmental activity was ■ Implementation of initiatives aimed at increasing efficiency; completed. The policy guide and procedures, posted on the organizational ■ Partnership with employees, internal professional functions, and external stakeholders in the portal, provide all necessary information for employees in the areas of recycling implementation of localized initiatives and formal work plans; and environmental resource management, including the responsible parties and detailed processes. The process concluded with a series of tests by IQC Company, Examination of environmental effects throughout the life cycle of the resource, taking all types of impact both to examine the practical implementation of the policies and procedures into consideration (pollution, global warming, resource scarcity, etc.). in routine operations, and to obtain certification. In the future, annual The following parts of this section describe paper, energy and water management, the approach to green examinations will be conducted to maintain quality and certification. construction, management of the various types of waste; and the ways in which the bank is expanding its sphere of influence in the area of responsible environmental thinking. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 40-41 Management of Paper Resources The drive to reduce paper consumption at the bank continued during 2012. Special emphasis was placed on maximizing the potential for automation of processes that previously consumed paper, as well as the transition to green paper made of a combination of recycled raw material and original cellulose. This significant ■ Retrieval of historical reports – A process has been introduced allowing historical accomplishment was achieved through initiatives such as the Paperless Branch and the Mail-Net service. reports to be retrieved for customers through the direct channels, in digital The Paperless Branch project analyzes the bank’s paper consumption in terms of efficiency of use, and format (via Internet or telephone). This eliminates the need for the customer examines the possibilities for reducing or canceling the printing of forms and reports. The Mail-Net service to visit the branch, and will lead to paper savings of approximately 500,000 enables registered customers to receive account notifications through the bank’s website, in a mailbox pages annually; linked to their online account. All of these efforts supported the trend towards saving paper. ■ Production of a fixed agreement booklet for orders of credit cards – This change, to be launched in 2013, allows the bank to produce a fixed shorter version of the agreement, and forgo printing out a branch copy. Total annual paper savings are estimated at approximately 10 million pages. In addition, the bank is considering Paperless Branch – 2012 sending new credit cards directly to customers' homes; ■ Automation of credit forms – The automation of manual credit forms was The Paperless Branch project is run by the bank's Corporate Strategy Division, led expanded during 2012, further to the automation of the most commonly used by the Poalim the Right Way Unit. The project focuses on analyzing four categories loan forms, to include automated applications for a loan with guarantors and forms of internal consumption of paper at the bank: forms, reports, document filing for disclosure of information to guarantors. This effort has substantial advantages and retrieval, and mailings. Current analyses of demand and of production and in terms of eliminating the need to manage a supply of forms in warehouses and distribution methods are conducted. Possibilities for reduction or elimination of in the branch network, reducing paper due to the production of an abridged superfluous forms are examined, subject to professional and regulatory approval, form, and saving of time and paper resources at the branches; while still preserving high levels of functionality and service. The main activities ■ Mailed notifications – In October 2012, the bank transitioned to double-sided conducted within the Paperless Branch project in 2012 are reviewed below. printing of notifications sent to customers by direct mail, while the structure and ■ Digital signatures – Infrastructure developed over the last year provides digital content remains unchanged. Double-sided printing is applied per notification; signature capabilities for tellers' transactions with customers. This feature will different notifications are printed separately. This change will lead to paper savings of 18 million pages annually in notifications sent to customers, adding make it possible for customers to sign documents when their transaction is to earlier drives to consolidate and aggregate several customer notifications in complete, and for the bank to retain a high-quality copy of the signed form on a single envelope; its system without printing. The implementation of this process will also enable ■ Elimination of paper reports – During the bank's routine work, approximately 950 customers to instantly retrieve transaction forms, for inquiries or for printing, and types of paper reports are generated each year, at a volume of 13 million pages, will lead to paper savings of approximately 15 million pages annually in forms for use of the administrative units and the branches. A project was carried out retained by the bank; over the last year to map the types of reports and main users, and to find possible ■ Green accounts – A new application launched over the last year delivers copies solutions to eliminate or reduce paper printouts. This process is expected to of transactions executed remotely to customers through the direct channels (fax lead to savings of approximately 8 million pages of reports each year; or telephone), eliminating the need to print out the document. A digital copy of ■ Double-sided printing – Infrastructure has been developed to allow double-sided the transaction form is retained in the bank's system as a substitute for hard printing of forms in printers with this capability, and was applied for credit-card copies. The application significantly improves the delivery and availability of order forms in 2010 and completed for all forms during this year. The process information to customers, and when completed will lead to paper savings of resulted in immediate paper savings; when the installation of new printers at the approximately 1.5 million pages annually; branches is completed, savings will reach 3 million pages annually. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 42-43 Transition to Recycled Paper At the beginning of 2011, the bank made the transition to green A4 paper for its printers and copiers. The initiatives of the Paperless Branch The green paper is made in Israel, using a combination of 50% recycled fibers and 50% ordinary fibers (original cellulose). Unit have already resulted since 2008 in cumulative paper savings of about 96 million 2012 Summary: pages (equivalent to 384 tons of paper). ■ The Mail Net service is used by 441,000 customers (over half of the website's active users), and the number of users grew by 8% during 2012; The full potential annual savings of all of the ■ Paper consumption at the bank was reduced by 115 tons in 2012, relative to 2011. initiatives is estimated at 280 tons of paper. 45.6% Decrease In the last five years, paper consumption for Mail Net internal needs decreased by 40.2%, and Bank Hapoalim aims to streamline and reduce mailings to customers. Under various regulatory paper consumption for customer mailings consumer protection directives, the bank is required to send mail to its customers, at specified times, decreased by 45.6%; containing the details specified by law. Within this requirement, the bank is working to reduce its paper consumption. This effort includes consolidation of messages, reduction of mailings where possible, and environmental mail initiatives such as Mail Net. The Mail Net service enables registered customers 2008 2012 to receive account notifications through the bank’s website, in a mailbox linked to their online account. Every customer registered for this service contributes to average savings of 45 mailed pages annually. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 44-45 Increase in Mail-Net users and Paper consumption at the active users of the bank’s website bank (in tons) Looking ahead 3,000 ■ Green Accounts – The project will continue to expand, to encompass all transactions executed through fax or 2,500 1,500,000 603 telephone instructions; 2,000 ■ Digital signatures – Technological alternatives will be 394 355 445 348 328 1,000,000 1,500 examined in 2013, allowing customers to sign on a screen 810,000 862,000 705,000 754,000 1,000 2,015 1,659 1,527 1,461 1,306 1,204 using a digital pen, and retaining a digital copy on the bank's 500,000 660,000 systems for immediate retrieval when necessary; 500 301,345 407,805 441,000 ■ Credit-card orders and direct deliveries to customers' 0 134,000 246,000 0 248 271 265 259 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 homes – This process will completed by the end of 2013 and gradually launched at the branches; Mail-Net Active users of the Blank A4 paper Paper used Paper mailed to subscribers bank’s website internally customers ■ Automation of credit forms – Automation of additional forms used by the bank will be examined during 2013; ■ Automation of manual notifications – Automated delivery of manual notifications through the direct channels will be examined. 1,000= preventing 62,000 trees from being cut down The cumulative savings in paper consumption in comparison to 2007 reached 4,052 tons. This figure is equivalent to preventing approximately 62,000 trees from being cut down for the paper industry. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 46-47 POWER CONSUMPTION MANAGEMENT AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY Electrical power is a key resource used at the bank. The basic assumption is that in enterprises Comparison of rate of change in power consumption that operate in an ofﬁce setting, just as in industrial operations, electricity should not be seen as an Bank Hapoalim vs. banking industry uncontrollable expense or as a necessary evil. Electricity should be managed as a resource, with rigorous analysis of power consumption over the course of the day, week, and year, and with comparisons Consumption index among buildings. The central principle in efﬁcient management of electricity consumption by ofﬁces 110 109.1 is coordinated timing of air conditioning and lighting systems and of computer operation, according to 106.7 employee presence, to the extent possible. The collection and analysis of as much data as possible 105.8 105 104.3 allows organizations to identify excessive consumption and ﬁnd the optimal solution. 103.8 102.0 102.5 101.9 101.4 Virtually all of the energy consumed at Bank Hapoalim comes in the form of electricity supplied by the 100 100 Israel Electric Corporation (with the exception of fuel), rather than renewable energy. 99.3 95 96.5 In 2012, the bank continued its activities in the area of improving energy efﬁciency: installation of efﬁcient 95.9 air-conditioning systems, installation of command and control systems, promotion of the use of efﬁcient lighting, and activities in the area of green computing. The bank measures power consumption in its 90 facilities and monitors this consumption using an extensive, detailed database of data collected from 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Period the electricity meters installed at the sites. Banking industry Bank Hapoalim The database is updated routinely, according to structural changes in the bank's properties as a result of addition, closure, rental, or change in designation of buildings. The database enables the bank to Gadir Engineering Ltd. analyzes power consumption at business ﬁrms, among other activities. Starting in 2006, the company has issued an index of power consumption in the banking sector. The index presents the relative multi-year change in power consumption at Bank Hapoalim examine the monthly and annual consumption patterns of each property, compare it to buildings of and at other banks; the reference point (100%) is the volume of consumption in 2006. As shown in the diagram, power consumption at the bank has grown more efﬁcient over the last six years, while consumption in the banking sector as a whole is rising. The index does not factor similar size and designation, and compare multi-year trends in consumption per square meter and per in changes in the area of the banks' properties or power consumption in buildings shared by the banks with other entities (branches located in shopping malls, or premises shared by banks and government agencies, other enterprises, etc.). employee. The database also makes it possible to identify trends of improvement and better efﬁciency, and to locate branches with a risk of inefﬁciency or malfunction. An examination of the bank's consumption data for 2012 indicates an approximate 4% decrease relative to 2010, despite a 2.5% increase in the area of the bank's power-consuming properties. Average consumption per square meter decreased approximately by 6% compared to 2010. The decrease in power consumption between 2010 and 2011 stemmed in part from milder weather in 2011, which led to reduced use of air conditioning. In addition to the contribution to the environment, the downward trend in electricity consumption in 2012 has ﬁnancial implications in the form of cost savings, especially given the 20% rise in electricity rates during 2012. IEC (Israel Electricity Corporation) data indicate a 7.5% overall increase in power consumption (in terms of kilowatt-hours) in Israel in 2012, relative to the preceding year. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 48-49 Energy Efficiency Initiatives Transition to LED Lighting overcome the cost hurdle and promote its transition to LED lighting. The pilot was just one of many activities in this area at the bank in recent years, which As part of its environmental management and the promotion of the shared-value included installation of LED lights in central spaces and peripheral lighting approach, the bank has conducted a long-term process to cut back energy strips at its headquarters, at 63 Yehuda Halevi Street. consumption and reduce its environmental impact. The bank is examining alternatives for transition to efficient lighting, with an emphasis on LED lights, A gradual, prudent transition to LED lighting is another step in the bank's and has prudently and gradually implemented advanced solutions based on effort to improve energy efficiency. The bank intends to continue the transition detailed cost-benefit analyses. LED lights still are not widely used in Israel. to LED lighting on additional floors of its main management buildings on Through its collaboration with lighting suppliers, the bank provides a platform Yehuda Halevi Street and in Rubinstein Towers, and to examine the possibility for technological initiative and innovation and a practical launching point for of installing LED lights at new branches. The process will be incremental, energy-efficient solutions and expert dialogue in this area. taking into consideration economic justifications and the implementation of conclusions drawn from past installations. LED lights have several significant advantages over neon lights (T5 and T8), including 45% savings on energy consumption for lighting and an additional 8-10% in energy consumption for air conditioning (because the lights emit less heat); a bulb life span of 50,000 hours, versus 20,000 hours for neon bulbs; Command and Control Systems and reduced environmental impact because LED lights do not contain mercury The bank uses computerized command and control systems to monitor and control all energy and other dangerous substances found in neon bulbs. Notwithstanding these consumption, from temperature control and lighting at the branches, to cleaning status buttons advantages, the transition to LED lighting is a costly process due to the high (for reduced air conditioning and lighting during cleaning hours) and alerts of significant problems price of the bulbs and the cost of replacing lighting fixtures; the time needed (such as flooding or overheating of a computer room). The systems are operated from the Hapoalim to recover the investment is therefore relatively long, at 5-7 years. call center, and their advantage is the ability to remotely regulate and control power consumption In order to shorten this period, the bank is considering an innovative solution at all of the bank's facilities, based on the presence of employees and customers. These systems in which existing lighting fixtures are converted to new ones at a ratio of have been installed at all of the bank's facilities, and are operated based on a fixed regime of 3 to 1, based on a techno-optical power system usage according to work hours at each branch or building. The usage regime is application providing better light fixed, but hours can be expanded in coordination with the call center. The systems were installed dispersal. This solution was tested at all new branches opened in 2012. in a pilot project, in which LED lights Lighting and Air Conditioning Timing were installed as the main lighting for An energy efficiency diagnosis was conducted at the bank's head-office buildings in 2011. The one of the floors of the Rubinstein findings indicated that lighting and air conditioning operation hours exceeded the limits originally Towers. The pilot demonstrated that established. The deviations stemmed from the fact that hours of operation were expanded on busy the time to recover the investment days, at the request of the branches, but subsequently were not readjusted to the original settings. can be cut down to three years. As part of the conclusions drawn from this event, a decision was made to increase control over the These results make it possible to Head office building at 63 Yehuda Halevi street usage regime by regularly resetting the system to the original operating hours, each quarter. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 50-51 Installation of Systems with Variable Compressor Capacities ■ Reduction of server energy consumption Over the last year, the bank continued to increase the The bank conducted an economic test of these systems and determined that air-conditioning systems number of servers operating on consolidation and virtualization technologies. The old servers were with variable compressor capacities (VRF – variable refrigerant flow) generate savings of about 38% on replaced by virtual servers, allowing savings on power consumption for cooling, optimal utilization energy and maintenance costs relative to other systems; 20% of the savings are in power consumption. of server resources, reduced maintenance, and saving physical space; Following this examination, a decision was made to install VRF systems in each replacement or addition ■ Computer shutting system starting from 14:00 on workdays, this independently-developed system of air-conditioning systems. In 2012, the bank continued the process of replacing old air-conditioning detects mouse movement and typing, and changes the computer mode to hibernate when no activity systems with new ones that consume less electricity and are more environment-friendly. is recorded. The system prevents data loss by automatically saving files left open. In this way the Green IT system reduces the electricity consumed by computers left active after working hours; The bank also works to achieve energy savings and efficiency by thoroughly examining the possibilities for green ■ Transition to printing centers and double-sided printers In 2009, over 700 different printing devices information technologies at its branches and offices. Energy efficiency is one of the parameters in the procurement were installed at the head-office buildings: personal printers, department printers, fax machines, tenders for IT equipment. Equipment with more efficient power usage earn added points in IT tenders, motivating photocopiers, and scanners. In that year, the bank conducted a pilot project in which department bidders to supply more advanced equipment. In addition, the hardware and communications division does not printers, fax machines, scanners, and copiers were replaced by a single secure printing center (an rely on manufacturers' information regarding the performance of the various components, instead running the integrated device operated using an employee card reader) that uses double-sided printing. The necessary tests on server hardware and software, printers, and peripheral equipment at a laboratory set up for quantity of printed pages as well as toner cartridge and paper consumption, were reduced by about that purpose. The tests allow for products to be examined in greater depth, and serve as a preliminary stage to half after the change. In addition, where personal and/or department printers are in place and a pilots in the field to generate more reliable forecasts. printing center is not necessary, the bank is gradually replacing the existing printers with printers Main activities carried out during 2012 in the area of green IT: that offer a double-sided printing function. The project continued in 2012; ■ IP telephony – Several years ago the bank made a decision to transition its landline communications ■ Printing and toner saving system This command and control system for physical features and print to an IPT system. The transition enhances landline communications management by allowing settings (Web Jet Admin) sees all of the printers connected to a central printing management server. digital management through a centralized computer system. Connecting telephones to Central management of printing allows uniform control over print settings, efficient management of the central system eliminates the need to use local switchboards at each branch and toner consumption, monitoring and examination of exceptional consumers, and more. The default allows internal calls between system users to be performed free of charge, setting for all printing is draft quality, which differentiates between text and image content, and without using the Bezeq network. In addition, IP phones allow users to reduces use of toner for printing text; dial through their computers and to access a directory of telephone numbers in the organization. The transition to an IP switchboard ■ Use of the Mail to Fax/Fax to Mail application This application allows full automation of two-way improves control over the bank's communication system and fax transmission, eliminating large quantities of superfluous printing (including fax sent/received saves power by eliminating local switchboards. The process of confirmation pages produced automatically) and associated ink consumption. In addition no less connecting extensions and telephones to the centralized system importantly fax transmission automation allows management and control of all faxes received by continued in 2012; and sent from each user's number. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 52-53 2012 Summary: ■ Two additional printing centers were installed (for a total of 54), cutting paper and toner usage by Bank Hapoalim indirect energy consumption about half; Change Change ■ The Fax2Mail application was expanded to more than 2,000 users throughout the bank, with 2010 2011 2012 vs. 2011 vs. 2010 over 190 new users added during the year; ■ IPT switches were installed at 86 branches to manage telephony through a centralized Total (KwH) 96,982,405 94,058,465 93,600,417 -0.49% -3.49% computer system, saving employee travel – 4,200 telephones are currently covered by the new technology; Total (GJ) 349,137 338,610 336,962 -0.49% -3.49% ■ The bank continued the installation of new air-conditioning systems with more efficient Consumption per power consumption at its various facilities during 2012, replacing old systems, and invested 8,510.2 8,299.5 8,367.6 0.82% -1.68% employee (KwH) in the replacement of chillers at its head-office buildings on Rothschild Boulevard and at Rubinstein Towers. Bank area in sq. m. 304,365 312,787 312,316 -0.15% 2.61% Consumption per sq. m. (KwH) 318.66 300.71 299.7 -0.34% -5.94% Looking ahead ■ In 2013, the bank will continue the installation of VRF systems Installation of virtual Installation of VRF at its new branches and the replacement of old systems servers air-conditioning systems with these systems during renovations and refurbishments of branches; 250 16 ■ In 2013, the bank will continue to install additional printing 433 69 centers at its buildings and branches; ■ In 2013, the bank will conduct a technical and economic 310 169 1,393 61 100 examination of the process of replacing neon lights with LED 330 960 650 5 lights at new branches of the bank. The process will involve 320 320 34 34 39 examination of the technical implications of various solutions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and the economic implications in terms of cost and the time Existing systems New installations Existing systems New installations needed to recover the replacement costs. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 54-55 Water Resource Management Water is a natural resource facing severe shortages, in Israel and globally. Although the banking industry is not a major water consumer, it is still important to formulate a comprehensive, methodical approach to this resource and to examine ways of achieving optimal management. Water Recovery In recent years, consumption of drinking water in Israel has been measured Water consumption efficiency and savings are a national goal of the utmost importance. The bank at 1.5 billion cubic meters annually, more than the total quantity of annual has therefore decided to address this issue comprehensively. In recent years, a series of measures precipitation. This has led to over-pumping from groundwater reserves, a for efficient management and savings of water were taken, including the installation of waterdecline in groundwater levels, groundwater salination, and a decline in the saving faucet fixtures at all facilities, the installation of dual-flush toilet tanks, installation of signs water level of the Kinnereth Lake. Water saving is an integral part of the explaining efficient use of the dual-flush toilets in all restrooms, locating potential water sources bank's activities in the area of sustainability and corporate responsibility. for reuse for various purposes at the bank, and creation of a comprehensive measurement system Within this effort, the bank has decided to invest in the development of encompassing all properties (branches and head office) in all municipalities. a project for recycling air conditioner water at its facilities, which can be used to flush toilets. There are two types of water from air conditioners: In order to optimize water management, the bank is promoting the installation of its own electronic ■ Condensation – Formed in any air-conditioning system due to condensation water meters (in addition to the public meters) and connection of these meters to a central reporting of moisture in the air during the cooling process; system, to obtain a uniform and precise understanding of consumption at the various facilities. ■ Drainage – Water flowing from cooling elements (cooling towers), which This process will make it possible to monitor water consumption at these facilities, by comparing contain high levels of limescale and salts. data from the bank's meters with consumption data received from water corporations and The project launched with the installation of specialized systems in two municipalities. The comparison will be carried out by the bank's property department. The head-office buildings, at Rubinstein Towers and at 50 Rothschild Boulevard. bank's water meters will also be connected to the Hapoalim call center, which will identify The air-conditioning systems in both buildings generate an aggregate exceptional instances of high water consumption after work hours, providing an alert of leaks quantity of condensation and drainage water estimated at 18,000 liters per and burst pipes. The alert will make it possible to address malfunctions quickly and help day. The systems collect the water from the air conditioners for chemical reduce water consumption. treatment including filtering, sterilization, and coloring (the water is colored in order to ensure that recovered water is not mixed with drinking water). The water is then channeled to flush 43 toilets, which serve approximately 450 employees and visitors. The systems in these buildings were constructed so that in the event of a surplus of water from air conditioners which is not used to flush toilets, additional sites can be connected in order to maximize the utilization of condensation water. This reuse of water is expected to reduce consumption of drinking water by approximately 3.2 million liters annually, about one-quarter of the quantity currently used to flush toilets. The project thereby creates savings of a valuable resource along with financial savings. Benny Shmuel, In-House Art Ilan Vayner, In-House Art LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 56-57 Building According to Green Measuring Total Water Consumption Construction Principles Green construction entails the adoption of an environmental approach to construction processes, from As part of the process of improving the database on the bank's properties, water consumption planning to execution. The goals of this approach are to avoid damage to nonrenewable resources, measurement continued and was expanded during 2012. Comparative data were collected at reduce waste production, and save energy. The key principles of green construction are efficient, 254 properties of the bank, versus 245 properties in 2011 and 228 properties in 2010, covering energy-saving construction planning of the construction, in integration with the environment, efficient 83% of the total area of the bank’s properties. thermal insulation for heating and cooling, channels for natural light and air to enter the building, efficient The most significant figure in the measurement of water savings is water consumption per water management, waste recycling and contribution to employee health. employee, given that most of the water consumed at the bank is used for restrooms, cleaning, and drinking, all directly influenced by the number of employees. This figure decreased by 2.5% Beyond the environmental benefits, the transition to green construction also confers economic rewards. in 2012, relative to 2011, and by 8% compared to 2010. The volume of the additional nonrecurring investment in a green structure relative to an ordinary structure ranges from 5% to 10%, while the ongoing savings, for example in energy, can reach 30% to 40%. Water consumption at the bank, 2010-2012 (comparison of consumption rates) Measured area of Consumption per Green Construction at Bank Hapoalim Total consumption Consumption per sq.m. properties employee The bank has adjusted all of its procurement specifications to align with green construction principals, 11.4% -9.48% -16.95% -7.78% intending to work according to these specifications when constructing office buildings and branches. It is important to note that a significant number of branches are located in shopping malls and commercial Water consumption Water consumption Total water consumption centers not owned by the bank, where the bank cannot alter building infrastructure. However, the bank per employee per squar meter (cubic meter) intends to bring as many elements of green construction as possible to these sites, even though the 9.00 8.49 100,000 96,705 8.03 0.600 90,951 properties involved may not meet accepted green construction standards. 7.83 87,542 0.406 7.00 0.400 0.342 0.337 80,000 0.200 The Bank's Green Building in Afula 5.00 60,000 During 2012, the bank inaugurated a new banking center in Afula, which 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 was planned and built according to green construction principles. Power consumption was reduced by up to 30-40% through the use of thermal * Methodology note: There are still many difficulties involved in creating the database and in the reliability of the data, due to the lack of water meters at many of the properties, problems assigning consumption data to the correct properties, delays in insulation, external shading, LED lighting, lighting sensors, and efficient air receiving information from water corporations, and more. conditioning, construction waste was recycled, water from air conditioners is recycled for irrigation; and more, all based on considerations of environmental and social responsibility. The building covers an area of 1,700 square meters and is the bank's flagship property in northern Israel, housing a retail branch, a business branch, and the northern regional administration. Looking ahead Computerized images of the building created during the planning process ■ In 2013, the bank will continue to advance the process of demonstrated its exposure to sunlight during each part of the year. Based installing electronic water meters, with the installation of 40 on these simulations, the use of natural light for spaces within the building meters at its facilities. The installation will make it possible to was planned, and external shading was optimally placed to admit sunlight, conduct an initial cost-benefit examination and examine the in order to prevent direct radiation and overheating in summer and allow effectiveness of the process. the use of sunlight for heating in winter. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 58-59 Installing Environment-Friendly Carpets Artificial lighting in the building is based on power-efficient T5 and LED In 2011, the bank began to install environmentally-friendly carpets at several of its buildings. The lighting fixtures, and a lighting control and dimmer system allows precise, carpets are manufactured in conformity with international environmental standards, using fewer raw efficient lighting according to need. In light of the fact that air conditioning materials and larger amounts of recycled materials compared to ordinary carpets. In addition, in this is the primary factor in energy consumption in office buildings, an advanced manufacturing process, the environmental impact of the product decreases throughout its lifetime, VRF system was installed at the site to ensure flexible supply of varying as the quantity of emissions is reduced. The carpets are also beneficial to employee health, as cooling capacities with maximum utilization and efficiency. The system fewer toxins are released during installation are less allergenic materials are used in the installation reuses heat and cold generated within the building, saving 30% on energy process. The bank made a decision to use environment-friendly carpets in all future installations at its consumption compared to other systems. A fresh-air system is integrated with properties, and continued gradual installation of environment-friendly carpets at its buildings in 2012. the air-conditioning system, allowing clean air at an appropriate temperature to reach all parts of the building and create a comfortable climate for visitors. 2012 Summary: As in all branches of the bank, the branch has a command and control system that times air-conditioning and lighting systems according to employee ■ The planning stage for the bank's building in Mazkeret Batya was completed, and a construction presence in the building. The operation of this system is coordinated with permit application was filed; the Hapoalim call center at Rubinstein Tower. ■ Environment-friendly carpets were installed at sites including the southern business center, the Water consumption in the building is approximately 40% lower compared northern business center, and Isracard headquarters, over a total area of 3,800 square meters. to ordinary branches, due to the installation of water flow regulators on faucets, dual-quantity flush tanks, and the use of condensation water from air conditioners to water garden plants. In addition, the parking lot was surfaced in gravel in order to allow rainwater to seep into groundwater reservoirs. Looking ahead Bicycle racks were placed near the entrance to the building, for the customer ■ In 2013, the bank plans to complete the certification process and employee use, and the building has showers for branch employees for the Israel Standards Institute's Green Construction who ride to work. During the construction process, waste separation and Standard 5281 at its building in Afula, as it did at its Yokneam recycling of materials were strictly maintained; construction waste was branch. collected for reuse, while wood waste was used for building surfaces. Wood flooring at the branch was made using natural bamboo, and the branch's carpets are certified as environment-friendly. The site underwent landscape rehabilitation following the completion of construction. The building was constructed based on green construction principles, and is currently in the process of certification for Green Standard 5281 by the Israel Standards Institute. Julio Barel, In-House Art Orna Chalef, In-House Art LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 60-61 Turning Waste into a Resource and Preventing Pollution Environmental trends of recent years have highlighted the fact that one person’s waste is another’s resource. Collection of Used Clothing Population growth creates pressure on ecological systems, making it difficult to meet demands for natural Receptacles for the collection of used clothes are located at resources such as metals, wood, water, fossil fuels, and more. In addition, without proper treatment, waste the Rubinstein Towers. Head-office employees bring used pollutes the environment and damages soil, water, and the air, while contributing to global warming. clothes to this facility instead of disposing of them. In early 2010, the bank formed a collaboration with the Pitchon Lev These and other insights highlight the importance of a methodical approach to the future of the materials foundation, which undertook a commitment to collect the and products that we consume, after they have been used. Bank Hapoalim mapped the types of waste clothes each week. In late 2011, an additional receptacle was generated by its operations, and subsequently examined the most environmentally beneficial methods placed at the head-office building on Rothschild Boulevard of treating such waste: Used clothes collection receptacles in Tel Aviv, and another receptacle was placed at Rubinstein ■ Reuse of a resource or of its components (either in its existing condition, or after improvement); Towers in 2012. ■ Recycling of the resource by external parties, who convert it into raw material and then reinsert it into Toner and Ink Cartridges the production process; The quantity of toner and ink cartridges consumed at the bank is directly influenced by the quality of ■ Responsible disposal through collection and transfer to a licensed site (prevention of environmental computer equipment (printers, scanners, and fax machines) and by paper consumption management. pollution). The bank monitors purchases of toner and ink cartridges and tracks consumption during routine operations. Collection of Electronic Waste from the Public and from Employees' Homes The bank allows head-office employees to bring electronic Collection of Paper and Cardboard waste from their homes to the collection center at Rubinstein The bank collects and transfers waste paper for recycling. Paper no longer in use (documents, forms, Towers in Tel Aviv. When the receptacle is full, the waste is etc.) is regularly and systematically collected and transferred for recycling by a specialist external removed by Ecommunity, a unique company specializing company. As part of this effort, each employee has a bin designated for paper collection. Cardboard in recycling electronic waste, which employs exclusively is collected at the head-office buildings (Rubinstein, Yehuda Halevy, and Rothschild) and compressed workers with disabilities. In 2011, the bank expanded its for recycling. sphere of environmental influence beyond the bounds of the Collection of Bottles and Cans organization by initiating a drive for collection of electronic Electronic waste collection center Bottles and cans subject to the Deposit Law are used at the waste from the general public, in collaboration with the bank's head-office buildings. Every such container carries City of Holon, at central locations in the city. The project a refund of NIS 0.30 when returned. Receptacles for the was implemented in Holon in early 2012 and expanded to Ashdod, Yavne, Rishon Lezion, Shoham, collection of cans and bottles were developed at the bank and Rehovot (for details, see the Community section). in 2008; following an initial pilot project on one floor of the Collection of Electronic Waste of the Bank Rubinstein Towers in 2009, the project was expanded in Bank Hapoalim strictly maintains responsible, orderly disposal of disused computer equipment. In general, 2010, with 330 recycling receptacles placed throughout the bank endeavors to donate computer equipment when it is still usable. Moreover, the bank invests Rubinstein Towers and at the call centers in Nesher and Azor. Cans and bottles collection receptacles efforts in upgrading computer equipment before donating it (for details, see the Community section). Receptacles were also placed at the Rothschild head-office Computer equipment not suitable for donation is transferred for responsible recycling and disposal each building in 2011, and dozens of additional receptacles were year. In addition to computer equipment, all mobile devices no longer in use are returned to the supplier placed throughout the bank in 2012. The collection of bottles and cans for recycling is carried out in for responsible disposal. All other disused electronic equipment is transferred to Ecommunity. The bank collaboration with the ELA recycling corporation. Refunded deposits are transferred to the unit's employee thereby contributes both to the community and to the environment. union and used to finance various social activities, donations, etc. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 62-63 Batteries ■ Limiting the vehicles chosen for the vehicle fleet to those with a pollution rating of 8 – according Used batteries placed in the trash may cause substantial environmental damage to internal procedures, bank employees entitled to a leased vehicle may choose a vehicle with due to their toxic contents. Accordingly, as part of the expansion of the bank's a pollution rating no higher than 8. Most of the vehicles at the bank have lower pollution ratings; sphere of influence to employees' environmentally conscious behavior at home, ■ Dialogue with employees through the organizational portal and response to specific inquiries – the an initiative was launched to collect used batteries brought in from employees' vehicle department operates a page on the organizational portal, which is used to publish articles homes at all units of the bank. Battery collection receptacles were placed at and recommendations concerning safe, efficient, careful driving; all of the bank's buildings during 2008, and the quantity of batteries disposed has been monitored and measured since 2009. The government-owned Fluorescent Bulb collection receptable ■ Encouraging bicycle commuting The bank encourages employees at the Rubinstein Towers and Environmental Services Company is responsible for removing the batteries. at 63 Yehuda Halevi street to ride bicycles to work instead of driving. Within this initiative, the bank Fluorescent Bulbs installed showers for employees on the ground floor and bicycle parking spots at the buildings; Fluorescent light bulbs contain mercury and glass, making disposal in trash cans and garbage dumps ■ Promotion of environmental transportation options – The bank has improved access and problematic from an environmental perspective. Bank Hapoalim uses tens of thousands of fluorescent bulbs. subsidies of public transportation for commuters (see details regarding the shuttle project in As part of the bank's sustainability and CSR plan, used fluorescent bulbs are disposed of responsibly at the Community section); all of the bank's buildings and branches. This orderly disposal method, which includes mercury removal ■ In addition, the innovative processes in the area of direct banking (by mobile, Internet, or and safe burial, continued to be implemented in 2012. telephone) and the Paperless Branch initiatives (such as credit-card renewal by telephone) Responsible Disposal of Medication almost completely eliminate the need for customers to visit the branch, leading to reduced Within the bank's CSR plan and environmental efforts, a air pollution. pilot project was launched in 2009 for the collection of old medications at the Rubinstein Towers. Though many treat Emission of Substances that Damage the Ozone Layer medications as ordinary waste, active ingredients reach soil or water reservoirs, react with the natural The bank uses five main types of air-conditioning systems: split air conditioners, central air conditioners, environment and pollute it, and contribute to the development of resistant germs, among other effects. VRF systems, cooling towers, and chillers. The older systems use Freon gas, which is permitted by To contend with this potential source of pollution, a collaboration was formed between the bank and Clalit law, but may be harmful to the ozone layer. Health Services, in which a receptacle designated for medication collection was placed in the lobby of The bank is working to replace these existing air-conditioning systems with units that use only the Rubinstein Towers. By 2012, medication collection had expanded to a total of five buildings. This environment-friendly gases. All of the air-conditioning systems are installed and maintained through activity has earned full cooperation and a positive response from employees. service contracts with licensed suppliers only. Due to the service and maintenance components Responsible Disposal of Construction Waste of the systems, it is not possible to obtain a definitive measurement of the quantity of coolant gas The bank arranges for orderly disposal of its construction waste. Bank Hapoalim includes a contract clause emitted during system malfunctions. The bank strives to keep all systems optimally maintained and in its agreements with construction and renovation contractors working at the branches and buildings, acts immediately to repair any leaks discovered. requiring the responsible removal of waste to a licensed facility. The aim is to fully prevent construction A mapping process conducted over the last two years indicated that the air-conditioning systems waste originating with the organization from reaching unlicensed sites or open fields. at all of the bank's properties in aggregate contain approximately 24 tons of coolant gas, 60% of Working to Prevent Air Pollution by Vehicles which is environment-friendly R-410a gas. During leak repairs and routine maintenance in 2012, the The direct and indirect environmental impact of Bank Hapoalim in the area of transportation, primarily fuel coolant gas in the air-conditioning systems was supplemented at a volume of approximately 2.5 consumption and emissions resulting from fuel burning, derive the bank's vehicle fleet and the internal tons. The bank is working to improve the measurement process of its coolant gas consumption. As system for transportation between branches and facilities of the bank. The bank is working to reduce its part of the data optimization process, the formula for calculating the weight of the gases has been fuel consumption, and consequently to cut back on air pollution, by various means, including: revised. The revised weight calculation was applied to the preceding year as well. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 64-65 2012 Summary: Data on Bank Hapoalim vehicles ■ 20 tons of cardboard were collected by the bank and transferred for recycling in 2012; 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ■ 17 tons of electronic waste were collected in the bank's receptacles and removed during 2012, in Number of vehicles in leasing fleet 1,362 1,407 1,364 1,324 1,329 1,288 addition to the centralized removal performed by the bank's corporate procurement unit (see the Annual fuel consumption (in liters) 3,615,406 3,979,223 3,719,817 3,586,759 3,574,235 3,440,152 table of data on the removal of electronic waste); Kilometers per liter 9.8 9.8 10.8 10.1 10.1 10.5 ■ 14,000 fluorescent bulbs were collected and removed during 2012; Number of hybrid vehicles in the fleet 97 115 110 23 27 ■ 800 kilograms of batteries were collected from the bank's properties and removed for burial; ■ Over 150,000 bottles and cans were recycled during the year; ■ 3,298 cubic meters of construction waste were removed during construction work in 2012. Responsible disposal of electronic waste Fax Computers Screens Printers Servers Keyboards Telephones Routers Other Total machines 2012 273 150 151 197 120 18 9 16 934 2011 714 284 170 104 174 120 30 26 28 1,650 Fuel savings: the bank's annual fuel 2010 2009 258 698 354 414 324 405 77 26 1,013 1,543 consumption has decreased by a 2008 473 514 959 720 757 403 24 55 2,213 1,692 2007 cumulative 13.55% since 2008. In addition, the bank disposed 96 cartons of electronic waste: electric cables, electronic cards, plastic parts, and electronic components. Consumption of toner and ink cartridges Collection of paper for recycling (tons) 30,000 665 25,000 610 8,604 3,000 1,730 2,369 20,000 1,440 675 7,524 5,527 2,017 9,024 2,000 15,000 7,705 8,489 1,170 1,320 1,146 1,067 1,380 10,000 18,734 1,000 15,327 15,535 11,314 5,000 10,342 10,560 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Printer toner Printer ink Fax toner cartridges cartridges cartridges The significant increase in purchases of printer toner cartridges in 2012 stemmed from considerations related to supply management and annual budget management. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 66-67 Coping with Global Warming Israel is committed to compliance with international environmental standards, one of these refers to the 2012 Summary: reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions. The first step towards minimization of the impact of the organization’s operations on the environment is measurement. The metric used globally to quantify and assess climate impact ■ Reduction at the source: waste recycling and the substitution of email for is the carbon footprint. This metric converts a range of environmental impacts into one numeric figure, in tons physical mail saved emissions of 14,149 tons of CO2eq, an increase of 55% of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2eq), encompassing the various emission sources. The result enables us from 2011; 14,149 G o o d E n e r g y Init iat iv to gain awareness of our share of the climate change process. In 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined the voluntary ■ Without the reduction of emissions at the source, the bank's carbon footprint greenhouse-gas reporting system of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Since that time the bank has would have reached a total of 115,845 tons of CO2eq, 14% above the actual CO 2 reported to the recording system in accordance with the established methodology. measured emissions; e ■ The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim for 2012 was 101,696 tons of ‫י וזמת האנרגיה הטובה‬ Measuring the Carbon Footprint CO2eq. Bank Hapoalim's carbon footprint consists of greenhouse-gas emissions on three scopes: ■ Scope One Direct emissions due to fuel burning or other direct emissions; ■ Scope Two Indirect emissions due to the production of electrical power for the bank; 101,696 G o o d E n e r g y Init iat iv Carbon footprint Following is the bank's carbon footprint for 2012, ■ Scope Three Indirect emissions due to actions that are not carried out by the bank measurement levels broken to elements and their relative contribution (resource production, waste treatment, use of banking services, etc.). CO 2 e to the total value: ‫י וזמת האנרגיה הטובה‬ The measurement of the first two scopes is a technical matter, performed according to construction methodologies agreed upon by the Ministry of Environmental Protection's greenhouse5,622 9,029 coolant 6,116 5.97% paper 11,340 gases 9,716 5.18% gas recording system. Measuring Scope Three, however, is more difficult to define and 9,409 Vehicles 4.39% Electricity 7.91% measure, and to assign responsibility for emission causes. In fact, at this time no international consensus has 72.39% IT depreciation, 2.64% been reached regarding methodology for the measurement of Scope Three emissions of greenhouse gases. 70,409 68,286 73,614 Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim recognizes its responsibility for greenhouse-gas emissions on Scope Three as well, and diagnoses significant factors that can be categorized at Scope Three, monitors these factors while examining possible ways of reducing them. 19,386 19,562 12,557 flights, 1.19% 2010 2011 2012 The total carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim amounted to 101,696 tons of CO2eq Other Ink,0.13% in 2012. Greenhouse-gas emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly Tier 2 Tier 3 4.16% water, 0.11% (added measurements derive from electricity consumption at the head-office buildings and branches in 2010) generators, 0.05% hotel stays, 0.04% (72.3%), the vehicle fleet (7.9%), and construction work (5.9%). The Tier 1 Tier 3 decrease of 5,000 tons of CO2eq in the carbon footprint from 2011 to 2012 resulted from reduced construction work and greater efficiency Despite the improved efficiency of power consumption at the bank in 2012, the proportion of power consumption increased in in the consumption of various resources at the bank, as described comparison to the preceding year, as shown in the above diagram. This resulted from a change in the measurement method, due to the revision of emission coefficients for this year. in this section. In addition, the formula for calculating coolant gas In addition, the annual carbon offset (1,500 tons of CO2eq) published in previous reports is not presented in this report, due to updates and adjustment at the bank for the additionality principle. According to this principle, carbon offsets can only be applied when the consumption was revised. offsetting project would not have been carried out without the carbon offset. LIVING WITH THE ENVIRONMENT 68-69 Preserving Biodiversity and Contributing to Environmental Awareness in Wider Spheres Bank Hapoalim is committed to being a contributor to the State of Israel's sustainability. As such, within its environmental responsibility philosophy, some of its activities are aimed at raising general awareness Looking ahead and finding practical solutions to a variety of environmental issues. ■ To implement the electronic waste collection project (described The Bank Hapoalim Environmental Protection Guide in detail in the Community section) for the long term, the bank will raise awareness of residents of the participating cities through As part of its commitment to CSR and sustainability values and the promotion of prudent financial conduct, structured activities with adolescents aimed at instilling the the bank updated its environmental protection guide with a wide range of ideas for efficient household program's messages, education, and promotion of this issue. management. Through this guide, which is available on the bank's website and organizational portal, the bank offers practical, professional information that can help both employees and the general public contribute to the environment and reduce household expenses. The ideas described in the 25-page guide were collected from various sources, with the assistance of experts in this field and suggestions from employees. The guide is divided into three categories: energy, water, and recycling. Each section is given a concise, reader-friendly presentation describing the recommendation, the reasoning, and the savings and environmental benefits. Opening of Museums and National Parks to the General Public During Passover Holiday Week During Chol Hamoed (the week of the Passover holiday), the bank invited all Israelis to visit 50 museums and sites free of charge for the ninth consecutive year. Museums and sites located throughout Israel participate in this project, and relate to various subjects and diverse experiences. The sites include the Eco-Kinneret, Gan Guru, the Haifa Zoo, the Jerusalem Botanical Garden, the Shafdan visitors' center, the Yitzhak Rabin Center Israel Museum, and more. The bank invests extensive efforts in raising public awareness of nature and heritage sites and publishes the invitation to the public through a variety of channels, including billboards, newspaper advertisements, and the Internet; information about all of the participating sites is made available to the public through a minisite and information lines. ‫גם בפסח הזה‬ ‫ אתרים פתוחים‬48 !‫בחינם‬ www.poalimatarim.co.il *2412 ‫הגן הבוטני ירושלים‬ !‫חג שמח‬ EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 72-73 HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY Adhering to Five Basic Principles: Rating on List of Best Workplaces Following its time-honored tradition, Bank Hapoalim strictly maintains a work environment guided by In a survey conducted by business information group BDI ranking the 100 best workplaces in Israel, Bank five fundamental principles: Hapoalim was ranked sixth, and placed first among the financial institutions. This accomplishment reflects the bank's commitment to its employees and its achievements in the area of social responsibility. ■ Constant dialogue, cooperation, and transparency between employees and management; ■ Opportunities for personal and professional growth and development – employees benefit from this approach, while the bank gains the best people, at the most appropriate place and time; ■ Solidarity and collegiality, imparting special meaning to the relationship among colleagues, achieved through means including social events held by branches and management teams; ■ Continual caring for the wellbeing of employees and their families, and support for employees during times of crisis; ■ Rigorously maintained equal opportunities and non-discrimination. Defining a Human Resources Credo The bank applies long-term considerations of sustainability and social responsibility to its human resource management. For the bank, its employees are key stakeholders; its relationship with them is conducted on a firm foundation of true growth and partnership. The bank recognizes that as an employer, it has a duty to consider employees' wellbeing and wellness, understand the importance of balancing work with family and leisure time, and devote attention to employee enrichment, growth, and empowerment. Responsiveness, flexibility, assistance, and support when necessary are vital elements in fostering the desired relationship between the bank and its employees. This approach helps the bank achieve the goal of satisfied employees who are able to function to their full potential and who view the bank as a desirable, preferred workplace where they seek to remain. It is important to note that caring for employees also encompasses orderly and attentive preparation of employees for retirement, as well as continued contact with retirees, who remain part of the Bank Hapoalim family. According to the bank's philosophy, the most effective way to manage human resources in the best interests of both the bank and its employees is to create a genuine partnership. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 74-75 Presenting Information on Employees 2012 in Numbers: Distribution of employees by type Proportions of internal and of employment contract external employees ■ The bank employed 10,124 internal employees in 2012; P‫ ‏‬ermanent T‫ ‏‬emporary ‫‏‬Senior ‫‏‬Total ■ 90.5% of the positions at the bank were held by internal employees, while 9.5% were held by employees employees employees 100% 9.9% 9.5% 18.8% 13.4% 12.6% 12.4% Collective external employees; contract 78.1% 15.1% 93.2% 2012 80% ■ 93.2% of the employees of the bank are employed full time, and 6.8% are employed part time; Personal contract 0.2% 5.3% 1.3% 6.8% ■ 745 employees took maternity leave in 2012, while 911 employees returned to work following 60% maternity leave. Usually, employees returning from maternity leave return to their previous Collective 77.2% 16.4% 93.6% positions; 2011 contract 40% 81.2% 86.6% 87.4% 87.6% 90.1% 90.5% Personal ■ Over the last year, the percentage of employees holding academic degrees rose from 56.6% contract 0.2% 4.9% 1.3% 6.4% to 57.6%; 20% Collective 77.5% 17.9% 95.4% ■ The bank recognizes its employees' right to unionize and conduct collective negotiations. The contract 2010 0 collective agreement applies to the overwhelming majority of the employees of the bank (93.2%), Personal 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0.2% 3.2% 1.2% 4.6% excluding those employed under personal contracts. contract Internal employees External employees Segmentation of employees by rank, 2007-2012 Employee turnover, 2010-2012* % change Year Age Female Male Total 3,244 3,244 external employees 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 vs. 2011 Up to 30 181 78 259  oard of B hired in 2008-2012 management 14 13 14 15 15 15 0% 31-50 96 57 153 Divisions 2012 In 2012, the bank hired 713 external employees as regular heads 50+ 84 68 152 69 83 87 85 87 85 -2.3% personnel. and chief Total 361 203 564 supervisors Overall, the bank hired 3,244 external employees in 2008-2012. Up to 30 197 81 278 Branch managers and 0 From 2007 to 2012, the percentage of external employees at the 584 586 602 605 625 661 5.8% 31-50 96 59 155 department 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 bank fell from 18.8% to 9.5%. heads 2011 50+ 69 43 112 First tier 1,723 1,780 1,799 1,792 1,849 1,787 -3.4% management Total 362 183 545 In 2012, 300 employees Total management 2,390 2,462 2,502 2,497 2,576 2,548 -1.1% Up to 30 164 70 234 attended academic Other 6,984 7,535 7,477 7,486 7,630 7,576 -0.7% 2010 31-50 68 60 128 employees degree programs funded Total 50+ 48 47 95 9,374 9,979 9,979 9,983 10,206 10,124 -0.8% by the bank. employees Total 280 177 457 * Most employees who left the bank in 2012, further to the trend of 2009-2011, belong to the youngest age group (under age 30). This resulted from the following factors: (1) Employees in this age group, known as Generation Y, are characterized by frequent transitions between jobs and workplaces; The funding was provided by a joint bank-employees fund. (2) Due to the amendment to the Manpower Agencies Law, a large number of employees were hired by the bank in 2008 for positions historically staffed by external personnel. Many of these employees viewed their work at the bank as temporary, and were not interested in a long-term career at the bank. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 76-77 Education and Age Approximately 35% of the bank's degreeThe following table presents a breakdown of the 10,124 employees of the bank in 2012, by age and level of education. holding employees have masters degrees Education Academic degrees or higher. No academic Age group Total Age degree distribution This group constitutes 20% of all bank employees.  B.A M.A Ph.D 18-21 24 1 25 0.2% 22-30 719 642 102 1,463 14.5% Insurance Policies, Funds, and Benefits for Employees 31-40 656 1,376 771 4 2,807 27.7% Bank Hapoalim pays wages to its employees in accordance with personal or collective employment contracts 41-50 856 929 777 4 2,566 25.3% signed with each employee. In addition to wages, employees enjoy a wide range of benefits, under agreements 51-60 1,763 628 334 3 2,728 26.9% with the Employee Union and pursuant to their personal contracts, as relevant. 60+ 277 168 85 5 535 5.3% Employees receive comprehensive insurance coverage, including pension insurance (starting on the first day Total 4,295 3,744 2,069 16 10,124 100% of employment at the bank), disability insurance, life insurance, personal accident insurance, health insurance, Education level and dental insurance. In addition to the insurance coverage described above, two additional safety nets are 42.4% 37.0% 20.4% 0.20% 100% distribution available to employees of the bank during times of crisis: ■ The Malki Foundation A voluntary fund financed by the bank and its employees, which provides financial coverage for employees in the event of serious illness or similar occurrences; Upward trend in percentage of degree-holding employees at the bank ■ The Shared Mutual Assistance Foundation This foundation is financed by the employees budget and the management budget, and is also designed to assist employees who encounter financial difficulties and 60% family or financial crises. Employees are entitled to discounts on bank account fees, subsidized loans, spreading of debts into installments, 40% and loans tailored to personal milestones: moving to a new home, buying a vehicle, children's weddings, and more. 20% 33.9% 36.0% 39.0% 41.3% 44.5% 48.0% 49.0% 49.0% 50.7% 54.4% 56.6% 57.6% Employee Union The Employee Union is first and foremost a strategic partner and a key stakeholder. The work of the management 0 with the Employee Union follows a pattern of ongoing dialogue (updates, feedback, and consultations) and 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 partnership in all key actions and processes in the day-to-day running of the bank. The roles fulfilled by the Employee Union include protecting every employee's rights and obligations; The upward trend in the percentage of degree-holding employees continued at a greater pace in 2012. This achievement reflects an ongoing long-term positive trend of rising proportions of degree-holders at the bank, due to factors including developing cultural, instructional, and social activities; and organizing mutual assistance among the bank's encouragement for employees to study for undergraduate and graduate degrees, through tuition aid and added vacation days for examinations. Overall, from 1997 to the end of 2012, the percentage of degree-holding employees at Bank employees. The numerous activities of the union for the wellbeing of employees include summer Hapoalim rose from about 26% to almost 58%. day camps for employees’ children across Israel, reduced-price or subsidized tickets to cultural and entertainment events, discounts on hotels and vacations, holiday gifts and gifts for personal EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 78-79 Ensuring Diversity, Equal Opportunities, and Transparency occasions, various types of insurance for employees and their families, medical examinations, aid funds, Non-Discrimination assistance for families in mourning, assistance during crises, and more. From the Bank Hapoalim ethical code: The national union heads the pyramid of local unions, which are organized into regional unions. Branch managers The bank treats its employees fairly and without discrimination. The bank's policy is to hire, promote, in each region have a regional union as well as representation in the national union. The national union consists and make decisions regarding employees based on pertinent considerations, such as qualifications and of representatives of the regions (including branches and the head office), with representation proportional to the size of the region. The national union operates on the basis of association articles, accessible to all employees performance, with no discrimination due to religion, race, sex, age, political views, sexual orientation or in a dedicated section of the organization's web portal. disability. The bank does everything in its power to implement this policy. Any claims of discrimination brought before the responsible parties are addressed by the bank immediately, Performance Rewards in order to eradicate such occurrences. In 2012, no discrimination claims were brought before the human The bank’s remuneration policy as adopted by the board of directors is congruent with the principles of the resources department. Supervisor of Banks according to the circular issued by the Supervisor in April 2009. Transparency From Step One Following the circular, a working committee was established in 2010 to examine remuneration policy at the level of the bank group. The committee analyzed all of the population groups at the bank entitled to bonuses, and The bank provides new employees with information regarding terms and processes related to their work defined groups to be addressed. Accordingly, components were added to the remuneration models to balance as well as useful information on all matters connected with the beginning of their employment, in order short-term and long-term risks, as well as components reflecting individuals' success in relation to the success to allow for a highly transparent and rapid initiation. In 2012, a comprehensive process was conducted of the bank as an organization. In addition, spread of bonuses over several years and negative bonuses were to enhance, expand, and update the initiation kit for new employees (the new kit is slated for distribution added to the senior executives` remuneration system. In accordance with the approved remuneration policy and during 2013). in order to promote a culture of achievement and outstanding business performance, the bank links employee remuneration to the performance of the bank in the following ways: Equal Opportunities in Wages and Terms In general, salaries and terms of employment for bank employees are determined according to a role ■ Annual bonus The annual bonus is determined according to the rate of return of net profit on equity, as it book. The role book, which is available on the organizational portal, contains information regarding the appears in the consolidated financial statements of the bank group. Part of the annual bonus is distributed terms of employment and entitlements granted to each rank of employee. The publication of the role uniformly to all employees, while part is distributed differentially, based on employee performance; book contributes to transparency in wages and allows control over the terms of the wages. The range of ■ Option allocation The bank has an option allocation program for permanent employees and for employees starting salaries is at least minimum wage. with non-executive personal contracts. The option allocation program highlights the employees' partnership in business success and constitutes an additional level in the comprehensive annual remuneration for employees, Equal Opportunities – Gender and Sector which also includes a bonus and ranking processes. Male and female employees of Bank Hapoalim receive equal compensation for equal positions and ranks. Data on the employment of women at the bank indicates that the percentage of female managers Commendation of Outstanding Employees at the bank as a whole is on an upward trend. The pool of female employees with management potential The bank selects and commends employees who excel. The selection of (at the first tier of management) is large, and has a positive effect on the development of talented female outstanding employees expresses management’s appreciation for these managers and on the rising proportion of women in senior management. The bank strives to achieve employees' contribution to the bank's accomplishments. Outstanding diversity in the workplace and hires employees from different sectors and population groups as part of employees are chosen for their skills and for a combination of qualities its recruitment policy. based on a range of criteria, such as striving for excellence, colleague relationships, teamwork, and more. Rewards have included several The bank has a functionary responsible for sexual harassment prevention at work. This functionary's trips, in Israel and overseas, for outstanding employees. contact details along with the relevant formal conduct are listed in the organizational portal. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 80-81 Adapting Work and the Workplace for Special Needs Many physical disabilities pose no limitation to the ability to work at the bank. Accordingly, the bank does not exercise special treatment (affirmative action) with regard to persons with physical disabilities in its bring a friend program, manpower placement agencies specializing in unique hiring processes or during routine work. The bank invests the necessary resources and carries out any sectors, and targeted advertising in appropriate media channels. adjustments that are called for in the working environment when new employees with physical disabilities The bank has made changes to its standard screening processes in order to are hired, or in the event of changes in employees' health. Thus, the bank provides disabled employees adapt them to the unique cultural characteristics of candidates from population with an appropriate work environment that enables them to function to their full potential, and in some groups underrepresented in the job market. As part of this process, special cases assigns them to position where their disability is not an obstacle. workshops were held for human-resources personnel on multicultural job Hiring Employees from Groups Underrepresented in the Job Market interviews. In addition, evaluation days at screening centers were adapted to Bank Hapoalim encourages recruitment of employees from population groups that are underrepresented enable candidates to optimally express their capabilities. in the job market, as part of its hiring policy. To promote workplace diversity, the bank invests extensively In 2012, special emphasis continued to be placed on promoting the recruitment in studying the accumulated experience in this area, in Israel and globally; collaborates with non-profit of employees from the ultra-orthodox sector. Within this effort, a first-of-its-kind organizations specializing in the empowerment and integration into the job market of these population pilot project was conducted in which female ultra-orthodox university students groups; and serves as a sponsor for the Israel Forum for Workplace Diversity. As part of the learning were recruited for the Hapoalim by Telephone call center, in a specialized process from the world's leading organizations in the area of diversity, a representative of the bank program adapted to their needs and school schedules. participated in a US government delegation studying diversity and inclusion. The bank is learning from Awareness of the importance of diverse human capital has been raised by its accumulating experience and drawing conclusions in order to allow for optimal integration, generating referring to this issue in all relevant communications on the organizational value for all of the parties involved. portal, and by presenting it in various forums of the organization (such as the Innovation Festival). A training day on managing diversity and diverse teams was planned for managers, aimed at identifying the business benefits of effectively managing a diverse workforce, reinforcing awareness of interpersonal differences Promoting Workplace Diversity as a factor influencing the work environment, and acquiring tools for effective management of difference. Activity aimed at the promotion of diversity at the bank continued in 2012, in accordance with the multi-year work plan formulated in 2011. The plan encompasses aspects including recruitment, screening and integration, employee development and promotion, change communication and management, diversity-promoting leadership, diverse of suppliers, and more. The bank's recruitment process continues to emphasize maximization of the potential found in population groups underrepresented in the job market, by reaching out to non-profit organizations specializing in these population groups, participating in specially designated job fairs, and guiding candidates through the process. In 2012, additional recruitment sources were examined, such as a EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 82-83 Comparison of men and women at each rank Female Male Total women are 50.7% Board of directors* 5 10 15 of the managers Board of management 4 11 15 at the bank Division heads and chief 24 61 85 supervisors The proportion of women in management Section heads at head office 276 266 542 positions at the bank is 50.7%, versus approximately 34% in the Israeli workforce. Department heads at branches or department 506 386 892 heads at head office Branch managers 134 219 353 First tier management 457 419 876 50.7 % 34 % Total management 1,401 1,362 2,763 Other employees 5,139 2,222 7,361 Total employees 6,540 3,584 10,124 *Not bank employees Proportion of women in management positions, 2007 2012 Segmentation of minority employees Wage equality 60% First tier Branch managers and head office between men and 50% management 14% department heads 3% women 40% The basic salary at Bank Hapoalim is defined by a 30% wage system based on position and level which makes no reference to gender whatsoever. Thus, there is full 20% equality in the basic salary paid to men and women at 10% all levels and positions. However, certain differences in the gross salary of different employees in various 0 First tier Branch managers and Division supervisors Members of positions can be found, since salaries are based on management department heads and division heads management Employees 83% personal characteristics of employees such as: seniority, overtime and benefits given to parents. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 84-85 Promoting a Culture of Dialogue and Openness Bank Hapoalim considers its employees to be 2012 in Numbers: full partners who contribute to all business and ■ 64.6% of the employees of the bank are women, versus approximately 47% in the workforce; organizational processes. Employees become ■ Minority employees constitute 5.2% of the bank's manpower; partners in the promotion of all endeavors of the ■ The lowest pay grade at the bank is at least minimum wage; bank through organization-wide communication ■ Of the 219 employees that were hired in the bank's branches in 2012, 19.6% (or 43 employees) on every level: dialogue between managers were hired through the diversity program; and employees, and direct communication ■ 58 employees hired in 2012 came from underrepresented groups in the job market (i.e. minorities, between different units. Direct dialogue between ultra-orthodox and the disabled). These employees represented 17% of a total of 342 employees managers and employees enables employees hired by the bank; to feel connected with organizational objectives. Employees in event A Breakfast with the CEO ■ The bank continues its collaborations with non-profit organizations engaged in promoting population Lateral dialogue between units helps organizationgroups underrepresented in the job market, such as Olim Beyahad, Tech Careers, Kav Mashve, IT Works, Tevet and Be-Atzmi. wide processes move forward with flexibility and efficiency. The range of methods applied at the bank to achieve these aims includes face-to-face meetings, use of the organizational portal, promotion of a culture of sharing and innovation, and processes of feedback, assessment, and drawing conclusions. Looking ahead Strengthening Connections and Communications between Management and Employees The execution of the work plan for the promotion of human-capital diversity at the bank will continue in 2013 and in the coming years, through several ■ Breakfast with the CEO, Zion Kenan Aimed at forging closer relationships with employees organizational processes, including: ■ Providing training to managers on the management of a diverse and connecting management to events on the ground, this initiative sees employees of workforce, and on the creation of an optimally diverse employee mix; various ranks invited to breakfasts to celebrate their birthdays together. The get-togethers ■ Creating Colleague Groups – groups of employees from various are an opportunity for dialogue and bilateral communication, in an atmosphere of population groups who meet regularly to promote aspects of diverse openness and honesty, on equal terms. Topics raised during the event are documented human-resource management at the bank; and addressed both during the session and through subsequent action, to the ■ Identifying appropriate recruitment channels, continuing to improve the extent possible; screening process, and adapting the orientation process; ■ Managing and instilling diversity in working with the bank's suppliers; ■ Executive Chat meetings Since January 2010, each member of the bank's board ■ Establishing metrics for mobility, developing and promoting employees of management has held a series of open talks with groups of employees from from population groups underrepresented in the job market (in accordance with the bank's work plan on workplace diversity promotion), other divisions of the bank, in a variety of positions, representing a range of the identifying gaps, and formulating focused plans to close such gaps; bank's departments. The sessions are aimed at strengthening the relationship and ■ Formulating messages and identifying intra-organizational communication dialogue between management and employees, in order to enable the executives channels and opportunities for the communication of workplace diversity to listen to voices on the ground and make necessary changes. issue to all managers and employees; ■ Defining positions, work processes, and measurement infrastructures in the area of workplace diversity. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 86-87 2012 in Numbers: ■ From the launch of the project to December 2012, 140 Executive Chat meetings were held by ■ Integrating the values of the vision into learning and training materials – members of the bank's board of management with groups of bank employees (40 meetings were The values in the bank's vision were integrated into training content in held in 2012). 1,500 employees participated in the meetings overall; managerial and behavioral banking courses. Specialized content was ■ 25 breakfast meetings with CEO Zion Kenan have been held, five in 2012. 750 employees also added to impart knowledge of the vision and values in courses for participated overall; new employees, such as training for management in banking and for call■ Over 2,000 employees of the bank participated in the process of formulating the visions of six different divisions. center banker positions. Special emphasis was placed on the connection of the values in the bank's vision with everyday conduct on the job and in interactions with customers; ■ Communication of the bank's vision to employees and managers – In order to maintain employees' awareness of the importance of the vision Employees Assimilate the Vision of the Bank and its relevance to what happens at the bank, messages were posted on the bank's portal linking various processes in the bank's activity to The project of assimilating the bank's vision, initiated in 2010, represents a the vision. The portal was also rebranded with the colors representing process of renewal and growth as well as a declaration of the bank's commitment the vision, and a content area was established documenting the activities to universal social values, towards its business environment and its community. related to instilling the vision in the organization; A detailed plan was constructed for leading of this process by managers and its application to the bank as a whole, from senior management to each and ■ Vision from Theory to Practice 2012 conference – The conference, every employee. Following the official organization-wide launch of the vision in held in December, was attended by 800 of the bank's managers. Wide2011, the process of assimilating the vision continued in 2012, through various ranging activities in the spirit of the vision and the implementation of the aspects of the bank's activity: vision throughout the organization were presented. Special emphasis was placed on activity in the area of Financial Freedom, a differentiating element ■ Assimilating the vision at the divisions of the bank – Six of the bank's of the bank, and a range of community projects were presented in detail; divisions conducted a process designed to deepen the affinity between the bank's vision and values and the divisions' activities, implementing the vision ■ The vision of Bank Hapoalim International Division – The vision was into routine practices. This included the formulation of an internal division introduced at the division`s overseas offices during 2012. vision based on the bank's vision and the values it encompasses; deriving operational implications of the vision for application to the division's business strategy, work plans, and management processes; and understanding the unique role and positioning of each division in the realization of the vision of the bank as a whole, through targeted workshops and meetings; EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 88-89 The Organizational Portal Creating a Central Infrastructure for Intra-Organizational Activity of the bank's portal in 2012 Communication During 2012, the bank continued to expand the activity of the portal in the area of knowledge sharing Dialogue, transparency, and sharing are fundamental elements of corporate social responsibility. These and flow within the organization and improvement of service and support for banking activity, using the values are put into practice through the organizational portal. Since the launch of the portal in June following means: 2006, it has become a key arena for extensive business activity conducted on an everyday basis. ■ Straight to You – An innovative application allowing quick, efficient access to information in the banking The portal has enabled Bank Hapoalim to move from information distribution to effective information portal, the telephone directory, and the glossary of terms. The application was launched for employees sharing and management. working at Bank Hapoalim's headquarters in 2011 and deployed to all branches during 2012. The As a result, the bank has succeeded in achieving improvement in employees' professional expertise, Straight to You application helps users obtain information quickly, without leaving the screen they are increasing synergy between headquarters and the field, strengthening employees' identification with using, whether they are working in the Messila or Dialogue systems, on the organizational portal, or the organization, and fostering genuine dialogue, through the various tools offered by the portal. on any document; The bank's organizational portal has been recognized in Israel as a best practice organization in the ■ Formation of a framework of processes, ideas, and technologies enabling the bank to create an fields of knowledge management and intra-organizational communication. Consequently, the portal organizational schedule – During the year, the bank formulated an approach to the management of has continued to respond to requests from representatives of leading organizations in this field in the organizational messages aimed at managing the organizational schedule, providing an overview of all Israeli economy for sharing of practices and practical tips to further the study and promotion of this activities, and generating clear priorities in the publication and distribution of information and knowledge topic in Israel. to employees. Several tools were developed for this purpose: the Read and Sign mechanism, for monitoring reading of important messages, through a button used to confirm that the message has been read; an organizational/unit calendar displaying employees' tasks and deadlines; and new content displays. These applications will make it possible to launch an organized, managed process for the Israeli Standard for Knowledge Management creation of an organizational and unit-level agenda, during 2013; In 2012, Bank Hapoalim became the first organization in Israel to attain the Israeli Standard ■ Enhanced information and launch of new content areas – Including the Corporate Banking Division for Knowledge Management (IS 25006). The standard was granted following detailed website, the Hapoalim by Telephone website, the procurement area, the investment house arena, Poalim testing of the activity of the portal unit, on four dimensions: process, content, culture, and 360, the cards and benefits area, and more. Over 90 knowledge pages have been added to the main technology. The Standards Institute testers were impressed by the high quality of the portal and the banking portal; work of the hundreds of content experts who add knowledge to the portal, the quality of ■ Improvement of the Contact and Feedback system (for bankers and the employees who address the work of the site and site area managers, and the quality of management of organizational entries) – A processing summary screen was introduced during the year, allowing the person processing communications on the portal. the contact to catalogue and manage it for future analysis and for the identification of knowledge gaps. In addition, a process of analyzing calls was conducted, with the assistance of the MIS Division, to identify knowledge gaps arising from inquiries. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 90-91 Organizational Innovation 2012 in Numbers: Innovation is one of the significant values promoted as part of the process of assimilating the Bank Hapoalim ■ The service and banking knowledge center of the organizational portal, an essential source of vision, through a commitment undertaken by the board of management and board of directors. The knowledge for employees, has processed a cumulative number of approximately 73,000 inquiries goal of the process is to create a culture in which employees suggest initiatives and innovative ideas for from employees, meeting 92% of its response objectives. The maximum response time has been set products and services, as well as for the improvement and change of operational and business processes, at 24 hours. Dozens of headquarter units from 29 different departments are involved in processing eventually granting the bank a competitive advantage. Furthermore, the process is designed to generate inquiries to the service and banking knowledge center; interest and enthusiasm among customers regarding the innovation at the bank, which is reflected in the ■ The bank's portal won the Knowledge Management and Portals category of the IT Awards, for the fourth time; interactions with them. The bank is leading a process aimed at assimilating the values of excellence and ■ In 2012, each employee viewed an average of 19 information pages daily (up from 14 pages in the innovation in its organizational culture at all levels of activity, through a series of initiatives. The innovation preceding year); drive has been led by the Research and Development Unit of the Strategy Management Center in the ■ An average of 250 new knowledge items were posted on the portal each day. A new knowledge page Corporate Strategy Division for three years; over 50% of the bank's employees have participated in the was posted every four days; process during that time. ■ The website management community encompasses 470 staff members who work to manage and update knowledge on the business websites and at the service and knowledge center. Organizational Innovation 2012 ■ Fintech – In this initiative, launched in May 2012, the bank will invest LOOKING AHEAD in start-up ventures in the area of financial IT. The initiative emerged ■ A process will be launched in 2013 to build the organization's from the awareness that technology at financial institutions is a rapidly schedule on the communication and transmission of organizational developing field, due to factors including significant changes in global messages, as part of the integration of organizational communications payment infrastructures, a decrease in the use of cash and checks, and within the unit; an increase in the use of credit cards and transfers via Internet, as ■ The portal's search engine will be upgraded during 2013, and well as increased use of smartphones for these purposes. information-finding capabilities will be enhanced, to reduce the Through Fintech, the Hapoalim Group strives to time needed to find information; implement in-house innovation alongside ■ The IBM PortalWebSphere infrastructure used by the portal will innovation sourced from outside the bank. be upgraded to Version 8, for stability and better utilization of capabilities; ■ Information consumption through the organizational portal is expected to increase due to accessibility through mobile phones, tablets, and the Portal from Home system. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 92-93 Three units cooperated to create the initiative: the Information Technology a 3-5 year range. In 2012, lab members continued to meet regularly for work Division, the Corporate Strategy Division, and Poalim Capital Markets, a sessions and training, with continual guidance from local and international subsidiary of the bank that serves as the group's investment arm. As part innovation experts; of the initiative, the bank examines companies offering solutions in a range of content areas: financial technologies, organizational infrastructures, ■ Innovation community – The innovation community, consisting of hundreds of mobile and Internet, information security, and more. The companies are employees of the bank, continued its work in 2012. The goal of the community initially screened and checked for congruence with the bank's needs. Next, is to cultivate human resources in the organization with the aim of discovering the degree of innovation of the solution, entry barriers, the financial and creativity, innovation, and business initiative. Community members benefit business model, and the expected return on the investment are examined. from quarterly webinars on various topics related to innovation and tools for inventive thinking, and are the first to learn about and participate in innovation Companies whose solutions are selected will receive assistance and guidance activities at the bank; from professionals at the bank in the advanced development of their products. If necessary, the products will be tested at the bank's facilities. In addition to ■ Innovation coaches – Two additional groups of innovation coaches were professional guidance, several of the young companies will receive a capital trained in 2012. Today, 80 coaches from the head-office units and the branch investment. Investments will go to companies backed by venture-capital network serve as change agents for the innovation drive. Immediately upon funds, usually early-stage companies with an existing product or prototype completing their training, the innovation coaches began to guide the various that can be tested in a real-life work environment; teams participating in the Initiative Competition and run business innovation training days for groups of employees; ■ Innovation in the community – Innovation coaches hold workshops to promote invention-oriented thinking and original entrepreneurship among ■ Innovation festival – During 2012, hundreds of employees from the innovation management teams of non-profit organizations and social initiatives, such community and additional interested employees participated in the festival, held as A Password for Every Student and A Different Lesson; over two days, during work hours, at the Poalim Campus in Shefayim. The festival, under the slogan The Wisdom of Crowd , included talks prepared and ■ Inter-organizational innovation forum – In the second half of 2011, a forum presented by employees and managers along with lectures and workshops was established for executives from the 50 leading companies in the Israel given by external experts and professionals in the area of the crowd wisdom that promote innovation in their organizations. The forum, which was active in particular and innovation in general; during 2012, convenes periodically and offers opportunities for networking, the exchange of ideas, sharing of accumulated knowledge in this area, ■ Initiative Competition – Ten teams competed in this event, held for the third consultations, and collaboration, as well as an arena for introduction to time in 2012: eight represented one of the division of the bank, while two activities for the promotion of innovation, in Israel and globally; consisted of representatives from different divisions collaborating on an idea for the contest. During the competition, the teams received guidance from the ■ Innovation lab – A select group of employees with the mission of suggesting bank's innovation coaches, external innovation experts, and the competition's ideas and developing product lines and processes to promote the bank within expert panel consisting of managers at the bank, for the promotion of their ideas and for personal empowerment and development. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 94-95 Conducting the Processes of Feedback, Evaluation, and Drawing Conclusions Looking Ahead The Performance Evaluation and Management Process ■ In 2013, the Innovation Lab will promote the development and launch Each year, managers hold feedback sessions with employees on their personal performance at their of selected initiatives approved by the bank's board of management, positions, in which the manager and the employee address the range of subjects and aspects that and promote the development of winning initiatives in the Initiative make up the employee's role. The performance evaluation process is in the form of a dialogue between Competitions of previous years; the manager and the employee, and supports a number of goals, including employee development, ■ The bank plans to launch a series of training videos to encourage coordination of expectations, and improvement of performance. The process helps empower and nurture innovation and problem-solving through original thinking. In employees, and promotes excellence. addition, an interactive game will be introduced to teach methods for systematic inventive thinking. These tools will be presented on The performance evaluation process includes an examination of the employee's performance over the the bank's portal; last year and formulation of the main objectives for the coming year, including professional objectives as ■ The bank will continue to promote innovation in the community well as personal development objectives. About six months after the feedback meetings, trend meetings through workshops for non-profit organizations and through guidance are held to enable managers and employees to examine the progress made towards the objectives for start-up companies aided by the Gvahim foundation, which together and to discuss steps that will help achieve the objectives. These talks offer another opportunity encourages entrepreneurship by new immigrants; for open dialogue between managers and employees. The process reflects the spirit of the vision and the ■ The bank will continue the process of seeking and examining new promotion of transparency, openness, and cultivation of human capital. In processes conducted to draw external ventures with the potential for integration with the bank's conclusions, managers and employees expressed satisfaction with this system. work processes, and will continue to work to achieve synergy between islands of innovation and promote innovative products. Surveys and Feedback The bank conducts surveys from time to time with the aim of learning about employees' positions and preferences on various matters. The surveys enable to formulate specifications for processes and products while taking employees' knowledge, experience, and opinions into consideration. Excellence in Service for Employees The Mashab Personal Service Center serves as the centralized location for employees' and managers' queries on various matters related to human resources, aimed at improving satisfaction and strengthening connections. Mashab was established as part of the conclusions drawn from the organizational climate survey, among other factors, with the aim of bringing human-resource services to the next level. Mashab was established in early 2010, and provides service to all employees and managers. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 96-97 Mashab consists of two functions: 2012 in Numbers: ■ A service center for online and telephone queries from employees and business partners on matters related to human resources; ■ In 2012, 99% of the employees of the bank received feedback on their performance, and trend Personal Service meetings were held with 70% of employees; ■ An operational system to support work process derived from queries on matters Center For you related to human resources, in areas such as attendance, maternity leave, unpaid ■ 53,000 queries to Mashab were documented in 2012, from 10,000 employees. Since the establishment leave, monitoring of missing data on employees, employment certifications, visas, of Mashab, over 111,300 queries have been made by 12,500 employees; human resource at your service eligibility for mobile phones, cafeteria points, daily expense allowances, and more. ■ 90% of respondents expressed high satisfaction with Mashab services in an employee survey conducted this year; Mashab 2012 ■ During the year, Mashab complied with an SLA of responding to 80% of queries by the end of the Mashab provides responses to changing needs as they arise from employees. The following issues were following business day; addressed during 2012: ■ The Poalim Service Center processed 43,522 service calls and 522,866 incoming telephone calls; ■ Specialized hotline set up for contractor workers – A hotline was set up at Mashab during 2012 for ■ The Poalim Service Center processed 210 queries from family members of employees during the contractor workers employed on the bank's premises; year; ■ Employees suffering from prolonged illness – During the Tishrei holidays (in September 2012), cards and a ■ The “I Care” initiative was the first element launched in the innovation drive: modest gift were sent to employees absent due to prolonged illnesses. In addition, a booklet was distributed any employee in any position who identifies an activity that can be improved, containing detailed information on the rights of employees on prolonged illness leave. The booklet is sent streamlined, or updated is invited to formulate a proposal and submit it to to these employees and an online version is available on the portal; the relevant parties at the bank. In 2012, a total of 2,710 proposals were submitted by 1,326 employees. From the launch of this program to the end of ■ Distribution of a pregnancy and childbirth booklet – A booklet on pregnancy and childbirth was produced 2012, 12,572 proposals were submitted by 3,364 employees, of which 7.5% in 2011, summarizing all of the information relevant for employees during pregnancy, childbirth, and the are in the stages of implementation. return to work. In 2012, the booklet was sent to department heads, region heads, and branch managers, and is also available on the bank's portal. The Poalim Service Center – At Employees' Service The Poalim Service Center monitors alarm and security systems at all of the bank's facilities. It monitors closed-circuit television systems, supervises head office building control systems, provides personal assistance to Platinum clients and logistical services to the various bank units. Services for bank units and for employees and their families In addition to intra-organizational professional services, the Poalim Service Center offers a unique package of services to bank employees and their families, 24 hours a day. Among others, the service center assists employees in calling the police in case of burglary, assistance during car crashes, providing initial consultation, Nofar Schpleter, In-House Art referring to professional bodies in cases of domestic problems, assistance in location of family members abroad and more. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 98-99 Caring for Personal Development, Training, and Realization of Potential Creating an Organizational Map at the Human Capital Development Center Looking Ahead Hundreds of employees experience mobility each year at Bank Hapoalim. Employee mobility takes place ■ Financial coaching for employees of the bank – A guidance within a supportive, values-driven work environment that encourages workers to enrich their knowledge program for employees and their spouses, imparting tools for and experience, in congruence with the business needs of the bank. In addition to mobility processes, smart financial behavior, customized to the employee's needs. The the Human Capital Development Center (HCDC) handles hiring of new employees, through a range of program includes a personal tutorial, a two-session workshop, and different tracks. The bank is committed to providing a setting conducive to its employees’ personal and personal consulting and guidance. Coaches are bank employees professional development; the HCDC serves this purpose by creating a point of contact between the who have been trained as volunteer speakers on this subject. The organization’s needs and employees’ professional ambitions. To realize that approach and foster employee program is based on the Personal Financial Planning offered to growth, development, and empowerment, the HCDC provides a comprehensive, current operational customers on the bank's website; status snapshot of capabilities and skills, while advancing employees through individual instruction and ■ Launch of the ELA system – The system enables employees, like occupation changes. customers of the bank, to receive a loan through the bank's website in a simple, user-friendly procedure; ■ Roundtable forums – Employee meetings will be held during the year to discuss various matters related to work at the bank. The goal of the The Human Capital Development Center in 2012 meetings is to strengthen relationships with employees and to connect with employees, based on the desire for continual improvement. The new initiatives and processes described below were carried out by the HCDC during 2012 in order to improve employee recruitment and mobility. Initiatives and processes in the area of recruitment: ■ Creating new hiring tracks – Ten different hiring tracks were opened in 2012, in line with the business needs of the branch network. These tracks include comprehensive training at the Poalim Campus and a mentoring period at the employee's assigned branch; ■ Improvement of recruitment processes – Changes and improvements have been introduced into the process of recruiting new employees at the bank: improved job profiles were constructed in the spirit of the bank's DNA, effective media channels were used in recruitment, and a bring a friend system was instituted based on recommendation of potential candidates by employees; EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 100-101 ■ Manager involvement in hiring – Hiring processes emphasized the extensive program is constructed for the employee, in coordination between the HCDC involvement of managers in screening of candidates for various tracks and and the Poalim Campus, to ensure effective absorption of the employee positions. Managers involved in hiring for the branch network attended into his or her new unit; screening and diagnostic workshops and participated as evaluators in the bank's evaluation centers; ■ Imparting tools for effective initiation of employees – Several measures were applied during 2012 to the initiation process into a new position: all ■ Employee retention: the management training track – In 2012, the bank's employees undergoing mobility were referred to a transition workshop and flagship management training track underwent changes entailing the preparation for the new position at the Poalim Campus, and managers creation and implementation of an extensive mentoring program in which absorbing the employees received instructions on effective on-boarding course graduates are guided by a branch mentor and a regional mentor, as processes. In addition, employees undergoing mobility received a kit well as a more thorough initiation process and an emphasis on feedback containing office equipment and a personalized greeting upon beginning and monitoring meetings with graduates; their new position; ■ Diversity of human capital – Recruitment processes for the various ■ Monitoring of mobility – In order to learn about satisfaction tracks and positions at the bank stressed maximization of the potential levels with mobility processes at the bank and improve these of populations with a relatively low workforce participation rate, through processes accordingly, a mobility satisfaction survey was created outreach to non-profit organizations working to promote these groups, and administered, in collaboration with employees undergoing participation in specialized job fairs, and guidance of candidates through mobility and in-taking managers; the hiring process (see details in the section Ensuring Diversity, Equal Opportunities, and Transparency ). ■ Improvement of employee departure processes – To provide a respectful, professional farewell to employees leaving the bank, a departure process Processes in the area of mobility: was constructed, encompassing a face-to-face meeting with a humanresources representative and an aid package including career advice and ■ Enhanced care for employees experiencing mobility – In employee job-search guidance. mobility processes, employees receive individual guidance from an HCDC coordinator. This includes face-to-face meetings and telephone calls, individual preparation for professional interviews, monitoring of interviews, support, and advice until the staffing process is complete; ■ Identiﬁcation of knowledge gaps – During the process of mobility to a new position, knowledge gaps are identified and an individualized training EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 102-103 Personal Development and Training ■ Course schedule development – Specifications were established for the bank's course schedule in The bank cultivates a culture of learning and invests in professional and management training to empower 2012 and the schedule was adjusted to the bank's needs. As part of this process, short computer-based its employees and managers. Professional and management training is conducted through the Poalim learning tools were designed to resolve specific knowledge gaps, a learning approach was formulated at Campus. The Poalim Campus serves as the central arena for change-generating learning, leading to personal, the bank, and a pilot program began for the implementation of this development in the Sharon region; organizational, and business growth, with the goal of ensuring professional and managerial excellence for ■ Team leadership – A leadership approach was formulated, adapted to the changing environment in the the employees and managers. The Campus consists of the banking school and the management and leadership school. job market and at the bank. Changes in the characteristics of workers and the work itself have made management more complicated, and rendered traditional management methods less relevant. New The Campus is an arena for personal growth, combining employees' desire to learn and develop with the bank's management approaches give employees more standing and are based on manager-employee consultation need for high-quality workers. Poalim Campus promotes an organization-wide culture of ongoing learning. and on mechanisms that bring forth the wisdom of the group. Poalim Campus has developed a team This learning-oriented approach emphasizes the ambition to decentralize learning, from Campus classrooms leadership philosophy and created a training program designed to impart new management tools to to the training centers at the regional administrations and beyond, to each employee's workstation. According managers. During the year, a pilot version of the program was implemented at three branches and at the to this view, the time invested in employee training does not impede business performance; instead, it serves Negev region sales department. The pilot drew positive responses, and will be expanded to additional to enhance and hone professional capabilities, on the path towards better business achievements. branches following some adjustments; In addition to the activity of the Poalim Campus, several of the bank's ■ Senior executives' head-office course – In the first session of this course, opened as part of the units conduct on-the-job training processes and other internal training activities designed to impart specific professional knowledge relevant evolution of the personal development track for head-office employees, employees gained knowledge to the unit and improve employees' capability and performance. These of the various areas of the bank and studied topics including project management, business writing, and training activities are conducted at the following units: banking materials. ■ Central back offices – The central back offices conduct basic training for all new employees, to familiarize them with the range of activities performed at the centers and impart basic knowledge. Advanced training for experienced employees is designed to create specialization in specific knowledge areas. In addition, 2012 in Numbers: brief professional training sessions are conducted each year for all employees, to refresh professional content and teach necessary skills to work with new software; ■ Employee mobility included 526 inter-division transfers and 1,259 intra-division transfers; ■ Call center – New bankers join the call center following basic training at the Poalim Campus. At the unit, ■ 170 new employees were taken in through hiring tracks and courses; they receive additional internal training aimed at imparting knowledge about business processes and ■ 17% of new employees hired at the bank during 2012 hail from populations with a low workforce new banking products (mortgages, loans, etc.) and refreshing their existing knowledge. In addition, as participation rate; part of the process of developing human capital at the call centers, training sessions are conducted to ■ Overall, approximately 68,000 learning days were held in the bank's training programs in 2012, and improve employees' individual skills. the annual average number of learning hours per bank employee was 54.1; Poalim Campus 2012 ■ The Poalim Campus professional training program held 600 courses, including courses for senior executives, banking coaching days, management coaching days, banking management training, The activities held at the Campus in 2012 included: and a preparatory course on economics and finance; ■ Afternoon Campus – The extension of Campus activities to the afternoon hours continued, beyond ■ 1,200 children of bank employees studied financial management in an experienced-based program regular training hours, for employees' personal enrichment on a range of subjects not related to routine at the Campus over the summer, as part of a community volunteering program (see details in the work at the bank. Conducted in collaboration with the Employees' Union, the activity saw 450 employees Community section). attending various afternoon courses during 2012; EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 104-105 Assimilating and communicating the value of sustainability and social responsibility As part of the internalization of the values of social responsibility into its operations, the bank communicates Poalim Campus activity average number of learning hours per employee its social responsibility philosophy to its employees, calling upon them to take part in these efforts and 50 receiving advice and opinions for the expansion of its activities. The drive to promote the internalization and 40 38.5 38.9 39.4 40.4 communication of the values of responsibility among employees takes various forms, such as: 32 33.2 30 28.4 25 24.1 ■ The corporate social responsibility section of the organizational portal which presents the bank's 18.4 19.3 philosophy in this area and centralizes all CSR content. In the CSR section, employees are invited to suggest 20 15.7 14.6 9 ideas and tips, ask questions, and request assistance from the various content experts. Some of the ideas 10 4.9 5.3 0 and tips are posted in the content sections, with credit given to the employees who suggested them. The Employees First tier Branch managers and Senior tier management department heads management ideas are considered, and some are implemented. In addition, the CSR section is used to communicate 2009 2010 2011 2012 activities conducted at the bank within its CSR plan. The CSR section was updated during the year with In the Hakaveret (The Hive) program launched in 2012, most of the bank's managers attended one-day training sessions on intraadded content, and is currently undergoing redesign; organizational service. This led to an increase in learning hours at the various management ranks of the bank in 2012. ■ Dialogue with employees is a key axis of the process of assimilating CSR values at the bank. Employees commit to this process and greatly contribute to it through personal messages, telephone calls, e-mail, and surveys conducted from time to time. As part of this dialogue, a series of training programs and lectures on Looking Ahead CSR topics was developed. The training sessions are held during routine work hours in special meetings, The execution of several projects at the Poalim Campus will begin in at unit-level conferences, and in voluntary enrichment programs offered after work hours, in collaboration 2013: with the social and wellbeing services unit and the employee union; ■ Change of management processes and creation of cooperation with employees The Sustainability and ■ Implementation of team leadership – Application of the conclusions drawn from the pilot project conducted in 2012, and relevant CSR Report is distributed to a long list of influential players in the Israeli economy: enterprises, government adjustments for the different organizational units. Team leadership agencies, non-profit organizations, academic institutions, and more. Copies of the report are on display will affect employees and managers in various ways: a program for at all branches for perusal by customers and the general public; the report is also available in digital form leadership development in the field for branch managers, integration of on the bank's website. In addition, cooperation with employees is enlisted to assimilate new processes in this content into existing courses, specialized coaching days on team this area, by transforming a new and unfamiliar leadership, and teaching employees in the ranks that provide guidance activity into an organizational, operational, in this area the new language; and business routine. In order to achieve ■ Mid-level management potential – During 2013, managers will success, each new idea is examined be trained as part of a reserve of potential candidates for mid-level in depth. Following this examination, management positions. This program will focus on strengthening the a small-scale pilot is conducted with values of sharing, partnership, and managerial presence; continual monitoring. When the ■ The process of mapping training needs will be adapted for advanced pilot has been completed and the learning processes and for the preservation and reinforcement of existing relevant conclusions have been professional knowledge, through the use of focus groups according to drawn, the activity is expanded content areas and integrative data processing at the Campus; and converted from a project to a formalized routine. ■ Beginning of implementation of a Learning Management System (LMS) at the Retail Banking Division and Business Branches, and development of 150 high-quality brief computer-based learning exercises. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 106-107 CARING FOR EMPLOYEES’ WHOLE-PERSON WELLBEING Welbeing Services 2012 in Numbers: Employees of the bank benefit from an extensive array of wellbeing services in many different areas. These services provide appropriate solutions for a broad range of employee needs, from leisure activities to ■ The formalization of the bank's environmental management system was completed enrichment for employees and their families to professional assistance in times of personal or family crisis. during 2012, in accordance with international quality management standard ISO 14001. This process was conducted with the collaboration and involvement of As part of these wellbeing services, a page was set up within the organizational portal, in collaboration with the bank's officers, and culminated in the production of a procedures document the Employee Union, offering personnel a wide range of special offers and discounts in areas including encompassing all areas of activity relevant to environmental management at the theater, performances, travel, products, and services. The page is updated routinely and allows orders to bank. The document was made available to all employees via the organizational be placed directly through the portal. portal, and allows personnel to integrate environmental management with their routine activities and become partners in the bank's efforts to promote the values The bank's wellbeing services also include a wide range of leisure activities for employees. For example, of sustainability and social responsibility (see details in the Environment section); employees benefit from discounts and subsidies at fitness clubs, swimming pools, and the Good Movie ■ In early 2013, the bank launched a safe driving guide, addressing aspects of driving Club. safety, purchasing a car, and mentoring new drivers, for employees of the bank; Another component of wellbeing services is a range of benefits in the following areas, offered through a ■ The bank updated the section of the organizational portal dealing with fund maintained jointly by the management and the Employee Union: environmental protection, which contains a wide range of ideas for household efficiency. By making this guide available, the bank aims to instill environmental ■ Gifts for holidays and special occasions In addition to gifts on Jewish holidays, employees receive management practices among its employees, thereby promoting the values gifts on special family occasions. The bank takes part in the happy events in its employees' lives, and of sustainability that it espouses (see details in the Environment section); expresses its appreciation during difficult times as well with a condolence basket; ■ 20 lectures on social responsibility were given during 2012, for ■ Insurance, ﬁnancial assistance, and medical tests The bank has established an insurance plan hundreds of employees in various units. designed to provide employees with a sense of security and protection, and also helps employees undergo thorough periodical medical examinations; ■ Employee education In order to maintain the high quality and continual drive towards employee development, the bank encourages education and therefore promotes academic studies, through assistance with tuition or work hours; ■ Education for children of employees In view of its ambition to promote higher education, not only among its own employees but as an important societal value, the bank provides tuition aid to children of employees. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 108-109 Occupational Wellbeing The bank's occupational wellbeing unit provides assistance to employees during situations of distress, crisis, The bank's employees in the South were granted various benefits, including or change in their personal lives or in the family or occupational sphere, such as divorce, bereavement, single payment for reduced work hours and payment for work days on which employees parenthood, illness, disability and retirement. This assistance is aimed at helping the employee cope with the were absent, in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Industry, crisis, change, or distress and resume optimal functioning. In some situations, intervention and assistance Trade, and Labor. In addition, work hours were reduced for women whose may also be necessary for the employee's family, or for the family members of a deceased employee. spouses were recruited for reserve military service, and for single mothers living Counseling, guidance, and support are provided through various means of intervention and communication, in the conflict zones. Thousands of gift packages were delivered to the homes including face-to-face meetings, telephone calls, and emails. Contact is made through the manager or through of the bank's employees in the South by the Employees' Union and by bank a direct application by the employee to the occupational wellbeing staff, which can be carried out without employees. Throughout the emergency, members of upper management – including notifying the employee's managers as the service is confidential. Chairman of the Board Yair Seroussi and Chief Executive Officer Zion Kenan – and representatives of the Employees' Union visited branches in the conflict zone to provide support and an immediate response to needs encountered locally. Helping Employees During the Crisis in Southern Israel As part of the assistance offered to employees in each part of the life cycle, including emergencies, the bank provided systematic aid to employees working A Healthy and Ergonomic Work Environment in southern Israel during Operation Pillar of Cloud. This activity was conducted One of the many facets of caring for employees is to ensure a healthy, appropriate work environment. through several channels, in collaboration between the board of management This is achieved through ergonomics, the science of adapting the working environment to the worker. The of the bank, the Employees' Union, the Human Resources Department, the bank has a structured methodology-based training program applied at all of its units by an ergonomics organizational portal, and the Security Department. expert from the management engineering department; in addition, the CSR section of the portal contains a page dedicated to ergonomics. In the training program, the expert highlights the importance of properly As an initial response, HR workers responsible for employee wellbeing maintained arranging the workstation, and provides practical knowledge in this area, either through personal training daily communication with regional managers and operations managers in the South or in unit-level monitoring rounds carried out to examine the absorption of this content. Resources are and Negev regions and at the Central Back Office Administration in Beer Sheba, allocated to enable employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle, including through the initiation of competitions, and were fully available for response and support in cases of employee distress or sports events, and other events during work; medical examinations; workshops on healthy lifestyles; and anxiety. Concurrently, a hotline was opened to support employees experiencing workshops on breast health, physical fitness, nutrition, quitting smoking, and more. stress and anxiety. The hotline was managed by Mashabim, and was open to calls from all employees. In accordance with instructions from the Home Front Command, Life Cycle Workshops the bank issued instructions on its portal for coping in emergencies. A page was The bank is committed to being a family-friendly employer, and therefore offers employees support in their posted dedicated to updates on the situation, and a platform was created for family roles and duties as parents, children of aging parents, spouses, and more. In this context, the bank connections between families of employees who offered to host others and residents offers life-cycle workshops, such as a parental authority workshop, defensive driving classes, workshops and employee families in the South and in other conflict zones. on correct use of the voice, couples' workshops, workshops on safe Internet use, language courses, and more. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 110-111 Maintaining Safety and Hygiene Caring for Employees during Organizational Changes Bank Hapoalim, as an employer, is committed to creating a safe work environment for its employees Organizational changes are carried out by the bank with optimal care for its employees, integrating the and for workers on its premises. The bank also ensures a safe service environment for all customers needs of the bank with employee needs. Caring for employees involves ensuring that the conditions and visitors to its branches and properties. The bank operates its facilities based on an awareness of of their employment are not impaired as a result of the change. As a dynamic business organization potential safety and hygiene risks, and is committed to complying with all legal requirements in these in a competitive environment, the bank carries out organizational changes and adjustments that areas. The bank works to identify and locate risks and maintains a risk-management plan in this area. sometimes take several months. Such changes are communicated to and coordinated with the various Safety considerations are an integral part of decision-making processes at all levels at the bank. The bank stakeholders. In some cases, not only do units undergo change, but employees are also reassigned works to minimize negative effects on health and to continually improve its work environment. Processes to different positions. In these situations, the appropriate training and instruction are provided in order and activities are regularly improved in order to prevent safety and hygiene risks. to prepare the employees for their new roles, and support is offered through all stages of the transition and absorption. Under the bank's labor constitution, in all cases in which employees are transferred to The bank conducts training and instruction activities as part of its structured work processes, designed a different position the employee must be given at least one month’s notice. to promote awareness and responsibility, with the aim of providing safe environments to all employees, customers, and visitors. Management ensures that this policy is made public and is clear to each employee Preparing for Retirement and Keeping in Touch with Retirees and to anyone whose services are engaged by the bank. The policy is available to all employees through The bank’s obligations regarding retirement plans, compensation, and pensions are fully covered by the safety and hygiene section of the organizational portal, which is aimed at creating a culture and climate pension plan assets. The bank cares for employees and employees' spouses approaching retirement of safety and compliance with legal requirements for the protection of employee and customer safety. As age by offering preparatory courses and workshops regarding retirement, and maintains continuous part of the effort to expand its spheres of influence and address employees' broader life cycle, the bank contact with retirees. This includes support, financing, and cooperation with the retiree union, which promotes safety through various means, beyond its routine professional activity. organizes trips and leisure activities and arranges monetary assistance in times of need. The safety and security department of the bank is responsible for safety and hygiene, and conducts routine activities aimed at maintaining a safe and appropriate work environment. The department works to prevent 2012 in Numbers: and reduce safety incidents such as fires, malfunctions, and accidents and the resulting damage. Among other factors, the department's activities are derived from the bank's legal duty to protect the health and ■ The bank's female employees were invited to a Women's Health Day held by Hadassah and safety of its employees and customers while on its premises. The bank conducts annual analyses of sponsored by the bank, at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem; accidents that occur at its facilities, in order to understand the reasons for the accidents (cause, timing, ■ Ergonomics: Approximately 730 employees attended lectures and 430 employees attended and location) and the possibilities for prevention. The safety and hygiene section of the portal introduces individual training sessions on that issue; the bank’s safety and hygiene policy, provides information regarding safety and hygiene risks in the ■ The In House Art annual exhibition was held for the seventh time, to display a wide range of works by employees and retirees of the bank; workplace, describes prevention and response methods, and offers extensive information on safety at ■ As always, children of bank employees were employed during the summer vacation (see details home and at work, occupational hygiene and health, and more. in the Community section); ■ 2,000 children of employees who celebrated their bar or bat mitzvah this year participated in excursions in Jerusalem, organized by the Employees' Union. The trip included a Kleizemer musical group, a tour of Jerusalem's Jewish Quarter, a visit to the Western Wall, a bar mitzvah ceremony at the Hakhurvah synagogue, prayers and a Torah reading, a celebratory meal, and a gift. EMPLOYEE LIFE AND WELLBEING 112-113 2012 in Numbers: Safe Driving Guide ■ 450 training and refresher courses and 21 evacuation drills were held for employees in 2012; ■ 4,214 employees completed the bank's safety tutorial; Surveys indicate that conduct in traffic and the risk of road accidents are issues ■ 230 sprinkler systems and 130 smoke release systems were installed; of utmost importance to the general public. Accordingly, as part of the expansion ■ Enforcement procedures were conducted to ensure that contractors working with the bank hold of its sphere of influence with its employees and their families, the bank undertook safety training for their employees. the initiative of writing a guide on prudent, safe road conduct – the first of its kind in Israel. The guide addresses various aspects of safe, defensive driving, and the instruction and mentoring of new drivers. The guide was produced by the CSR Department, in collaboration with an external expert and in coordination Distribution of employee accidents at the bank, 2009-2012 with the Transportation Section of the Logistics Department. It consists of three Relative to the large presence in professionally designed books on complementary content areas, with practical 60 the bank's facilities and its many tips in each: employees, the number of accidents 19 is very low and does not indicate any 40 systemic or structural problems. In 1. Coming Home Safely – A booklet dedicated to cautious road behavior. It 18 2012, 23 of the accidents occurred 13 15 6 to women and 5 to men. contains information and principles for cautious driving, including with regard 20 13 10 14 to speed, maintaining a safe distance, proper use of phones while driving, 17 9 12 8 driving in various ground and weather conditions, recommendations for vehicle 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 maintenance to enhance safety, and practical recommendations for increased child safety in cars and on the road in general; Slipping Falling Other 2. New Journeys – This booklet provides information and recommendations for appropriate mentoring of new drivers, and contains practical tips for guidance by experienced drivers. The booklet covers the legal requirements for new drivers, a series of procedures for new drivers to follow, and highlights proper LOOKING AHEAD driving and vehicle operation; ■ During 2013, the bank will conduct several refresher sessions on civilian defense, in collaboration with the IDF Home Front Command; 3. How to Choose Your Next Car – ■ A new safety training system will be established in 2013; A booklet designed to help make the best possible decision when choosing ■ A safety tutorial for safety trustees and managers will be launched in 2013. a new or used car, providing relevant information and criteria in this area. THE CLIENT'S 2013 WELLBEING 2012 2011 2010 2009 2007 2006 2005 2004 2000 1999 +92% 1998 1997 1996 +68% CUSTOMERS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 116-117 WORKING TO PROMOTE FINANCIAL MEETING CUSTOMER NEEDS FREEDOM FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS This section describes the bank’s relationships with its customers, the services and products offered to customers by the bank, and the ways in which the bank identifies opportunities and manages risks in Financial Freedom the area of social responsibility in a changing business environment. The bank strives to develop banking This term represents the freedom and will of our customers and employees to make good choices, services and products based on a philosophy of creating shared value for its customers and its other based on their personal preferences, while taking responsibility for and understanding their own stakeholders, such as the community, various participants in the economy, the environment, and others, financial capabilities and possibilities. Bank Hapoalim is committed to helping its customers and while simultaneously generating economic value for the bank. employees achieve goals, working to realize their financial potential, and guiding them towards Bank Hapoalim recognizes that customers’ needs and aspirations change during different life stages. The growth, by matching solutions to each stage of the life cycle and to growth from one stage to the next. bank therefore endeavors to provide customers with all of the financial information and services that can Through the use of tools and products for responsible financial planning and management, knowledge, help them understand, plan, and carry out both long-term and immediate financial decisions. The bank’s and dialogue, we enable our customers and employees to take responsibility for prudent financial view of its customers is derived from a philosophy of sustainability, giving rise to a relationship designed to behavior, while developing a significant, ongoing relationship of mutual trust and partnership. encompass a comprehensive understanding of the needs of customers and their families over time. *From the Financial Freedom value in the Bank Hapoalim vision. Furthermore, the changes underway in the business environment the transition to a low-carbon economy, resource scarcity, water and land conservation efforts, and global warming harbor potential business opportunities for the bank. As a result of sustainability strategies, the values and needs of customers are evolving As a business leader, Bank Hapoalim has the responsibility to promote equal economic opportunities in as well. The bank's role is to provide solutions in the financial arena and to promote emerging demand in the Israeli society and economic sustainability among its customers. The bank welcomes this duty, and believes sustainability space. Towards that end, the bank offers various financing solutions, deposits, and investment in its mission to contribute to the empowerment of the society from which it draws its strength. Expanding products that encourage sustainable consumption and environmentally conscious investment. our customers' financial knowledge is also congruent with the bank's business interests. Aware consumers make better decisions, they maintain a relationship with the bank that is more balanced and more congruent The bank works to create value for its customers, in the following ways: with their expectations, and they are able to reach financial decisions more capably. ■ Development of responsible products to foster economic and environmental sustainability, for our customers and for the economy as a whole; Examinations of consumer needs and desires in the area of financial behavior conducted in recent years by the bank indicate that the need for broader financial knowledge has increased. Lifetime Financial Planning ■ Maintaining a multichannel network for communication with customers at is an organization-wide initiative stressing the formulation of a range of tools, products, knowledge, and any time and place, with appropriate accessibility; guidance provided by the bank, matched to customer needs at various life stages. As part of this process, ■ Providing optimal service to achieve customer satisfaction; responding to the bank is working to promote education on prudent financial conduct in Israel, in three main areas: and learning from customer communications; ■ Education on smart budget management; ■ Responsiveness to customers’ needs through all life stages; ■ Education on prudent investments; ■ Solutions tailored to the unique characteristics of different customer groups. ■ Education on savings. Budget Management Education The bank has developed an extensive set of unique tools for education on smart budget management, with the aim of providing ongoing assistance with bank customers' financial conduct. These tools include personal financial planning meetings with customers, a budget management tool available through Hapoalim Online, and exclusive workshops on smart budget management. Customers, products and services 118-119 Integrative Budget Construction Tools Personal Financial Planning As part of the expansion of Financial Freedom services for clients, the bank launched the Personal ■ Poalim Like Me – For the first time in Israel, customers of the bank can examine their financial conduct Financial Planning service in early 2012. Customers meet with a banker to examine their banking activity in comparison to customers with a similar profile, leading to more prudent behavior. The service offers in depth and review all of their financial information, with all relevant information made available in real comparisons of total expenses as well as a distribution of expenditures by category, such as food, time, in order to gain an understanding of their needs. Based on these materials, practical solutions communications, education, etc; are offered for improvement of the customer's financial situation and ability to make sound budget management decisions. Potential customers are identified and invited to the branch for a meeting. The ■ The Living Right Financially zone on the bank's website contains content, tips, articles, and general bank has trained bankers to specialize in providing this service. financial tools presented in a unique colorful format, guiding customers through their first steps towards better financial management. Reflecting the bank's emphasis on the principle of people serving people, The meeting is structured in four stages: the new zone contains videos starring Bank Hapoalim bankers and investment advisors; ■ Goal setting – This tool enables clients to plan their budget according to income and expense categories 1. Getting acquainted – The banker becomes familiar with the client's individual needs, both in terms and set monthly targets. At the end of each month, clients can obtain a current snapshot of performance of the current situation and from a long-term perspective; relative to the targets. In addition, customers registered for the On Time service can receive a textmessage alert of deviations from a target, directly to their mobile phones. This represents a significant 2. Understanding – With the banker's help, clients attain a broad and comprehensive financial overview upgrade of the budget management tool, allowing customers to improve their control over financial covering all of the data and tools used in their banking activity, through an innovative application that budget management by encouraging them to plan their income and expenses by category, set goals, presents the information drawn from the various financial systems of the bank on a single screen; and discover deviations from the plan in real time; 3. Matching – According to the client's situation, the banker offers immediate solutions and alternatives ■ Household financial management and planning – This budget management tool presents a current that provide an effective response to the client's needs (such as information aimed at helping clients snapshot of income relative to expenses. The snapshot is based on collection, classification, and analysis repay existing loans as quickly as possible); of all of the customer’s transactions, and provides a daily, detailed overview of income versus expenses. The savings management tool allows customers to select a purpose for the savings plan, assign a name 4. Guiding – At the end of the meeting, the customer receives a printed summary of the meeting, of their choice to the plan, define the saving method (standing order or one-time deposit), set the monthly including graphs displayed during the meeting, and a personal financial planning pamphlet describing amount deposited, and choose a preferred duration for the plan. Progress towards the full range of tools for prudent financial behavior. Along with explanations, the pamphlet offers the goal can be tracked throughout the period, and clients can make changes to many practical tips on savings, setting expenditure targets, smart account management (such as the plan and deposit one-time sums to promote timely achievement of their goal. prudent use of loans and credit cards), and more. After the meeting and in the following months, contact with the client is maintained in order to create an ongoing guidance process. This guidance is aimed at raising the client's awareness of the main budget management tools offered by the bank through the direct channels, in order to encourage a pattern of independent planning and monitoring of financial activity. Hundreds of bankers were trained to provide this service during 2012, and it is currently offered in all areas of Israel. Customers, products and services 120-121 Integrating Financial Freedom Education into Community Initiatives Education on Savings Dan the Saver Poalim for the Community accords high importance to the strategic drive to promote financial education, As part of the bank’s approach to responsible financial education of current customers and the future in view of its business and social impact, and its congruence with the bank's vision and strategy. This generation, based on the goal of enabling children to have a better financial future and on the understanding activity has become integral to many of the projects overseen by Poalim for the Community, on both the that early habits become lifelong habits, the bank is leading a financial education initiative targeted at business and social dimensions. Several examples from 2012: children and parents. ■ A pilot project aimed at helping customers of the bank emerge from financial distress, in northern Israel, This effort is designed to reinforce and promote the values of saving among parents and children. Activity in collaboration with the Hasdei Lev foundation; targeted to parents focuses on encouraging saving by appealing to positive nostalgic memories, while remaining innovative and offering value beneficial to the customer. Activity targeted to children focuses ■ Cooperations with the ORT network of schools for the promotion of financial literacy for adolescents on creating a positive experience during their first encounter with a banking organization, and on building (see details in the Community section); a beneficial, empowering relationship. As part of this process, a set of special savings products were ■ Employees volunteering for training sessions at schools, in collaboration with the Shiur Acher ( A created, aimed at encouraging parents to save for their children's future. The goals of these savings plans Different Lesson ) foundation (see Community section); cover each life stage of childhood until financial independence, encouraging responsible financial behavior in an easy and simple way. In 2012, the bank further strengthened the Dan the Saver brand through the ■ Collaboration with the Paamonim foundation, which advises families in financial distress; following activities: ■ A Password for Every Student – A pilot project for a financial education forum on the foundation's portal ■ Launch of Dan the Saver savings plans The bank allows children to open special accounts in which in Mitzpeh Ramon. Expansion to additional sites is being considered; parents and children can deposit funds without paying a coin fee, so that children can deposit money saved in a coin ■ A mobile library offering books on financial education and children's plays on financial topics (see details bank. Dan the Saver child accounts allow children to receive in the Community section); information, for the first time, through an experience-based Internet interface, including a special activity channel for ■ The Growing Family project – The Ynet news website and Bank Hapoalim followed five families who were children. The website allows children to choose savings having trouble balancing their income and expenses, each with its own financial dilemmas, from Acre in goals, with the aim of stimulating good savings habits the North to Eilat in the South, over a four-month period. Following training, consultation, and guidance, from an early age. Children can use the interface to see the families reached the finish line with new tools and knowledge for prudent financial conduct. The how much they have saved, set savings goals, and view media coverage of the project was designed to create an arena where family budget management tips their progress towards personal objectives. It should be could be communicated to the general public following the process, allowing the audience to learn from emphasized that children are not authorized to carry out participating families' experience and actions. banking transactions in the account, parents must do this on their behalves; Education on Smart Investments Seminars on Better Investing for Clients ■ Cash and coin deposit machines for children In order The CEO Zion Kenan, the head of Retail The seminars were held at the branches' initiative, and covered content related to the capital market, from to enable children to actively participate in depositing Banking Lilach Asher-Topilsky and a young product-focused information to broad global market reviews. Dozens of seminars were held throughout their savings, special coin deposit machines were presenter next to the Dan Haschan coin and bills ATM Israel, and additional seminars are planned during 2013. installed at about 30 shopping malls throughout Israel. Customers, products and services 122-123 Accompanied by their parents, children can use the machines to deposit their savings directly into an account in the child's name. In addition to the convenience of the deposit machines, they can help 2012 in Numbers: illustrate the value and importance of savings to the future of all family members; ■ Over 260,000 clients have registered for the online budget management tool; ■ Dan the Saver World In addition to banking products, a new experience-based online children's club has ■ From launch to the end of 2012, over 180,000 Dan the Saver savings accounts were opened, at a been established at www.danpoalim.co.il, offering educational games and activities for children. The website total volume of more than NIS 1.5 billion; is designed to teach children about savings and smart financial behavior, through content and games; ■ Dan the Saver World – From launch in 2010 to the end of 2012, 170,000 users registered for the ■ Dan the Saver ATM card and checkbook The Dan the Saver ATM card is a card specially designed for site, which logged over 2 million visits. Dan the Saver child accounts, and can be used at all ATMs throughout Israel as well as at Dan the Saver machines. In order to continue to encourage savings by parents, the bank also introduced Dan the Saver checkbooks, which customers receive along with elegantly branded greeting cards and envelopes. When a Dan the Saver check is deposited, the customer is entitled to a benefit for opening a Dan the Saver savings plan. The checks are intended for use as gifts for special occasions, such as bar mitzvah, etc. A Looking ahead beneficiary depositing the check in a new savings account receives a gift of NIS 100 for the account; ■ The Personal Financial Planning service is planned to reach additional customers during 2013; ■ Dan the Saver summer camp – The bank finances dozens of Dan the Saver summer camps held during summer vacation in over 20 Israeli towns. Some 20,000 children from a variety of sectors participate in ■ A specialized content area on the bank's website, the the camps, in coordination with the municipalities; Bankopedia, is scheduled for launch during 2013, as a guide offering website visitors extensive information, tips, and tools ■ Dan the Saver grants – The bank provides a range of benefits for customers who open Dan the Saver on prudent financial conduct across the life cycle. The content savings plans; to be used in this project was distributed to bank employees for examination and validation prior to the public launch; ■ Children's television series on family economics on Nickelodeon – Bank Hapoalim launched a first-of■ Empowerment of non-profit organizations – To empower nonits-kind television series, a comedy called The Kaspi Family , on the Nickelodeon television channel and profit organizations and provide them with management tools, website in October. The series depicts a typical Israeli family and highlights the core values of the Dan the the bank has partnered with the Faculty of Management at Saver brand. Characters refer viewers to the website for tips on savings, articles, and games with prizes, Tel Aviv University (Lahav) to operate a course for managers based on the values of saving and smart consumerism. of non-profit organizitions, starting in 2013. Offsetting Current Accounts As of 2011, the bank offsets positive and negative balances in its customers' current accounts, reducing the amount of interest customers are charged for negative balances. The offsets are performed automatically in accounts with private drawing account credit facilities, salary accounts, bank employee accounts, benefit salary accounts, soldier accounts, student accounts, and youth accounts. As a result of this initiative, customers pay less interest on negative balances, provided that their account has a positive balance during part of the month. Customers, products and services 124-125 Promoting Small Enterprises ■ Branches specializing in serving enterprises – Specialized business branches have been opened over The small business sector, which contributes about half of Israel's gross domestic product and provides the last three years as another element of the comprehensive service provided by the bank's corporate jobs for 1.1 million Israelis, is one of the pillars of the Israeli economy and one of its key growth drivers. banking area. The branches are based on personal service customized to client needs, full availability In recent years, in accordance with the values embodied by the Bank Hapoalim vision, the bank has including opening hours suited to business clients, professional service by experts, and proactive worked diligently to enhance and promote its customers' financial freedom, through the development of updates for clients. As part of this effort, 8 business centers and 22 new branches were established, for financial tools and knowledge. Within this process, the bank is committed to supporting and promoting a total of 70 anchor branches throughout Israel specializing in services for enterprises; small enterprises, as a foundation for growth of the Israeli economy as a whole. ■ Innovative channels for business account management – Multiple channels are available for improved The recognition of the importance of small enterprises led to the creation of a plan, during 2011, for operation efficiency and time saving. Hapoalim Online Business is an area of the bank's website tailored responding to these unique needs; 2012 was declared the Year of the Small Business at the bank. Extensive to business needs. The site offers a range of financial activities, accessible at any place and time. activities conducted during the year were designed to enable these enterprises to grow and expand, and Hapoalim by Cell Phone offers a unique application for the bank's business clients – Poalim Business – to cope with the challenges they face. These activities were based on the bank's core capabilities, involving available for a variety of mobile devices. The application includes innovative services for business many parts of the bank, and included: account management (see details below in this section); ■ Establishment of targeted aid funds for enterprises – Bank Hapoalim won a tender to participate in the operation of the Small and Mid-Sized Enterprises Fund, backed by the state. The volume ■ Professional banking solutions and special benefits – Professional, experienced advisors from of the fund was doubled during the year, to NIS 1.4 billion. Each client seeking a loan from the various financial fields guide the business using knowledge based on economic and financial research fund initially applies to an external coordinator, who determines whether the client meets the performed in Israel. The foreign-trade center, which supports services provided by the business fund's conditions, examines business and financial aspects, and formulates an assessment. If branches, guides clients in international activities, and a specialized desk for mid-sized enterprises the assessment is favorable, the application is transferred to the bank for further processing. operates within the bank's dealing room. In addition, branch managers now have extended authority to grant credit to these enterprises at all branches. This process helps business clients receive a The bank also established Poalim for Growth, a loan fund specializing in small enterprises, at rapid response to credit applications, in an efficient procedure without superfluous bureaucracy. a volume of NIS 300 million, which grants loans to small enterprises in the craft, industry, and commerce sectors (including licensed enterprises). The fund enables small enterprises to In a move unprecedented in the Israeli banking industry, clerk fees for small enterprises were reduced by grow by granting credit with unique terms, including preferred interest rates, grace periods 50% for one year. An Easy Start package was launched for newly established small enterprises, including of up to 12 months, and no collateral requirement beyond an owner's guarantee. Clients an exemption from basic current-account fees during the first year of operations and free initial business of the fund benefit from enrichment on banking-related subjects, through meetings with guidance through an external consulting firm; banking experts on the various topics relevant to the management of a small business. ■ Cash Back Club – The largest customers' club in Israel, launched during 2012, provides all customers In addition, a joint fund has been established with the Manufacturers' Association of Israel at a who use the bank's credit cards with cash rebates to their current accounts on purchases from volume of NIS 250 million for small enterprises that are customers of the bank and members of the thousands of enterprises. In contrast to most customer clubs in Israel, which are centered on the wellAssociation. The fund grants credit for sums of up to 10% of the annual turnover of the business, known major retailers, the Cash Back Club also welcomes and promotes the participation of small and at attractive terms including preferred interest rates and a grace period. Overall, the bank has mid-sized enterprises. Participation in the club offers these enterprises an opportunity to benefit from a designated an additional amount of approximately NIS 2 billion for the benefit of small and midbroad marketing platform reaching a large number of customers, through television advertisements and sized enterprises; a range of local and nationwide channels; CUSTOMERS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 126-127 ■ Business Club – The Business Club provides solutions for the business needs of small enterprises through a professional guidance and instruction program. Within this program, each business client is entitled to professional training delivered by expert lecturers from the bank on relevant subjects. The Small Enterprises Day training sessions can also serve as a networking venue, and provide opportunities to meet colleagues in the same field; One of the main challenges facing small enterprises is a lack of marketing and exposure to the general public. Advertising is one of the keys to success, as it ■ Small Business Competition – Held in collaboration with the Yedioth Ahronot newspaper and the Ynet contributes to building a customer base and increasing revenue. In contrast to website, the Small Business Competition saw 18 outstanding candidates in various fields selected, and six large companies with extensive budgets dedicated to advertising and brand chosen for special commendation. The media coverage provided extensive exposure to the participating building, small enterprises are unable to bear comparable costs. In order to enterprises and helped enlarge their customer base. In addition, competing enterprises were provided help small enterprises gain exposure and to raise awareness of the importance with close guidance from bank advisors and external advisors, and with professional knowledge and of patronizing these enterprises in the general public, the bank created Israel's tools for improved business management. This marketing project was another element of the broad first Small Enterprises Day. campaign designed to motivate the public to increase consumption at small enterprises. Small Enterprises Day was inspired by a similar event held annually in the United States, sponsored by American Express, which has been highly successful. 2012 in Numbers: Over two days, the Israel public was invited to take advantage of special offers and benefits from small enterprises, with the aim of helping the enterprises ■ More than 1,000 enterprises joined the Cash Back Club; increase the volume of their activity. The two-day event was preceded by a ■ Thousands of enterprises participated in Small Business Day. marketing campaign including advertisements on the Keshet broadcasting network and on national and regional radio stations, with the participation of mayors and other public figures who encouraged public participation. The Mako website opened a page for the event, allowing small-enterprises owners to register for the event, provide information about their business, and upload a short marketing video. Mako also published a series of articles featuring selected enterprises, with a brief description of the business and its products. Registration for the initiative was open to customers of all banks, customers who registered received an advertising kit from the bank. The CEO Zion Kenan, the head of Retail Banking Lilach Asher-Topilsky at Small Enterprises Day. Customers, products and services 128-129 Developing Products and Services to Promote Environmental Sustainability Mankind is at a critical crossroads due to the ever-expanding gap between supply and demand. Most Bank Hapoalim’s involvement in promoting the solar-energy industry is based on five key elements: environmental resources are being used faster than they can be renewed in nature, and meanwhile increased consumption of nonrenewable resources (such as fossil fuels, metals, and more) is causing severe shortages. ■ Inter-segmental partnership with the Electricity Authority and the Israel Electric Corporation; In societal terms, the world's population is growing and developing, adopting wasteful consumption patterns, ■ Intra-organizational preparation to provide professional, comprehensive service to a range of customers; and creating an even greater strain on the existing resources. These and other trends call for a worldwide systemic change, based on several strategic activities: ■ Ensuring the quality of the product; 1. Development and implementation of resource-efficient business processes, including in the areas of ■ Dialogue with and support for a network of suppliers and installers; reuse and recycling; ■ Encouragement of public awareness of solar energy. 2. Emphasis on highly efficient product manufacturing processes; The bank continues to offer financing solutions in the solar-energy field to all client segments, based on the 3. Incentivization and acceleration of groundbreaking technological innovation in the energy industry; arrangements published by the Electricity Authority. 4. Creation of sustainable consumption patterns and consumer behavior in line with sustainability values; Gas-Driven Powered Stations 5. Water: management, transport, recovery, purification, and desalination; Bank Hapoalim coordinated the credit for the Dorad private power station project, currently being constructed to the south of the city of Ashkelon. The station will be fueled by natural gas as a primary 6. Rising o the challenging of producing and supplying food to a growing population while reducing wastage fuel, with the option of diesel fuel-based operation as an alternative. The station, scheduled to begin in the process. operating in early 2014, will supply about 800MW to the IEC and to major private consumers, accounting for a substantial percentage of total power production capacity in Israel. Bank Hapoalim led the senior Bank Hapoalim recognizes the strategic inevitability of the necessary change, and the resulting opportunities. debt funding for the project, and organized a syndication for that purpose, encompassing most of the Action is therefore being taken on all levels of the activity, both internally and externally. In its outward-oriented commercial banks in Israel and institutional investors along with some of the country's largest insurance activities, the bank is working to impart knowledge to its customers and offer tools for responsible financial companies and pension funds. The institutional financing was organized by the bank in collaboration with planning and management, in order to promote its customers' economic sustainability. In addition to its internal Clal Finance. environmental efforts, the bank has set a strategic objective of being a leader in offering financing solutions to its clients for projects that promote environmental concerns: renewable energy (solar thermal energy, photovoltaic Desalination energy, geothermal energy, pumped energy storage, cogeneration stations, wind turbines, transition to natural The bank is a leader in the financing of desalination plants, gas etc.), energy efficiency, water, and more. Activity in these areas is conducted alongside traditional banking having financed the desalination project at Palmachim activity. The new activity follows the accumulation of the necessary professional knowledge and an in-depth including its expansions. The bank is also a partner in examination of goals and consequences. financing desalination projects in Hadera and Sorek, and arranged financing for a desalination project by the water Promotion of Solar Energy in Israel corporation Mekorot in Ashdod. Bank Hapoalim intends to implement sustainability at all levels of its activity – including both environmental action and business operations while taking into consideration the effect on Israel's society and economy. Wind Accordingly, as part of its business strategy, the bank seeks possibilities for the development of new banking Bank Hapoalim is following the progress of regulation in the products and financial solutions in the various environmental fields that can bring shared value to the promotion area of wind energy in Israel. The bank is in negotiations of environmental values and sustainability in Israel while promoting business. Bank Hapoalim is committed to with leading entrepreneurs in this area for the formulation of promoting the solar-energy industry in Israel, by taking a proactive approach. a financing package for wind energy projects. Customers, products and services 130-131 Examining Environmental Risks in Financing Green Construction Pursuant to the directives of the Supervisor of Banks regarding exposure to and management of environmental The Green Mortgage is a banking product offered to all customers, which provides unique benefits on risks, Bank Hapoalim established a working committee to formulate recommendations regarding environmental mortgages to buyers of apartments or houses based on green construction principles, with confirmation from risk management policies and methodologies. The committee enlisted the assistance of external specialists the Standards Institute of potential compliance with Standard 1528. The bank also provides financing to several and examined existing methodologies at banks elsewhere in the world. projects based on green construction principles throughout Israel. Methodology for Management of Environmental Risks in Financing Waste Treatment Facilities The objective of the environmental risk management system is to identify, specify, and manage environmental The bank provides financing for several companies that operate responsible waste treatment facilities (sorting, risks in its key areas of activity, based on a uniform, approved methodology, in accordance with the separation, and recycling). following principles: ■ Management of environmental risks from the perspective of the overall exposure of the bank to each specific risk; 2012 in Numbers: ■ Management of credit risks through assessment and management of the exposure to environmental ■ The bank is the leader in financing for the solar-energy industry in Israel; risk in the corporate credit portfolio, assessment of environmental risk and its effect on credit risk in new credit applications that meet predefined criteria, and management and monitoring of exposure ■ The bank is the leader in financing water desalination projects: the forecast for the volume of to environmental risk at the level of the overall credit portfolio and at the individual level; desalinated water organized or financed by the bank stands at 487 million cubic meters per year, or about 80% of desalinated water in 2014-2015. ■ Management of market risks managing exposure to environmental risks in direct investments by the bank (in the proprietary portfolio and in general); ■ Management of operational risks adapting operational systems to regulatory changes on environmental matters. Looking ahead ■ The bank intends to continue to promote financing solutions in the areas above, including transition to natural gas, energy efficiency, and solar energy; ■ The bank will finance 80% of the cost of construction of a large solar-energy field at Kibbutz Ketura, which will supply one-third of the power consumption of the city of Eilat during peak hours. Customers, products and services 132-133 Leading Banking into a Multichannel World Risk Management Method of the Bank Group Bank Hapoalim is dedicated to assisting its customers with the full range of financial aspects of their Risk management at the bank is performed based on a global view of its activity in Israel and of its branches lives. In view of this commitment, the bank offers its customers full availability and accessibility of banking abroad, with due attention to the activity of banking subsidiaries. Risks are managed separately by each information and financial services, through various interfaces: an extensive network of branches and a banking subsidiary in the group, according to policy formulated by each company’s board of directors variety of direct channels available at any place and time. Beyond the advantages of convenience and time and presented to the board of directors. Some risks are hedged during risk management. Financial and savings, these services also save travel and fuel, thereby preventing pollution. In 2012, the bank continued operational risk assessment and control are performed based on a uniform methodology at the level of the to lead the Israeli banking industry in direct services and channels meeting international standards. This group, with guidance from the risk management area, taking into consideration the unique characteristics was achieved through the following initiatives, among others: of each subsidiary's activities. ■ Poalim Connect – The Poalim Connect service, which Even before a general policy had been formulated, the bank began to apply environmental risk management expanded its customer base this year, makes a personal banker processes when financing major infrastructure projects. A prerequisite for specific financing of such at a contact center available to customers, in addition to their projects is an examination of the project’s impact on the environment. Clients are required to prepare an branch banker. This personal banker is familiar with their needs, environmental survey, which is examined for the bank by an external consultant. The consultant ensures serves as the contact person for all of the customer's requests, and can be reached during extended that the project complies with all of the requirements set forth in the permits granted by government business hours. Customers can contact their personal banker through a range of different channels agencies. (e-mail, chat, text message, website, telephone). The personal banker also proactively initiates continuous, routine contact with the customer. Through Poalim Connect, the bank provides its customers with The bank's system of environmental risk management in financing currently encompasses the organizational comprehensive solutions, combining the experience of personal service through the direct channels components necessary for efficient and effective management in this area, including a policy formulated with continued service through a branch. This comprehensive response also relies on an advanced and approved at the level of the board of directors, an organizational structure, a model for the classification interface between the customer and the bank, presenting all of the important information about the of risks (including control threshold), procedures for transaction approval processes, and control systems. customer's account on a single, central, innovatively designed screen adapted for laptops and tablets; The bank's system for the management of environmental risks in financing is applied to all infrastructure ■ Call Me service – The Call Me service allows users of the bank's website to connect immediately projects and real-estate projects over NIS 50 million, and to all corporate credit above NIS 200 million. with a banker who can help to complete desired transactions. The service allows users to enter a During 2012, as part of the process of formalizing and promoting this issue at the bank, an extensive telephone number and receive an immediate telephone call, free of charge, from a Hapoalim by Telephone working procedure was applied to all activity in this area. banker. The client receives an expected wait time for callback upon sending the call request through the website, and notification when the call is being connected; ■ Two-way e-mail – During 2012, a two-way e-mail service was launched to enable customers to securely exchange messages with a banker, directly through the bank's website. The service offers another Looking ahead means of communication for customers seeking information about their personal accounts; ■ The bank will continue to study this area and apply internal ■ Cardless cash withdrawal by text message – A service enabling customers to transfer funds, in cash, controls to the management model, drawing the appropriate from their account to themselves or others, and to withdraw the cash from an ATM without using a conclusions. card, through a text message sent to any mobile phone. The service provides a solution for customers who forget or lose their credit card or their PIN, as well as an option for transferring funds to others, such as a soldier serving far from home or remote payment to a service provider. Customers, products and services 134-135 Hapoalim by Telephone Hapoalim Online The Poalim by Telephone service allows customers to receive information and execute various transactions on The bank's website offers a comprehensive package of services for its customers, through a uniform, their accounts, including securities trading. The service is available throughout most of the day, and allows all convenient, user-friendly interface at www.bankhapoalim.co.il. The bank offers a range of secondary customers including disabled persons to receive professional service without coming into a branch. In order to sites tailored to the needs of different customer groups: a site for private clients; a site for retail business offer comprehensive service, the authority of Bank Hapoalim's telephone bankers has been expanded to enable clients and corporate banking clients; an English-language site for business clients, a mortgage site; them to provide solutions on the spot, during the call. Services offered through this system include: an international English-language site for non-residents; a site for global private banking (BHI) clients in ■ Poalim Speak An automated system that recognizes voice commands, used to receive information and English, Spanish, and Russian; a marketing site in Russian and Arabic for residents of Israel and a site execute transactions during most hours of the day; designed for the ultra-Orthodox sector. ■ Callback service This system makes it possible to hold the customer's place in line for the call center. Customers hear a recording offering them the possibility of disconnecting the call while the system keeps Bank Hapoalim’s Internet activity is based on the principle of customer advocacy. Customer advocacy is their place until the banker can return the call, thereby saving time for the customer; part of an advanced customer-centered philosophy with the following foundations: ■ Voice response in Arabic The Arabic-language voice system allows Arabic-speaking customers to receive information; ■ Full transparency regarding the terms, prices, and properties of products and services; ■ Voice signature The bank has developed a system which recognizes customers' voices, which shortens ■ Thinking from the customer’s perspective and offering solutions tailored to unique customer needs; call times by transferring customers directly to a service representative without the need to enter identifying details. ■ Granting customers complete, easy control in managing their financial activity on the bank’s website. 2012 in Numbers: Accessible Website ■ Over 700,000 accounts are active at the call center; The bank’s marketing site is the first banking website in Israel accessible to users ■ The Poalim by Telephone call center receives about 2 million incoming calls each month; with disabilities. The website meets the Level II accessibility standard, complying ■ Approximately 600,000 calls are transferred to bankers each month; with all requirements (approximately 99% of the pages within the website are Level ■ Poalim Connect was chosen by the research company Forrester as Best Practice in the directII accessible). The accessibilization of the website allows people with visual or motor banking field. impairments, people with cognitive limitations and people who have difficulties operating a computer and using the Internet, to easily use the website, benefit from the online banking service, and save themselves the hassle of visiting a branch. Outstanding Site Looking ahead The bank’s website won the Best ■ Poalim Voice – During 2013, the bank will launch an innovative Online Banking Site award for the service the first of its kind in the Israeli banking system eighth consecutive time at the allowing Hapoalim by Telephone callers to identify themselves prestigious WebiAwards 2012 and manage their accounts using voice only, without the need competition. The website was also to memorize a password or key in numerical menu options. chosen as the best banking website Customers can conduct a simple, convenient, intuitive conversation with the bank to receive extensive information or in Israel in the international Global carry out account transactions, all through speech. Finance competition. Customers, products and services 136-137 Hapoalim Online in 2012 The following services have been launched to promote capital-market activity through the website: ■ My Advisor – This advanced, innovative interface was launched during 2012, providing investors Hapoalim on Facebook in 2012 with a personalized overview of their investments through the website for the first time in Israel, Youth page – This year, Bank Hapoalim including: an innovative means of communication with an investment advisor; updates on news and continued to lead a socioeconomic stock-market events relevant to the client's portfolio; a calendar of future events; advanced analysis effort targeted to youth, including a options, and more; Facebook page targeted to young ■ Tax simulator for securities trading – This new simulator application was launched this year, and people aged 14-20. Activity in this allows users to calculate the amount of tax to be collected on sales of securities without actually area is adapted to the language of this executing the sale. Customers can simulate sales in their portfolios and examine the impact on tax demographic, addressing them as liabilities prior to execution. equals through interactive dialogue on Youth page screen page The bank's drive to respond to the growth needs of its business clients led to the launch of several services: the social network. In 2012, the bank's marketing and advertising department conducted on-the-ground activities, in ■ Online protocol – The online protocol launched in 2012 significantly shortens the registration procedure cooperation with the Dan the Saver campaign, including meetings with youth for Hapoalim Online Business, and replaces the manual forms used today. The online protocol will throughout Israel who participated in a financial quiz. The quiz consisted of short allow customers to enter their information through the website in a quick, efficient, error-free process, questions on finance with prizes for correct answers, and pictures of the event using a convenient user-friendly interface with clear instructions; were posted on the Facebook page. Users who Liked the Facebook page received ■ Special service for importers – This new online service allows clients to view and perform payments updates on benefits, tools, and services for the promotion of prudent financial to suppliers for import documentary collection transactions. Importers who perform deals through behavior. Participation on the page by minors requires parental permission; their business account can save time and resources by bypassing the process of filling out forms Poalim Students – This Facebook page and submitting them to the branch; targeted to college students serves as ■ ZAHAV real-time batch transfers – The interface for batch transfers was upgraded this year, so that another channel to raise awareness and ZAHAV real-time transfers can now be performed by batch, for several beneficiaries in aggregate. promote the use of a range of tools and Companies and business clients who coordinate their financial activity through Hapoalim Online services that contribute to customer Business can perform fund transfers using several means of their choice; knowledge and financial freedom. The bank conducts interactive dialogue with In addition, in accordance with the bank's strategy, specialized areas were launched on the website for students, in which they are invited to small businesses and university graduates, as well as a personal financial planning area and a site for Poalim students screen page suggest services or products that can the Cash Back Club. help to achieve prudent financial behavior. Customer service personnel screen Hapoalim on Facebook the communications received from students on a variety of subjects, and transfer As part of the drive to encourage prudent financial behavior, smart consumerism, and long-term savings them to the relevant departments at the bank for further processing. In addition, from a young age, the bank has used Facebook as an additional communication channel since 2010. students are offered a range of services and benefits through this channel. The bank continued its activity on Facebook this year through two main initiatives: a youth page and a college students' page. Customers, products and services 138-139 ■ HD iPad application – This innovative, advanced 2012 in Numbers: application was launched in 2012 for account management for the iPad, using language based on ■ Hapoalim Online: about one million active accounts are maintained on the bank's website; customers' social media habits. Account information is ■ The My Advisor service was chosen as one of the top five financial services in terms of presented in a news feed, showing a current display of customer experience in the Financial World Innovation Awards competition; all recent transactions in the account. The application also embraces the tagging feature of these networks, ■ The bank's Facebook page for youth had 47,000 Friends at the end of 2012. and client actions are tagged by type for easier tracking. The Poalim HD application The bank's advanced trading system has been integrated with the application, and enables customers to receive information and trade on the capital market using a specialized interface that makes optimal use of the device's unique capabilities. The application now includes a broad overview of the customer's personal Looking ahead investment portfolio and market performance, advanced graphs, comparisons of securities and indices, stock-market news, a stock watch list option, and the ability to send buy and sell orders from any screen Direct banking objectives for 2013 are focused on maintaining the within the application. These features are available in addition to account management and a range of bank's leadership in the direct channels and generating business standard banking transactions, such as fund transfers, loan applications, and more; value for the bank and its customers: ■ Account management application for smartphones – This application allows customers to receive ■ To maximize the potential for sales through the digital channels; information and carry out transfers and many other account transactions, including: withdrawal or deposit ■ To continue leading the multi-channel vision; of daily deposits, third-party transfers, branch location on a map, instant credit applications, viewing images ■ To continue the dialogue with students and youth in 2013, while of checks, receiving information from the personal investment portfolio and from the capital market, and encouraging and providing education for prudent financial details of credit-card charges, and more. The application also offers the option of requesting an immediate conduct through activities, content, and communication callback from a banker online, and is available for download free of charge; regarding the tools offered by the bank. ■ Hapoalim Business application – This application for business clients allows business accounts to be managed at any place and time. Customers can approve transactions awaiting signature, trade on the capital market, and receive extensive information about their business accounts, including: an aggregate Hapoalim by Cell Phone and Tablet summary of balances in all of the company's accounts Hapoalim by Cell Phone is another element in the multi-channel service. This and for each account separately, images of checks, innovative, dynamic, developing channel allows customers to receive information information regarding deposits and loans in the and execute many types of transactions in their accounts using their mobile phones. account, a list of past and future credit-card charges, The service meets advanced international standards, and focuses on: and information regarding investment portfolios, The Poalim Business application advertisements and more. The application enables company and ■ User-friendliness, availability, simple use, real-time transaction execution; organization officers to attend immediately to their everyday business needs even when they are not at ■ Adaptation for a wide range of operating systems and devices providing an the office or at a computer, making mobile devices a true work tool. The application is available free of advanced user experience, while leveraging smartphones' advanced capabilities. charge for iPhone, iPad, and Android, and provides quick and simple access without the USB physical identification component needed to access accounts online; Hapoalim Applications Content offered to customers through the mobile channel includes applications ■ Capital market application – This application allows trading orders to be transmitted easily and with great developed for smartphones and tablets: speed the most important parameter in trading; It also provides a wealth of capital-market information Customers, products and services 140-141 taking advantage of touchscreen technology, including: graphs, up-to-date information on indices and shares, Hapoalim Branches decision-support tools and market condition analyses, and a portfolio display by investment segments. In Bank Hapoalim branches serve as an anchor and point of origin for all of the services offered and for 2012, the capital-market trading application was upgraded to add intuitive, convenient trading in foreign all customers interested in face-to-face service. The branch channel offers customers of 298 branches, securities, along with extensive information from leading stock markets worldwide and new decision-support in the most broadly-deployed nationwide network of the Israeli banking system. Bank Hapoalim has tools, including smart graphs and comparisons of foreign securities and various indices. branches throughout Israel, from city centers to remote regions. Although most of the services provided Hapoalim by Cell Phone also includes the following services: in the branches are also available through other means of communication with the bank, the physical encounter has a meaningful contribution, mainly in the following areas: ■ Cardless ATM cash withdrawals – This innovative service allows customers to transfer cash, to themselves or to others, through an ATM, without using a card. For ■ The human dimension Fostering a relationship of trust between the banker and the customer, listening to example, a parent and grant permission for children to withdraw a specified amount, customers and providing support at the highest level; without the need to use a credit card. This tool is also useful for customers who ■ Clarification of needs and addressing complex information and execution The personal meeting between have forgotten or lost their credit card, ATM card, or PIN. In 2012, the service was the customer and the bank supports an orderly, in-depth discussion to understand the customer's needs expanded to Samsung Galaxy and other Android-based devices; and present appropriate solutions, with the assistance of the bank's information systems and experts; ■ On Time service – This text-message service gives customers information regarding ■ Customer relationships Face-to-face meetings help nurture bonds with customers by maintaining the events in their accounts, at times and occasions selected in advance. The service continuity of the relationship and improving the level of service provided by the bank. is available through several different offers: current accounts and foreign currency, capital market, an offer designed for business clients, and a basic offer provided to Network Deployment customers free of charge. The bank continued to deploy its branch network in 2012, in accordance with the following principles: 2012 in Numbers: ■ More meeting points for the bank and the customer Increasing the number of branches relative to the number of customers, and growing the bank's presence in the various regions of Israel; ■ Over 600,000 customers use mobile banking services; ■ Transition to specialist branches Adaptation of the branch deployment to the target audience to be served ■ In 2012, the bank's mobile banking services were named the best in the by each branch, by moving from a model of a large branch serving the full range of customers to a specialist Middle East by the prestigious international magazine Global Finance; model in congruence with customers' desire for service in an intimate atmosphere at a smaller branch; ■ Bank Hapoalim won the title Champion of Champions in the cell-phone category of the ■ Extensive automation and operations external to the branch Channeling resources to improve customer WebAwards 2012 competition; service at the branches through an increase in the volume of transactions and services delivered via selfservice stations, and through the transfer of technical operations that do not require the customer's presence ■ The bank's account-management application and capital-market trading application were to a central back office. chosen as the best mobile applications for online banking and the capital market; ■ The Hapoalim Business and Hapoalim HD applications were selected The specialized branch approach has given rise to several types of differentiated branches: as two of the most innovative applications (with three other entries) in the Boutique branches Designed to serve private banking customers, these branches provide consulting and Financial World Innovation Awards competition; private banking services, with an emphasis on comprehensive financial solutions encompassing investment ■ Hapoalim HD was named one of the four best banking applications in the EFMA advice as well as a range of credit solutions and additional services. The branches offer extensive self-service competition; solutions while stressing personal connections; ■ Bank Hapoalim won an award for excellence in banking services in the Mobi2012 Business branches – Specialized branches have been established exclusively for business clients as part of competition. the Bank Hapoalim branch network, another element of the service package provided by the bank's corporatebanking area. These branches provide a skilled, high-quality service experience across all aspects of routine Customers, products and services 142-143 banking activity, offering professional solutions and improving response time and availability to customers. 2012 in Numbers: The service offering created by the bank at these branches focuses on personal service customized to client needs, full availability including opening hours suited to business clients, professional service by experts, and ■ 99 branches joined the program in 2012, and the Poalim the Right Way process in the branch updates and initiatives. The service package was constructed based on a comprehensive process of learning network was completed. The changes were carried out at a total of 257 branches, including the from customers about their needs and expectations. The branch network sets a new standard for innovative, Boutique Branches. The Retail Banking Area is responsible for maintaining and improving the excellent, proactive service responsive to each business client's unique needs and for the connection of all process. systems serving the client. Poalim the Right Way Poalim the Right Way is an initiative aimed at promoting operational and managerial excellence at the 350 bank's branches and divisions while adding value for both internal and external customers. Changes Distribution of Bank Hapoalim branches, 2009-2012 300 5 have been implemented at the branches on three dimensions: 5 4 14 21 5 22 5 10 Central back offices 7 11 15 ■ Management dimension Poalim the Right Way provides branch managers with new management tools; 250 15 17 20 17 Business branches ■ Process dimension The operational flexibility made possible by the new management tools, primarily via Boutique branches improvement of teamwork, strengthens connections between all of the departments within the branch. The 200 Poalim Express branches various departments support one another during busy hours, thereby improving service, shortening wait Traditional branches 150 250 246 247 244 times, and creating a culture of sharing; ■ Operations dimension Activities that do not require the customer to be present are gradually being 100 transferred to a central back office. This process has proved successful, generating shared value for the bank, its customers, and its employees by focusing the branches on business activities, providing better 50 service, and providing an option for development of a second career for long-standing employees who retrain for positions at the central back offices. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 A pilot project was conducted at three head-office divisions during 2012, as part of the effort to create a shared organizational language for the head office and the branches. Following this project, a decision was made to continue this process in 2013. Joint working committees for Poalim the Right Way and the units undergoing the change will operate based on the basic principle of reducing expenses while Looking ahead establishing value for both employees and customers of the bank. Several divisions are collaborating in ■ In 2013, the Retail Banking Area plans to establish 3-5 additional this process, in which changes will be implemented on three dimensions: branches/offices, with a focus on the Arab-Israeli sector; Essence – setting goals, and achieving a current understanding of customers and their changing needs, ■ Certain branches will be converted to high-tech retail centers with a focus on generating value for customers; during 2013; Process – identifying key processes that support the essence and improving such processes through ■ The Poalim the Right Way initiative will be expanded to various organizational working interfaces; head-office units during 2013, and a three-year change Culture – instilling a mentorship approach to encourage employees to raise and resolve problems. implementation plan will be formulated. The process will be guided by Poalim the Right Way trainers, who are internal employees of the bank trained in these areas. Customers, products and services 144-145 PROMOTING ACCESSIBILTY As part of its service philosophy and corporate social responsibility values, the The following devices are available at the branches to facilitate service for customers with various bank sees accessibility for disabled persons as an essential issue and business disabilities: obligation, and endeavors to fulfill every disabled customer's basic right to receive the full range of its services as independently as possible, or with support, while ■ Step Hear – The Step Hear active voice guidance system provides voice instructions for persons with maintaining their dignity. Disabilities may involve mobility, vision, hearing, cognition, visual impairments, to help locate branch entrance doors and accessible ATMs. For example, the base or the weakening of various functions, as a result of old age or a permanent or unit of the system may be installed in the doorframe at the branch entrance. The system is based on radio The Access Israel logo temporary incapacitation. The bank has the duty to adapt and create specialized wave broadcasts, and customers with visual impairments can wear a bracelet that serves as a remote solutions for various types of needs and disabilities, and to customize services to ensure that customers with control and will vibrate or beep within range of the base unit (several dozen meters). Pressing a button disabilities are served in an optimal manner, consistent with the service offered to the general public. This on the bracelet activates a voice message at the base unit, serving as a compass point for the customer; duty is grounded both in regulations and in the standards the bank has set beyond its regulatory obligation; it applies to both physical and virtual service channels. ■ Call Hear – The Call Hear system alerts a designated banker responsible for the branch's accessible service station that a customer with a visual impairment or limited mobility is at the entrance to the Over the years, the bank has continually and consistently worked on a systemic, integrated accessibilization branch. When the customer pushes a button, prominently located at the entrance to the branch, an process, including physical accessibilization of its buildings and branches, to customers as well as employees; alert light blinks at the accessible service station, and the banker on duty comes to the entrance to technological and virtual accessibilization; and adaptation of its service philosophy to customers with disabilities. open the door (if no security guard is stationed there) and provide all necessary services; This process has been conducted based on dialogue with the relevant stakeholders and professionals, and with the guidance of the Access Israel foundation. The bank routinely reviews relevant legislation and ■ Inductive Loopset – This system is designed to improve dialogue with customers who have auditory advanced options available for accessibilization, and strives for improvement and adaptation. impairments, by neutralizing background noises and broadcasting the banker's voice only, on a frequency received by hearing aids. The system makes it possible for a person with an auditory Accessibilization at Bank Hapoalim impairment to hear only the banker, through his or her hearing aid, without superfluous background noise. Accessibilization of branches and buildings – The effort includes a thorough examination of all obstacles and barriers that customers with disabilities face when entering the branch from the street and inside the As of this writing, Step Hear and Call Hear systems are in place at 50 branch, and finding solutions for smooth, continuous movement and accessible service. This begins with branches. The systems will be standard equipment for all branches wide reserved parking spaces, and continues with ramps to bridge height differences, wide entrances to that qualify for the new Accessibility Seal, as well as at all the branch, sufficient space for movement inside the branch, appropriate signage, a wheelchair-accessible renovated branches. The Inductive Loopset is installed at all service station, comfortable access to a desk, comfortable waiting seats with armrests and restrooms of the accessible service stations at branches that have adapted for disabled persons, and more. An accessible service station is available at each of the accessibilized qualified for either the old or new Accessibility Seal; branches, offering comprehensive service. These stations are staffed by employees who can provide service to customers in the full range of the bank's products and services. ■ ATMs accessible to customers with visual As of time of writing, 107 branches have been accessibilized and earned the old version of the Accessibility impairments – The bank uses an integrated Seal. In practical terms, this means that the branches are accessible, but that minor modifications are solution, in which visually impaired customers necessary in order for them to qualify for the new seal; these adjustments will be made in the near future. can use an earpiece connected to a socket on 29 branches have already undergone the procedure to earn the new seal and should be formally awarded the ATM as well as the keyboard. Customers can the seal shortly, and 100 branches are currently in the process of accessibilization, most of which will be use the ATM through voice commands as well as the completed during 2013. A list of accessible branches is available on the bank's website. keyboard buttons. Customers, products and services 146-147 As of this writing, 65 ATMs are accessible using the earpiece system. 121 additional NCR ATMs Adaptation of Self-Service Stations for Additional Uses will be accessibilized in early 2013 throughout Israel, expanding coverage to 186 ATMs in the near ATMs offer cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, cash and check deposits, payments into certain deposits, future. Additional ATMs will be accessibilized in the future, and the Step Hear system will be installed and more, and are widely and extensively distributed throughout Israel. The bank's relative share of total in accessibilized ATMs, to direct customers with visual impairments to these machines. Information ATMs in Israel is greater than its market share in the Israeli banking sector. regarding accessibilized ATMs is available on the bank's website; The addition of user interfaces in four languages Hebrew, Arabic, English, and Russian to the self ■ Virtual stations and interfaces – Over time, the bank has worked to integrate and enhance service network continued during 2012. technological innovations in its service offering, to enable customers to receive the full range of its services and products, at any place and time: through the call centers, online 2012 in Numbers: via desktop computer, on smartphones of every kind, on tablets, etc., using convenient, advanced interfaces. Beyond the benefits to customers and to the environment due to savings ■ The bank has the most extensive distribution of ATMs in the Israeli banking system: 594 ATMs – on travel, time, paper consumption, this approach represents a leap forward in allowing 486 at the bank's branches and 108 in customer courts; customers with disabilities to use banking services in the way they find most convenient. ■ During the year, approximately 150 older ATMs were replaced with new ATMs allowing direct deposits of cash into accounts, without the need to use an envelope; The variety of channels and technologies makes it possible to overcome limitations on mobility, ■ 7 Dan the Saver machines were installed throughout Israel during 2012. A total of 15 Dan the hearing, or vision, making all of the bank's products and services accessible to disabled persons. Saver machines accept coins in addition to bills. These machines are located in shopping centers However, accessibilization of service interfaces in these channels for some customers still presents and city centers; they are designed to communicate with children, using clear instructions for a challenge, such as in the case of cognitive, visual, or auditory impairments (e.g. in a call to a making deposits. call center representative), difficulties using the mouse, keyboard, or touch screen and clearly identifying information on the screens. Transactions using self-service channels Distribution of self-service stations The bank’s marketing site is the first banking website in Israel to be accessible to users with disabilities. as a percentage of total transactions The website meets the Level II Accessibility Standard, complying with all requirements (approximately 1400 1200 184 140 99% of the pages within the website are Level II accessible). The bank plans to accessibilize its 232 273 231 personal banking website as well. 1000 574 614 100% 528 800 497 495 80% 600 Hapoalim Self-Service 105 108 60% 85 85 88 The self-service stations (ATMs), available throughout Israel, operate independently of branch 400 40% 437 440 453 478 486 opening hours and allow customers to execute a wide range of transactions at their convenience. 200 Self-service stations save time, hassle, and resources, and enable the bank to provide better, 20% 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 more advanced service. Customers are increasingly using the self-service channels to perform 0% Cash Check Cash Information machines Check-deposit machines transactions previously conducted through bankers. Starting in 2010, funds can be deposited for withdrawal deposit deposit ATMs on customers' premises ATMs on bank's premises third parties and into savings plans through these stations. The slight decrease in the number of Information machines was due to the replacement of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 these machines with newer check-deposit stations that also provide Information services. Customers, products and services 148-149 Committed to Customer Satisfaction Customer service awareness at Bank Hapoalim is an expression of our organizational commitment to the formation of a supportive organizational culture. Internal service is being absorbed into the annual work customer satisfaction. This philosophy refers to internal customers as well as end users. The approach is plans of the divisions of the bank, on three main axes: organizational culture – including a change in values, broad-based and integrative, and covers the breadth of the bank’s operations. perspectives, and organizational identity; processes and measurement – instilling structural changes, job Service is a value exemplified across the entire organization and through all processes, beyond direct, descriptions, process improvement, adaptation of metrics, and technology upgrades; and the business immediate interaction with customers. The direct encounter with both internal and external customers is the perspective – integrating service into core activities, continually improving the quality of services ranked low initial stage in the service cycle, based on the information that is collected and processed. The analysis of on the intra-organizational service survey, initiating new services, and regularly examining the mission and this information makes it possible to draw conclusions, learn, and improve, contributing to the development roles of each division as a direct function of its contribution to the bank's customers and leadership. of work processes that improve the level of service. This service cycle enriches the value offer for various The following main processes were carried out during 2012: customers, creates a flexible organizational framework open to feedback, and expresses the bank's organizational commitment to customer satisfaction. Organizational Culture Service from an Organization-Wide Perspective ■ Hakaveret ( The Beehive ) service training for managers – In 2012, the service philosophy was The organizational commitment to service and to increasing the number of satisfied customers is reflected communicated, with an emphasis on the value of partnership, to the group of managers responsible in all levels of the bank’s activity from upper management to the lowest-level employees. Service processes for leading the change within the organization. Approximately 1,500 managers, at the level of section pertaining to the organization as a whole can be classified into three levels: head or higher, were trained as part of this process. For the first time, the training sessions were held in heterogeneous groups (in terms of both divisions and ranks). The training programs included eight ■ Organization-wide culture level A focus on organization-wide activities designed to foster a culture of exceptional, experience-based courses; service. These activities include formulation of a service philosophy, improved measurement capabilities, organization-wide implementation, and creation of work routines and remuneration methods; ■ Internal Service Stars – An Internal Service Excellence system has been created on the bank's portal, ■ Division partnership level Divisions of the bank not in direct contact with customers provide support for enabling employees to commend other employees for the services they provide. Each quarter, Service business activities and back up the activity conducted at the points of contact with customers. Service Stars are chosen from each division, based on this system, in combination with a recommendation from is perceived as a key pillar of the promotion of an organizational culture supportive of and focused on the employee's direct supervisor. The Stars are commended and they participate in the bank's Service better business performance. Activities in the area of service are therefore a key route to organizational Stars events. success; Processes and Measurement ■ Client area level The service philosophy is an essential aspect of the promotion of customer satisfaction ■ Intra-organizational service survey – The survey is conducted once annually, to give employees and and enhancement of customers' relationship with the bank. managers an opportunity to provide feedback on the key services provided by the various units. The survey Service activities at Bank Hapoalim are centered on the following three elements: provides an important means for learning and improving internal service, and consequently improving 1. The service philosophy, which sets a uniform standard for internal and external service processes; service to customers. The internal service survey was carried out for the second time in 2012, with existing components expanded and new components added, to increase the scope of the findings on service 2. Service performance measurement, which allows the bank to collect detailed information from its internal and external customers and use this information to improve service; such as the population of respondents, the dimensions of the service, reflection of data, and content. Results of the survey were analyzed in accordance with the findings of the 3. Lateral and vertical implementation of service processes based on uniform standards designed to organizational survey conducted in 2011; realize the bank's service philosophy. ■ Balanced Score Card (BSC) – The results of the intra-organizational Service Philosophy service surveys served as the foundation for division-level service work As part of the construction of the bank's service strategy and commitment to improve customer service, plans, which were measured systematically using the BSC method; an intra-organizational service philosophy was formulated in 2011. This effort involved the construction of processes for instilling the philosophy, creating infrastructure for management in this area, and promoting ■ SLA – A dynamic service-level agreement (SLA) was built with the divisions Customers, products and services 150-151 during 2012. In this extensive process, SLA objectives were set for some 100 key processes at the bank. ■ Observation and practice of service processes for personal learning and development; The process is dynamic and ongoing; quality control is carried out each quarter to examine attainment ■ Service training tailored and relevant to business processes; of the objectives, improvement in response times, and process quality, and to select new processes. ■ Implementation of learning and improvement processes involved in processing of customer inquiries, Business Perspective and more. Guidance for bank divisions – Within this process, division-level service leadership teams were established; In order to support the process of assimilating service values and emphasize the service aspect of everyday a division-level service philosophy was formulated, connected to the division's vision and mission; and activities, the bank commends 20 branches for outstanding service each quarter. The branches receive specialized processes were improved, with the aim of implementing the service philosophy. appreciation certificates and a gift. Improving Service Quality Processing Inquiries and Requests During 2012, emphasis was placed on instituting high-quality meetings with customers, to create added The customer contact center oversees processing of incoming contact from customers through all channels: value in banking terms as well as high satisfaction. Another emphasis was placed on improving service Internet, fax, telephone, etc. This year, the center handled about 25,000 inquiries. The service philosophy management processes and performance at branches, and mentoring bankers. In addition, the bank at the customer contact center is based on the following principles: continued to hone the role of the host at the entrance to the branch, in order to improve and streamline both the service experience and wait times at branches. ■ The bank sees inquiries as opportunities to provide appropriate responses to customer needs and improve levels of trust and satisfaction; Service Measurement ■ The bank uses inquiries as a means of monitoring the quality and professional skill of customer service; Comprehensive, extensive measurement was carried out during 2012 in a variety of channels and points of contact with customers: ■ Inquiries serve as a sensor indicating customer expectations, enabling better preparation for the future; ■ Measurement of the customer service experience at branches and on the direct channels; ■ Inquiries present an opportunity to learn and draw conclusions for performance improvement on the business, service, and operational levels; ■ Regular feedback for branches based on customer comments, on a weekly basis; ■ Centralized management of customer inquiries: prioritization according to the type and seriousness of the ■ Thorough measurement at the level of the individual banker through covert and overt controls allowing inquiry, processing on a predefined schedule, monitoring through specialized software, and more. tracking of service providers' personal development; Processing of Inquiries From Localized Resolution to Organizational Learning ■ Measurement of the quality of the internal service experience of employees and managers within the organization. Organizational learning The customer contact center monitors complaints and inquiries with systemic implications, such as recurring events at various units and problems with organization wide procedures or Assimilating Service Values work processes. These inquiries are presented to the appropriate professionals at the bank for study and Employees and managers at the bank were provided with practical tools during 2012, encompassing a potential improvement of the relevant procedures and processes. When an inquiry is classified as systemic, range of methods and channels designed to Assimilate an organizational culture reflecting the bank's Service the process and progress of resolution are monitored via a formal procedure. Compass. These include: Event analyses of systemic inquiries appear in the service zone on the organizational portal, in order to ■ Periodic service meetings at branches; assimilate the use of inquiries as a driver for learning at the branches. Service inquiries and events are analyzed in branch staff meetings from time to time. ■ Service workshops at the Poalim Campus and at branches selected by mapping the service situation at the branch; Localized resolution Localized inquiries without implications for the lateral activity of the bank are handled ■ Training of managers to drive service and performance improvement processes and mentor employees; appropriately through a shared process by the customer contact center and the source of the issue. For Customers, products and services 152-153 example at the end of the process, a letter or report summarizing the resolution is sent to both the customer who initiated the inquiry and to the branch. The branch is also issued with recommendations for improvement and instructions for action aimed at avoiding similar incidents in the future. The first session of the program, with eight participating families, began in October and was completed successfully, with positive responses from participants. The second session opened in late 2012, with 12 families participating. In order to test the effectiveness of the program, detailed feedback is obtained from the participants at the end of each session regarding the course as a means of improving financial knowledge, management of family finances, and changing relevant behavior Opportunity for growth patterns. The families participating in the program commented on its immediate As part of the implementation of the bank’s financial freedom philosophy and the contribution in the stages of planning their expenses and maintaining the family expansion of its impact in the community, the Opportunity for growth project was budget. Some said they would now be able to begin saving. launched in 2012. The project provides tools for families coping with a financial The project is planned to expand to additional regions in 2013 as part of the crisis, in the areas of financial education, navigating a time of change, and growth bank's contribution to the community, and to customers in need of a change of through crisis. The families receive financial instruction and personal guidance, perspective in their financial conduct. aimed at preventing financial deterioration and allowing a return to positive financial activity. The initiative for the project emerged from the bank's customer contact center; the idea was initially sparked by customers' letters to the bank regarding economic and personal crises, usually caused by events beyond their control, Information about Banking Products and Services such as job loss, bereavement, divorce, illness, etc. The bank is subject to laws that impose transparency and disclosure requirements concerning information A pilot program for the project was planned in early 2012, in collaboration with to be delivered to customers on banking products and services. Bank Hapoalim strictly adheres to the Poalim for the Community, the bank's retirees, and the Economic Growth College directives, which apply to all products and services, through designated mechanisms subject to controls and in Tzfat, which is part of the Hasdei Lev foundation. The North of Israel was chosen audits. Fundamental principles underlying consumer-protection directives: for the pilot; participating branches are in Tzfat, Hatzor Haglilit, and Kiryat Shmona. The bank financed instructional sessions for several families of customers in this ■ Disclosure duty (transparency) towards customers; region. ■ Protection of customer rights to receive advice and service from the bank. Within the program, families attend a specially designed 15-hour course addressing In this context, as a leading business organization in the Israeli economy, the bank exercises caution in its the family budget as a business , problem awareness, a motivational model for advertising, marketing, and sales promotion, and applies several levels of rigorous screening and controls. All goal achievement, and the formulation and implementation of solutions. During messages published by the bank conform to the law the first and most essential level. In addition, the bank and after the course, families receive three hours of individual consultation with an consults with experts on the essence, content, and style of its advertisements, according to the service or expert on family economics, which involves practical application of the theoretical product and the target audience. The third level consists of internal controls applied by the bank's experts in materials studied in the course. The consultant then monitors the family's progress, this field, including further review of the preceding two stages. and when the mentorship period ends, the family is assigned a retiree of the bank who continues to provide support and advice. Compliance with laws and regulations concerning marketing communications: No significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions were imposed on the bank for noncompliance with laws and regulations in the area of marketing during 2012. Customers, products and services 154-155 ‫‏‬Requests concerning privacy and confidentiality Looking ahead 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ■ Kaveretachles – Translating the internal service philosophy into action, following the Hakaveret training program: behaviors, tools, and processes will be integrated with service interfaces ‫‏‬Number of requests 75 122 78 92 77 78 within the organization, to strengthen partnership and improve units' achievement of business objectives; ‫ ‏‬umber of justified N 6 7 15 14 9 10 ■ Internal Service Stars – New Service Stars will be selected requests at each division during the year, based on feedback provided by employees through the Internal Service Excellence system, ‫ ‏‬ercentage of P 8% 6% 19% 15% 12% 13% combined with a recommendation from the employee's justified requests direct supervisor. Employees chosen as Service Stars will be commended at the bank's Service Stars events; ■ Intra-organizational surveys – Surveys will be conducted Percentage of justified requests Bank of Israel data during 2013 with the aim of continuing to measure, monitor, and improve intra-organizational service, and consequently further improve service to customers; 40% ■ Formalization and automation of SLA processes – The 35.7% 33.6% examination and promotion of existing services and definition of 30% 26.7% 26.1% 26.6% new processes and objectives will continue during the year; 25.7% 25.3% 23.2% 24.3% 24.3% 23% 21.4% ■ Standardization/uniform service rules – In view of the bank's 20% scale and leadership, action based on uniform communication and service principles will be promoted over the coming year, by 10% raising employee awareness and accountability; ■ Division guidance – Guidance of the divisions will continue 0% during 2013, with the aim of continually improving and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 strengthening service. This activity is based on the results of the intra-organizational survey, and is aimed at focusing and Bank Hapoalim Banks average prioritizing processes that need to be addressed. The data relative to the averase of the five magor banks in Israel (Hapoalim, Leumi, Discont, FIBI and Mizrahi-Tefahot). Customers, products and services 156-157 Serving a Diverse Clientele Markets Served by the Bank The Haredi Sector The activity of the Bank Group is conducted via six operating segments. The division into operating segments 22 branches of the bank operate in communities with large is based on types of products and services or on types of customers. The bank's board of management observant and ultra-Orthodox (Haredi) populations. The bank uses this division to make decisions and to analyze the group's business results. The operating segments offers a specialized package of services and products to ‰¯ÂÙ˙˘ ‡˙Î˘Ó are presented according to characteristics stipulated by the Supervisor of Banks: ÍÏ˘ ˙ÂÏÂÎÈÏ Haredi sector customers. Households Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to households. Branches of the bank operating in the Haredi sector have been adapted to these customers' unique needs. Each Private Banking Segment: Provides a range of advanced multi-channel banking services and financial products, including investment advisory services, to private customers of medium to high net worth in branch has a reading library, decorated with Judaica and Israel and abroad. stocked with religious works, which customers can peruse while waiting; pictures on branch walls, videos displayed Small Enterprises Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to small on screens at the branches, and marketing materials are Enterprises. This segment includes customers with a turnover of less than NIS 30 million, with debt to adapted to this customer segment. The Read & Succeed the bank of up to NIS 6 million. project was successfully conducted in the Haredi sector ÌÈÏÚÂÙ‰ ˜·Ó ‰˘„Á ‰ÓÊÂÈ ˙È˘È‡ ‰Ó‡˙‰· ‡˙Î˘Ó ¯ÊÁ‰ The campaign for the Haredi Æ‡˙Î˘ÓÏ Í¯„·Sector Commercial Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to middle-market for the third year (see details in the Community section). ÈÚÂˆ˜ÓÂ È˘È‡ ıÂÚÈÈ ˙Ï·˜Ï ÌÎ˙‡ ÔÈÓÊÓ ÌÈÏÚÂÙ‰ ˜· ÌÎÏ ÂÚÈÈÒÈÂ ÌÈÈ„ÂÁÈÈ ÌÈ˙Â¯È˘Â ÌÈÏÂÏÒÓ ÔÂÂ‚Ó ÌÎÈÙ· Â‚ÈˆÈ ÂÏ˘ ˙Â‡˙Î˘Ó‰ ÈˆÚÂÈ ÆÌÎ˙˘˜·Ï ÌÈ‡˙È È˘„ÂÁ‰ ¯ÊÁ‰‰ Â· ¨‡˙Î˘Ó ÏÂÏÒÓ ˙¯ÈÁ·· ÆÌÎ˙È·Ï ·Â¯˜‰ ÌÈÏÚÂÙ‰ ˜· ÛÈÒÏ ÂÈ˘ÎÚ ÒÎÈ‰Ï ÌÈÓÊÂÓ ÌÎ‰ ÛÒÂ Ú„ÈÓÂ ıÂÚÈÈ ˙Ï·˜Ï business clients. This segment includes customers with an annual turnover of NIS 30 million to NIS 400 The bank operates a website targeted to the Haredi sector wwwÆbankhapoalimÆcoÆilØbsd ˇ ∞≥≠∂µ≥≤¥∞∑ Æ˙È·· ÌÈÁ˜ÂÏ ‡˙Î˘Ó ÈÎ ¨∞≥≠∂µ≥≤∂∂∏ ∫Â‚ÈÈÁ ÌÈË¯ÙÏ ÁÂ˜Ï‰ ÈÂ˙ ÈÙ ÏÚ ÌÈ‡˙ ÂÏÈ‡·Â ‰‡ÂÂÏ‰‰ ¯˘‡Ï Ì‡ ˙Ú„ ÏÂ˜È˘ ˜·Ï Æ‰‡ÂÂÏ‰ ¯Â˘È‡Ï ˙È˘È‡ ‰˘˜· ˘È‚‰Ï ˘È ‡˙Î˘Ó ˙‡ÂÂÏ‰ ˙Ï·˜ Í¯ÂˆÏ ● ‰Úˆ‰ ‰ÂÂ‰Ó ÂÈ‡ ÏÈÚÏ ¯ÂÓ‡‰ ● Â˙Ú„ ÏÂ˜È˘ ÈÙ ÏÚÂ Â„È ÏÚ Â˘¯„ÈÈ˘ ÌÈ‡˙‰ ÂÓÈÂ˜ÈÂ ˙ÂÂÁËÈ·‰ ˜·Ï Â‡ˆÓÂÈ˘ ÍÎÏ ÛÂÙÎ· ÂÈ‰ ‰‡ÂÂÏ‰‰ Ô˙Ó ● million, or with debt to the bank of NIS 6 million to NIS 100 million, or total debt (to the bank or to other at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/bsd, which is adapted to the ¯ÂÈ„Ï ‰‡ÂÂÏ‰ Ô˙ÓÏ ¯Â˘È‡ ‰ÂÂ‰Ó ÂÈ‡Â È‡¯˘‡ Ô˙ÓÏ lenders) of NIS 6 million to NIS 250 million. norms of these communities. Customers can use the site to access their accounts, receive routine banking information, The Corporate Segment: Provides a range of banking services and financial products to major international and execute various transactions. companies, in Israel and abroad. The Arabic-Speaking Sector The Financial Management Segment: Responsible for the management of the bank’s assets and liabilities, The bank has an extensive network of branches serving proprietary portfolio, dealing-room activities (in foreign currency and securities), contacts and activities the Arabic-speaking population. The bank also employs with financial institutions in Israel and abroad. This segment also deals with the provision of operational minorities, in all areas of Israel, as described in the services for financial-asset managers and operational services in securities for all customers of the bank. Employees section of this report. In 2012, the process of Market risk and liquidity risk management, which are under the responsibility of this segment, are performed expanding this network and improving access to services through proactive management of the proprietary portfolio and through the use of financial instruments, continued, including a marketing website in the Arabic such as securities issuance, deposits, interest-rate derivatives, foreign-currency derivatives, etc. language presenting information about the bank's products Cultivating Relationships with Additional Sectors and services. Several activities were held during the year Bank Hapoalim accords high importance to cultivating a stronger relationship with its customers in the Haredi for youth and for college students at leading ArabicDan the saver campaign in Arabic (ultra-Orthodox) and Arab-Israeli sector, in the view that these communities are catalysts for growth of the Israeli speaking institutions, and grants were distributed for the economy. Based on this perspective, and as part of Bank Hapoalim's vision and strategy, the bank continually encouragement of savings in this sector. The Read & Succeed project was successfully conducted in endeavors to create value offers and develop services tailored to the specific needs of these customers. Over the Arab-Israeli sector for the second year (see details in the Community section). The bank operates a the last few years the bank has achieved a leap forward in marketing to customer segments within the retail website for its Arabic-speaking customers at www.bankhapoalim.co.il/arabic, with key content, translated banking area, and it continues to expand its community and business activities in these sectors. into Arabic, on subjects such as account management, loans, the capital market, deposits, and savings. Customers, products and services 158-159 2012 in Numbers: Segmentation of Borrowers Total credit to the public amounted to approximately NIS 249 billion in 2012, up 1.2% from 2011. ■ A Preferred Business Branch opened in Nazereth in 2012, adding to 35 branches located in The development of net balance-sheet balances of credit to the public, by operating segment, is towns with Arab-speaking populations; depicted below: ■ Arabic-language support: 417 ATMs and 754 combined machines and Information stations support the Arabic language, including stations at all of the Express branches opened in ArabOthers and Adjustments Israeli communities. Households Segment 1.8% Corporate Segment 25.7% 39.2% Private Banking Segment 12.7% Looking ahead 9.8% 10.9% Commercial ■ In 2013, the bank will continue to emphasize the introduction Small Enterprises Segment of products and services adapted to the needs and lifestyle of Segment customers in the Haredi and Arab-Israeli communities, expand its footprint in these sectors, and provide a specialized response Summarized Development of Balance-Sheet Balances of Credit to the Public by to their needs in its activities. Operating Segment ‫‏‬Balance-sheet balances of credit to the public as of 31.12.2012 (in NIS millions) 2012 2011* Change‫‏‬ change %‫‏‬ Households Segment 64,063 61,609 2,454 4.0% Private Banking Segment 31,528 28,915 2,613 9.0% Small Enterprises Segment 24,303 22,845 1,458 6.4% Commercial Segment 27,056 25,377 1,679 6.6% Corporate Segment 97,757 103,603 (5,846) (5.6%) Others and Adjustments 4,475 4,146 329 7.9% Total 249,182 246,495 2,687 1.1% Of which, consumer credit in Israel excluding housing loans Households Segment 27,626 26,738 888 3.3% Private Banking Segment 11,624 11,173 451 4.0% Small Business Segment 20,007 19,192 815 4.2% Total 59,257 57,103 2,154 3.8% Housing loans in Israel 53,723 48,868 4,855 9.9% * 2011 data are segmented differently due to the reclassification of segment data and the change in criteria for assigning customers to segments; for further details, see the bank's financial annual report for 2012, in the section General – The Segments and Customer Assignment Criteria . Marina Keren, In-House Art Ofra Shemla, In-House Art Customers, products and services 160-161 Protecting Customer Safety, Health, and Security Bank Hapoalim takes all necessary measures to ensure the safety and health of customers while present at its branches and facilities. The safety and security department is responsible for preventing safety incidents or reducing such events to the extent possible, and when incidents do occur, minimizing Looking ahead injuries and property damage. This is achieved by measures including: ■ First-aid training and refresher courses will be conducted for relevant employees during 2013; ■ Defined actions formalized in procedures and in the multi-year work plan; implementation of the plan ■ In 2013, the bank will emphasize improving the professional is reported to the institutional safety committee of the bank; expertise of its security officers in the area of safety. ■ Involvement in the planning process of new buildings and of additions and renovations to branches and other Bank Hapoalim buildings of the bank; ■ Continuous response and availability for emergencies such as fires, fire extinguishing equipment operation, work accidents, health hazards and medical emergencies; ■ Investigating accidents and injuries in order to draw and implement conclusions. For example, Business Continuity texture has been added to smooth floors and anti-slip stickers affixed to existing stairs. Anti-slip In order to protect the bank's business continuity and survivability in the event of floor tiles are installed at new or renovated branches. a disaster or malfunction, in accordance with the Bank of Israel's Directive 355, Business Continuity, and Directive 357, Information Technology Management, As part of the bank's sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan, accidents on the premises of the bank maintains continual preparedness based on detailed action plans, the bank were analyzed in detail and reported to the insurance department. working procedures, and periodic drills, as specified in the system of emergency procedures. As part of its emergency preparedness, the bank performed a lateral process to Number of reported accidents involving establish policies, define reference scenarios, map and analyze critical processes customers of the bank, 2009-2012 and the resources required to ensure such processes during emergencies, and update action plans based on globally prevalent methodologies. In addition, the bank conducts annual emergency drills covering both operational scenarios and 17 18 16 complex business scenarios, with the participation of the various units, from the 13 level of branches, administrations, units, and divisions to the level of the board of management of the bank. The bank's business continuity management system has been approved by the Israel Standards Institute as conforming with the requirements of the Israeli standards and the international standard BS 25999; annual qualification 2009 2010 2011 2012 examinations are conducted. Concurrently with the improvement and upgrade of its emergency preparedness in Israel, the business continuity plans of the The findings point to a very small number of accidents: A relatively minor number of accidents is reported each year, bank's subsidiaries in and outside Israel and of its overseas branches have relative to the immense number of customer visits to the 298 also been adapted to the Israeli methodology. In 2012, the bank completed its branches of the bank each day. This year, 10 customer accidents involved women, while 8 involved men. preparations to comply with the new aspects of the Bank of Israel's Directive 355, Business Continuity. 2 0 1 3 EMPOWERING 2 0 1 2 2 0 1 1 2 0 1 0 COMMUNITY 2 0 0 9 2 0 0 8 AND SOCIETY 00468836 00345178 00343213 00154211 00151223 00148064 Q4 2013 +98% 00165499 00148009 00034898 00147857 q3 2013 0 2 0 1 3 1 8 0 7 4 4 4 9 1 0 2 0 1 1 1 8 0 7 4 4 4 1 2 0 1 9 9 8 1 8 0 7 4 4 3 4 6 1 8 0 7 4 4 3 3 2 1 8 0 7 4 4 3 1 0 1 8 0 7 4 4 2 1 4 0 0 1 8 5 0 6 4 2 1 0 6 4 0 8 0 6 8 8 5 0 0 1 4 5 0 0 2 4 6 0 6 3 4 5 0 5 4 2 2 0 0 9 4 1 0 0 9 6 4 0 6 2 5 0 0 0 8 2 3 1 0 0 1 8 Poalim in the community 164-165 Economic Impact on the State and Society of Israel The positive economic impact of Bank Hapoalim is reflected both in its annual earnings and in its contribution to the Israeli economy, through taxes, local procurement, and employment. The following table presents the economic value added of the bank, which includes gross wages (including wage-related items), taxes, profits, and more (in millions of NIS). As Israel’s largest bank, Bank Hapoalim is an entity of considerable power in the Israeli economy. This value reflects the bank's contribution to the Israeli economy, as a large organization Its economic impact is not confined to its annual or quarterly earnings as reported in its financial that maintains economic interactions with many stakeholders (employees, suppliers, statements, which are addressed primarily to shareholders and investors. This section of the report the community, government agencies, etc.). reviews the bank's broad economic impact, and describes its added value, including its contributions to the national economy through tax payments, local procurement, and employment. Bank Hapoalim pays both state and municipal taxes, and receives no financial aid or support from the state. Economic value of the Bank Hapoalim Group, in NIS millions The following table presents key economic and operational performance indicators Breakdown 2009 2010 2011 2012 related to the bank (based on the consolidated financial statements of the bank, in millions of NIS): Economic value created Total income (including 11,757 12,827 13,088 13,637 by the group extraordinary income) Operating and other expenses 2009 2010 2011 2012 (including municipal tax; excluding 6,778 7,576 7,610 8,056 depreciation) Profit from financing activities* 6,718 7,775 8,231 8,778 Wages and related expenses Total income (financing profit + operating income) 11,757 12,827 13,083 13,637 (within operating and other 4,016 4,631 4,759 5,012 expenses) Economic value Operating costs 7,457 8,291 8,365 8,825 distributed to Donations and sponsorships stakeholders by the (within operating and other 43 44 47 48 Wages and related expenses 4,016 4,631 4,759 5,012 group (operating and expenses) other expenses plus Donations and investments in the community 43 44 47 48 provisions for taxes and dividends) Provision for taxes (tax benefit) 1,004 1,342 809 1,254 Shareholders’ equity 20,097** 23,535** 23,819** 26,755 Dividends paid to shareholders of the bank 270 Dividends declared 0 0 270 Interest to debt or bond holders 1,970*** 1,627*** 1,956*** 1,925 Total 7,782 8,918 8,689 9,310 Provision for taxes (tax benefit) on operating profit 990 1,342 809 1,254 Provision for doubtful debts 2,017 1,030 1,202 987 Difference between the group’s Economic value income and its operating and 3,975 3,909 4,399 4,327 * Before provision for credit losses. retained other expenses, provisions for ** Restated, due to the initial implementation of International Accounting Standard 12, Income Taxes. taxes, and dividends *** Reclassified due to the initial implementation of the directives of the Supervisor of Banks concerning the format for statements of profit and loss of banking corporations. Poalim in the community 166-167 Examining the Supply Chain A Nationwide Employer As part of its sustainability and corporate social responsibility plan, Bank Hapoalim also examines its Bank Hapoalim maintains a network of 298 branches (as of the end of 2012), distributed throughout social responsibility in terms of the inclusion of social and environmental considerations in the choice of Israel. About 20% of the branches are located in National Priority Areas, and approximately 45% of the suppliers and ensuring protection of the rights of workers employed at the bank through contractors. branches are outside the Gedera-to-Hadera central region. Branch employees and managers usually Responsible Supply-Chain Management reside in the vicinity of the branch. Recruitment procedures are identical for all branches; consequently, the bank employs an equal proportion of residents of peripheral and central regions. As a banking corporation providing financial services and products to its customers, Bank Hapoalim bases its operations on an extensive supply chain consisting of suppliers of goods and of services. Bank Bank Hapoalim operates two call centers and a central back office, which provide approximately 1,600 Hapoalim's pool of suppliers encompasses over 2,500 companies in a range of different fields (insurance, jobs. One of the call centers is located in central Israel, at the industrial zone in the Azor Regional Council, construction, computers, equipment, leasing, electricity, and more), of various sizes (large, medium, small, and the other, for reasons including social responsibility considerations, is in the northern town of Nesher. and micro-enterprises), from various geographical locations (central Israel, peripheral regions, abroad). The central back office (Matab) is located outside Tel Aviv, in the Beit Dagan area. The central back office in Beit Dagan also operates through regional offices throughout Israel, located in Beer Sheba, Nesher, CSR and sustainability values are an integral part of the bank's procurement activities. These values are Givat Olga, Hatzor Haglilit, and Jerusalem. reflected in uniform procedures, transparent communication regarding required goods, equal opportunities Buying Locally Made Products for all bidders, and an ongoing dialogue with suppliers throughout the duration of the contract. Bank Hapoalim carries out almost all of its procurement inside Israel from local manufacturers or importers. The Several activities have been carried out in the area of responsible supply-chain management, as part of bank does not import products or services directly from the expansion and formalization of a sustainability and CSR management infrastructure based on precise abroad (except purchases of a negligible volume, mainly measurement and decision-making oriented to specific goals. It is important to note that this activity, professional literature or hardware not manufactured in primarily aimed at managing this essential interface with suppliers as external stakeholders of the bank, Israel). The bank strives to obtain the largest possible also contributes to the expansion of the bank's sphere of positive influence in the Israeli economy. proportion of its procurement from Israeli manufacturers and endeavors to find local supplies whenever possible. Within its policy of purchasing Israeli products, the bank sometimes Amnon Orkabi, In-House Art gives priority to peripheral regions and border areas subject to confrontation. In addition, as part of the social considerations applied to the selection of suppliers, priority is given to suppliers who employ a substantial percentage of workers with disabilities. For example, the national flags distributed by the bank each year in honor of Independence Day are manufactured by the Hameshakem sewing workshop, which employs workers with disabilities, by rehabilitation sewing workshops of prison service and by sewing workshops from peripheral geographical locations. Additional Indirect Economic Impact Bank Hapoalim works to benefit the public as a whole. Some of the services for public benefit include extensive activity in the area of financial freedom (see details in the Clients section), opening nature reserves and museums to the public free of charge during holidays, holding exhibitions to sell handicrafts created by people with disabilities, and more. Poalim in the community 168-169 Responsible supply chain management policy Organizing Model The organizing model for the policy's implementation is a pyramid of responsible A new policy for sustainability and CSR in procurement was written at Bank management of the supply chain at the bank. Hapoalim in late 2012. The policy is based on principles of dialogue and the creation of shared value; partnership and mutuality; the ambition to form long-term relationships; the protection of human rights, fairness; transparency; promotion of small and peripherally located enterprises, and the reduction and prevention of Empowerment level environmental damage while promoting environmental values. Social Small businessess enterprises Alongside these values, the policy establishes purchasing groups of goods and services to which it applies, presents criteria related to sustainability and CSR to be applied to each group's activity, and creates a link to the procurement center's Social Environment Screening and work processes. This policy provides a framework for the gradual implementation Supplier's environmental Employments terms, preference level management, pollution workplace safety, diverse of criteria such as fair business practices and ethics, environmental protection, prevention, recycling, and employments, etc. waste treatment human rights, workers' rights, and more. Some of the criteria have been defined as mandatory, such that compliance is a condition for the supplier's relationship Governance Threshold with the bank, while others are voluntary, where compliance can grant a supplier Monitoring supplier's business ethics and compliance with legislation level preference in a tender, in accordance with the organizing model. The policy also sets forth basic rules for formalization of the bank's dialogue with its suppliers, 1. The foundation of the pyramid is the threshold level applicable to all of the with the aim of establishing longbank's suppliers. This refers to continuous compliance with all of the rules term, balanced relationships pertaining to the suppliers' activity and adherence to ethical and appropriate and contributing to continual business practices; improvement in the performance of suppliers connected to the bank. 2. The center of the pyramid is screening and preference of relevant suppliers, according to the proposed product or service. The social dimension includes requirements regarding terms of employment as well as other social issues, and is primarily relevant to suppliers of cafeteria, cleaning, and security services. The environmental dimension refers to the implementation of environmental management systems among suppliers of products and services and the selection of green products in procurement processes; 3. The pyramid's pinnacle is a unique level, referring to preferential purchasing of products and services from suppliers that are either small enterises, located in geographically peripheral regions, or socially oriented. The bank has evaluated the procurement potential on this level and aspires to realize it within the promotion of a responsible economy in Israel. Poalim in the community 170-171 Ethical Code for Contractor Employees As part of the process of instilling corporate social responsibility, the bank created an ethical code, in Infrastructure for a Multi-Year Work Plan collaboration with its contractors, for contractor employees working in the areas of security, the cafeteria, and Bank Hapoalim has applied social considerations to its procurement processes cleaning on bank premises. The content of the code is communicated to all contractor employees employed of goods and services for many years. This approach is reflected in a preference at the bank's facilities. These employees receive and read the code, and sign the code document. The bank for local suppliers, purchases of goods and services from socially oriented receives a report on the completion of this process from the company employing the workers, signed by the enterprises, and the inclusion of environmental and social considerations company's general manager. The content of the code is distributed in Hebrew, Russian, Arabic, and Amharic. in tenders. The sustainability and CSR policy described above is designed As of 2011, all new and existing suppliers are required to communicate the content of the new code, annually, to formalize the existing activity, identify directions for future action, and set to every employee assigned to the bank, and the process is noted in the employee's personal file. Suppliers specific objectives in order to examine the bank's progress from a long-term are required to submit an annual report on the number of employees who have received and read the code, perspective. for control purposes. Program objectives include dialogue with suppliers over a work interface in Human Rights Training for Security Guards the spirit of the bank's ethical code; expanded inclusion of environmental and The bank conducts courses, over five full days, to train security guards in various areas related to their routine social considerations in tenders, and expanded volume of transactions with duties under the guidance of the Israel Police. The content covered includes human rights, discussed in a series small and socially oriented enterprises in the relevant areas. of talks by an attorney specializing in this field. All security guards working at the bank’s branches and head office have undergone instruction on human rights as part of their training and periodic refresher courses. Protecting the Rights of Staff Employed by Contractors on the Bank’s Premises To supply its needs, the bank enters into agreements with various contractors for the provision of security, Looking ahead cleaning, and cafeteria services, through employees of the contractor who are assigned to the bank. In order to ensure the protection of these workers’ rights, the agreements between the bank and the contractors ■ The process of building and implementing a multi-year work plan for stipulate the obligation of the contractors to provide the following to their employees, among other matters: the integration of CSR considerations into procurement processes minimum wage, and all other rights granted to workers in Israel under the labor laws; social benefits; prevention at Bank Hapoalim will be completed during 2013; of harmful employee turnover, and due disclosure to their rights. This infrastructure was created in order to prevent harmful employment, and has been in place at the bank for years as part of its CSR approach. ■ In 2013, part of the overall procurement budget will be channeled towards increasing the volume of purchases from small suppliers. In 2012, with the implementation of the Law for Increased Enforcement of Labor Laws, 2011, based on the existing processes at the bank, the infrastructure was adjusted to the provisions of the law, which took effect in June 2012. This move included updates of the bank's procurement contracts, the establishment of a system for inquiries by contractor employees at the bank's human resources division, and the appointment of a supervisor responsible for ensuring the protection of the employees' rights and response to their inquiries during their employment on bank premises. Poalim in the community 172-173 Dialogue with Stakeholders and Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence One of the key elements in the implementation of corporate social responsibility is to foster dialogue Dialogue with Stakeholders and Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence with stakeholders on relevant issues, with the aim of creating shared value for the bank and its various The bank conducts regular, continuous dialogue with its stakeholders. Within this effort, the bank held stakeholders. meetings and discussions during 2012, including: Mechanisms for Collaboration and Dialogue Active dialogue is in progress with academic and management personnel The bank’s dialogue with stakeholders in its society and community is based on four building blocks: at universities and colleges, including Tel Aviv University, the College of ■ Transparency and reliable information By making information accessible in a transparent, reliable, Management, the College of Tel Aviv Jaffa, and others, with regard to academic programs and projects in the area of social responsibility. In and clear fashion, the bank informs its stakeholders of its activities, its focus, and its future plans; Academia addition, the Corporate Social Responsibility Administration holds meetings ■ Obtaining feedback Dialogue with stakeholders makes it possible to assess the quality of the shared with university students to present the bank’s approach and professional value created during the course of its activities and to enhance it in ways that increase the mutual experience in this field, and advises student teams working on various academic projects; benefit; ■ Involvement in decision-making and mutual empowerment The bank creates partnerships with The bank maintains ongoing relationships with various non-profit organizations in the areas of social responsibility, including Heschel sustainability center, its various stakeholders by studying mutual needs. These partnerships are dedicated to advancing Non-profit Adam Teva V'Din the Israel Union for Environmental Defense, Life & shared goals and creating value for all parties concerned. In this manner, the bank not only contributes Environment – The Israeli Union of Environmental NGOs, Olim Beyahad, organizations to the partners involved in these processes, but also derives benefit; Tevet, and others, in order to receive feedback, exchange knowledge, and offer mutual assistance; ■ Application of the bank's range of business capabilities – The bank enhances work processes with the various stakeholders by implementing its core business capabilities in joint activities. The bank has an open-door policy for enterprises such as the Renewable Energy Association of Israel, Ecommunity, and others operating in various Entrepreneurs “green” sectors: recycling, transition to natural gas, energy efficiency, solar and enterprises energy, water, etc. Within this activity, the bank exchanges knowledge, in the field of examines options for assistance and connection with additional parties, and sustainability examines opportunities for collaboration to promote these areas. The bank also provides support for professional conferences in this field, professional websites, and more; The bank maintains close contact and a professional dialogue with Connections the leading business organizations in Israel and with Maala, for shared with colleagues discussions and mutual assistance in coping with professional issues and challenges; In another element of this dialogue, Bank Hapoalim representatives Government conduct meetings and give talks in order to exchange knowledge and agencies and insights with government agency representatives, including the Ministry local authorities of Environmental Protection, and local authorities. Joint projects aimed at addressing environmental issues are promoted in this context. Poalim in the community 174-175 Expansion of the Bank's Sphere of Influence in Israeli Society The Social-Environmental-Economic Project for appliances. The effort was communicated to employees through internal channels Collection and Recycling of Electronic Waste with at the bank, and employees were encouraged to collect and recycle waste. Since Employment of Persons with Disabilities that time, employees have had a convenient, accessible destination for removal of this waste in the workplace, contributing to manufacturing and reuse processes, in Bank Hapoalim initiated a pioneering social program for systemic treatment of the addition to the reduction of environmental damage. A conclusion drawn from this collection and recycling of electronic waste, metals, and appliances, in collaboration project was that beyond sustainability education, convenience and accessibility with municipalities throughout Israel. The program includes design and development have a strong influence on cooperation with recycling projects. The successful of collection receptacles made in Israel and supplied by the bank to the municipalities; comprehensive treatment of waste management was a catalyst for the bank to placement of the receptacles in city centers; organization of collection and recycling endeavor to increase its environmental and social influence beyond the organization processes, and publicizing the program to residents. Collection from the receptacles by building a program targeted to the general public in Israel, in order to encourage and disassembly of the waste are carried out by Ecommunity, which employs responsible, thorough treatment of electronic waste, appliances, and metals, in disabled workers. The bank thereby creates shared value and responds to both an collaboration with local authorities. environmental and a social needs. Economic-Environmental-Social Value How it All Began The program is designed to provide a solution for the collection of electronic waste The process of building the program began years earlier, within Bank Hapoalim. from city centers and to generate multiple economic, social, and environmental Waste management within the organization is part of the bank's sustainability benefits for the various stakeholders: and CSR values. This effort requires coping with different types of waste through ■ Improved environmental quality in and around the city; different processes: development of various types of receptacles and placement of the receptacles in locations convenient for employees; assimilating recycling values; ■ Prevention of the emission of greenhouse gases and other toxic gases released organizing waste removal, and agreements with various suppliers, etc. during improper recycling of electronic waste; ■ Reduction of the volume of urban waste (savings on transportation costs and In the following stage, a decision was waste burial levies); The electronic waste recepticle made to expand the treatment of electronic ■ Green positioning and promotion of the municipalities' agendas, based on a vision waste beyond the waste produced of protection of the environment and of quality of life; within the bank. As part of the policy of ■ Active community involvement; considering its employees to be partners in its sustainability values, the bank ■ Promotion of a national social goal – employment of people with disabilities; decided to offer collection of waste from ■ Manufacturing the containers and operating of the project through local Israeli employees' homes by placing a receptacle companies; for this waste at the head-office building. ■ Education of the public and of youth on environmental values; The project was expanded to encompass all unneeded metal objects and electronic ■ Positioning the bank as a leading business-social-environmental organization. Poalim in the community 176-177 Building a Comprehensive Systemic Solution plan for program acceptance. Electronic waste is not disposed of on a daily basis The transition from localized waste collection at the bank to a comprehensive plan like ordinary garbage; there was a need to develop household awareness of the to provide a systemic solution for hundreds of thousands of residents required collection of this waste, its separation from other waste, and its transfer to the town's a diagnosis of the existing situation with regard to electronic waste, including an receptacles, which are not adjacent to homes. The plan was based on a launch examination of barriers and levers for promotion of this issue. Beyond the fact that process making use of a range of media channels: billboards, local newspaper Israel lacks infrastructures and systemic solutions for this type of waste, several advertisements, and posters in public buildings, direct mail to households, municipal additional failures became apparent: the lack of accessibility and exposure of existing websites, municipal Facebook pages, and more. Effort was invested to make electronic waste collection points for the general public, receptacles not specially messages brief and clear, and to use appropriate design language. To complement designated for electronic waste, placement of the receptacles in locations allowing the launch, absorption is sustained through collaboration with community elements, easy theft; and a lack of public awareness. Under the existing conditions, only a tiny green organizations, and educational institutions. fraction of the dozens of tons of electronic waste generated in Israel each year is properly reused and recycled; electronic waste is disposed of in trash cans, leading The fourth element of the program is collaboration with an enterprise that collects to pollution of the environment with toxic metals such as lead, mercury, cadmium, the waste and treats it responsibly; the value of the removed waste generates chrome, nickel, and zinc. When this waste is burned in unlicensed furnaces, it emits financing for the collection and recycling process. Ecommunity, whose plant is in toxic gases and carbon dioxide. the peripherally-located Galilee kibbutz Yasuur, was selected to carry out the waste disposal and recycling. The program thereby contributes to the promotion of the Based on these conclusions, the bank formulated a comprehensive solution for fourth sector – socially oriented enterprises – and to the promotion of the national treatment of this waste, providing a complete value offer for collaboration with Israeli goal of employing workers with disabilities. municipalities. The key element of this solution is a designated receptacle designed and developed for this purpose in cooperation with the Segev plant in Yavne, with an The fifth element of the plan is full financing, in the current stage, of the overall solution emphasis on design and high-quality materials and manufacturing, based on the idea by Bank Hapoalim, as well as the benefit of the bank's business and professional that design sells . The receptacle clearly communicates its purpose and contributes experience based on its philosophy of contributing to the infrastructures of life in its to the urban landscape, to the process of instilling the values of the program, and to surrounding environment. resident involvement in waste collection. Much thought was invested in human factors engineering for the receptacle; during the planning process, theft reduction was taken Expanding the Sphere of Influence into consideration as well as increased resistance to environmental damage. The program was introduced in the city of Holon, in full collaboration with the mayor and his leading staff. Twenty collection receptacles were placed in busy central The second main element of the solution was the location of receptacles, to maximize locations throughout the city in early 2012, and the launch process began. During exposure, accessibility, and convenience. Receptacles were placed in commercial the subsequent months, conclusions were drawn for the expansion of the program centers and in neighborhood centers, to make it easy to stop a car briefly to unload to additional towns. Following the program's success, it was expanded this year waste (such as irons, telephones, rusted pans, computers, etc.). The central location to the towns of Ashdod, Rishon Lezion, Rehovot, Yavneh, and Shoham; it is now of the receptacles also reduces the risk of theft. available to 800,000 residents, and is planned to expand to additional locations. The pilot project conducted by the bank can serve to promote a working model in this A third and important element of the comprehensive solution is the creation of a area for nationwide stakeholders. Poalim in the community 178-179 Promotion of Environmental Alternatives in Transportation In recent years, the bank considered developing an initiative to operate a system of direct transportation Looking ahead (shuttles) for employees, as an alternative to the use of private vehicles for the commute to and from work. The initiative offers direct benefits both for employees and for the environment: reduced pollution ■ Recycling of electronic waste with the employment of workers with from private cars; savings on expenses for car maintenance, fuel, and parking, and reduced travel time disabilities: In 2013, the project is planned to expand to the towns of and time spent in traffic. The bank conducted dialogue with the city of Tel Aviv, Israel Rail, and other Herzliya and Nes Tziona; the hope is to instill the habit of recycling banks in order to promote this initiative, sharing the knowledge accumulated in its internal planning waste that is currently untreated in the general public, while creating process. The goal was to build a network of shuttles common to several business organizations in the jobs for disabled workers; business district of Tel Aviv. According to the agreed trajectory, the direct transportation system would run from the Hashalom and Hahagana train stations to the banking centers and back, for interested ■ The bank will continue to work to expand the assimilation of employees, at an attractive subsidized price. Responsibility for the continued development of the waste recycling habits in the towns where receptacles have been project now rests with the relevant government agencies. placed. Poalim in the community 180-181 Financial and Equivalent Contributions Examples of community events and initiatives in which the bank took part in 2012: Assistance to numerous organizations supported by the bank is delivered through the Poalim for the Community Forum. The Forum, which consists of senior executives, manages all of the bank's ■ Kelim Shluvim (Connected Vessels) – A unique community store was opened in May 2012, as part of an initiative operated by the Shikum Acher foundation, with the support of IVN (Israel Venture Network), donations according to criteria established in the policy of the Poalim for the Community (Registered the Ministry of Health, and the National Insurance Institute, and with the assistance of Bank Hapoalim. Non-Profit Organization) foundation. The store offers gifts and design objects made by artists and craftspeople with special needs as well as by young Israeli designers who manufacture their products in Israel and collaborate with As in previous years, the foundation made contributions in many different areas in 2012, including the foundation. The store employs workers with disabilities as salespeople and shift managers. The assistance to children and youth, reinforcement of disadvantaged population groups, and support for store provides a marketing and sales outlet for a range of non-profits, as well as a work environment institutions in the areas of education, culture, welfare, health care, and science. The bank provides allowing sales and marketing training and employment for workers with disabilities. In addition, aid through the foundation for higher-learning institutions, scholarships for disadvantaged university the initiative helps to reduce prejudice and empower disabled persons through exposure of their students and schoolchildren, realization of educational enrichment and advancement initiatives for high capabilities, as manufacturers and as sellers contributing to Israel's labor market and society; children and youth, and assistance for children who are hospitalized and need special support to make The Kelim Shluvim store: http://www.facebook.com.kelimshloovim. academic progress. The bank does not donate money or equivalents to political parties, politicians, or political institutions. ■ Wheels of Hope – A bicycle trip organized by the Etgarim (Challenges) foundation to promote and empower people with special needs; the trip, sponsored by Bank Hapoalim, was held for the 10th consecutive year. More than 10,000 people with and without disabilities participated in the ride, on trails in 2012 in Numbers: the Jezreel Valley. The trip has become an annual tradition, with all revenues devoted to the development of cycling clubs and activities to integrate people with physical or mental disabilities into society; Monetary value of Bank Hapoalim's community involvement in Etgarim foundation: http://www.etgarim.org. recent years (in NIS millions): ■ United Professional Leadership – The top tiers of the capital market, investment-house managers, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and financial and pension fund managers participated in an annual conference held in July, for the fifth time, by the investment houses and fund managers relations management unit in the investment advising and financial products division of the bank. Speakers at the conference, under 45 42.7 39.6 44 47 48 the leadership of United Professional Leadership, presented innovations in advisory systems and the various arenas for collaboration between the bank and fund managers, aimed at ensuring The value of the total community involvement of the professional and objective advice and a value offer for the bank's customers; bank from 2004 to 2012 is NIS 363 million. ■ Absorbing repatriants – In a collaboration between the bank and Nefesh B'Nefesh, which is responsible for the repatriation and successful absorption of over 27,000 repatriants from the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, management resolved to continue to provide support for families of new repatriants during their first months in Israel in 2012. Families who volunteer for the project get to know the repatriants families, and enjoy shared events including trips and day tours to familiarize repatriants with Israel's land, culture, and language, fully financed by the bank. When the repatriants arrived at Ben Gurion Airport, the bank's chairman Yair Seroussi gave a speech, in the presence of then-Immigration Absorption Minister Sofa Landver and senior representatives of the Knesset and the Israeli economy. Nefesh B'Nefesh: http://www.nbn.org.il/. Poalim in the community 182-183 Poalim for the Community Committed through Our Strategy and Vision Breakdown of Bank Hapoalim Bank Hapoalim's donations budget, 2012 As part of the Bank Hapoalim Group’s vision, strategy, and corporate values, the bank is committed to an active, leading role in the community, alongside its business leadership community assistance 13% and economic initiatives. This involvement is implemented through in 2012 totaled NIS 48 million, 12% 50% Poalim for the Community (Registered Non-Profit Organization), as part of an advanced managerial approach. The bank holds that an rise of 2.1% from 2011. organization that operates within the community and draws both its employees and customers from The bank's donations in 2012 within it should take a leading role in the advancement and improvement of conditions for all members of constituted approximately 50% of the the community, especially those who are underprivileged. In the spirit of this business philosophy, the bank 25% total community assistance provided conducts a varied and extensive range of community-oriented activities in the form of social involvement, by the five major banks in Israel. monetary donations, and large-scale volunteer activities with the participation of both management and Education Culture and arts Health care, welfare, special needs Other employees. Community activity is an important factor in developing employee pride and cohesion. As noted, the bank’s community-oriented activity is organized within the Poalim for the Community foundation. Ms. Shelly Amir, head of community relations at the bank, is responsible for this activity. Donation of Computers Creating Strategic Partnerships Recognizing the great importance investing in technological equipment for the education and advancement Bank Hapoalim exercises its community involvement through nationwide projects, including projects of children and youth, the bank donates large numbers of computers and related equipment each year. targeted to geographic, economic, and social peripheries, with expert assistance in the understanding The bank’s IT division is responsible for computer donations, through the technology administration. The of community needs. These projects strive to realize the underlying philosophy of the principles of socioprocess of donating computers is conducted in a similar manner to any business process at the bank: community development. The distinction between aid and socio-community development is an important professionally and objectively, with a continual effort to attain optimal service and operating efficiency. one; such development is based on the following principles: In 2012, the bank donated 709 items of computer systems and auxiliary equipment, at a value ■ Focus on a core issue closely related to the bank's essence and crucial to Israeli society; of NIS 500,000. ■ Long-term projects, rather than temporary action; The monetary value of the donations of computer systems by the bank in 2007-2012 is ■ Measuring the project according to effectiveness in attaining its objectives, with conclusions drawn and approximately NIS 5.1 million. implemented throughout the course of the project; ■ Strategic partnerships with additional parts of the community, including professional partners, rather 2012 in Numbers: than stand-alone projects. The bank maintains strategic partnerships with a range of leading community organizations. These Breakdown of contributions' value in recent years (in NIS thousands): include collaborations with the ORT network of science and technology schools, museums, the National Parks Authority, the Israel Association of Community Centers, the Batsheva Dance Company, the Israel 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Philharmonic Orchestra, the Israel AIDS Task Force, and the IDF. The bank also collaborates with a large 1,100 650 797 1,107 921 500 number of non-profit organizations on unique projects in their respective fields. Notable organizations include Hayim For Children with Cancer in Israel, Etgarim (Challenge), Paamonim The Responsible Way, Lasova (hunger prevention), Latet Israeli Humanitarian Aid, Beit Issie Shapiro, ELEM Youth in Distress Poalim in the community 184-185 in Israel, Beterem Safe Kids Israel, The Council for a Beautiful Israel, and Be-Atzmi Employment Read & Succeed in the Arab-Israeli Sector for Youth at Risk. For the second year, the bank operated the Read Promoting Educational Projects & Succeed project for Arabic speakers in 2012. Book fairs were held in 17 Arab-Israeli communities Education is the key focus of the bank's community activities; about 50% of Poalim for the Community throughout Israel, where residents could buy 10 Forum's budget is dedicated to activities in the area of education. children's books at a token price and enjoy story Poalim from Three to Five Project hours and activities. Books on sale at the fairs included Arabic translations of the best global Bank Hapoalim, through the ORT Alumni Association, is participating in the literature for children as well as original literature effort to help students with lower socioeconomic backgrounds improve their by local Arab authors. Bank Hapoalim employees academic achievement in scientific and technological subjects. Poalim from and managers helped fair visitors and actively Three to Five is designed to promote a vision of social change, in which participated in the fairs. geographically remote communities in northern and southern Israel are brought Yair Seroussi, chairman of the board of directors and Ramiz Jaraisy, Nazareth's mayor at Read and closer to academic centers, with a substantial increase in the number of students from these areas Read & Succeed in the Haredi Sector Succeed event who take matriculation examinations in mathematics and sciences. The aim of this effort is to help For the third year, the bank operated the Read & reduce social inequalities. The project includes students in grades 9 through 12 from Israel’s Jewish, Succeed project for the Haredi (ultra-orthodox) Arab, Bedouin, and Druze communities. sector in 2012. In a collaboration with the Feldheim Judaica bookstore chain, the stores offered children's books at a token price of NIS 10. This campaign was publicized through a range of channels. The Mobile Library )2( 8,926 students have Launched in early 2010, the Mobile Library project continued participated IN THE in 2012, in cooperation with the Key Books Foundation. The project consists of mobile lending libraries in trucks that travel PROJECT across Israel, allowing children and youth to enjoy a wealth of Since its launch, 8,926 students in 1,120 groups children’s theater, creative writing workshops, lectures, story have participated in the From Three to Five Project. hours, and enrichment classes. National Book Week During National Book Week in June 2012, a storytellers’ Read & Succeed tent called the Read & Succeed World was erected in Rabin Starting in 2004, the Poalim for the Community Forum has led a focused initiative aimed at changing the Square in Tel Aviv, for the eighth consecutive year. The tent reading habits of Israeli children and youth. This project continued in 2012. The Read & Succeed project hosted story hours and conversations with authors during the includes a public informational campaign, distribution of books, funding of story hours throughout Israel, afternoon hours, tailored to different age groups. Over the activities during National Book Week, and collaboration with the Children’s Channel and other media. course of ten days, the activities in the tent attracted great interest from parents and children visiting Book Week. Poalim in the community 186-187 The bank continued to support this project in 2012, and created metrics for evaluation of its efficiency and success, including the number of visits to the various websites and the number of page views by students. The metrics assess demand for the different types of content and the extent of students' use of Insights in Education the websites. Bank employees also participated in a Virtual Teacher initiative, which provided homework Insights in Education is an initiative formed to provide support for school principals, help for sixth and seventh graders through the school's portal. Volunteers help students learn required so that the educational centers under their management become inspiring. The curriculum content and improve their skills in using computerized systems. initiative focuses on and recognizes the importance of public schools in urban Adoption of the Zeil ORT Multidisciplinary Center in Lod peripheries and in geographical peripheries of Israel. The project was launched following the success of this model at the Bialik-Rogozin campus in Tel Aviv and the In 2012, the bank continued the program in which it adopted the Zeil ORT School in the city of Lod, successful activity of action committees at several schools over the last decade. launched in 2010, through its IT division. The adoption is a long-term commitment aimed at promoting educational activities, especially in the area of technology. This project is part of the bank's wide-ranging, The initiative helps principals develop the perspective of educational leaders and unique relationship with the 190 educational institutions of ORT Israel. social entrepreneurs, to build the schools as a central anchor in the lives of students and the surrounding communities, providing comprehensive educational, social, and This multi-year project aims to make the multidisciplinary center a city leader, improve the center’s emotional responses. Assistance for the schools includes instilling the use of optimal environment and infrastructures, promote wellbeing and the community, and increase the number of management tools and creating a support network for the school's management, students joining the center. Elements of the project include assistance in funding for all-day childcare at in the form of an action committee and volunteers from industry, academia, the the school, improved infrastructure, technological equipment, establishment of an Excellence Center, military, and other parts of society. assistance for weaker students, and more. Bank Hapoalim participates in this venture by supporting its activity, and plans The systemic assistance provided to the center reflects the bank's range of business capabilities, including for additional branches to adopt schools in their vicinity. Bank employees help the following initiatives: school principals by teaching small groups, individually mentoring students, and ■ Establishment of a long-term thinking group on raising resources for the school, from the bank and offering homework help and enrichment courses, thereby contributing to a longer from other sources; school day, a continuum of treatment, and a safe and protected space for students. Beyond that, branch managers invite students to participate in performances and ■ Involvement of the school's staff in the bank's professional training center in Shfayim, for professional make reading encouragement programs such as Read & Succeed accessible to advancement and professional and personal enrichment experiences for teachers; the schools. ■ Personal coaching in management offered to the school's principal by the bank; ■ A five-year plan formulated to improve the school's physical appearance, with the help of bank A Password for Every Student employees who have volunteered to assist improving infrastructure, who visit once every few months to help with gardening and painting; As part of its support for integrating technology into education, in 2011 the bank joined the educational initiative A Password for Every Student , which combines education and today's technology as a way ■ Participation by bank employees in a wide range of activities of their choice in areas such as poetry, of acquiring learning and developing abilities. Within its support for this project, the bank has adopted 10 sports, healthy lifestyles, etc. schools in communities in need of special reinforcement throughout Israel (Mitzpe Ramon, Ramla, Acre, Kiryat Gat, and more) for the next three years. Goals of the project: To create a technological infrastructure In 2012, comprehensive support for the program continued throughout the year. This activity included allowing all users to work and create using a central portal, from any location; to instill a view of the school guidance for students in the school's core technological subjects, enrichment lectures, mapping of the as a computerized organization; and to create a computerized educational environment within the school. school's needs with an emphasis on technological equipment, and joint activities by employees and Poalim in the community 188-189 students to contribute to the community and promote education, through various events related to school Exhibitions Dedicated to Community Causes activities, holidays, and Israeli heritage. The internal space of the bank's head office building resembles a museum, with open galleries on every floor. For several years, the bank has organized exhibitions in this building as fundraising efforts for Promoting Science and Technology important community causes. The exhibitions are professionally curated, transforming the building into a FIRST is an international organization devoted to encouraging adolescents to engage with science museum for the duration of each show. The bank leverages its system of social and business relationships and technology. The organization's flagship event is an annual competition in which participants from to bring an audience of stakeholders and donors to the events. around the world present technological projects created by adolescents, with the guidance of a team of instructors and volunteers from local communities. This was the third year in which the bank supported Non-Profits Exhibition the initiative, guided by its ambition to promote technological education in Israel. For the seventh year, the bank has invited the Israeli public to buy holiday gifts sold by non-profit organizations that offer Promoting Culture, Art, Welfare, and Health Care products made by children, adolescents, and adults with The Poalim for the Community philosophy places special emphasis on assistance in culture and the disabilities and special needs. All income from the sale of these arts. Each year, the bank contributes to the promotion of culture and the arts through donations and products is funneled back to the foundations' activity. Pieces sponsorships, including assistance to museums throughout Israel. In addition, through multi-year include paintings, photographs, sculptures, furniture, toys, handicrafts, potted plants, rugs, Judaica objects, agreements, the bank sponsors several internationally recognized cultural institutions committed to music CDs, jewelry, clothes, wine, chocolate, cakes and cookies, organic food products, and more. leadership and excellence in their field: the bank supports the Batsheva Dance Company through threeyear scholarships for dancers, and supports the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and the Cameri Theater Israeli Art Exhibition for the Israel AIDS Task Force under three-year and five-year agreements, respectively. The bank endeavors to make cultural events This exhibition, in memory of Leah Rabin, one of the earliest supporters of the battle against AIDS, was accessible to underprivileged children and adolescents, and holds art exhibits at its head office building held for the fourteenth year at the bank's head office building. Artwork donated by hundreds of artists with revenues devoted to the various foundations that participate in this initiative. was displayed. All of the funds raised through the sale of the artwork at this event, in the amount of NIS 1.55 million, are devoted to the Israel AIDS Task Force. Hapoalim for Culture and Nature in Israel Since 2005, Poalim for the Community has conducted a special project each Passover, in which all Israelis are invited to visit a variety of sites throughout Israel free of charge during the holiday week. In 2012, 48 sites were included in the project. Bank Hapoalim believes that closeness to our heritage and Looking ahead culture is of the utmost importance, and therefore resolved to make it possible for parents and children throughout Israel to travel during holidays and enjoy a variety of sites all over the country at no cost, ■ In 2013, the bank will continue to promote education and culture while promoting culture and the arts. through its strategic community projects, such as Read & Succeed and From Three to Five, and will work to advance additional Welfare and Health Care projects; Poalim for the Community is involved in various community activities through community-oriented ■ In 2013, the Poalim for the Community unit will maintain its focus sponsorships, primarily encouraging excellence in sports, funding cultural events, and assisting on promoting financial education through relevant community health-care institutions. The numerous projects led by the bank in the areas of welfare and health care projects. this year include: Poalim in the community 190-191 Volunteering – Bank Hapoalim`s community work The bank has established a nationwide network of volunteers, covering 2012 in Numbers: thousands of employees from various parts of the country. The frequency and type of volunteer work vary widely among the units, with weekly, ■ From Three to Five: 520 students participated in the project during the 2011-2012 school monthly, and quarterly activities, and activities held on holidays. Bank year, in 68 groups; Hapoalim has the widest geographical deployment among the financial organizations in Israel, which enables it to respond according to the needs of local communities and adopt activities on a local basis. ■ 43 schools participated in the Financial Literacy program during the school year; In this way, the local branch can become a center for community aid or assistance during various types of crises. Employees volunteer in their spare time, some privately and independently and some with the ■ In the Read & Succeed mobile library leadership of the bank, in collaboration with the various foundations. project, a new mobile library was added this year in the town of Beit She'an, in addition Volunteer work is carried out through integrative management and an orderly organizational structure, to the six mobile libraries already operating consisting of: in Tiberias, Kiryat Shmona, Acre, and the Modiin region; ■ Senior manager – Appointed within the bank to hold overall responsibility for management of this area; ■ During the Purim holiday, the bank hosted hundreds of underprivileged children from ■ Steering committee – Provides strategic support for the new structure by exposing and selecting central and peripheral regions of Israel for models and of potential strategic partners in the community; formulates policies for recognition and three plays at the Orna Porat Theater for Yair Seroussi, chairman of the board of directors, appreciation of volunteers, marketing of the activities in the organization, and recruitment of volunteers; story taler Yossi Alfi and the writer Yehuda Atlas at Children and Youth; National book week events. ■ Core social leaders – 46 leaders selected by division/region heads, responsible for promotion of the ■ The bank hosted hundreds of children from periphery at a performance of the opera Alice in Poalim Volunteers program and its goals and objectives in their division/region, development and Wonderland, at the Tel Aviv Opera House; management of partnerships and volunteering programs on the regional and local level with community partners, motivation of employees, and management and guidance of the network of social leaders; ■ The bank hosted hundreds of children through various community foundations for a special Hannukah holiday concert of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra; ■ Social leaders network – 400 leaders selected by department and branch heads, serving as a direct liaison to all employees and leading the volunteering drive at the unit and branch level; ■ For the eighth consecutive year, the bank distributed Israeli flags in honor of Independence Day, in recognition of the importance of the unifying and shared dimensions of Israeli society. ■ Retiree social leader – Leads volunteering by retired employees of the bank, in cooperation with the retirees' The flags, all made locally in Israel, were manufactured by various suppliers including union; responsible for involving thousands of bank retirees in routine activity on behalf of the community. Hameshakem, which employs 2,700 workers with disabilities, in 40 Israeli towns including development regions and border communities; The organizational structure promotes volunteering as one of the bank's core activities and allows for the ■ 470,000 people visited museums and other sites free of charge, sponsored by the bank, management, absorption, measurement, control, and guidance of its volunteering system. The activities during the Passover holiday in 2012. create a volunteering infrastructure, and better integrate a large number of employees and units into volunteer work and community activities, on the national and regional level, according to community needs. POALIM IN THE COMMUNITY 192-193 This process also serves as a practical expression of the maximum value created in community-oriented activities through the realization of the bank's core capabilities in the various projects. Promotion and management activities performed in this area include: Volunteering with the Participation of Employees' Children ■ Mapping and diagnosis of community activities currently conducted at the bank; As part of the promotion of the values of doing and giving, 1,200 children of ■ Discussion of fundamental questions to formulate the bank's policies on community involvement; bank employees aged 15-18 participated in a wide range of activities during the summer vacation (in accordance with the Youth Employment Law, 1953), in ■ Formulation of criteria for the selection of headline social issues; collaboration with community organizations throughout Israel. The project, under the name Summer Youth, was a Poalim Volunteers initiative, in collaboration with the employee union, the human resources division, and the Poalim Campus. ■ Formulation of policies on project positioning, including aspects of the public, marketing, public relations, This activity has been held in recent years and expanded over the last year, communication to customers, and more; with financing from the bank. The project enables employees' children to learn about and absorb the value of giving, through activities aimed at helping various ■ Guidance, monitoring, and supervision of activities and development of plans. population groups in Israeli society, supporting society as well as empowering the participants by recognizing the significance of their involvement. During July and August, the employees' children worked as summer-camp counselors, participated in activities for seniors at day centers and long-term facilities, packaged food at food distribution centers, helped with cooking and serving at soup kitchens, worked to organize a city library, took care of animals at the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, did painting and gardening work at memorial sites for IDF soldiers, conducted activities for children at women's shelters, and helped adults and children with special needs at hospitals and day centers. Seven six-day sessions of this project were held during the summer. Each day opened at Poalim Campus with courses on content areas related to Israeli society and experience-based enrichment aimed at learning about the banking system, the bank's vision and values, financial freedom, youth accounts, and preparation for volunteering and giving. Participants were then assigned to activities as needed. The employees' children were praised and honored by the foundations and community partners, who applauded the project and initiative of the bank's management and the sense of partnership and values demonstrated by the participants. Many of the adolescents expressed satisfaction with the experience and a desire to continue volunteering after completing the program. Poalim in the community 194-195 2012 in Numbers: Looking ahead ■ Financial education: 500 employees volunteered to give courses in the areas of financial education, household budget management advice, and financial enrichment for small enterprises, including ■ In 2013, the bank will work to expand its pool of regular volunteers 40 talks for adolescents throughout Israel and over 80 talks on household budget management; to 30% of employees; ■ During the holiday period, 4,000 employees conducted activities at several locations, such as ■ During the year, volunteer activity related to financial freedom will children's clubs, assistance for the elderly, and assistance for special-needs groups throughout be expanded, through several projects; Israel, including the distribution of 40,000 gift packages; ■ A system will be created in 2013 to help measure employee ■ Employees distributed 1,500 food baskets for people in need during Passover; volunteering and its absorption through the organizational portal. ■ At a June conference, the bank's Social Leaders were given enriching tools and knowledge for volunteering; ■ In January 2013, an appreciation event was held for 40 outstanding volunteers, attended by the bank's chairman, Yair Seroussi, CEO Zion Kenan, members of management, senior executives, and the Social Leaders who lead the bank's volunteers; ■ Some 3,000 employees participated in regular volunteer activities over the last year, reflecting an increase over recent years; ■ As part of the Poalim Volunteers effort, the Good Works Day was held for the sixth time in April 2012, with 2,700 employees participating; ■ A volunteering portal was opened on the organizational portal, in which employees share the activities that they conduct with community partners. Employees performed approximately 110,000 hours of community volunteer work during 2012. the Ethical Conduct Code 196-197 Assimilating the Ethical Conduct Code In 2004, Bank Hapoalim adopted an ethical code that addresses the An organizational structure has been established with the aim of promoting a culture of conduct values of accountability, trust, integrity, and respect. The code defines congruent with the ethical code. The structure encompasses work processes and reporting channels the relationship between employees and their environment the bank, in this area. Within the new structure, the head of the Human Capital, Advising, and Resources Division other employees, customers, and the community. The ethical guidelines was appointed as the bank's ethics officer. The role includes: stress employees' respectful behavior towards their environment and ■ Management of learning and guidance processes; the bank's commitment to treat employees fairly and respectfully. In ■ Creation of various reporting channels for employees disposal; 2009, the bank updated the code, with renewed phrasing and expanded ■ Discussing ethical issues raised by employees through the various channels at their disposal; content, and the code became a global ethical code. In 2010, the code was officially launched for employees. The process of assimilating the ■ Discussing cases of violation of the code. code was conducted on three organizational levels: the individual level, the level of leading forums, and In addition, a head of ethics was appointed at the Poalim Campus, from the Leadership and Organizational the organizational level. The process aimed to reinforce the status of the code as a significant element of Development Unit. The head of ethics' responsibilities include helping to assimilate the code, processing the bank's organizational culture. employee inquiries on matters related to ethics, and ensuring that such inquiries are communicated to and addressed by the appropriate parties at the bank. In order to ensure that employees who submit The ethical behavior code is divided into inquiries are protected and are not harmed as a result of their report, the organizational portal offers the four sections: option of sending an anonymous message directly to the ethics officer. ■ My work at the bank Defines the relationship between the bank and its The full ethical code is available on the bank's website. employees; ■ Customer relationships Defines the relationship between the bank and its customers of the bank; ■ Relationships with external parties, suppliers, and competitors Defines the relationship between the bank and external parties, suppliers, and competitors; ■ Promoting the environment, society and community in Israel Deals with the bank's social involvement, environmental responsibility, employee quality of life and welfare services and its customers' wellbeing. Yifat Ilich, In-House Art THE BANK'S PROFILE 198-199 Ethical code update As appropriate for a banking corporation, Bank Hapoalim insists that each and every one of its employees act honestly, credibly, fairly, and without bias. The bank As a banking organization at the heart of the business enterprise, a key economic has clear procedures that define prohibitions and rules of conduct concerning factor in Israel and a player on the international business arena, Bank Hapoalim perquisites (such as free services, gifts, and so on). This commitment also applies feels duty-bound to actively engage in the international struggle against corruption. to all employees who act on the bank's behalf world-wide and group-wide. The bank has been dealing with bribery and corruption prevention for many years regarding a variety issues. Each of these issues is a separated element and a different field, and all of them are intertwined within a comprehensive system (contents, processes, audits, and procedures). Put together, these components are meant to prevent the occurrence of bribery and corruption in the bank. In 2012, the bank introduced several key assertions into its ethical code to create 2012 Summary: a clear-cut statement about the bank's policy on the subject addressing each and every in-house and external stakeholder. These are the assertions: ■ The bank's ethical code was updated during the year. The update concerns the achievement of personal objectives while maintaining fair competition between employees, in accordance with Prohibition of Corruption and Receiving or Giving Bribes, Benefits, or Perquisites. rules and laws, and while demonstrating integrity, credibility, and mutual respect; Bank Hapoalim acknowledges that bribery and corruption are harmful and strongly negates them. The bank has pledged to implement its anti-corruption policy on ■ Employee inquiries regarding ethics were responded to and addressed routinely; six inquiries from every level from management and board members to the single employee employees and managers in various departments were processed during 2012; including the adjustment of existing mechanisms and working procedures. Bank ■ A game designed to assimilate ethics was developed and sent to all units of the bank (branches Hapoalim defines corruption and giving and/or receiving bribes as follows: and head-office departments). Unit managers received instructions on facilitating the activity, which ■ Giving or receiving anything of value by bank employees, representatives, aimed to generate an experience-based discussion of relevant ethical issues within the unit. or agents to or from functionaries of public authorities or other organizations with an intention to inappropriately affect their professional and unbiased judgment and to induce a decision conflicting with customary standards of fairness and integrity; ■ Giving or receiving illegal facilitation payments for the expedition of Looking ahead processes, which might impair the integrity and appropriate stages of ■ During 2013, content related to the ethical code, including the prevention proper business or administrative processes; of corruption, will be integrated into professional and managerial courses conducted at the Poalim Campus; ■ Directly or indirectly offering or promising anything of value to civil servants, political candidates, a political faction or members thereof, while intending ■ The process of dialogue and coordination of expectations with the to negatively and improperly impact on, attain, hold, or ascertain dishonest bank's suppliers will include communication regarding the ethical code, competitive advantage. in the context of the prevention of corruption. THE BANK'S PROFILE 200-201 The Bank's Profile Bank Hapoalim was founded in 1921 by the central institutions of the Jewish Settlement ( the Yishuv ) at the time the Zionist Histadrut and the Histadrut General Federation of Hebrew Workers in Eretz Organizational and Operational Structure: Yisrael and incorporated as a limited company under the Companies Ordinance. The Bank is a banking Chief Executive Officer corporation and holds a bank license under the directives of the Banking Law. In 1983, within an arrangement formulated between the Israeli government and the banks, the shares of the Bank were Corporate Corporate Financial Risk Management Finance and brought under state control, and it was fully privatized in 1997, with the controlling interest transferred to Banking Division Strategy Management Officer Information Systems Division Officer Division the current controlling shareholders and others. Chief Chief Legal Human Capital, International Retail Division IT Division Comptroller Internal Advisor Advising and Banking Banking Auditor Resources Division Division Information on the Bank in Israel for December 31st, 2012 Total profit (Profit from financing activity and operating income) for 2012 (unified) 13,637 Million NIS Bank Hapoalim Group Activity Overseas Equity 26,755 Million NIS In addition to its activities in Israel, the bank group operates overseas in the private-banking and corporate Total capital to risk-adjusted assets 15.7% sectors, in Europe, the United States, Canada, Latin America, and Asia. Overseas activities are conducted Shareholders’ equity to total assets 7.1% through the bank's branches, representative offices, banking subsidiaries, and asset-management subsidiaries. The bank group also operates in the households sector and in the commercial sector in Turkey and Kazakhstan. In its private-banking business, the bank group provides high-net-worth clients overseas with advanced, professional products and services, including investment products and global Bank Hapoalim Group Activity in Israel asset management. Corporate banking overseas encompasses credit for local and foreign borrowers, including participation in credit organized by leading foreign banks; credit for borrowers with an affinity to The Bank Hapoalim Group operates in all areas of banking in Israel through two main units. The Corporate Israel, and investments in bonds. Within its international operations, the bank maintains relationships with Banking Area serves most business clients: large corporations are served by head-office sections over 2,400 foreign banks around the world. The key focus of the bank's strategy is the development and specializing in each sector; middle-market firms are served by seven business centers located throughout expansion of its international activity, in the area of global private banking as well as commercial banking Israel. All clients of the Corporate Banking Area receive operational banking services through a network in New York. The bank aims to continue to expand its service offering and improve its capabilities in the of 22 business branches. The Retail Banking Area serves households, private-banking clients, and areas of products, marketing, and customer service. small businesses, through the branch network; operates services through the direct channels (Internet, telephone, and mobile), and oversees consumer credit and mortgages. The Retail Banking Area operates through 276 branches, providing the full range of banking services. In addition to its banking business, the Bank Group also engages in related activities, mainly in the areas of credit cards and the capital market. In the credit card sector, the Bank Group through a subsidiary (the Isracard Group ) issues, operates, and markets credit cards, within and outside the Bank, for use in Israel and overseas, and clears transactions executed using its credit cards as well as externally-issued cards. The Bank Group's capital-market activity includes providing services for the execution of trading transactions in securities (brokerage), securities custody services, research and consulting, services for financial asset managers, investment portfolio management, and issuance underwriting and management. THE BANK'S PROFILE 202-203 Ownership Structure and Legal Organization Set out below is a chart of the Bank’s main holdings*: The Bank The holder of the permit for control of the bank, near the date of publication of its financial statements, is Ms. Shari Arison. Her stake in the bank is held through several trusts that have holdings in the Israeli Banks Overseas Credit Cards Other Financial companies noted below, which own shares of the bank. Arison Holdings (1998) Ltd. (“Arison Holdings”) Services holds shares comprising approximately 20.27% of the bank’s share capital near the date of publication of 100% Bank Hapoalim 98.2% 100% (Switzerland) Isracard Poalim Capital the financial statements, which constitute the “controlling interest” of the bank (as defined in the control Markets 100% Bank Hapoalim 100% 100% permit issued by the Governor of the Bank of Israel). (Cayman) Poalim Express Poalim Sahar 69.8% Bank Pozitif Arison Investments Ltd. (a sister company of Arison Holdings; hereinafter: “Arison Investments”), through Turkey 100% a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds the entire share capital of Salt of the Earth Ltd., which holds shares Bank Pozitif Kazakhstan comprising approximately 2.41% of the share capital of the bank. Near the date of publication of the The chart includes the principal companies held directly by the Bank or indirectly through private subsidiaries under the full ownership of the Bank. financial statements, the Arison Group (through Arison Holdings and Arison Investments) holds a total of The wholly-owned subsidiaries through which the companies in the above chart are held do not appear in the chart. For the purposes of this chart, a principal company is a company engaged in business operations which in the opinion of the Board of Management of the Bank is a principal company approximately 22.68% (22.38% fully diluted) of the share capital of the bank. in the Group, and in which the Bank's investment is at least 1% of the shareholders' equity of the Bank, or the Bank's share of whose net operating profit (loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank exceeds 5% of the net operating profit (or loss) attributed to shareholders of the Bank (similar to the criterion established in Public Reporting Directive No. 662 of the Supervisor of Banks regarding the statement of data on principal subsidiaries in financial The issued and paid-up share capital of the bank, as of December 31, 2012, is NIS 1,319,693,645 par statements of banking corporations). value, composed of 1,319,693,645 ordinary shares of par value NIS 1 each. This is the issued capital Bank Ratings following the subtraction of 13,453,853 ordinary shares purchased by the bank. The issued and paid-up The bank has been assigned the following ratings by rating agencies in Israel and overseas: capital of the bank near the date of publication of the financial statements is NIS 1,319,912,079 par value, In Israel, the bank is rated AA+ in local currency by S&P Maalot Ltd., and Aaa by Midroog. following the subtraction of 14,403,853 ordinary shares purchased by the bank. Ratings of the bank and of Israel by international rating agencies Long-term Short-term Rating Rating agency Last update Foreign currency Foreign currency outlook Israel sovereign rating: Moody’s A1 P-1 Stable August 2012 S&P A+ A-1 Stable October 2012 Fitch Ratings A F1 Stable April 2012 Bank Hapoalim: Moody’s A2 P-1 Stable June 2012 S&P BBB+ A-2 Stable July 2012 Fitch Ratings AF2 Stable May 2012 In early May 2012, the rating agency Moody's announced that in light of the expected slowdown in the Israeli economy, the uncertainty in the corporate bond market, and the high concentration of the banks' credit portfolios, it had changed the rating outlook for the entire banking system in Israel from Stable to Negative. It should be noted that the agency's rating and rating outlook for the bank remained unchanged. In May 2012, the rating agency Fitch reaffirmed the bank’s rating, with no change. In June 2012, the rating agency Moody's reaffirmed the bank’s rating, with no change. In July 2012, the rating agency S&P reaffirmed the bank’s rating, with no change. In August 2012, the rating agency Midroog stated that in its opinion: “Economic challenges are expected to cause some degree of worsening of the risk indices for the bank’s credit portfolio, with an increase in the provision for credit losses. According to Midroog’s estimates, the bank’s current risk indices and the development of these indices in the short and medium term, as well as the depth of its safety cushions, are damaging to its asset quality and to the bank’s future ability to recover profits”. Midroog therefore changed the bank’s rating outlook from Stable to Negative. Note that the bank’s rating by Midroog remains unchanged. In January 2013, Moody's confirmed that it had assigned the bank's New York branch a rating identical to the rating of the bank. Corporate governance 204-205 Corporate governance Governance As a part of the banking system in Israel, Bank Hapoalim operates in a broad legislative environment including Data for 2012: primary legislation, standards, and regulations with which the bank is obligated to comply: the Banking Ordinance, the Bank of Israel Law, the banking laws concerning licensing and customer service, the rules of the governor of ■ As of the end of 2012, Bank Hapoalim's Board of Directors consisted of fifteen members, including the Bank of Israel, directives of the Supervisor of Banks, and more. These factors regulate the bank's activities five external directors, as defined in Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 301 of the on various levels, including requirements with respect to its capital and ways of managing capital, exercise Bank of Israel, and two additional external directors, as defined in Section 240 of the Companies of internal and external auditing, and the areas in which the bank is permitted to engage. According to the Law; Companies Act, shareholders can suggest discussion issues for the next general meeting. Employees are able ■ As of the end of 2012, the number of directors with accounting and financial expertise and to appeal to the board according to the bank's procedures and legal requirements. professional qualification , based on their education, skills, and experience, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Regulations, is fourteen; one director is a director with The Board of Directors: Composition, Activity, and Committees professional qualification . The number of directors with accounting and financial expertise and The Bank Hapoalim Board of Directors operates in accordance with corporate governance guidelines established professional qualification who are members of the audit committee of the board of directors is by law, including the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel and the SOX Act. six, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Law, 1999, and the regulations. The bank implements all of the directives set forth in the legislation, standards, and regulations with regard to preventing conflicts of interest within the board. As part of the separation of duties required between management in practice and the formulation of policy and supervision, the board's chairperson does not serve as an executive at the bank. Directors are selected pursuant to the directives of Israeli law the Companies Law, 1999, and the derived regulations; the Securities Law, 1968; and the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directives of the Bank of Israel as well as the bank's articles. the Board of According to Israeli law, a bank director is required to hold knowledge, experience, or expertise in at least one The Board's Composition Directors held of the following areas: banking, finance, economic or business activities, law, management, or accounting. Men Women Total 35 meetings IN 2012 The financial expertise and professional qualification of directors are evaluated by the board of directors. The 10 5 15 35 meetings of the plenum range of considerations include the director's education, experience, and knowledge in areas and issues related of the board of directors to the activity of the bank, as detailed in the Companies Regulations (Conditions and Tests for Directors with and 185 meetings of the Accounting and Financial Expertise and Directors with Professional Qualification), 2005. Applications to appoint board committees were a director, with a declaration filled out by the director, pursuant to Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive held in 2012. No. 301, are sent to the Supervisor of Banks for review; the appointment of the director is subject to advance approval by the Supervisor of Banks. The Work of the Board of Directors and the Board Committees In 2012, the Board of Directors continued to set forth the bank’s strategy, policy, and guiding principles for activity in Israel and overseas, and established guidelines on various matters in accordance with the requirements of legislative updates and the new Directive 301 of the Bank of Israel. As part of this process, the board set forth policy for the activities of subsidiaries in Israel and abroad, limits for exposure to various risks, bond issuance, share capital issuance, execution and realization of fixed investments, and the execution of buyout offers and mergers. The board addressed the approval of the quarterly and annual financial statements; Corporate governance 206-207 the bank's organizational structure; establishment of policy on manpower, salaries, retirement terms, and the remuneration system for employees and senior executives, and supervision and control over ongoing Board of Directors Meetings in 2012 No. of business operations executed by the board of management and the congruence of these operations with Name of the committee Members of the committee meetings the policies of the bank. The Credit Committee Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, I. Izakson, M. Baron, N. Dror, I. Tov, and M. Koren. 36 The Transactions with Related Parties Committee M. Baron – Chairperson, I. Tov, M. Koren, and D. Schwartz . 35 The directors' duties under the law are uniform for all types of directors; the basic duty is to act in the best D. Schwartz – Chairperson, M. Baron, N. Zichlinskey, I. Tov, Y. Yarom, and Y. The Audit Committee 38 interest of the company. These duties include duties of care, fiduciary duties, corporate governance duties, Peer avoiding conflicts of interest, and other duties applicable to boards of directors, by law and pursuant to the The Human Resources Salaries and Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, A. Dick, I. Tov, E. Peled, and M. Koren. 21 Remuneration Committee directives of the Bank of Israel. The Risk Management and Control Committee I. Izakson – Chairperson, M. Baron, I. Tov, Y. Seroussi, E. Peled, and M. Koren. 19 The Overseas Banking and International Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, A. Dick, M. Wietchner, I. Tov, E. Peled, and N. 8 The plenum of the Board of Directors receives and discusses routine reports regarding execution plans in the Activity Committee Ronen. The New Products Committee Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, I. Izakson, A. Dick, Y. Yarom, and M. Koren. 5 area of sustainability and corporate social responsibility at the bank, including all activities described in this The Corporate Governance Committee Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, A. Dick, I. Tov, and N. Ronen 5 report. The reports and discussions include both status reports on the bank's progress in this area, under The Investment Approval Committee Y. Seroussi – Chairperson, A. Dick, Y. Tauman, and I. Tov, 6 its CSR plan, and discussion and approval of future work plans. In addition to discussions by the plenum, The Information Technology Committee M. Wietchner Chairperson, A. Dick, and N. Zichlinskey. 6 members of the board carry out activities through the committees. The chairperson of the bank's Board of The Finance and Prospectus Committee* I. Izakson – Chairperson, I. Tov, Y. Seroussi, Y. Peer, E. Peled, and M. Koren. 5 Directors serves as the director responsible for sustainability and CSR, and is charged with promoting this The Remuneration Committee I. Tov Chairperson, D. Schwartz, and N. Ronen 1 area on the strategic level. To read more about the bank `s committee`s, Please see the Annual Report, pp. 207-212. The management and senior executive remuneration program links between the bank's long-run overall business performances and the remuneration paid, based on risk-adjusted profit and the capital price. Principal Changes in the Authority and Structure of the Committees in 2012 The program sets a negative bonus for goals not met, as well as a long-term payment spread mechanism, The Remuneration Committee was established pursuant to a Board of Directors resolution of December 26, in order to discourage risks beyond the bank's risk appetite. The annual bonus is based on the bank's 2012, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Law, 1999 (Amendment 20). The committee’s performance (reflecting the management's responsibility to the banks overall performance, beyond their role is to hold discussions and make recommendations to the board regarding the bank’s policy on the terms specific responsibility for their division's/unit's performance), meeting personal goals (KPI's), including risk of service and employment of bank officers, to examine the need to update salary policy from time to time, management and compliance indicators, regulatory demands and procedures and supervisor assessment. and to examine the implementation of such policy. The committee also discusses the terms of service and In addition, part of the management bonus has been awarded since 2010 in the form of Blocked Stock, with employment of officers. a blocking and ripening period of a few years. The Human Resources Salaries and Remuneration Committee – The duties and areas of authority of the This mechanism creates a long-term link between management remuneration and other stakeholders, and committee were updated and approved by the Corporate Governance Committee on January 21, 2013, does not encourage assuming excessive risks, as option-based mechanisms common in Israel companies and by the board of directors on February 17, 2013, in accordance with the changes in the Companies Law and around the world may do. (Amendment 20). Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity 208-209 Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activities The responsibilities of Bank Hapoalim's chief compliance officer are derived from Proper Conduct of The main activities of the Chief Compliance Officer Unit in 2012 are summarized below. Banking Business Directive No. 308, the Prohibition of Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing Anti-Money Laundering and Prohibition of Terrorism Financing Department Law, and Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 411. The chief compliance officer unit The Anti-Money Laundering Department is responsible for compliance with the duties imposed upon the encompasses the compliance department and the anti-money laundering department, as well as two banking corporation and supervision of the fulfillment of such duties. The department is also responsible additional units. The first is the international compliance unit, which is responsible for ensuring compliance for ensuring that the bank's policies and procedures are implemented at the group level. The department and the prohibition of money laundering at the bank's offices outside Israel. Compliance staff at the bank's closely monitors banking activities in accounts in order to identify any that appear to be unusual and report overseas branches now report directly to this unit, on both the professional and the managerial level. such activities to the Israel Money Laundering Prohibition Authority (IMLPA). Improved capabilities for The second unit is an administrative unit (operations, coordination, and control), which assists the chief monitoring unusual activities, improved computerized control systems, training and absorption activities, compliance officer with the execution of systemic and operational assignments. and enhanced awareness and professional ability of employees in the business units led to a larger The Chief Compliance Officer Unit's activity is supervised through three channels: number of reports to the IMLPA. During 2012, the development of a regulatory rating model for the prohibition of money laundering was ■ The Board of Directors’ committee on risk management and control and Basel II implementation; completed; visits were held at branches and regional administrations in order to provide guidance and ■ The Board of Management committee on compliance, headed by the CEO; raise awareness on monitoring unusual activities and the importance of reporting, and training sessions ■ Quarterly and annual reports to the bank's Board of Directors of the bank, the CEO, and the heads of were conducted at Campus courses and at conferences for compliance officers. In light of the Bank of the areas. The reports include updates on the main exposures and risk areas in the group; progress Israel's instructions, Bank Hapoalim's policy concerning activity related to gambling websites was updated on work plans and activities executed, including controls, mapping of knowledge gaps, organizational and approved by the Board of Management and the Board of Directors. At the request of the Bank of learning, technological and other projects in this field, reports submitted to the Israel Money Laundering Israel, during the first quarter of this year the bank also began to conduct a gap survey to examine its Prohibition Authority, violations, and reports of exceptional events. compliance with legal directives concerning the prohibition of money laundering and terrorism financing. The survey was completed in the second quarter. The findings and a plan for closing the gaps discovered Upon the establishment of the Chief Compliance Officer Unit, the bank's Board of Directors established were approved by the Board of Management and the Board of Directors, and reported back to the Bank a new group-level compliance policy for the bank. The new policy sets forth rules regarding all of the of Israel. An annual learning and absorption process in the area of the prohibition of money laundering component areas of the prohibition of money laundering and compliance with consumer protection began during the third quarter, with all employees participating in a tutorial and taking a knowledge quiz. In directives. The policy emphasizes corporate control and the interaction with subsidiaries and branches addition, procedures were updated in order to reduce exposures arising from currency service providers' outside Israel, based on Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 308, the Money Laundering accounts and accounts managed on behalf of others, other than attorneys' escrow accounts. Prohibition Law, the Terrorism Financing Prohibition Law, and Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 411. This policy took effect at the end of December 2010, and was updated in December 2011. Compliance Department The Compliance Department assists the Board of Management and the Board of Directors in fulfilling In order to comply with legislative directives and with the group-level compliance policy, several activities requirements in the areas under its responsibility, reducing the corporation’s exposure to legal claims, are being conducted by the chief compliance officer unit, such as: identifying the main exposures and and protecting the corporation’s reputation. The Compliance Department monitors gaps and violations (if risk areas; applying process-based, qualitative, and quantitative controls to ensure adherence to the any) in the area of consumer protection directives. In addition, changes in legislation and in Bank of Israel directives that regulate relationships between the bank and its customers and the prohibition of money directives are monitored, as they pertain to consumer protection directives and their implementation at laundering and terrorism financing; developing training systems and knowledge management on the the bank. A new infrastructure survey is performed at the bank every five years, as required by Proper organizational portal; infrastructure surveys; analysis of new products and services, and development of Conduct of Banking Business Directive No. 308, “Compliance Officers”. Changes in procedure related to systems in the area of compliance and the prohibition of money laundering. consumer protection directives are monitored routinely, through an infrastructure survey system developed THE BANK'S PROFILE 210-211 for this purpose. Technological improvements have been made to this system to enable efficient routine Securities Laws, and to ensure that all relevant employees and executives are aware of the limits imposed processing and monitoring of survey records. on business activity by the Securities Laws. The Internal Enforcement Department was created in late July 2012. During the year, the Compliance Department conducted the following activities: review of work processes and adaptation of necessary controls and training activities, and working meetings with professional The Administrative Enforcement in Securities Law took effect in February 2011, and requires the bank to units supporting the execution of the new compliance policy. Within this process, job descriptions were appoint a head of enforcement, create a reasonable internal enforcement plan, and allocate appropriate formulated for compliance officers at bank's units, adding to those where these job descriptions had resources to the plan. The goal of the internal enforcement plan is to identify and prevent violations already been prepared in 2011. Controls were executed at the various business units in a range of areas. In and offenses, and to ensure bank compliance, and in particular by individuals within the bank, with the area of absorption and training, a new tutorial on consumer protection directives was developed, with the directives of the Securities Law, 1968; the Joint Trust Investments Law, 1994; and the Regulation the aim of imparting basic knowledge on the principles of consumer protection directives to employees. of Investment Advice, Investment Marketing, and Investment Portfolio Management Law, 1995 (the Employees began using the tutorial in the third quarter of 2012, in a process completed by December “Securities Laws”). The Internal Enforcement Department is also responsible for ensuring that the bank’s 31, 2012. In addition, learning materials on various subjects were developed, and the compliance portal policies and procedures in connection with the Securities Laws are implemented, at the group level. was updated with training and learning materials related to compliance. A knowledge gap mapping During 2012, a survey was conducted in order to identify gaps between work processes at the Bank and process was performed with regard to opening accounts for corporations. The Compliance Department regulatory requirements. The gaps identified were mapped, and work plans for the closure of the gaps gave lectures and conducted training sessions on compliance issues in courses for senior executives in the relevant areas were formulated. and others at the Poalim Campus, at compliance officers’ conferences, and in various forums. The Administrative Coordination, Operations, and Control Department department examined new products and services, examined findings of audit reports, and examined The department is responsible for: coordination, monitoring, and control of the Chief Compliance Officer customer complaints related to consumer protection directives, for learning purposes and in order to Unit's activities; maintaining contact with the compliance system of the Bank; managing work plans; identify trends in the area of compliance. managing incentives and measurement; training activities and related activities at the business units of International Compliance Unit the areas of the bank; managing controls, and coordinating reports to the board of directors and the The International Compliance Unit oversees the compliance officers at the bank’s overseas branches, from board of management. the professional perspective, and works to ensure that the compliance system at the subsidiaries operates The department distributes tasks to be carried out with customers, derived from legislation or directives in accordance with the Board of Directors' policies and the local regulatory directives. The unit continued concerning the relationship between the bank and its customers in this area, or derived from violations its activities aimed at creating a uniform compliance infrastructure and procedures for communication or flaws discovered, and measures the performance of the business units in this area. It also develops and reporting by all bank units around the world. The unit monitors the timely execution of the annual risk metrics and performance metrics. During 2012, the department addressed the findings of the gap compliance plan at all units and examines the quality of execution, through routine reports received as survey in the area of the prohibition of money laundering and terrorism financing; analyzed Know Your well as controls in the field, through visits to the branches. It also examines the units’ procedures and Customer and Expanded Due Diligence questionnaires; analyzed quarterly controls; developed a course approves compliance procedures at overseas branches. The unit supports and monitors the processing for compliance officers; implemented optimization and control processes with regard to duplicate records, of audit reports relevant to compliance. In addition, it routinely addresses various issues raised by other foreign residents, and updates of customer addresses in accounts, and more. units. The unit continued to provide IT support for overseas units. Visits and physical controls were carried out at the bank’s overseas offices. Compliance with Laws and Regulations Concerning Products and Services No substantial fines or substantial non-monetary sanctions were imposed on the bank for noncompliance Internal Enforcement Department with laws and regulations during 2012. For details of material legal proceedings to which the bank is a The department’s mission is to instill and promote an organizational culture of compliance with the party, see Note 19D (p. 407 ) to the Financial Statements for 2012. Compliance and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity 212-213 GRI Index and Global Compact COP Report Data for 2012: Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission ■ The Chief Compliance Officer Unit conducted 11 visits to 31 branches (10% of the bank's branches) in 2012. During the visits, the chief compliance officer reviewed activities relevant for the branches STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures that pose a risk in the area of compliance. The visits emphasized customers with a high risk of money laundering and stressed the attention that branches must dedicate to these customers. The chief 1. Strategy and Analysis compliance officer and international compliance unit also visited overseas branches of the bank; 1.1 (Core) NR* Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ⎷ 4-6 ■ In the annual learning process using tutorials on the prohibition of money laundering in accordance 1.2 (Core) NR Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ⎷ 4-6 with the amendments required by law 95% of the bank's managers and employees completed the tutorial and quiz. In addition, 93% of managers and employees completed an annual learning process 2. Organizational Profile using tutorials on compliance; 2.1 (Core) NR Name of the organization. ⎷ 7 ■ During 2012, 124 training sessions were held in various courses and forums at the bank and its subsidiaries. 2.2 (Core) NR Primary brands, products, and/or services. ⎷ 200-201 Focused training sessions were also held at regional branch compliance officers' conferences, covering Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, routine updates, lessons learned from events, and issues related to the prohibition of money laundering 2.3 (Core) NR ⎷ 200-201 and joint ventures. and the prevention of terrorism financing; 2.4 (Core) NR Location of organization's headquarters. ⎷ 200 ■ A new tutorial on consumer-protection directives was developed in 2012. The tutorial consists of Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major four modules, designed to impart basic knowledge regarding the principles of consumer-protection 2.5 (Core) NR ⎷ 200-201 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. directives to employees; 2.6 (Core) NR Nature of ownership and legal form. ⎷ 203 ■ Brief refresher presentations were developed and provided to branch compliance officers for use with Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ employees during branch-level training hours. The presentations cover the subjects of canceling a lien, 2.7 (Core) NR ⎷ 156-158, 201-202, 203 beneficiaries). reasonable refusal to open an account, and reasonable cause for closure of an account; 2.8 (Core) NR Scale of the reporting organization. ⎷ 75, 200-202, 203 ■ A knowledge gap mapping process was performed in 2012 in the area of opening accounts for corporations, at the Retail Banking Area and the Corporate Banking Area. 2.9 (Core) NR Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ⎷ 207 2.10 (Core) NR Awards received in the reporting period. ⎷ 30, 73, 134, 135, 138, 140 3. Report Parameters 3.1 (Core) NR Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ⎷ 9 Looking ahead 3.2 (Core) NR Date of most recent previous report (if any). ⎷ 7 ■ Beginning in 2013, the Internal Enforcement Department will manage 3.3 (Core) NR Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ⎷ 9 a system of depth and breadth controls over work processes related to the Securities Laws. Controls will cover the advisory process, the 3.4 (Core) NR Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ⎷ 10 bank's reporting requirements, and employee conduct in their own 3.5 (Core) NR Process for defining report content. ⎷ 7-9, 21-26 accounts, subject to the various investment limits applicable to them. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, The department will also conduct training and absorption activities and 3.6 (Core) NR ⎷ 9 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. raise employee awareness in the bank's various business units. The department will work to create an orderly channel for communication with the Israel Securities Authority. * Not specifically required GRI Index 214-215 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for 1-10 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 3.7 (Core) NR ⎷ 9 organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in explanation of scope). 4.13 (Core) ⎷ 30-31 projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and The report does not refer membership as strategic. 3.8 (Core) NR other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between ⎷ to the bank's subsidiaries List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 23-24, 68-69, 85-88, organizations. and activity abroad. 4.14 (Core) The Global ⎷ 116-120, 167-169, 173-180 Compact Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques ⎷ COP is part of Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 23-24, 85, 116-117, 156, 3.9 (Core) NR underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 9-10, 21 4.15 (Core) the CSR and ⎷ Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 167, 173 Sustainability Report, which Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 4.16 (Core) ⎷ 21-24, 85, 167, 173 3.10 (Core) NR reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of ⎷ 67, 159, 164 is the base for stakeholder group. business, measurement methods). stakeholder dialogue Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 23-24, 85-87, 119-120, 4.17 (Core) ⎷ Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 173-180 3.11 (Core) NR methods applied in the report. ⎷ 9-10, 23-24 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 3.12 (Core) NR Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ⎷ 213-222 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC ⎷ 3.13 (Core) NR Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ⎷ 11-19 Economic performance ⎷ 29, 164-165 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Aspects Market presence ⎷ 29, 164-165 1-10 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 (Core) ⎷ 204-207 Indirect economic impacts ⎷ 29, 166 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 (Core) 1-10 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ⎷ 4-6 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN ⍻ 1-10 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the 4.3 (Core) ⎷ 204-205 Materials ⎷ 29, 36-41 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 1-10 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Energy ⎷ 29, 36-39, 46 4.4 (Core) ⎷ 204 governance body. Water ⎷ 29, 36-39, 54 1-10 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and ⎷ Not applicable: not relevant 4.5 (Core) executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social 206 Biodiversity ☓ and environmental performance). to bank's activities Aspects 4.6 (Core) 1-10 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ⎷ 204 Emissions, effluents and waste ⎷ 29, 36-39, 60 1-10 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the Products and services ⎷ 29, 36-39, 128-132 4.7 (Core) highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other ⎷ 204-207 indicators of diversity. Compliance ⎷ 29, 36-39 1-10 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to 28-29, 39, 168-170, Transport ⎷ 29, 36-39, 62-63 4.8 (Core) ⎷ economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 196-199 Overall ⎷ 29, 36-39 1-10 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and 4.9 (Core) management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and ⎷ 204-206 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA ⎷ opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Employment ⎷ 29, 72 1-10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to Labor/management relations ⎷ 29, 72, 85 4.10 (Core) ⎷ 204-206 economic, environmental, and social performance. Occupational health and safety ⎷ 29, 72, 111 7 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 (Core) ⎷ 37-39, 60-63 Aspects organization. Training and education ⎷ 29, 72, 102 1-10 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to ⎷ 4.12 (Core) ⎷ 30-31 Diversity and equal opportunity 29, 72, 79-80 which the organization subscribes or endorses. Equal remuneration for women and men ⎷ 29, 72, 82 GRI Index 216-217 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR ⍻ Market presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Investment and procurement practices ⎷ 28-29 EC5 (Additional) 1 ⎷ 84 significant locations of operation. Non-discrimination ⎷ 28-29, 79-80 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of EC6 (Core) NR ⍻ 166, 168-170 operation. Freedom of association and collective bargaining ⎷ 28-29, 72, 77-78 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community Child labor ⎷ There is no child labor practice EC7 (Core) 6 ⎷ 166 at significant locations of operation. There is no forced labor Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor ⎷ Indirect economic impacts practice Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Security practices ⎷ 28-29, 111 EC8 (Core) NR ⎷ 174-177, 180-194 benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Not applicable: not relevant Indigenous rights ☓ EC9 (Additional) NR Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of ⎷ 166 to bank's activities impacts. Assessment ⎷ 28-29, 78 Environmental Remediation ⎷ 28-31, 198-199 Materials DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO ⎷ EN1 (Core) 8 Materials used by weight or volume. ⎷ 44, 65 Local communities ⎷ 29, 164, 166, 183, 191-192 EN2 (Core) 8, 98 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ⎷ 43, 65 Corruption ⎷ 29, 198-199, 208-211 Materials Aspects Public policy ⎷ 29, 164 EN3 (Core) 8 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ⎷ 65 Anti-competitive behavior ⎷ 208-211 EN4 (Core) 8 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ⎷ 53 Compliance ⎷ 29, 208-211 EN5 (Additional) 8, 9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ⎷ 53 ⍻ Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR EN 6 (Additional) 8, 9 ⎷ 128-130 reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Customer health and safety ☓ Not material EN7 (Additional) 8, 9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ⎷ 47-53, 62-64, 178 Product and service labeling ⎷ 29, 153 Water Aspects Marketing communications ⎷ 29, 153 EN8 (Core) 8 Total water withdrawal by source. ⎷ 56 Customer privacy ⎷ 29, 151-152, 153 Not applicable: not relevant EN 9 (Additional) 8 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ☓ to bank's activities Compliance ⎷ 29, 153 Not applicable: not relevant STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators EN10 (Additional) 8, 9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ☓ to bank's activities Economic Biodiversity Not applicable: there aren’t Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas Economic performance EN11 (Core) 8 ☓ such areas in bank owned, of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. leased, or managed land Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee ⎷ Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EC1 NR compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 164-165 EN12 (Core) 8 ⎷ 68-69 capital providers and governments. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to Not applicable: there aren’t EC2 7 ⎷ 128-132 EN13 (Additional) 8 Habitats protected or restored. ☓ such areas in bank owned, climate change. leased, or managed land EC3 NR Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ⎷ 110 EN14 (Additional) 8 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ⎷ 36-39, 68-69 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Not applicable: not relevant EC4 NR Significant financial assistance received from government. ⎷ 164 EN15 (Additional) 8 ☓ affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. to bank's activities GRI Index 218-219 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Emissions, effluents and waste LA3 (Additional) NR ⎷ 77-78 employees. EN16 (Core) 8 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ⎷ 66-67 LA15 (Core) 1, 3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave. ⎷ 74 EN17 (Core) 8 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ⎷ 67 Labor/management relations EN18 (Additional) 7, 8, 9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ⎷ 67 LA4 (Core) 1,3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ⎷ 74 EN19 (Core) 8 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ⎷ 67 Not applicable: not Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is LA5 (Core) 3 ⎷ 110 EN20 (Core) 8 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ☓ relevant: no air emissions specified in collective agreements. in bank's operations Occupational health and safety Not applicable: not EN21 (Core) 8 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ☓ relevant to bank's Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Not relevant; where isn't activities LA6 (Additional) 1 ☓ committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. such a committee EN22 (Core) 8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ⍻ 60-62, 64-65 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related LA7 (Core) 1 ⍻ 113 Not applicable: not fatalities by region and by gender. EN23 (Core) 8 Total number and volume of significant spills. ☓ relevant to bank's Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist activities LA8 (Core) 1 ⎷ 107-110 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not applicable: not EN24 (Additional) 8 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste ☓ relevant to bank's ☓ Not applicable: not relevant LA9 (Additional) 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. shipped internationally. activities to bank's activities Not applicable: not Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats ☓ Training and education EN25 (Additional) 8 relevant to bank's significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. activities LA10 (Core) NR Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. ⎷ 103 Products and services Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact LA11 (Additional) NR ⎷ 91-93, 102-103 ⎷ employees and assist them in managing career endings. EN26 (Core) 7 67, 128-130 mitigation. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Not applicable: not LA12 (Additional) NR ⎷ 97 by gender. EN27 (Core) 8 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ☓ relevant to bank's activities Diversity and equal opportunity Compliance Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 (Core) 1,6 ⎷ 75-76, 82-84, 205 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonaccording to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. EN28 (Core) 8 ⎷ 36 compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Equal remuneration for women and men Transport Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used LA14 (Core) 1,6 ⎷ 82 EN29 (Additional) 8 ⎷ 65 locations of operation. for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall Social: Human Rights EN30 (Additional) 7, 8, 9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ☓ Not reported Investment and procurement practices Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include ☓ Not applicable: not relevant HR1 (Core) 1,2,3,4,5,6 clauses incorporating human rights concerns. to bank's activities Employment HR2 (Core) 1,2,3,4,5,6 Percentage of significant suppliers. ⎷ 167-171 LA1 (Core) NR Total workforce by employment type. ⎷ 75, 82 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 (Additional) 1,2,3,4,5,6 ⎷ 171, 199 LA 2 (Core) 6 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group. ⎷ 75 that are relevant to operations. GRI Index 220-221 Profile GC Page / Reason Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Disclosure Principle for Omission Non-discrimination Corruption HR4 (Core) 1, 2, 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. ⎷ 79 SO2 (Core) 10 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ⎷ 212 Freedom of association and collective bargaining SO3 (Core) 10 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ⎷ 212 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 (Core) 1, 2, 3 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to ⎷ 77-78 SO4 (Core) 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ⎷ 211 support these rights. Public policy Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child ⎷ There is no child labor SO5 (Core) 1-10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ⎷ 30-31 HR6 (Core) 1, 2, 5 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. practice Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Prevention of forced and compulsory labor SO 6 (Additional) 10 ⎷ 181 institutions by country. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Anti-competitive behavior There is no forced labor HR7 (Core) 1, 2, 4 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or ⎷ practice compulsory labor. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7 (Additional) NR ⎷ 211 and their outcomes. Security practices Compliance Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning HR8 (Additional) 1, 2 ⎷ 171 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSO8 (Core) NR ⎷ 211 compliance with laws and regulations. Indigenous rights Social: Product Responsibility Not applicable: not relevant HR9 (Additional) 1, 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ☓ to bank's activities Customer health and safety Assessment Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 (Core) 1 ⎷ 160-161 improvement. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ HR10 (Additional) 1, 2 ⎷ 86-87, 171, 199 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Not applicable: not relevant or impact assessments. ☓ PR2 (Additional) 1 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. to bank's activities Remediation Product and service labeling Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal HR11 (Additional) 1, 2, 6 ⎷ 79 grievance mechanisms. PR3 (Core) 8 Type of product and service information required by procedures. ⎷ 153 Social: Society Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 (Additional) 8 ⎷ 153 product and service information and labeling. Local communities PR5 (Additional) NR Practices related to customer satisfaction. ⎷ 148-153 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, SO1 (Core) NR ⍻ 173-195 and development programs. FS15 (Additional) NR Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. ⎷ 117-120 SO9 (Core) NR Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ⎷ 131-132 117-123, 152-153, 184-185, FS16 (Additional) NR Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. ⎷ FS13 (Core) NR Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. ⎷ 141-143, 156-157 194 116-123, 144-147, 152-153, Marketing communications FS14 (Core) NR Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. ⎷ 156-157, 194 PR6 (Core) NR Programs for adherence to laws ⎷ 153 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning SO10 (Core) NR ⎷ 131-132 PR7 (Additional) NR ⎷ 153 actual negative impacts on local communities. marketing communications GRI Index 222-223 Profile GC Page / Reason Description Level Disclosure Principle for Omission Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 (Additional) 1 ⎷ 154 customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 (Core) NR ⎷ 211 provision and use of products and services. SECTOR SUPPLEMENT: Product and Service Impact Product portfolio FS1 (Core) NR Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. ⎷ 117-132 FS2 (Core) NR Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. ⎷ 131-132 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and FS3 (Core) NR ⎷ 117-119, 152-153, 167-171 social requirements included in agreements or transactions. Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies FS4 (Core) NR ⎷ 39, 105-106, 116-117, 132 and procedures as applied to business lines. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks FS5 (Core) NR ⎷ 116-120, 152-153, 167-180 and opportunities. Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and FS6 (Core) NR ⎷ 159 by sector. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7 (Core) NR ⎷ 117-126 business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for FS8 (Core) NR ⎷ 128-130 each business line broken down by purpose. Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies FS9 (Core) NR ⎷ 39, 116-117, 132 and risk assessment procedures. Active ownership Not applicable: Hapoalim Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting is a commercial bank FS10 (Core) NR ☓ organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. rather investment institution Not applicable: Hapoalim is a FS11 (Core) NR Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. ☓ commercial bank rather investment institution Not applicable: Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting Hapoalim is a FS12 (Core) NR ☓ organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. commercial bank rather investment institution
