可持续发展报告 The sustainable development report of CAAC Pioneer Logistics 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司 2012 1 Sustainable Development Report 报告说明 Report Instruction 指代说明 Reference & Instruction 报告范围 Report Range 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司简称为“民航鹏远”或“公司”或“我们”。 本报告是北京民航鹏远航空服务公司第4份可持续发展年度报告。 CAAC Pioneer Logistics is abbreviated as “CPL” or “company” or “us”. 报告数据和信息含北京民航鹏远航空服务公司2012年1月1日至2012年12月31 日期间各项可持续发展实践。 发布语言 Published Language 基于报告的延续性和对比性，部分信息不局限于2012年。 This report is the fourth annual report on sustainable development of CAAC 报告语言为中文和英文两种，在对两种文本理解上发生歧义时，请以中文文 Pioneer Logistics Corporation. The data and information of the report include the 本为准。The report is written in two languages, Chinese and English. In the practice of sustainable development of CAAC Pioneer Logistics Corporation from event of any dispute or misunderstanding as to the interpretation of the January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. language or terms, the Chinese language version shall prevail. Given the need for continuity and contrast of the former reports, some information in this report is not confined to 2012. 我们从未停止在技术、流程、商业、管理以及企业责任方面的创 新变革。We have never stopped in making innovations on technology, 内容选择 Content Selection processes, business, management and corporate responsibility. 报告了北京民航鹏远航空服务公司在产品、环境、社区、员工以及商业伙伴等 方面的可持续发展责任。 It reports the sustainable development responsibility of CAAC Pioneer Logistics Corporation on products, environment, community, staffs and business partners. 2 Sustainable Development Report economy went through a recession in 2012, but such external market environment did not change our company’s commitment 总经理致词 to implement the social responsibility. We hope to have a wider vision on General Manager's Statement implementing the corporate responsibility and realizing the corporate responsibility. We also hope to work together with the government, social organizations and other cooperative enterprises to promote social progress 在近 20 年的风雨历程中，我们 and harmonious development. 致力于在企业整体策略和管理战略、 致力创新引领未来的战略观。我们重视技术创新。大力研发、更新信息 公司治理与商业道德、经济增长与推 系统，充分利用信息技术支撑物流管理，以致调控和主导物流，从而推动物 动创新、低碳环保与绿色发展、汇聚 流产业转型和行业发展的历史进程。我们重视管理创新。在充分了解西方经 人才与助力成长方面不断践行企业 济发达国家物流企业的创新发展机理以及企业创新思维的前提下，积极探索 社会责任。2012 年，全球经济相对 自身发展的优势，为物流企业管理创新和提高国际竞争力营造创新环境、增 低迷，这样的外部市场环境并没有动 强创新动力。 摇公司坚持履行社会责任的信念。我 Dedicate to strategic concept of innovation leading the future 们希望在履行企业责任和实现企业 We pay great attention to technology innovation. We focus on research 责任社会化的实践中有更加广阔的 and development, update the information system and make the best use of 视野，携手政府、社会组织和合作企业，共同促进社会的进步和和谐发展。 the information technology to support the management of logistics. Thus, we In the past almost 20 years, we have dedicated to continuously can adjust and control logistics, and promote the transformation of logistics practicing the corporate social responsibility on overall strategy of the industry and make a historical progress for the industry development. We also enterprise, management strategy, corporate governance, business ethics, economic growth, innovation promotion, low carbon environmental protection, pay close attention to management innovation. Base on the fully green development, retaining talents and growth reinforcement. The global 3 Sustainable Development Report understanding about the innovative thinking of logistics enterprises in the 进实现社会和谐和企业可持续发展的目标。 western developed countries, we actively explore our development Ecological views throughout the process of products. advantages to build a new environment for innovation of the management of We always take the environmental protection concept into consideration logistics enterprises and to improve our international competitiveness. in the entire ecological chain of logistics services. We are committed to realize the green standard on transportation, storage, operation and management 践行求贤若渴的人才观。人才是企业最重要的资源，也是企业创造价值、 and strive to make the concept of environmental protection be effective on 持续发展、长盛不衰的力量源泉。民航鹏远坚持以人为本的管理理念，建立 each of our employees. Thus, we can build a green future of CAACPL and to 重视优秀人才的管理体制、激励机制、分配制度；充分创造适合优秀人才发 promote social harmonious development and sustainable development of 挥才能的健康环境和发展平台。 enterprises. Practicing a view of thirsty for talents in terms of human resources Talents are the most important resources in the enterprises. They are also the fountainhead of the enterprises to create values and develop 我们将努力做行业技术和管理的创新者、专业诚信的合作伙伴，凝聚更 continuously. CAACPL insists on people-oriented management concept. We build the talents-valued management system, inspiration system and 多的合作力量推动行业创新发展，致力于成为企业社会公民的行业典范。 distribution system to create a healthy environment and development platform We will do our best to be a leading innovator for the technology and for talented people. management of the industry. We will also consolidate more cooperation strength to promote the industry innovation and development and become a model for enterprises, society and citizens. 贯穿产品流程的生态观。我们始终将环保理念贯穿于物流服务的整个生 态链中。从运输、仓储、运营、管理等相关政策上一直致力于实践绿色标准， 并力求使环保理念影响每一位员工，共同构筑民航鹏远的绿色未来，最终促 4 Sustainable Development Report 公司治理 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 16 目录 Contents 职业道德与职业操守 Occupation Ethics 17 公司概况COMPANY PROFILE 5 合规计划与措施 Compliance Plans & Measures 20 资质 Qualifications 6 业务领域 Business Range 6 低碳经济 LOW CARBON ECONOMY 21 公司网络 Company Network 7 绿色物流 Green Logistics 21 客户 Customers 8 建设环保节约办公环境Build an Environmental & Economical Working Environment 24 战略与管理 STRATEGIES & ADMINISTRATION 8 企业愿景 Enterprise Vision 9 人文关怀 HUMANISTIC CARE 26 责任管理 Liability Management 9 理想的工作场所 Ideal Workplace 26 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development Responsibility 13 持续的人才关注 Continuous Prevenance for Talents 27 挑战与机遇 Challenges & Opportunity 14 职业安全 Occupational Safety 30 5 Sustainable Development Report 展望 PROSPECTS 30 民航鹏远是由商务部批准的国际货物运输代理企业，也是首批经中国民 用航空总局和民航华北管理局批准的兼有航空运输一类客、货和二类客、货 销售代理业务资质的航空运输销售代理人。国内综合物流方面，民航鹏远具 公司概况 Company Introduction 备道路运输资质，公司拥有自己的运输车队，长期与铁路运输部门保持了紧 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司（以下简称民航鹏远），成立于 1993 年，是中 密的合作关系。公司拥有完善的第三方物流和仓储管理信息系统、GPS 定 国民航总局所属的全民所有制企业。CAAC Pioneer Logistics (CPL for short) 位跟踪系统，并针对中国物流企业的实际运作特点不断开发、更新。 was founded in 1993 and is the state owned enterprise under the CPL is an international forwarding company approved by the Ministry of management of Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC).结合对各行各 Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MFTEC), and an air transportation 业物流需求的研究和实际操作经验，民航鹏远摸索出了完备有效的、为不同 sales agent, one of the first agents with Class-A passenger and cargo sales 需求客户量身定做的物流操作体系，并且在实际运作中快速调整，最大化地 certificate by CAAC. CPL has grown into a leading provider in domestic 满足客户高质低耗的物流需求。Based on its rich experiences with a large logistics industry. It has its own truck fleet equipped with GPS , warehouses, variety of industries, CPL could tailor-make viable and effective logistics distribution centers and state-of –the –art IT systems, etc. Furthermore, we management for every kind of customers and may most closely meet their keep close partnership with railway operations, which provide a good logistic needs.人才专业化、管理系统化、服务规范化、物流网络化，使民航 supplementary to our business category. 鹏远不仅倍受国内外客户的信赖，并且多次获得各合作航空公司及物流业界 的奖项和好评，在中国物流行业享有较高声誉。 Specialized employees, systemized management, standardized service and well networked logistics 业务领域 Business Range enable CPL to be a reliable partner and have helped CPL receive a good reputation from customers in and outside China! 综合物流业务 Comprehensive Logistics Business 鹏远在全国的陆运市场拥有强大的实力，凭借完善的运输网络和多年的操作 经验可为客户提供全国范围内的门到门限时运输服务、区域性及城市配送业 务、仓储管理及供应商库存管理业务、展览运输业务、供应链综合管理和咨 询业务等。CPL has a strong capacity in land transportation market in China. We can provide a door to door time-limited transportation, regional and urban 资质 Qualifications distribution, warehousing management and vendor managed inventory, 6 Sustainable Development Report exhibits transportation business, supply chain management and consulting 航空售票业务 Air Ticket Business based on our well-developed transportation networks and long time operation experiences. 民航鹏远是经民航总局和民航华北地区管理局批准的一类航空客票代 理，是民航总局（ CAAC ）指定的航空票务代理机构，是国际航空运输协 国际国内货运代理业务 International & Domestic Forwarding Business 会（ IATA ）和航空运输销售代理人协会注册会员，是专门从事国际、国内 民航鹏远凭借强大的国际网络支持和对中国航空货运市场的精通以及 机票代理销售业务及旅行、酒店预订及相关经济信息咨询服务的专业服务公 国内专业的操作能力，在国际进出口运输行业、报关清关领域以及海陆空多 司，在北京拥有正式销售代理机构。 种方式联运领域赢得了良好的口碑和美誉，并维持了较高的客户忠诚度。 CPL is a class-A ticket agency approved by CAAC, an appointed air ticket agency by CAAC and a member of IATA and Aviation Transportation 包机租船业务：作为中国民航下属的专业物流公司，鹏远在国际、国内市场 Sales Agency Association. We specialize in international and domestic tickets 上发展包机租船业务具有得天独厚的优势。 sales business, hotel reservation and economy information consulting services. We own sales agencies in Beijing. Depending on the supporting of powerful international networks, the profound understanding of airfreight market in China and the its professional 公司网络 Company Network operation capacity, CAACPL has earned a good reputation and customer loyalty in the industry of international and domestic import & export 民航鹏远总部设在北京。目前国内在天津、广州、上海、沈阳、长春、 transportation and in the fields of custom clearance and multimodal 秦皇岛、大连、深圳、武汉、合肥、厦门、珠海、成都等地设立了 25 个分 transportation. As a professional logistics company subordinate to CAAC, 公司、36 个操作中心和 198 个操作点，服务网络遍布全国 60 多个城市， CAACPL has a unique advantages in developing chartered business in 依靠专业、健全的操作网络为客户提供安全、快捷、高效的物流服务。在海 international and domestic market. 外已形成了以欧洲、中东、北美、南美、澳洲、日本及东南亚为重点的国际 7 Sustainable Development Report 业务网络。 CPL is based in Beijing, owning 25 branches, 36 operation centers and 198 operation stations around China, with our services networks spreading over 60 cities throughout the country. Relying on sophisticated operation network, 客户 Customers CPL could provide safe, rapid and high effective logistics service for 民航鹏远的客户分布在化工、电子、汽车配件、电力设施、药品、食品、展 customers. In terms of its global network, CPL has spread its services into 览业等领域。 The customers of CPL are in the fields of chemical industry, electron, auto Europe, Mid-East, North America, South America, Australia, Japan and South parts, electric power facilities, medicine, foodstuff, exhibition, and etc. East of Asia. 战略与管理 Strategies & Administration 民航鹏远始终强调社会责任和业务的不可分割与可持续发展，基于我们 对道德规范、透明经营、合作共赢和持续创新的坚定承诺，肩负责任的企业 文化将帮助我们创造长远的商业价值。 CPL always emphasizes the inseparable relationship and sustainable development of social responsibility and business. Due to our firm commitment to ethics, transparent business, win-win cooperation and 8 Sustainable Development Report sustainable innovation, our enterprise culture of responsibility will help us to to stimulate the continuous vitality of local logistics industry and bring the new opportunities for the enterprise through realizing the innovation of logistics create a long-term commercial value. technology. 责任管理 Liability Management 民航鹏远始终坚信将企业社会责任纳入企业战略，进行系统性管理，将 其融入公司经营与决策，可以有效控制风险、降低成本、保护品牌价值，并 且为众多利益相关方带来更多利益。因此，我们以成为有责任感的企业为导 向，各部门通力合作，共同将这一理念融入到各项决策之中。 CPL will always believe that taking corporate social responsibility into enterprise strategy and systematic management and considering it for 企业愿景 Enterprise Vision corporate management and decision can effectively control risk, reduce cost, 传承企业文化，助力国内经济发展方式的转型和升级，改善人们的运输、 protect the brand value, and bring interests for more parties. Therefore, 运营和生活方式。通过提升物流服务的专业性，帮助人们享受更高更快更强 的新时代节奏；通过实现本地物流技术创新，激发本土物流产业的持续活力， becoming a responsible enterprise is our guidance, with all departments 并为公司带来新的增长机遇。We hope to pass on the enterprise culture and cooperating together, we shall always take this concept into all of our promote the transition and upgrade of the development ways of domestic economy and to improve the transportation, operation and living style of decisions. people. We also hope to help people to enjoy a higher, faster and stronger speed in new century by promoting the professionalism of logistics services; 9 Sustainable Development Report 企业社会责任管理架构 The Structure of Corporate Social Responsibility the social responsibility management will be actually effective. Management 民航鹏远建立跨职能团队，依靠高水平的责任治理，对整个公司的企 业社会责任事务进行高效管理。企业社会责任管理委员会组成人员为总经理 及各下属部门的最高领导层，负责监管公司整体的企业社会责任和可持续发 展工作，将企业社会责任的理念渗透到各部门相关战略、执行、管理等工作 中，传达至每个员工，鼓励员工积极参与社会责任事项，促进责任理念与每 个员工的日常工作相结合，将社会责任管理工作真正落到实处。 CPL has established a cross-functional team, relying on a high level of responsibility management, to manage the company's corporate social responsibility affairs efficiently. The members of corporate social responsibility management committee are general managers and the highest leaders of the subordinate departments. They are responsible for the supervision of the enterprise social responsibility for the company as a whole, for the penetration of the concept into all the departments related to the strategy, the implementation and management of it. They should communicate to all employees, encourage them to participate actively in social responsibility issues, help them to place the concept into their daily work, and make sure 10 Sustainable Development Report 工发展的渠道；提供安全健康的工 内部沟通渠道。 作环境。 利益相关方 Parties of Interest 与客户保持密切的联系；严 对客户保持诚信，提供优质的产品 我们根据利益相关方对企业可持续发展的影响程度和风险大小进行识 客户 格遵循合同；随时更新产品 和服务；秉承共赢的合作态度。 信息。 别和选择，并且注意与多元化的利益相关方建立常态的沟通机制，倾听他们 合作谈判、高层会晤、招投 遵守商业道德和法律法规，建立长 的需求，学习他们的长处，认真对待他们的反馈，以责任为双方带来巨大的 业务伙伴 标；日常业务交流；定期走 期合作关系；实现互利互赢。 访。 价值。 提高物流服务；为公众谋求利益； 参与公益活动；关注公众对 公众 We identify and select the parties of interest according to the enterprise 支持社会公益事业。 公司评价并保持回应。 支持社会团体组织，履行组织章程； 积极参加有关会议及活动； sustainable development and the influence level of the magnitude of risk, and 非政府组织 加强运营信息披露，实现共同发展。 支持改进，主动建言献策。 establish normal communication mechanisms with all parties of interest. We 关注生态保护，应对气候变 环境 支持环保公益事业。 化，实现环境友好。 will listen to their needs, learn their strengths, treat their feedbacks carefully, and thus bring great values for both parties as our responsibility. Parties of Expectations and requirements Communication Mode interest 利益相关方列表 List of parties of interest Response national policy, Research and learn make a contribution for the laws and regulations, 利益 期望与要求 沟通方式 local economy; Strengthen the policy documents, and 相关方 Government safety transportation practice according to 响应国家政策，为当地经济做出贡 研究学习法律法规、政策文 supervision and protection of the regulation 政府 献；加强安全运输监管、保护环境。 件，并按照规定要求实践。 the environment. requirements. 保护员工权益，提供稳定的就业机 加入工会组织；定期召开员 Protect of rights and interests To join a labor union; A 员工 staff 会与公平合理的薪酬保障；完善员 工大会；建立通畅、透明的 of employees, and provide staff meeting regularly; 11 Sustainable Development Report stable employment opportunity Build open and Support environmental Pay attention to and fair salary system; Improve transparent internal Environment protection public welfare ecological protection, staff development channel; communication undertakings climate change Provide safe and healthy channels. working environment Keep good credit with the Keep a close contact 社会参与 Community Involvement customer, to provide high with customers, Strictly 组织名称 The organization's name 协会任职 position customer quality products and services; follow the contract; Approach to the win-win Update the information 联合国全球契约 成员单位 cooperation. of product The United Nations Global Compact. (UNGC) Member Abide by business ethics and Cooperation 中国国际运输代理协会 会员单位 laws and regulations and negotiations, high-level The China International Freight Forwarders Association (CIFA) Member Business establish a long-term meetings, bidding; Daily 中国报关协会 会员单位 partner cooperation relationship; To business The China Customs Brokers Association (CCBA) Member achieve mutual benefit and communication; To visit 国际航空运输协会 会员单位 win-win. regularly The International Air Transport Association (IATA) Member To participate in public 中国航空运输协会 会员单位 Improve the logistics services; welfare activities, Pay The China Air Transport Association (CATA) Member Try for the public interests; Publics attention to the public 中国货代联盟 会员单位 Support social welfare evaluation and keep the China Cargo Alliance (CCA) Member undertakings. response. Support social organizations, Take an active part in perform NGO statute; To the meeting and NGO strengthen the operation activities; Support information disclosure, and improvement, suggest achieve common development. actively. 12 Sustainable Development Report 可持续发展责任 标准和管理，加大监督力度，做好废旧包装、产品、污水等废弃物分类 管理及处理与再利用工作。 Sustainable development responsibility  Environment responsibility Pay attention to key indicators such as water consumption, electricity use,  经济责任 fuel consumption per kilometer and etc. Standardize energy conservation 实现销售量与销售收入的稳健增长。将净利润、纳税总额作为企业经济 and emissions reduction, increase surveillances, manage packaging of 责任的重要测量维度，通过知识创新和人才优势，增强核心业务发展， waste items, work on classification of wasted items and water, and find 助力行业发展与经济推动，实现固有资产保值增值。 channels for recycling.  Economic Responsibility  社会责任 Achieve steady growth in sales and sales income. Taking net income 促进就业，保障人权、关注女员工、残疾人以及农民工的权利，提供平 and paying tax will be treated as an important measurement for 等沟通的工作环境，实现社区、利益相关者的相互学习协作，和谐共建； enterprise economic responsibility. We will strengthen the core business 遵守商业伦理，反对商业贿赂，创造公平竞争的市场环境； development, boost the development of the industry, and thus preserve  Social Responsibility and increase the value of inherent assets through our knowledge Promote employment, protect human rights, and raise concerns for the innovation and talent advantage. rights of female employees, disabilities and migrant workers. Provide 环境责任 equal communication environment to realize collaboration and harmony 关注水资源消耗、用电量、每公里耗油量等关键指标，规范节能减排的 13 Sustainable Development Report between parties with interest involved; Comply with business ethics, fight 挑战与机遇 against commercial bribery, and create a fair competitive market Challenges and Opportunities environment 十二五规划  责任管理 The 12th Five–Year Plan 积极参与联合国全球契约活动，自觉履行“十项原则”，定期发布可持续 政府将降低单位国内生产总值能源消耗和二氧化碳排放作为约束性指 发展报告，主动接受利益相关方监督；加强普法宣传，组织反腐培训， 标纳入“十二五”规划，对物流行业提出了初步形成便捷、安全、经济、高效 深化能源监察，培育守法合规的经营理念。 的综合运输体系要求，以适应国民经济和社会发展的需要。民航鹏远在业务 不断发展的同时，与其他公司一起努力，在运输、仓储环节促进合作、分享  Responsibility management 流程、改善供应链的公信力，提高透明度，努力减少运营带来的碳排放，积 We actively participate in the activities of the UN Global Compact, 极支持政府减排目标的实现。 consciously fulfill “the ten principles”, publish Sustainable Development It has been made an obligatory indicator to reduce energy consumption and Report on a regular basis, forwardly accept the supervision from the carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP in government’s 12th Five–Year parties of interest; enhance the law and legal publicity, organize Plan. The government has required a primary establishment of a convenient, anti-corruption training, deepen energy monitor, nurture the business safe, economic, highly effective and integrated logistics system, in order to philosophy of the law-abiding compliance. meet to the needs of national economic and social developments. Besides achieving its constant development in business, CPL works together with 14 Sustainable Development Report other companies to promote cooperation in transportation and warehousing, 劳动力多元化 share process, improve credibility of supply chain, and enhance industry Labor Force Diversity transparency, and takes great efforts to reduce carbon emission in operation 近年来，民航鹏远显著提升了劳动力的多元化。公司员工中女性比例一 and thus makes its contributions to Governments’ emission reduction targets. 直较高，如今更多地吸纳了留学归国人员、专业领域应届毕业生、一线蓝领 工人等，完善人才梯队建设，努力优化人员配置比例，同时，公司及时调整 水资源 用人战略和人才发展机制，以符合当代人才环境需求。 Water Resources In recent years, CPL has significantly increased its diversity in labor force. 管理和可持续利用水资源是民航鹏远的重要议题，这对于外部利益相关 The proportion of female employees has been always relatively high. Now a 方也日益重要。民航鹏远在办公区域、仓储中心规定了节水方案，并与社区 lot of returned overseas students, professional graduates, production line 等利益相关方分享创新型节水办法，提高水资源利用水平。 blue-collar workers are absorbed into the company so that it has improved the Managing and sustainably utilizing water resources have been an important echelon construction of the talents and optimized personnel allocation. At the work for CPL, which is also increasingly important for other parties of interest. same time, the company adjusts its employment strategy and development CPL has set up water saving plans in the office area and warehouses, and it mechanism for the talents in order to catch up with the current environment of also shares the innovative water saving methods in its neighborhood and with the talent market. other parties to improve the utilization rate of water resources. 15 Sustainable Development Report 公司治理 Corporate Governance 我们秉承公开、透明的原则，建立问责、直接的沟通方式，持续培养公 司诚信的土壤，要求每一层级、每一位员工、每一项工作都“恪守道德规范 和职业操守”，引导每一位供应商共建诚信的沟通桥梁，携手每一位社区、 客户、政府机构等共创诚信的合作氛围，共同遵循最高的公司治理和商业道 德的标准。 Insisting on the principles for openness and transparency, CPL has established a direct way of communication and accountability. It continuously cultivates integrity within the company and requires all employees in every level to scrupulously abide by moral standards and occupation ethics in every job they are involved in. In addition, it has worked with its suppliers to build a sincere communication bridge and cooperated with communities, customers, governmental organizations to create trustful cooperation atmosphere. CPL follows the highest standards of corporate governance and business ethics with all the parties 16 Sustainable Development Report 职业道德与职业操守 公司上下和内外的共同价值体系的建立和道德理念的传递。 我们进一步规范《员工工作章程与行为规范》，推进遵守职业操守在每 Occupation Ethics 一个岗位员工心目中落地生根，并在《员工手册》中进一步确定竞业禁止、 反贿赂、反歧视、隐私权等公示要求，同时配套完善公司内部问责制度，建  我们坚持一切业务的开展经遵守法律法规和精神； 立完善的监督网络和意见申诉机制，加强对权利的监督与管理，促使经营管  我们要求公司一切制度、程序以共同的道德准则和价值观为指导； 理者合法、合规的履行职责。  我们推进全体员工和价值链上的合作伙伴共同遵守商业道德； The whole company adopts the above principles in business operation,  我们共建利益相关者彼此尊重与相互信任； sustainment and development, and it aims to reinforce the establishment and  我们强调所有员工应保护公司的资产和信誉； prevalence of the common value system throughout the company. We further standardize Employees Work Rules and Code of Conduct in ● We hold that all the business operations must abide by the laws and the efforts to promote professional ethics in every employee’s mind. In regulations; Employee Handbook, CPL further defines non-competition, anti-bribery, ● We require that all company systems and procedures must be under the anti-discrimination, privacy and other publicity demands, and at the same time, guidance of common company code of ethics and values; sets up complete matching internal accountability system, establishes ● We promote the abidance of business ethics among staff and supply complete supervision network and opinion appeal mechanism, strengthens chain partners; the supervision and management of rights to enhance management level’s ● We build mutual respect and mutual trust among parties of interest; legal compliance management. ● 公司全体上下以上原则作为开展业务，存续发展必须遵守的准确，加强 We emphasize that all employees should protect the company's assets and reputation. 17 Sustainable Development Report 反腐败 反贿赂 Anti-corruption Anti-bribery 作为一家国有企业，尤其注重反腐败管理工作，促进整个公司的规范运 鹏远公司高度重视治理商业贿赂工作。针对为取得客户的合作合同而可 作和国有资产的保值增值。围绕全球契约的要求，履行公司内部的相关规定， 能向客户方决策人员提供商业贿赂的情形，以及公司内部容易发生收取回 深化企业文化建设和反腐倡廉工作，加强企业内部和外部的双重监督，发现 扣、礼品、酬金等好处的部门和职位，特别进行约束和关注。开展自查自纠、 问题，积极整改，对相关责任人进行批评教育和处罚，提升公司的反腐败能 其他员工及外部人员的监督举报等方式，在最大的程度上规避贿赂行为的产 力和腐败风险预警能力。 生。 As a state-owned enterprise, CPL especially pays attention to CPL attaches great importance to the management against business anti-corruption management to promote the company's standard operation bribery. For the departments or positions that are likely to provide commercial and reserve or increase the value of state-owned assets. Under the guidance bribery to decision makers from the customer side in order to get the contract of Global Compact requirements, CPL carries out the related internal or likely to collect kickbacks, gifts, remuneration and other benefits, CPL gives regulations, deepens the enterprise culture construction and anti-corruption special attention in constraint methods. CPL carries out self-check and work, enhances the enterprise internal and external dual-supervision to find self-correction, or through the other staff and external personnel supervision, out problems, and positively takes corrective measures. For the relevant etc, to maximally avoid bribery behaviors. responsible personnel, CPL carries out criticism, education or punishment to boost the company's anti-corruption ability and corruption risk warning ability. 18 Sustainable Development Report 要求在与合作伙伴签订的合同中增加“合规与诚信”条款 CPL Requires to Add Compliance and Integrity Clause in 具体内容包括：保证不会，直接或间接地，以违反相关法律（包 Contracts with Customers 括但不限于美国《反海外贿赂法》以及适用的经合组织成员国为 The concrete content includes: guarantee that will not, directly or 实施《禁止在国际商业交易中贿赂外国政府官员公约》制定的立 indirectly, in violation of relevant laws (including but not limited 法）规定的方式，向其客户、政府官员、甲方的代理、董事和员 to U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other applicable 工或任何其他方付款、赠送礼物或做出其他承诺，并且乙方应遵 OECD member countries’ laws to implement the Prohibition of 守所有有关贿赂和腐败的法律、法规、条例和规定。 International Business Transactions Bribery of Foreign Government Officials Convention), offer money, gifts or other commitments, to the customers, government officials, Party A's agents, directors and employees or any other parties, and Party B shall comply with all relevant anti-bribery and corruption laws, regulations, rules. 19 Sustainable Development Report report issues related to business ethics. At the same time, we implement strict 合规计划与措施 protections to the informer or declarer so that employees can report injustice Compliance Plans and Measures and unlawful acts through a healthy and stable platform. In addition, we 提供行为准则培训 strengthen internal audit and make real-time disclosure of the audit results, to Provide Code of Conduct Training monitor the business ethics implementation status. 我们对新入职员工进行入职合规培训，并按年度为员工提供行为准则培 发挥模范带头作用 训，同时对员工进行隐私权、信息安全保护提供指导培训。 Make Use of Model’s Positive Influence Our new employee will have compliance training, and CPL offers annual 总经理确定基调，各部门高层领导树立道德行为典范，并贯彻至相关政 employee code of conduct training, at the same time provides training and 策和行为要求，通过各部门团结合作，将道德和合规意识贯穿于公司整体和 guidance on privacy and information security protection. 每个员工，孕育公司高尚的商业道德与合规的企业文化。 建立沟通问责机制 General manager plays a leading role, and each department senior Establish Communication Accountability Mechanism management staffs set up moral behavior model and implement relevant 我们通过建立电话、电子邮件、意见箱等综合信息沟通渠道，鼓励员工 policies and actions. Through the cooperation of each department, we raise 反应与商业道德有关的问题。同时严密保护举报人、申诉人，确保员工在健 moral and compliance awareness throughout the company and thus build a 康稳健的平台上反应不公正和违反道德准则的事情。此外，加强内部审计， noble business ethics and a law-abiding enterprise culture. 实时披露审计结果，检查监控道德规范遵守情况。 Through the establishment of comprehensive information communication channel by telephone, E-mail or suggestion box, etc, CPL encourages staff to 20 Sustainable Development Report 低碳经济 unloading, circulating, processing, distribution and packing. Under the guidance of the company documents on environmental protection, CPL hopes Low Carbon Economy to realize green office, green warehouse management, green transportation management and green information flow. And CPL strives to make 我们将环保理念贯穿于物流服务的整个周期流程，从运输、仓储、运营、 environmental protection idea influence each staff; encourages them to 管理等相关政策上始终致力于实践绿色标准，以“绿色经营”为公司经营主要 actively participate in projects beneficial to sustainable development of 方针，倡导绿色物流，以期降低对环境的污染、减少资源消耗，利用先进物 environment in order to build CPL’s green future. 流技术规划和实施运输、仓储、装卸搬运、流通加工、配送、包装。期望在 公司体系文件之环保程序一章指导下，实现绿色办公，绿色仓库管理，绿色 运输管理及绿色信息流。并力求使环保理念影响每一位员工，鼓励他们积极 绿色物流 参与有益于环境可持续发展的项目，共同构筑民航鹏远的绿色未来。 Green Logistics We take environment protection concept into consideration throughout CPL’s whole logistics service process. From transportation, storage, operation, 绿色物流是物流的发展方向。绿色物流是指在物流过程中抑制物流对环 management and other related parts, CPL has always committed to green 境造成危害的同时，实现对物流环境的净化，使物流资源得到最充分利用。 standards, adopting green management as the company's major business Green logistics is the development direction of logistics. Green logistics policy, advocating green logistics. In order to reduce environmental pollution means to inhibit harm to the environment in logistics service process, and at and reduce resource consumption, CPL has applied advanced logistics the same time, to make the most use of the logistics resources for a clean technology to plan and implement transportation, storage, loading and logistics environment. 21 Sustainable Development Report 绿色运输 工作实践 Green Transportation  加大投入，采用绿色技术和装备。如采用清洁能源；提高燃料燃烧 我们以节约能源、减少废气排放为目标，选择合适的运输路线和运输工 效率，减少尾气排放；选择环境良好的运输模式等。； 具，克服重复运输，并通过使用清洁燃料和改进内燃机技术，来提高能效，  加强信息系统建设，合理规划物流系统。如科学地进行运输线路的 防止运输途中的尾气泄漏，将对环境造成的危害降到最低绿色物流源于对生 选择、减少或消除空返率，以求高效、节能、低成本运作。 ； 态环境的保护，对资源的节约，实现可持续发展的战略目标。  全员树立绿色物流的观念。； We adopt energy-saving and emission reduction as our goal, choose appropriate transportation routes and tools to avoid repetitive transportation; Practices in operation： through the use of clean fuel and improvement of internal combustion engine  Increase investment, adopt green technology and equipments. For technology, CPL improves energy efficiency and prevents transit tail gas example, use clean energy; raise fuel combustion efficiency to reduce leakage to minimize damage to the environment. Green logistics originates emissions; choose environmental friendly transportation mode, etc. from the protection of ecological environment and resource saving, and it  Reinforce information system construction and make rational planning aims to realize the strategic objectives of sustainable development. of logistics system, such as scientific selection of transportation routes, reduce or eliminate empty vehicle returning rate, in order to realize high efficiency, energy saving, low cost operation. 绿色仓储  Establish concept of the green logistics among all employees. 22 Sustainable Development Report Green Storage 科学集约的仓储设计，能极大地减少运输成本，增加仓储空间，仓库的 设计和建设也要充分评估周围环境的影响，将环境因素加入仓库设计数据中 进行分析，协调环境与物资存放过程的各种摩擦和问题。 Scientific and intensive warehouse design can greatly reduce transportation cost, increase storage space. Meanwhile, warehouse design and construction also should fully consider influence on the surrounding environment. The environmental factors must be included in the data analysis for warehouse design thus to coordinate all the conflicts and issues between  仓库内部设有立体高架库区，有效提高仓库可利用率 Inside the warehouse, there are three dimensional elevated storage environment and material storage. areas which effectively enhance the warehouse utilization rate.  仓库顶部设计为自然采光，大大节省了用电量 Warehouse ceiling design allows natural lighting to greatly reduce electricity consumption. 23 Sustainable Development Report 绿色包装 Green Package 我们采用降低废弃物排放、节约资源的方式对物资进行包装。包括包装 材料的绿色化、包装方式的绿色化、包装作业过程的绿色化等三个方面。主 要使用环保材料、提高材质利用率、建立包装回用制度等实施绿色包装。 We adopt packing mode that reduces waste emissions and saves energy, including green packing materials, green packing mode and green packing process. To implement green package, the main procedures CPL adopts include using environmental friendly materials, enhancing material utilization rate and setting up of the package reuse system, etc. 建设环保节约办公环境 Build an Environment Friendly & Economical Working Place 我们将建设环保节约办公环境作为公司环境管理战略的一部分，持续推 行环保岗位标准化配置，落实环保岗位责任制，细化环境管理考评体系，实 行环境事件一票否决项制度，推进环境管理体系的建设工作。 We make the construction of environment friendly office environment as part of the environmental management strategy, and we allot environmental 24 Sustainable Development Report protection responsibilities to each post with standardized configuration,  Shut down unnecessary power supplies in order to reduce office equipment standby energy consumption. refines evaluation systems to environmental management, and implement  避免水长流的情况发生。专人负责时常检查公共场所（包括办公区 one ticket vote method for environment related issues, and thus promote the 域内）用水用电设备情况，发现坏损、故障水电设备及时检修。 overall construction of our environmental management system.  Specialist is responsible for checking all utilities in public places  办公室充分利用自然光照明，在光线充足的情况下不开室内照明 (including office area), finding potential problems, and repairing 灯。走廊、通道、卫生间等公共区域白天应尽量减少开灯能耗 malfunctions in time.  实行无纸化办公，部门间的文件传递，除需存档或会签的重要文件， 尽可能在邮件上流转、审批，以减少纸张使用；打印纸尽可能正反 两面使用，非正式文件应采用单面废纸打印。  Practice low paper consumption in offices. Make the full use of emails to delivery and approval documents between departments. Use both sides of printing papers, especially for informal documents.  Make a full use of sunlight in the office. No need for indoor lights  优化调配公司用车。 when there is enough nature light. Reduce as much as possible  Effective use of company vehicles. the use of lights in corridors, channels, toilets and other public 绿色实践举措 areas for energy saving.  关闭不必要电源，以减少办公设备待机能耗。 25 Sustainable Development Report 人文关怀 人性化的服务 Humanistic Service Humanistic Care 我们倡导健康生活，快乐工作，努力提供舒适的办公环境和人性化的服 务设施，为员工办理体育中心年卡，并组织每周两次定期集体体育活动。 提供优质专业的服务是民航鹏远孜孜不倦的追求，是民航鹏远企业文化 We advocate a healthy life style and a happy working attitude and strive to 中不可分割的一部分，而人才是企业发展的核心资源。我们认为，要实现服 provide a comfortable office environment and humanized service facilities for 务最优，需要给与员工舒适的工作条件，及时的方向指引，与健康的成长环 employees. Besides, we distribute admission cards to sports center cards to 境。 our employees and organize sports activities twice a week in company. To provide high quality professional service is a continuous pursuit of CAACPL, and it also is an inseparable part of enterprise development, while 心理辅导 Psychological counseling talents are a core resource for the enterprise development. We believe tha we 工作或私人事务困扰，80 后 90 后的新生力量加入，国企老员工面对新 need to create a comfortable working condition, timely guidance and a healthy 竞争环境的困惑等，都有可能影响员工的心理状态和工作行为，为避免负面 growth environment to become a best service provider. 影响，我们增设了兼职员工心理辅导师的岗位，并进行岗前培训，通过提供 专业咨询服务缓解员工压力，融洽组织氛围。 Pressures and distress in work or private life are likely to affect employees’ 理想的工作场所 Ideal psychological state and work behaviors, including both new comers born in workplace the 1980s and 1990s and elder generation employees of state-owned enterprises in a new competition environment. In order to avoid the negative 26 Sustainable Development Report influence, we have created part-time psychological counseling positions and 广纳贤才 Absorb talents with open arms provide professional consulting services to relieve employees pressure and to 专业化是提高服务质量的重要方式，也是民航鹏远在物流领域获得成功 build a harmonious organizational atmosphere. 的关键。为保证人才需求，公司组建了专业的招聘队伍，在全国各地广纳贤 才，通过报纸、网站、现场招聘、内部选拔等多元化渠道广泛吸纳物流、信 建立开放坦诚的工作环 Establish an open & honest working environment 息技术、审计、人力资源等不同专业背景的人才，不因民族、宗教、性别、 我们致力于建立开放坦诚和人性化的工作环境，使员工互相信任、坦诚 年龄、残疾、婚姻状况而产生任何歧视，实行同工同酬，努力实现人尽其才， 沟通、团结进取并共享成功。我们真诚地认可和奖励员工的付出和贡献，全 为鼓励员工向人力资源部门推荐合格的候选人，还特别设立了“伯乐奖”，以 力支持员工的职业成长和发展，为员工搭建起积蓄力量同时释放能量的辽阔 期用更广阔的视角，全方位了解客户、供应商和社区的需求，提升专业服务 舞台。 能力，巩固公司在行业和企业社会责任方面的优势地位。 We are committed to establish an open and honest and humanitarian working environment for employees to enhance confidence and trust between Professionalism is an essential way to improve service qualities, and it is a each other and help them to make progress in a team and share success. We key factor for CPL to win the success in the field of logistics. To meet the sincerely recognize and reward employees’ efforts and contributions and demands for professionalism, a recruitment team has been organized in the support their career development and growth. company to recruit talents from all over the country. Many ways are adopted such as newspapers, websites, on-site recruitments to search for talents in the fields of logistics, IT, accounting and human resources. There is no any 持续的人才关注 Continuous Attention for Talents discrimination in nationality, religion, gender, age, disability, marital status, etc. Equal salary will be paid to equal work, and we encourage people to display 27 Sustainable Development Report their talents fully in the work force. To encourage staffs to recommend make good progress in their career. excellent candidates, we set up the Bo Le Prize. We hope we could fully 为提高员工的自身素质和工作技能，创建学习型的工作团队，公司积极 understand the requirements of clients, suppliers and the communities and 帮助员工制定详细的职业发展规划，树立职业发展信心；并配套建立了多种 improve our professional services, so that we could consolidate our 层次、多种形式的培实施内部培训师认定制度，鼓励优秀的员工向其他员工 advantages in this industry and in social responsibilities. 传授工作真经，在提高进行经验传承共享的同时，为公司储备了重要的培训 资源，同时也为优秀的员工提供了一条职业提升的新途径。同时，我们真诚 关注员工成长发展 Concerning employees’ growth and development 真诚感谢员工的每一分付出，及时表彰有贡献的员工 我们鼓励员工从公司发展需求出发，充分发挥自身优势和兴趣，与管 To improve staff`s own quality and working skills and build a 理人员协同合作，在日常工作和沟通合作中汲取知识、不断成长。 study-friendly team, we actively help to make detailed career developing plans for the staffs, help them to gain confidence in their career prospects. Meanwhile we provide matching training course with various levels and forms. We encourage excellent employees to introducing his working experiences. By sharing working experience with others, these experienced workers become an important training resource for the company and they also gain another rising channel in their career. In addition, we truly appreciate According to the development needs of the company, we encourage our everybody`s efforts and provide timely honor rewards to the employees with employees to use his own advantages and interests, cooperate with the excellent contributions. management team and learn new knowledge in their daily work and thus 28 Sustainable Development Report 全面的薪资福利机制 A complete welfare system 公司制定了体系化的薪酬福利机制，以吸引、留住和奖励为公司持续创  固定薪酬 新、长远发展而不懈努力的员工。 公司致力于将员工薪酬水平定位于市场同岗位薪资指 We have established a systematic welfare mechanism in order to attract and 导线之上，参考员工技能、经验绩效等方面的高低水平，来 keep these who have made great contributions to the continuous innovation 确定员工薪酬相对固定部分。 and development of our company.  浮动薪酬 将员工付出与公司营业水平相挂钩，依据员工绩效表 现，给与相应的薪酬回报，作为对员工贡献的肯定。  社会保险和补充医疗保险 依据法律法规和当地政策缴纳员工保险，并额外替员工 购买补充医疗保险，加强医疗福利的保障力度。  休假计划 民航鹏远为员工提供多种类型的带薪假，包括年假、病 假、婚嫁、探亲假、工伤假、丧假、产前检查假、正常生育 产假、难产假、流产假等。  其他非物质奖励 弹性的工作时间等 29 Sustainable Development Report 职业安全 Fixed salary We commit to make the staffs salary levels over market and job salary guiding line, we take staffs skills and experiences, 公司利用管理体系季度检查、内部审核和管理评审等手段，监督检查公 etc into account to determine the relatively fixed parts about the staff`s salary. 司职业健康和安全操作，以及各项相关者政策和制度的建立和实施情况，从 Floating salary 而发现问题，分析原因，制定整改措施，自我调整、自我完善，确保各项规 An employee’s contribution is linked with the level of company gain. Staff`s floating salary depends on working performances. 定落到实处。主动接受公众和员工对公司履行相关规定情况的监督，对涉及 Social insurances and supplementary medical insurances 员工切身利益的公司重大事项和公司运营情况进行评估和审议，对员工福 We comply with the laws and local regulations to pay staff`s insurances, in addition, we buy supplementary medical 利、职业健康、劳动合同和安全生产等事项进行监督评价。建立安全监督制 insurances as a supplementary insurance for the employees. 度，对公司各办公区、分公司和分站进行职业健康和安全管理，以及对管理 Vacation plan There are various kinds of paid holidays in CPL, including 体系运行情况进行监督，并指导和落实各项劳动保护和运营安全措施。 annual leave, sick leave, marriage leave, home leave, work-related injury leave, leave for arranging funeral, Occupational safety inspection leave before child-bearing, maternity leave, dystocia We use methods such as management system quarterly auditing, interior leave, miscarriage leave, etc. Other non-material rewards auditing and management evaluation to supervise company`s occupational Flexible working time, etc. and operational safety, the construction and implement of related policies and institutions. As a result, we can find problems, analyze reasons, make up innovation measures, adjust and fulfill ourselves and make sure to carry out each regulation soundly. We positively accept supervision from the public and 30 Sustainable Development Report staffs on the company regulation issues. For important event which is related management work seriously and intensively. to the benefits of staffs and the operation of company, we will evaluate and audit it seriously. For welfare, occupational health, labor contract and safe production, etc, we will supervise and evaluate these affairs respectively. Safety supervision institution is set up in order to supervise every office area, branches and operation centers about the occupational health and safety management as well as the operation of management system. In addition to this, we monitor and carry out every safety measurement on labor protection √ strengthen health & security training to employees and operation safeties. √ set up security supervision mechanism 保障员工职业安全 展望 公司在原有隐患排查及整改机制的基础上，融入国家的相关要求，更加 我们将在未来持续统筹建设企业社会责任，秉承一个可持续发展的企 细致深入地开展安全管理工作。 业，应该是责任付出和价值回报的互动过程，我们理应将更多的精力投入到  加强人员健康安全环保素质培训 为承担社会责任的使命中来，我们有理由相信，通过人才建设的不断完善，  建立安全监督机制 通过创新能力的持续引领，通过全体责任意识的大力推动，民航鹏远将会为 Protect staff`s occupational safety 利益相关者创造出更诚信的商业氛围，成为经济发展中的重要而坚定的正向 Besides company regulations on avoiding primary hidden troubles, we 力量，为社会和谐，稳定发展做出更大的贡献。 also adopt the nation`s relevant regulations and carry out security 31 Sustainable Development Report Outlook We will continuously build up our social responsibilities and become a sustainable enterprise. This is an interactive process between contribution and value return. We should invest more energy to social responsibilities and we believe by improving the human resource system, improving innovation abilities, raising the awareness of the whole company, CPL will create more credible commercial environment for the parties of interest, and become a strong power in the economic development, and be able to make more contributions for social stability and development. *********************************** 北京民航鹏远航空服务公司 CAAC PIONEER LOGISTICS 电话 Tel: 86-10-6472 8916 传真 Fax: 86-10-6472 8916-601 地址：北京市朝阳区花家地东路 3 号，100102 Add: No.3 East Road Huajiadi Chaoyang District, Beijing, P.R.China, 100102 Website: www.caacpl.com 32 Sustainable Development Report
