(RC: 514716) URL: http://elyahaglanigerialimited.yolasite.com 2nd COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP 2) YEAR: FEBRUARY 2012 – FEBRUARY 2013 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT  This second (2nd) COP of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited (RC: 514716 and UN Global Compact Participant ID: 13216), is aimed at fulfilling the basic annual requirement of all companies participating in the UN Global Compact;  The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, which companies are expected to embrace, support and enact, within their spheres of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption are: Human Rights:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour:  Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment:  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. OUR SUPPORT FOR THE TEN PRINCIPLES  Between February 2012 and February 2013, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has actively supported the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We actively expressed these principles in our 2 day-to-day businesses within all our spheres of influence and have unequivocally made very clear statements on this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public;  Most of our work is on the field, suffice the reason why it has been pretty difficult for us to be actively engaged in the programmes of the Nigerian Local Network within the last one year. However, the very serious challenge to the peace and security of life and property in Nigeria occasioned by the incessant bombing of Boko Haram, other acts of terrorism, kidnapping, violent armed banditry and counterfeiting of almost all industrial products; in addition to the derelict decay in aviation, road, electricity, water, education and health infrastructure and the unlikelihood of Nigeria to attain the MDGs 1-8 by year 2015; necessitated a kind of collaboration between the African Foundation for Human Advancement AFFAH: CAC/IT/NO 27065, UNGC ID: 12071 and El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited RC: 514716, UNGC ID: 13216 towards the understudy of the MDGs 1-8 attainment status of African countries in the second half of year 2012. This resulted in the development of a Concept Note dated December 21, 2012 which focused on: (i) Ensuring the Realization of MDGs 1-8 in Africa between 2013 and 2015; and (ii) Contributions to the Proposed Post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Agenda. The Concept Note was designed so as to syndicate the active involvement of all the members of all African countries’ Local Networks, as well as other relevant stakeholders towards the status appraisal, acknowledgement and mobilization of the requisite resources that will ensure that all African countries achieve close to 100% attainment of MDGs 1-8 on or before year 2015; and configure a workable agenda that will guarantee universal sustainable development for Africa and the rest of the world beyond year 2015 through the proposed Sustainable Development Goals which are supposed to replace MDGS 1-8; and by so doing, bequeath a safer, healthier and much more productive planet earth to future generations of humans;  Our influence in the registration of Ondo State Co-operative Federation, UNGC ID: 14560 and Centre for Women and Youth Wellbeing Advocacy (WOYWA) UNGC ID: 14208, founded by Mrs. Stella Kosemani Kolawole, Head of Service, Ondo state, with the United Nations Global Compact in August 2011 has tremendously boosted cooperative business, as well as, women and youth empowerment in Ondo state;  We have been able to create sufficient awareness for the need for the registration and UN Global Compact’s ten principles’ support by more very influential NGOs, as well as, amongst our clients and partners worldwide within the past year, stressing the tremendous business and other global benefits of their involvement. A few of the new prospective applicants include: LEAH Charity Foundation, founded by the First Lady of Kwara state, Her Excellency, Mrs. Omolewa Abdulfatah Ahmed; J1 Foundation, founded by Honourable Jumoke Okoya-Thomas, a member of the House of Representatives, Abuja, Nigeria, representing Lagos Island Constituency 1; and Elizabeth Foundation, founded by Mr. Adelami, a bureaucrat at the National Assembly, Abuja; 3  We are strongly opposed to the practice of “Domestic Servitude” and “Commercial Servitude” both of which are simply put: “Slavery”, practiced in all the countries of Africa, which keeps several vulnerable school age children out of school, hawking wares on the streets, involved in commercial sex in brothels, or busy doing dirty jobs in kitchens, laundries, farms and workshops;  We shall continue to uphold the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in the years ahead;  With gratitude to the founders of the UN Global Compact, we are very proud to be part of the UN Global Compact. This statement is endorsed by: Mr. Samson Babatunde ILESANMI (CEO & Contact Person) Mobile: +234-70-60451145; +234-80-53666185 E-Mail: ehpsafeworld@yahoo.com 4 BRIEF DESCIPTION OF BUSINESS El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited is a Nigerian limited liability company that provides a variety of specialized grassroots and national interventions in the following areas:  Sustainable development projects concept development;  Sustainable development projects appraisal and due diligence studies;  Global, sub-regional, national, state, local government and community sustainable development projects funding, technology and technical needs surveys;  Public, private and institutional sustainable development projects funds raising services;  Public, private and institutional sustainable development projects technology requirement support attraction;  Agricultural, mineral, hydrocarbon and value added products exports and imports;  Global and national agricultural, mineral, hydrocarbon and value added products exports and imports promotion events organization. Events include: (exhibitions, B2Bs, Buyers and Sellers Meetings, Workshops and Conferences);  Commodity and value added products quality tests;  Detective Biochemistry economic, health, crime and other sectors investigations;  Agricultural, mineral, petroleum products and value added products export/import and export/import brokerage services;  Sustainable development projects feasibility studies and reports production;  Sustainable development projects investment performance studies and reports production;  Foreign Direct and Foreign Portfolio Investments promotion;  Foreign Direct and Foreign Portfolio Investors attraction;  Un Global Contact trade and investment promotion activities support;  Project publicity package design and management;  Project management services; GOAL To help each client to identify their sustainable development funding and technology needs through client-specific surveys and adequately mobilizing the conventional and nonconventional resources of stakeholders and appropriate technology, towards the achievement of the most suitable sustainable solutions. MISSION El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited, (RC No: 154716), provides highly skilled and adept services that create the synergies required by our clients to easily conduct their corporate, institutional and operational funding, technical and technology needs surveys; after which we provide the 5 requisite solutions, through the evolution and implementation of mutually beneficial sustainable development interventions. HOW WE OPERATE  We treat our clients preciously because they are worth much more than rare platinum, diamond, gold and cash;  We endorse a Memorandum of Understanding between El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and each client before the implementation of each project;  We design and host each project’s dynamic website;  Each project has a Project Implementation Committee, members of which shall be constituted between El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited and each client ;  Our clients do not need to fund the projects we conceptualize and implement for them;  We undertake conventional and non-conventional funds raising activities to support the projects that we conceptualize;  We depend mainly on the grace, wisdom and unction of Jehovah, the creator and possessor of the heavens and the earth for the conceptualization, execution and success of each project because God is eternally good, perfect and stupendously gracious. Jehovah alone takes all the glory of all our achievements;  We are remunerated mainly by earning a standard 15% of the total value of funds that we raise per project; or 15% equity in the total value of the project, in case physical cash is not raised, but other valuable resources are mobilized to support the project;  In all our dealings, investigations, research and projects, we ensure that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption are adequately adhered to. HUMAN RIGHTS: PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The incessant terrorism bomb attacks by Jama’atu Ahlis Sunna Lidda’awati Wal-Jihad, otherwise called, Boko Haram in northern Nigeria, especially the one at the Police Headquarters, Abuja, United Nations building, Abuja and the Christ the King Catholic Church, Sabon Gari, Zaria negatively affected our field investigations operations and the economy of Nigeria, especially in the north, within the past twelve months. We lost some operational vehicles, laptops and field investigation equipment and incurred severe wounds and harassments from Islamic extremists; El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited considered the incessant 6 bombing of Churches and other public targets in Nigeria as very derelict infringements on the fundamental human rights of Nigerians, especially, Christians. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited wrote to: (i) President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan (GCON and GCFR); (ii) Called Distinguished Senator Igwe Paulinus Nwagu, Chairman Senate Committee on Police Affairs; (iii) Called Dr. Emad Denenu, Senior Special Adviser to the Honourable Minister of Petroleum, Mrs. Allison Madueke; Called Mr. Jude Gabriel Imague, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Education and Youths and several other top government functionaries; to impress it upon the Commander-In-Chief to expedite the process of dialogue with the representatives of Boko Haram so as to halt the frequent bloodshed. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: The Honourable Minister of Information announced to the public that government was ready to dialogue with Boko Haram. Later, there was a policy summersault by the government which announced to the public again that it was no longer going to dialogue with Boko Haram. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Mr. Jude Gabriel Imague, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Education and Youths thanked us for our suggestions and promised us that Mr. President would soon take action on Boko Haram. The best that we got was a letter inviting officials of the French company, Boislandry Consulting to discuss Close Protection Training for members of the Nigeria Police Force by Distinguished Senator Igwe Paulinus Nwagu, Chairman Senate Committee on Police Affairs dated December 7, 2012. However, Boislandry Consulting did not honour the invitation. EXPECTED OUTCOME: The peace and stability of Nigeria is very dicey, especially with the January 2013 French and Nigerian military armed confrontation against Al-Qaida pivoted Malian Islamic Terrorist, who are the soul-fulcrum of Boko Haram. If the confrontation favours Nigeria and France, Boko Haram might become weaker and there shall be relative peace and tranquility in Nigeria. If not, dialogue is the best option! The recent threat by the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, (MEND): that they will attack Nigeria with nuclear weapons because their leader Henry Okah was handed a life jail sentence in South Africa for the October 1, 2010 Abuja twin bomb blasts, is so serious that if the Nigerian authorities and the rest of the world ignores MEND, the resultant catastrophes could be too alarming for Nigeria, Africa and the world to bear. 7 PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s board resolved that members of staff should report any latent abuse of human rights at the place of work and in the public every day. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: A human rights abuse register was opened at work. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Each staff received a monthly official human rights appraisal reminder so as to encourage him or her to report any human rights abuse encountered that month. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Besides the constant reports of the abuse of the fundamental human rights of Nigerians and Christians, none was reported at the place of work by any member of staff in the year under review. EXPECTED OUTCOME: An internationally mediated dialogue between government and Boko Haram would yield a much more sustainable peace and effectively end the violence and senseless bloodshed. LABOUR STANDARDS: PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: In the year under review, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s board encouraged management to uphold the freedom of association of the members of staff and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining of staff, especially in any national or state labour issue. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: Management allowed all the representatives of staff to attend all labour rallies, meetings and NGO / labour improving activities throughout the year under review. 8 PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Management bore the cost of all labour meetings and rallies logistics bills within the year under review. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Management and staff were engaged in NGO promoted labour, human rights and empowerment activities, especially with three NGOs. Details of such activities are: (i) Eight (8) Centre for Women and Youth Wellbeing Advocacy (UNGC ID: 14208) WOYWA’s women’s skills acquisition and empowerment programmes attendance at Akure, Ondo state, Nigeria; (ii) African Foundation for Human Advancement AFFAH: CAC/IT/NO 27065, UNGC ID: 12071 – This resulted in the production of the December 21, 2012 Concept Note on: Ensuring the Realization of MDGs 1-8 in Africa between 2013 and 2015; and Contributions to the Proposed Post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Agenda; (iii) Lifecare Health Advancement Initiative UNGC ID: 13980 – This resulted in: Writing to Her Excellency, Mrs. Omolewa Abdufattah Ahmed, the First Lady, Kwara State, Nigeria on behalf of: Emily Funmilayo OJO (Female and 45 years old beggar and mother of six). The First Lady got her NGO, LEAH Charity Foundation to promptly respond and showered an unequalled milk of kindness on Emily Funmilayo OJO by undertaking the following in respect of Emily Funmilayo OJO: • (a) Adopting Emily’s children namely: (i) Warisi Ganiyu – male/eleven years; and (ii) Kausara Ganiyu – female/four years; and registering them at the Baboko Primary School 1, ILORIN on January 21, 2013; • (b) Rehabilitating Emily with a sustainable income generating trade; • (c) Putting Emily Funmilayo OJO on an AFFAH brokered USA cornea transplant operation projected for year 2013. EXPECTED OUTCOME: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited now has a much more humane and multi-skilled staff who have benefitted so much from freedom of association and rights to collective bargaining. This should boost the morale of the members of staff in years to come and engender wonderful management/staff relationship. It is hoped that the three components proposed in the December 21, 2012 Concept Note will ensure that the requisite funding, technical and technology resources are mobilized by all stakeholders between 2013 and 2015 so as to ensure that MDGs 1-8 are attained in Africa between 2013 and 2015; as well as, ensure that all stakeholders adequately contribute to the Proposed Post-2015 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Agenda. 9 PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s corporate policy forbids all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: When a member of stall is ill, he or she is granted health-off-duty-leave. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: His or her hospital bill is usually paid by El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s management because a healthy staff is a productive genius. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Improved productivity by staff is noticed afterwards when staff returns to duty. EXPECTED OUTCOME: It is expected that such members of staff who benefitted from management’s benevolence should be dedicated to duty until retirement. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: Management of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited forbids child labour. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: (i) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited cooperated with Lifecare Health Advancement Initiative in getting LEAH Charity Foundation to adopt Warisi Ganiyu and Kausara Ganiyu so as to getting Warisi off the streets where he works as a rudder for his blind mother when she solicits for arms; (ii) The practice of “Domestic Servitude” and “Commercial Servitude” both of which are simply put: “Slavery”, practiced in all the countries of Africa, which keeps several vulnerable school age children out of school, hawking wares on the streets, involved in commercial sex in brothels, or busy doing dirty jobs in kitchens, laundries, farms and workshops constitute a major concern to El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited. El-Yah10 Agla Nigeria Limited and our partners had a Seminar on December 5, 2012 at Ilorin to address this issue. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: • Management of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited cooperated with Lifecare Health Advancement Initiative to write to Her Excellency, Mrs. Omolewa Abdufattah Ahmed, the First Lady, Kwara State, Nigeria on December 19, 2012. The First Lady referred the case to her Foundation, LEAH Charity Foundation that eventually adopted the two children of Emily Funmilayo OJO (Female and 45 years old beggar and mother of six), adopting Emily’s children namely: (i) Warisi Ganiyu – male/eleven years; and (ii) Kausara Ganiyu – female/four years; and registered them as pupils of Baboko Primary School 1, ILORIN on January 21, 2013; • In collaboration with Lifecare Health Advancement Initiative and African Foundation for Human Advancement AFFAH: CAC/IT/NO 27065, UNGC ID: 12071, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited carried out a Public Participatory Survey on the “Vulnerability of African Children in the Practice of Slavery” in year 2012. Anonymous respondents identified two types of slavery that involve vulnerable children in all the countries of Africa: (i) “Domestic Servitude” and (ii) “Commercial Servitude”. Abjectly poor parents surrender their children to city dwelling ladies and gentlemen who in turn sell them into a kind of slavery as domestic and commercial servants, laborers or commercial sex workers in cities all over Africa; or even traffic some of them outside the shores of Africa. All three organizations pledged to step-up actions that will ensure the protection and enforcement of the rights of children in all the countries of Africa between years 2013 and 2015; and in the Post 2015 Sustainable Development Goals Agenda. This action was put into consideration while designing the December 21, 2012 Concept Note. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: The Concept Note was forwarded to some members of the Nigerian Local Network who specialize on children rights for appraisal and it was warmly received with high interest for its approval by the Nigerian UNGC Local Network and the UNGC Head of the African Local Networks, Ms. Ola Makinwa. EXPECTED OUTCOME: It is hoped that stakeholders interested in the December 21 Concept Note who are members of all the various Local Networks in Africa and corporate Africa would mutually collaborate with all other salient stakeholders, especially to ensure that they jointly mobilize the requisite resources that will ensure the realization of MDGs 1-8 all over Africa by 2015; and effectively contribute to the Post 2015 SDGs Agenda, especially on issues that concern child labour. 11 PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The employment policy of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited forbids gender, race, tribal, religion or HIV status discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: (i) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s counterfeit alcohol and jewelry investigation partners are Frenchmen; (ii) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has under its employment qualified and dedicated male and female employees from the various tribes and religions of Nigeria. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s employment policy is strictly based on qualification for the job and not the gender, race, tribal, religion or HIV status of prospective employees. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: No matter where they come from, all of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s members of staff have been found to be excellent on duty. EXPECTED OUTCOME: It is certain that all of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s staff shall remain very productive and excellent on duty for more years ahead as we promote the UN Global Compact’s ten principles together in our day to day activities. ENVIRONMENT: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s corporate policy includes support for a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited noted with dismay the very abject environmental challenges that the immediate society and planet earth faces with the following: (i) Discharge of dangerous fumes from factories, petroleum natural gas flaring, disused and poorly maintained automobiles, generators and spare parts all over Africa; 12 (ii) Sawdust smoldering in the several thousands of sawmills spread all over Nigeria and Africa; (iii) Poor waste management, especially the improper dumping and burning of dangerous toxic radioactive, electronic, chemical, drug, industrial and domestic wastes in Nigeria and elsewhere in Africa. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: As follow up to: (i) the National Assembly’s House of Representative’s Committee on Public Petition’s 1999-2002 Economic Help Project’s investigative survey on smuggling and counterfeiting; and (ii) the National Assembly’s House of Representative’s Committee on States and Local Government’s Grassroots Projects Sustainability Survey of 2005; In February 2012, the endorsed Centre for Automotive Design and Development (UNGC ID: 14797) CADD’s Memorandum of Understanding with El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited enabled media executives from Cerebral Consult Limited to prepare the media plan for the recruitment of Field Officers that will conduct the proposed strategic CADD Automotives Survey, which was designed to protect Nigeria’s auto-industry, save lives on the road and halt the indiscriminate discharge of carcinogenic lead, sulphur and tar containing fumes by various kinds of poorly maintained automobiles and generators. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: Two Project Bank Accounts were opened with First Bank of Nigeria PLC and United Bank for Africa PLC. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Just before the role out of the publicity, the report of the Oransaye Presidential Committee on the Rationalization of Federal Agencies was published. The said report listed Centre for Automotive Design and Development as one of the government agencies to be merged or scrapped. This automatically halted the implementation of the Centre for Automotive Design and Development’s Memorandum of Understanding with El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited. EXPECTED OUTCOME: (i) It is hoped that the Centre for Automotive Design and Development’s Memorandum of Understanding with El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited will be allowed to be implemented under any form of merger so as to resuscitate Nigeria’s 8 distressed automobiles assembly plants and save Nigeria’s indiscriminately polluted environment from automotive and generator fumes; (ii) In its contributions to the Post 2015 SDGs Agenda, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited will ensure that issues pertaining to the precautionary approach to environmental challenges in Nigeria, Africa and the entire planet earth, that will guarantee that: 13 crude petroleum production, mining, quarrying and construction companies adequately put in place strategies and policies that will protect the environment against any form of degradation. Forests must be conserved; gas flaring and other activities that cause the release of toxic gases to the environment must be outlawed in the proposed Post 2015 Agenda, so as to preserve our planet. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: Worried by the incessant environmental pollution at the sawmill area of Ilorin, Kwara state, Nigeria, in August 2012, the management of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited decided to create awareness about the need for the environmental responsibility of the Saw millers, mechanics, vulcanizers and waste disposers who are responsible for the un-ending fumes. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited organized a seminar titled: “STOP FUMIGATING YOURSELVES AND OTHERS!” on August 18, 2012 at the auditorium of the College of Education, Ilorin. The Goal of the seminar was to promote greater environmental responsibility by the saw millers, vulcanizers, mechanics and waste disposers who indiscriminately smolder sawdust, tires, tubes, rubber, plastics and other toxic materials daily at the sawmill area within the Ilorin metropolis. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: The target audience: saw millers, vulcanizers, mechanics and waste disposers were invited and promised a bottle of soft drink if they attend the seminar. The event recorded 215 attendees who refused to give their names and mobile telephone contacts for the fear of prosecution. They agreed that they are responsible for the environmental pollution of the sawmill area and said that there is no alternative waste disposal option for the waste they generate by government; The problem is compounded by the allowed indiscriminate felling and lumbering of economic trees all over the forest region of Nigeria, especially at night. Trees from such illicit sources form the pool of raw materials for the smolder emitting sawmills. It appears that environmental laws are not enforced in Nigeria. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Residents of the saw mill area, Ilorin, Kwara state, Nigeria, as well as those of similarly affected residential areas where sawmills are located all over Nigeria and Africa stand the risk of contacting life threatening respiratory-tract infections and lung cancer. It was apparent that those 14 responsible for the pollution never had any idea about the health hazards associated with their activities. All they care about are the financial benefits accruing to them. EXPECTED OUTCOME: The managements of African Foundation for Human Advancement AFFAH and El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited hired a presenter with the Federal Radio Corporation, Idofian near Ilorin, Mr. Deji Sekoni Munirudeen, to publicize the beneficiation alternative to the burning of sawdust such as saw dust export to overseas particle board manufacturers. Respondents to the broadcast were directed to contact African Foundation for Human Advancement AFFAH that in turn directed them to Navigroup Incorporated, Maryland, USA, which is expected to source sawdust export markets for interested exporters. The response from the general public was overwhelming. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies by Nigerians. PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN: It is top management’s policy for year 2013 to source for overseas Foreign Direct Investment or Foreign Portfolio Investment partners that can help Nigeria to develop the vast lignite deposits, as well as the vast sawdust produced in Nigeria. Such investors shall be met at the Navigroup Incorporated organized proposed US Export-Import Opportunities Exhibition www.useximafricaevents.com slated for June 12 to 15 at the Baltimore Convention Centre, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. The environmentally friendly technologies of interest are: (i) Smokeless Lignite and Sawdust making machineries and (ii) Smokeless lignite and sawdust stoves; (iii) Sewage generated methane gas utilization technologies and stoves. These three (3) technologies are critical to our search during the proposed event’s Buyers and Sellers Meetings. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION: (i) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has conducted a local survey that showed that environmentally friendly technologies such as: (i) Smokeless Lignite and Sawdust making machineries and (ii) Smokeless lignite and sawdust stoves; and (iii) Sewage generated methane gas utilization technologies and stoves will substantially help to preserve Nigeria’s and Africa’s forests; as well as, effectively address the issue of global warming; 15 (ii) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has requested that Navigroup Incorporated should arrange meetings between our officials and companies that specialize in the following: Environmentally friendly technologies such as: (i) Smokeless Lignite and Sawdust making machineries and (ii) Smokeless lignite and sawdust stoves; and (iii) Sewage generated methane gas utilization technologies and stoves; during the event. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Studies were conducted by El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited in November 2012 on the preferred cooking fuel by low income homes and bakeries located in Ilorin, Kwara state, Nigeria. Respondents were asked to choose between the electric stove, natural gas, kerosene, wood, charcoal and smokeless briquettes. EXPECTED OUTCOME: The erratic supply and skyrocketing cost of electricity, kerosene and cooking gas in Nigeria showed vividly that the common man and small scale industries like bakeries have no other alternative to felled wood and charcoal as cooking fuel. Studies conducted by El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited in November 2012 on various homes and small scale industries indicate that cheaper lignite and sawdust briquettes will be much more preferred to wood because of their cost effectiveness and environmental friendliness. ANTI-CORRUPTION: PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. TOP MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT: The board of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited designed the company’s policies in such a way as to vehemently work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Alcohol Investigations: Update on French Wine Counterfeiting in Nigeria: Goal: Unmask the identities of the latent counterfeiters of Moet & Chandon Nectar Imperial Rose, French Champagne. Top management of Groupe Ker-Meur, France; Conseils Security Services EURL, France; Boislandry Consulting, France; and El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited were involved in the investigations so far. (Background: Two previous investigations were conducted in Abuja between March and April 2011 and one in Lagos in January, 2012). PRACTICAL ACTIONS TAKEN:  Alcohol Investigations: As follow up to 2011 Abuja investigations; field investigations were carried out at the Isa Williams street wine market on the Lagos Island; Trade Fair Complex, Badagry Expressway, Lagos wine shops; Number 10 Club, Saka Tinubu street, 16 Victoria Island, Lagos; and Ekulo Wine World, Plot 1393, Tiamiyu Savage Street, Victoria Island, Lagos.  December 21 Concept Note: The December 21 Concept Note was designed in such a way as to ensure that all the members of all the various Local Networks in Africa, corporate Africa; as well as, all other salient stakeholders, mutually work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; and by so doing, effectively contribute towards the evolution of a corruption outlawed Post 2015 SDGs Agenda. PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION:  Alcohol Investigations: Professional fox-like under-cover investigations were undertaken;  December 21 Concept Note: Contributions to the production of the December 21, 2012 Concept Note came via the exchange of documents and facts via e-mail and telephone conversations by the officials of African Foundation for Human Advancement and ElYah-Agla Nigeria Limited. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES: Alcohol Investigations: (i) Ekulo Wine World, a subsidiary of Ekulo Group of Companies is the sole importer of Freixenet (Cordon Rosado) from Spain into Nigeria; (ii) Two Nigerians, (whose identities are restricted), buy-up all the Freixenet imported by Ekulo Wine World and use the Freixenet to counterfeit Moet & Chandon Nectar Imperial Rose, French Champagne (They print counterfeit stamps and labels of Moet & Chandon Nectar Imperial Rose, French Champagne in China and affix them on counterfeit bottles in Lagos), for corrupt economic gains; (iii) Lagos Mission of January 2012 lead to the discovery of two mobile numbers used by the two indicted Nigerian counterfeiters; (iv) Clandestine Forensic and Service Providers’ Data Base Spy revealed the exact names and street addresses of the two indicted Nigerian counterfeiters; (v) El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited reported the Clandestine Forensic and Service Providers’ Data Base Spy results in two separate reports dated: August 5, 2012; and August 19, 2012; (vi) In all, El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited has produced five reports so far on French Alcohol Counterfeiting in Nigeria for the client. December 21 Concept Note:  Some of the members of the Nigerian Local Network who read through the December 21, 2012 Concept Note liked the document as they want to be part of its implementation. 17 They await the decision of the UN Global Compact as regards its implementation with interest. EXPECTED OUTCOME:  Alcohol Investigations: El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited expects that the client – Moet et Chandon Hennessy Group, through Moet Hennessy Europe, will do the following: (i) commission a corroboration of all investigations facts by Groupe Ker-Meur, France, Conseils Security Services EURL, France, Boislandry Consulting, France and El-YahAgla Nigeria Limited; (ii) officially demand for all the call and SMS logs from the GSM Service Providers of the two indicted mobile numbers, so as to, reveal the exact identities of those who print the stamps and labels in China for the counterfeiters and all their collaborators and clients identities, as well as, their transactions details. All those indicted should afterwards be summarily prosecution at the world court at the Hague, Holland;  December 21 Concept Note: The implementation of the December 21, 2012 Concept Note would guaranty that more private sector and civil societies that have zero tolerance to corruption will join the United Nations Global Compact; and this would guarantee uninflated contracts, transparency in governance, less corruption, less rancor amongst politicians, reduce armed conflicts and drug induced violent crimes like kidnapping and robbery. In addition, it would improve upon sustainable development in all the regions of the world; as well as improve upon the funding, technical and technology support to the United Nations Global Compact, other United Nations agencies, the United Nations Foundation and the success of the proposed SDGs. RE: De-industrialization, Environment, Health and Corruption Concerns in Nigeria:  An overview of the background information mentioned under Principle 1 in the First COP of El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited of year – February 14, 2011-February 14, 2012 and the contents of this COP refers:  As at January 2013, the economy of Nigeria has not improved. Smuggling and dumping of almost any kind of product, especially apples, grapes, banana, palm oil, bleached vegetable oil, poultry products, frozen and dry fish, pasta and other processed foods, new and used textiles/foot wears/automobiles/auto parts/etc, fire arms, explosives, expired and counterfeit pharmaceuticals, ozone layer depleting old fridges, perfumes, other sprays and consumer goods are still on-going; in addition to the derelict smuggling out of crude oil, HPFO, AGO, PMS, lubricants, wood and agricultural produce. These activities spell catastrophic doom for Nigeria as we approach year 2015;  Nigeria and some other drastically affected African countries need to apply for Temporary Exemption from the: (i) WTO Treaty; and the (ii) ECOWAS Treaty. Both treaties have largely encouraged staging countries like Benin, Togo, Niger, Cameroon and Chad to extremely economically benefit from indiscriminate smuggling and dumping into Nigeria, at the expense of Nigeria because of “corruptly-guarded” Nigerian entry and 18 exit points. It is apparent that the governments of Benin, Togo, Niger, Cameroon and Chad craftily configure their annual Custom and Excise Tariffs in such a way as to sabotage the Nigerian government’s annual Custom and Excise Annual Tariff. Smugglers exploit the loopholes in the two treaties and tariffs year in and year out, and connive with Nigerian sumptuously corrupt entry and exit points security operatives to flood Nigeria with illicit goods and smuggle out petroleum products and other strategic goods;  CONSEQUENCES: Colossal revenue loss by the Nigerian government; continuous de-industrialization of Nigeria; Environment and Ozone Layer depletion; Terrorism; Kidnapping; Robbery; Upsurge of eyes, lungs, skin, other organs, gastrointestinal tract and systemic infections, drug failure, preventable deaths and under-development.  FEARS FOR THE FUTURE OF NIGERIA AS NIGERIA APPROACHES CENTINARY & YEAR 2015! Most Nigerians are always very quick to blame government for the ever rising inflation, corruption, bomb attacks, kidnapping, armed robberies and, violent incidences that have almost become everyday issues in the country. Some say: They are signs of bad governance. It is true that most politicians impoverish the country by conniving with foreign contractors to inflate contracts. It is also true that some very unpatriotic Nigerian sumptuously corrupt entry and exit points security operatives aid smugglers, (who are very rich and ordinary Nigerians), and enrich themselves at the expense of Nigeria. It should be noted however that various government have treated smuggling and dumping with kid-gloves because they are distractions from their main lucrative preoccupation – the ritual of sharing crude oil and other meagerly accruable revenue between the federal, 36 states, FCT and 774 local council governments. The situation is so pathetic that whoever is the governor of a state or Minister of the FCT controls whatever revenue is shared to the local councils in the state or FCT; and by so doing making the 774 councils unviable because they have no economic autonomy and earn meager internally generated revenues. This is horrible and satanic!  The federal government of Nigeria; the 36 states governments, the FCT Ministry; as well as, all the very unpatriotic Nigerian sumptuously corrupt entry and exit points security operatives do not mean well for the Nigerian economy and people. The entire Nigerian Political, Economic and Security System has to be clinically overhauled. Nigeria’s democracy is too expensive with most of the resources budgeted each year ending up on remunerations for politicians, inflated contracts and elephant projects. It appears nobody loves the survival and sustainability of Nigeria. All the very few Nigerians, dead or alive, who have amassed incredible illicit wealth within and outside the country by coming to power through Coup d’états and Counter Coup D’états; or via electoral fraud through the practice of pseudo-democracy that has bequeathed zero dividend to the vast majority of 19 the very good and patriotic citizens of Nigeria; and by so doing, perpetually consigned their fellow citizens to abject poverty and untold hardship, can be likened to glorified bandits, who have plunged Nigeria, a hitherto economic giant and pride of Africa and the black race, into a caricature of its past economic glories.  It is amazing to learn about the fuel subsidy scam which involved petroleum marketers.  The sum total of the last 5 federal budgets comes to almost N19 trillion ($118 billion) and 70% of that amount ($82.6 billion) went to salaries alone, leaving just $35.4 billion for capital projects. Does Nigeria look like a country that has expended $35 billion on capital projects in the last 5 years? Does Nigeria get the value it should from the public servants it spent 70% of federal money on? Source: http://www.ynaija.com/opinion-onezekwesilis-speech-maku-has-totally-missed-the-point/.  Nigeria has witnessed at least five cycles of crude petroleum booms that offered us rare opportunities to use revenues generated from oil to transform our economy. Sadly, each cycle ended up sliding us farther down the productivity ladder. The present cycle of boom of the 2010s is however much more vexing than the other four that happened in the 70s, 80s, 90s and 2000s. This is because we are still caught up in it even as I speak today and it is more egregious than the other periods in revealing that we learned absolutely nothing from the previous massive failures. Furthermore, it is happening back to back with the squandering of the significant sum of $45 Billion in foreign reserve account and another $22Billion in the Excess Crude Account being direct savings from increased earnings from oil that the Obasanjo administration handed over to the successor government in 2007. Six years after the administration I served handed over such humongous national wealth to another one; most Nigerians but especially the poor continue to suffer the effects of failing public health and education systems as well as decrepit infrastructure and battered institutions. One cannot but ask, what exactly does symbolize with this level of brazen misappropriation of public resources? Where did all that money go? Where is the accountability for the use of both these resources plus the additional several hundred dollars realized from oil sale by the two administrations that have governed our nation in the last five years? How were these resources applied or more appropriately misapplied? Tragic choices! Yes. Our national dignity continues to be degraded by cycles of stagnation because of the terrible choices my generation and those before repeatedly make as a result of free oil money. The wealth and poverty of a nation never found a better Symbol! Source: The wealth and poverty of a nation: who will restore the dignity of Nigeria? by Oby Ezekwesili http://elombah.com/index.php/specialreports/14292-the-wealth-and-poverty-of-a-nation-who-will-restore-the-dignity-ofnigeria-by-oby-ezekwesili; www.unn.edu.ng.  Just a year before Nigeria’s centenary celebrations, the question is: Can Nigeria survive beyond year 2015 if this sad situation remains? Some other natural resources blessed African countries have since been transformed into aid dependent countries because of similar corruption induced circumstances as in Nigeria. Since as at January 2013, most of the distressed 175 textile mills, thousands of distressed small scale hand woven textile industries, hundreds of thousands of other distressed SMEs, the distressed 8 automobile assembly plants, thousands of several other shut down industries, which 20 include the former 2 tyre plants, Michelin and Dunlop have no hope of resurrection because of smuggling, dumping, poor electricity generation and very bad roads, will Nigeria metamorphose into an aid dependent country when other countries are experiencing progressive Post 2015 SDGs? God forbid! This COP will be shared with El-Yah-Agla Nigeria Limited’s stakeholders through the usage of various tools. Our stakeholders are staff, external experts, shareholders, clients and partners. The company’s achievements in the areas of responsible entrepreneurship, research and economic crimes investigations will be primarily announced to the public in Seminars, Workshops, staff Memos, General Meetings, Internet, Board Meetings, UN Global Compact Website, brochures, Secret Reports, Newsletters, Business Magazines and the press. We have a very open communication policy. In this COP, we kept some very vital aspects of our Moet & Chandon Nectar Imperial Rose, French Champagne investigations reports absolutely secret, so as to, ensure confidentiality and protect the interests of our clients and the quality of their products. This COP was endorsed by: Mr. Samson Babatunde ILESANMI (CEO & Contact Person) Mobile: +234-70-60451145; +234-80-53666185 E-Mail: ehpsafeworld@yahoo.com 21
