SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG” ANNUAL REPORT Table of contents Director General’s address 4 Calendar of events 2012 6 About the company 10 Vodokanal history 12 Mission and values 16 Corporate management system 20 Vodokanal today 30 Risk management 40 Participation in external initiatives 48 Interaction with stakeholders 65 Results of activities in 2012 88 Water supply 90 Wastewater disposal 105 Specialized vehicles and equipment 122 Customer service 128 City fountains 144 Public toilets 149 Permanent snow-melting stations 152 Innovations 154 Implementation of new water and wastewater technologies 156 Development of hydraulic simulation 163 Development of the geoinformation system 166 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects 169 Patents 170 Development of information infrastructure 172 Social responsibility 174 Awareness-building 176 Labour safety and environment protection 186 Personnel policy 194 Social policy 202 Tariff policy 214 Financial statements 220 Main financial indicators of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 222 Balance sheet 224 Income statement 230 Contact Information 232 2 3 Annual report 2012 Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, At the International Clean Water Forum 2012, Vice-Minister of Health Ms. T.V. Yakovleva emphasized that the human health is 80% dependant on the quality of water we drink. Hence, Vodokanal St. Petersburg bears a special responsibility because it is our company that supplies potable water to the citizens. and the Leningrad Region made the first step towards the saving The year 2013 is declared the Environment Protection Year. In this In 2012, Vodokanal continued to improve its water treatment proof Sestroretskiy Razliv Lake. This artificial water body was conyear, by the way, it is also the 155th anniversary of Vodokanal, we will cesses. In parallel, we focused on the renovation of our networks. structed long ago – in XVIII century, and was a place of recreation complete the construction of the Northern Tunnel Collector and, as a The volumes of network reconstruction and valve replacement have for the citizens of Petersburg and suburban residents during many result, the wastewater treatment level in Petersburg will exceed 98%. grown. Works in this field will become one of priority tasks for Vodecades. However, the lake is highly polluted now. By re-routing the dokanal. In addition, we are planning to modernize the city’s bigger wastewater from the town of Sertolovo to Northern WWTP (formerly, Actually, we are not going to stop at that. We are sure that, in sevWTPs in the near future. it was discharged into the Chernaya River which runs into the Razliv eral years, Petersburg will hit the top ten of the cities having the best However, we should not forget about water quality in the Ladoga, Lake) we could achieve a nearly 60% reduction of pollutants inflow water supply and sewerage systems in the world the Neva (potable water source for Petersburg), the Gulf of Finland to Razliv. Of course, the joint efforts aimed at the saving of Razliv and the Baltic Sea. The environmental condition of water bodies will continue. strongly influences the quality of life. Therefore, effective treatment Another important environmental project in 2012 was the construcof sewage is no less important for us. tion and startup of snow-melting stations. It is a new area of activity In 2012, we continued to implement the Neva Untreated Wastewater for Vodokanal St. Petersburg. The permanent snow-melting stations Felix V. Karmazinov Discharge Closure Programme. The next to last stage of the Northoperate as follows: wastewater heat melts the snow and then both SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” ern Tunnel Collector was completed which resulted in the closure of the snowmelt and the wastewater are pumped to WWTPs where Director General another five direct discharges and the treatment of as much as 97% they are fully treated. So, construction of such stations in Petersburg of all wastewater. raised the snow disposal process to a new, environment-friendly The treatment quality meets not only Russian, but also international and energy-efficient level. requirements. By now, Vodokanal has implemented the wastewater Ecology, however, cannot be reduced to novel technological soluToday, the drinking water supplied to the residential buildings is treatment processes to remove nutrients, phosphorus and nitrogen, tions alone. It comprises changes of people’s mentality, behavior fully safe and meets all regulatory requirements. Petersburg is the from wastewater. As a result, Petersburg fully meets the recommenand attitude to the nature in general and to water, in particular. The world’s first city to treat all potable water with ultraviolet achieving a dations of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission year 2012 marked 10 years since Vodokanal St. Petersburg estabgood anti-virus effect (according to the city office of Rospotrebnad(HELCOM). lished the Youth Environmental Centre. Since then, over 300,000 zor, the hepatitis A incidence has reduced tenfold in our city over However, it is not possible to achieve ideal environmental condichildren have been involved in its projects, programmes and lesthe last eight years). Moreover, Petersburg is the first big city to stop tions in a single region. One cannot purify one’s “own” section of sons. Each of them has, indeed, shared the new knowledge with using liquid chlorine for water disinfection – we have replaced it with river or sea alone. We should join our efforts, in particular, with the his/her parents and friends. It means that, during the 10 years of sodium hypochlorite. Both the production and storage of this chemineighboring regions which use the same integrated water system. work, we could impart the ideas of respectful and careful attitude to cal are hazard-free; it is produced of common salt at our water There are examples of such collaboration: in 2012, St. Petersburg water to the majority of citizens. treatment plants. 4 5 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Calendar of events 2012 January April May June • The Water Tower exhibition room at 56, • Vodokanal started construction of the • Vodokanal St. Petersburg presented its • The first chamber of the permanent Shpalernaya str. hosted the closing cer• The seasonal “shift turnover” of bioin• Vodokanal started the construction of first snow-melting station at 2, Oktyabrachievements at the Russian Federasnow-melting station at 2, Oktyabrskaya emony of the environmental awarenessdicator animals checking the quality of sewage collector at Robespyera and skaya embankment. tion’s exhibition stand at the World Water emb. was built. Vodokanal started the raising project for senior high school treated effluent took place at South-West Smolnaya embankments. With the Forum in Marseilles, France. pre-commissioning. students dedicated to the Baltic Sea and WWTP: the slender-clawed crayfish collector in place, Vodokanal can close • Vodokanal’s social project, the Internet environment protection. were replaced by thermophilic Australian six direct wastewater discharges and portal Da-Voda (www.da-voda.com) • The new chemical and bacteriologi• Vodokanal St. Petersburg opened the red-claw Cherax quadricarinatus. release the Neva from 11 Mio. m3/year changed its design and launched the cal laboratory began to work at Central Fountain Season 2012. The Balloon • The final of the intellectual quiz “We and of untreated wastewater. English version (en.da-voda.com). WWTP on Bely Island. Fountain in 56, Nevsky pr. and the the Baltic Sea” was held at the Youth • Vodokanal St. Petersburg presented the fountain in Manezhnaya Square were Environmental Centre. Previously, tryfirst volume of the guidebook dedicated • Vodokanal St. Petersburg participated • Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre activated first of all. outs were held at YEC throughout March to various wastewater treatment aspects. in 10th International Water Forum acted as a partner of the Model UN 2012. The publication was prepared in coopEQUATEC 2012. February 16th Youth Conference. The conference • The Programme of developing single eration with the German colleagues. fosters the sense of responsibility for the fountains and fountain complexes in St. • I International Inter-Disciplinary Re• Vodokanal St. Petersburg became part• Vodokanal announced the first competifuture of mankind in school students, Petersburg for 2012-2015 was approved search and Practice Conference “Spiri• Vodokanal participated in V Neva ner of the first International Youth Forum tion for the “company’s best customer” helps develop their communication by the ordinance of the St. Petersburg tual and Moral Dimensions of Ecology. Environmental Congress: the company “Water and Global Heritage” hosted by title – The Crystal Drop. The competition skills, etc. Governor G.S. Poltavchenko dated 13 Cooperation of Religious Communities hosted the round table on water manthe All-Russian Youth Centre “Orlyonok” results were drawn up in March. April 2012. The Programme envisages and Secular Organizations in the Baltic agement while the Youth Environmental (Krasnodar Region) in the framework of • The new website of Burevestnik Sanatoreconstruction of 20 fountain installaSea Region” was held on Vodokanal Centre was a participant to the All-RusUNESCO World Heritage Committee’s • An open Water Lesson was given at the rium (run by Vodokanal) – www.vodokantions in the city. premises. sian Water Lesson. 36th session. Youth Environmental Centre; the target al-zagorod.ru was launched. audience was 6-7 year old children and • At III International Business Forum “Rus• The traditional initiation festival “Wel• As many as 10,910 people visited the primary/high school students. • For the first time ever Vodokanal team sia – Switzerland: Energy Efficiency” in come to Vodokanal” (the fifth one) was museum complex The Universe of Water was a participant of the citywide youth Switzerland Vodokanal St. Petersburg held for the newly-employed. during the Museums at Night 2012 championship of the Club of the Funny was awarded the Quality Standard event. and Inventive among the teams of St. plaque of honour “for compliance with Petersburg companies and organizathe international norms and require• The Internet portal da-voda.com launched March tions. Vodokanal team came third at the ments to organization of business-prothe video-quest “Save Our Sea”. final in November. cesses, the quality of management and • SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” particiend products”. pated in XIII International Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day”. 6 7 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements July August October November December • Vodokanal St. Petersburg was com• Vodokanal confirmed its Good Employer • Vodokanal in association with OAO • The permanent snow-melting station in • The joint meeting of the St. Petersburg mended by the Governor of St. Peters• Since 6 December 2012, 97% of all title: its two branches, Water Supply and TGK-1 presented the final phase of the Rizhsky prospect started to collect snow. and Leningrad Region Governments burg for its contribution to the implewastewater has been discharged treated Wastewater Disposal, were awarded the programme aimed at the connection took a decision to establish the city’s mentation of the Governmental Plan of in St. Petersburg. On that day, five direct Confidence in Employer Certificate. of several CHP plants to the municipal • Vodokanal hosted the presidium meeting and regional Steering Committee in the personnel training for national organizadischarges at Pirogovskaya embankwater networks. of the St. Petersburg Union of Industrialsphere of social and economic developtions. ment totaling 28,000 m3/day of wastewa• Three publications: Potable Water Quality ists and Entrepreneurs, one of the main ment. The Committee would deal with ter were closed in the presence of the Benchmarking, Systematic Sewerage • A regular Open Day was held at Voitems on its agenda was discussion of provision of water supply and sewerage • Vodokanal passed a surveillance audit Governor. Benchmarking: Comprehensive Assessdokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre the federal law “On Water Supply and services to the fast-growing developof its five management systems conductment and Safety of Water Sources, and where interactive programmes “Visiting Wastewater Disposal”. ments on the border between the city ed by two certification companies: SAI • By re-routing wastewater streams from Ultraviolet Technologies in the Modern Water Droplet” and “The Baltic Cruise” and Leningrad Region. Global Limited and Certification Associathe town of Sertolovo to Northern WWTP World, won the competition “100 Russia’s were conducted. • The Crown Princess of Denmark Mary tion “Russian Register”. The certificates we could achieve a 58.8 % reduction of Best Institutes of Higher Education and visited Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental • Under the new intake construction projof conformity issued to Vodokanal earlier untreated and poorly treated wastewater Research” in the nomination “Book of the Centre and the museum complex “The ect at Main WWTP, special structures were revalidated. Certification audits discharge into the Lake Razliv. Year”, among their authors were General Universe of Water”. head walls were submersed; through of Vodokanal’s Energy Management Director of Vodokanal Felix V. Karmazinov them, water from the Neva would come System and Information Security Man• Currently, Vodokanal already has six and other company employees. September • The fountains operated by Vodokanal St. to the first-lift pumping station. agement System were made for the first permanent snow-melting stations. The Petersburg went on “winter holidays”. time ever. fourteenth of December 2012 was the • Vodokanal St. Petersburg won the best • Vodokanal launched the odour removal • The Government of the Republic of richest in snow: then 24,706 m3 of snow practice competition in the creative use pilot project at Severniy sludge landfill in • Six Vodokanal employees became Karelia, LLC The Republic of Karelia • The sixth initiation festival “Welcome were melted by the stations. of social media held by the European Novoselki. winners and awardees of the regional Development Corporation and SUE to Vodokanal” was held for the newlyFoundation for Quality Management professional skill competition “Stroymas“Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” entered employed. • The Director General of Vodokanal Felix (EFQM). At the competition, Vodokanal • Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre ter 2012”. into the agreement of cooperation in the V. Karmazinov celebrated his 25th year of presented its experience in the promocelebrated its 10th anniversary. More field of water and sewerage systems in work in the capacity of the company CEO. tion of water saving ideas by demonthan 300,000 children have participated Karelia. The President of the Russian Federation strating its Internet portal in the YEC classes, programmes and V.V. Putin and the Governor of St. Petersda-voda.com. projects over these years. • Vodokanal became the general partner burg G.S. Poltavchenko congratulated Mr. of the Third International Clean Water Karmazinov on this occasion. • For the first time ever, Vodokanal orgaForum attended by 1,700 delegates from nized a festival dedicated to the Love, 35 countries. Family and Faithfulness Day. • On the World Toilet Day, Vodokanal made a present to the city residents and guests: they could use the companyoperated public toilets free of charge. 8 9 About the company 10 11 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Vodokanal History In the 1930s more and more sewers were built in other city districts. Over the period between 1950 and 1970 the annual average water The length of sewer networks in Leningrad reached 1130 km which supply to the city has grown more than twice – from 912,800 m3 to exceeded twice the pre-revolutionary level. In 1940 a new sewerage 2,057,600 m3. The Southern WTP stage II was put into operation in The history of the city’s centralized water supply goes back to 10 October, 1858, when the Charter scheme of Leningrad was adopted. It was also based on a separate 1948, Volkovskaya WTP – in 1964, and the Northern WTP stage I – of “St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company” was approved by the Russian Emperor Alexander II. sewerage system. The scheme envisaged mechanical treatment and in 1971. Wide-scale construction of water pumping stations was unprecipitation followed by discharge to four channels of the Neva Bay. derway too. In 1952 the State Committee of the Council of Ministers Among the founders of the Joint-Stock Company were engineers, During the first decades of the centralized water supply operation Storm water ought to be discharged to all watercourses in the city. It of the USSR approved the project of sewerage construction in the such as A.N. Erakov, P.I. Palibin, A.A. Peretz, E.I. Okel, and prominent in St. Petersburg all customers received water which passed only was planned to use the tunneling method to build the main sewers. central part of Leningrad where a combined sewerage system was businessmen – I.I. Glazunov, M.I. Yakunchikov, I.N. Kushinnikov. coarse mechanical treatment. In 1889 sand filters were put into A special page in Vodokanal’s history is related to World War II and proposed instead of separate sewerage. The first stage of sewerage operation at the Main Waterworks (the filters had been built by the the blockade of Leningrad. The waterworks and facilities, clean water in the city centre including the Main Pumping Station was put into 1858–1917 St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company as strongly tanks, treatment plants, water networks and sewers were subject to operation in 1958. The JSC faced huge financial and technical problems at the initial demanded by the city authorities. intensive bombings and shelling. As many as 955 shells exploded In 1966 the General Scheme of Leningrad Sewerage was approved stage. In early 1863, the construction of water networks was, In 1911 the filtration station with water ozonation was built in Peterwithin the area of the Southern WTP alone. The personnel of the which included, among other things, three big complexes of wastepractically, suspended. By then, the water tower in Shpalernaya str. burgskaya (Petrogradskaya) area. Chlorine disinfection of drinking most important facilities were put on a war footing. Destruction of water treatment facilities. The first one – Central WWTP – was put (architects I.A. Merz and E. Shubersky) has been built and several water was implemented at the Main Waterworks (the first chlorinanetworks caused the flooding of basements, streets and squares into operation in 1978 (stage I). Before that, all city wastewater was kilometers of water distribution networks have been laid. The JSC’s tion experiments were made in Kronstadt in 1909). The Executive and sometimes even the whole city districts. Nevertheless, both the discharged to the water bodies almost without any treatment. The registered capital was spent, the shares sold badly, and even the Commission for sewerage construction and water supply rehabilitacity water networks and the sewerage system were working without Central WWTP, stage II, was put into operation in 1984, and the government subsidy could not alter the situation. In March 1863, tion in St. Petersburg established by the City Duma had worked interruption except 25-26 January 1942 when the electricity supply Northern WWTP, stage I, – in 1987. The construction of the Souththe 1 Guild merchant A.I. Kron from St. Petersburg joined the JSC, since 1911 and took over most of the functions in relation to water was cut off. West WWTP started in 1986. contributed the lacking sum (approximately, 900,000 Roubles) and supply development. took up completion of the long-drawn works. The Soviet period Water supply to the first customers started by the end of 1863. World War I and the Civil War had a negative impact on the technical Some modifications were made to the initial design during the concondition of the city’s water supply system, including its plants, equipstruction period. At first, it was decided to take water from a sort of a ment and networks. In 1920s-early 1930s wood pipes were some“ladle” – the artificial water body near Tavrichesky Palace connected times used for construction of water networks due to the lack of more with the Neva. However, the “ladle” proved to be unsuitable for this suitable materials. It was only by 1935 that the pre-revolution level of purpose, and the JSC had to arrange water intake from the Neva. water supply to the city network had been reached. Before mid-1870es, the water network was only used by the citizens However, there were also some achievements at that time. First of on the left-bank side. The new joint-stock company (Partnership) was all, construction of the Southern Waterworks (stage I was put into established in 1873 (to be managed by English contractors) to supply operation in 1933, a part of stage II – in 1940) and modernization water to Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya areas. of the Main Waterworks treatment facilities should be mentioned. In In 1890 the State Duma took a decision to buy out the assets 1923–1924 construction of sewer networks was resumed. In 1925 owned by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company, the city authorities approved the major sewerage plans for Leningrad and in 1892 – to buy out also the assets of the New Water Networks (separate system with four independent sewer basins). Vasilyevsky Partnership. The City Executive Commission for water supply of St. Island was selected as experimental district for the construction of a Petersburg was established to manage the water networks and was new sewerage system. Construction of sewers in Vasilyevsky Island subordinated to the city administration. The manager of city water (total length of street networks – 153.3 km) had lasted for 10 years. networks was appointed on a submission from the chairman of the Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping station was completed by 1930. Executive Commission. Wastewater was discharged to the Neva Bay without any treatment. 12 13 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Contemporary history the Central WWTP in 2007 made it possible to meet, and even surIn 2011, Vodokanal could already treat 94% of all wastewater having The next-to-last stage of the Northern Tunnel Collector was comIn the 1990s, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” developed and pass the HELCOM standards of nutrient concentrations. By comre-channeled five direct discharges to Northern Tunnel Collector and pleted (the wastewater streams was re-routed to the collector and implemented a novel-for-Russia concept of strategic planning of the missioning two sludge incineration plants – at the Northern WWTP closed down seven small WWTPs (the wastewater formerly colthen to Northern WWTP for treatment) which resulted in the closure public utilities’ financial operations and business. Creation of a manand South-West WWTP – in 2007, St. Petersburg became the first lected by them was re-channeled to Northern WWTP). of five direct discharges and the treatment of as much as 97% of all agement system based on the corporate development planning was megalopolis to fully solve the problem of sewage sludge utilization. The ceremony dedicated to this event was attended by the Goverwastewater. The Northern Tunnel Collector Project will be completed a crucial step to implementation of this concept in the company. nor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko. by 10 October 2013, on 155th anniversary of Vodokanal. As a result, In 2008, Vodokanal St. Petersburg celebrated its 150th anniversary. the wastewater treatment level will reach 98.4 %. It is the implementation of the strategic planning concept that One of the biggest events of the jubilee year was the commissionIn 2011, St. Petersburg was finally crossed out from the list of Baltic ensured sustainable development of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peing of the first section of Northern Tunnel Collector extension. Sea polluters. Since then the city has fully met the HELCOM recomIn autumn 2012, the cooperation between St. Petersburg and the tersburg”. In 1992 the company was able to become self-sufficient mendations on wastewater treatment quality: phosphorus concenLeningrad Region got a new impetus: the joint meeting of the city and raise the necessary investments for reconstruction and develThe year 2009 was marked by the 20th anniversary of cooperation trations in the total wastewater volume discharged in St. Petersburg and region took a decision to establish the Steering Committee of opment. In 2004, the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater Syswith the Ministry of the Environment of Finland. “The Baltic. Common do not exceed 0.5 mg/l. The official ceremony marking the compleSt. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region in the sphere of social and tems Reconstruction and Development Programme for 2004-2011 Sea, Common Concern” Conference was dedicated to this date. tion of the Clean Baltic Sea Project was held at Northern WWTP in economic development. In particular, the Committee will deal with was worked out. The South-West WWTP was inaugurated on 22 June in the presence of the President of Finland Tarja Halonen. the provision of water supply and sewerage services to the fastSeptember 2005 in the presence of the President of the Russian In June 2009, the official ceremony of the last chlorine container growing developments at the border line between the city and the Federation V.V. Putin, the President of Finland Tarja Halonen and the removal from Northern Water Treatment Plant symbolized that VodoIn 2011, Vodokanal expanded its biomonitoring system by impleLeningrad Region. Swedish Prime-Minister Göran Persson. kanal stopped using liquid chlorine for water disinfection replacing it menting it at wastewater treatment plants: since the beginning of with hazard-free sodium hypochlorite. the year the composition of flue gases at the South-West incineraThe first result of the joint environmental actions was re-routing of Alongside with the construction of new facilities using the best tion plant has been monitored by African snails, and since July the wastewater in the town of Sertolovo (in the Leningrad Region) to advanced technologies, wide-scale reconstruction of the existing In December 2009, the second stage of Northern Tunnel Collector effluent quality at South-West treatment plant has been checked by Northern WWTP (in St. Petersburg). Due to that, the discharge of polWWTPs was implemented. By 2006, three “hot spots” in the Baltic Extension was completed which enabled to reach 91% of wastewaAustralian red-claw crayfish. lutants into the Lake Razliv could be reduced by 58.8 %. Sea catchment basin have been eliminated. The reconstruction of ter treatment. In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg became one of the finalists for In 2012, Vodokanal continued the sewage sludge treatment project for In June 2010, one of the biggest plants – Southern WTP started the prestigious award of the European Foundation for Quality Manthe landfill in Novoselki (the sludge had been disposed to the landfill pre-commissioning of its new water treatment block designed for agement (EFQM) Excellence Award-2011. till 2008) using the geotube technology. Moreover, an odor removal 350,000 m3/day of potable water production (water supply to the pilot project was launched. city from this block began in January 2011). Since 2011, the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre, a joint project of Vodokanal and Lahti Science and Business Park In 2012, Vodokanal developed extensive cooperation with other In 2010, Vodokanal summarized the results of the pilot project aimed (Finland), has been working on the premises of SUE “Vodokanal of regions. In particular, an agreement on cooperation in the sphere to create a water supply management system and started to impleSt. Petersburg”. of water systems modernization in the Republic of Karelia was ment the system in the southern districts of the city. entered into. Since 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has started a new type of By the end of 2010, the next stage of Northern Tunnel Collector Exactivity: construction and operation of snow-melting stations. Six September 2012 marked the 10th anniversary of Vodokanal’s Youth tension has been completed, and the official ceremony of connecting stations were in operation in the city at the end of 2012; the heat of Environmental Centre. More than 300,000 children have participated 12 more direct discharges to the Collector was held in January 2011. influent wastewater melted snow in the melting chambers. in the Centre’s projects, programmes and lessons over this period. As a result, the wastewater treatment level in the city reached 93 %. October 2012 marked 25 years since Felix V. Karmazinov became the CEO of Vodokanal. 14 15 Mission and values 16 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Mission – Provision of high-quality water and sewerage services ensuring good quality of life for customers, sustainable development of the city, Values: creation of water consumption culture and conservation of the Baltic Sea water environment. • Responsibility before future generations – careful and efficient use • Innovative approach – incorporation of international best practice of natural resources including water, energy, forests, etc. in the company management, the use of advanced technologies Vision – We see Vodokanal among the world’s best providers of water and sewerage services due to the quality of its services and enviand creation of know-how in different fields of activities – that is ronmental awareness. • Responsibility before the customers – continuous studies of the the only way to reach success and to be a leading company. customers’ expectations and requirements, improvement of customer interaction procedures to raise the level of satisfaction with • Openness to the public and responsibility before the society – the water and sewerage services transparency of the company activities, access to reliable information on the company work and history, close contacts with the mass • Responsibility before the staff – continuous improvement of labour media, educational institutions and public and environmental orgasafety, good salaries and wages, social security for the company nizations – all that constitutes the basis of our information policy. staff and their families and for the retired employees. 18 19 Corporate Management System 20 21 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Corporate management system Overview of management building philosophy approaches The corporate management of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” The company has its scientific technical council being an advisory The following management approaches are used by Vodokanal to Since 2009, the company has been using the EFQM Excellence is based on the following principles: body. The council scrutinizes various matters in relation to the deimprove its operations Model to assess its performance. Vodokanal has got the certificate Accountability. The company’s executive body shall be accountvelopment of water and sewerage systems in St. Petersburg, issues acknowledging that its corporate management complies with the able to the owner (City of St. Petersburg), the state authorities and relevant recommendations and reviews the results of research and • strategic planning; EFQM Model Recognized for Excellence level, 5 stars. control bodies in compliance with the applicable law. development. In 2011, a new branch was created in the company Transparency. The company shall ensure timely disclosure of relistructure the main task of which is to work out and implement the • process-based approach to the Company Management; In 2010, Vodokanal won the International Quality Contest of Central able information on any material facts in relation to its activities, integrated policy of water and sewerage development. and Eastern Europe. including its financial standing, social and environmental perfor• self-assessment according to the EFQM (European Foundation mance and operating results, as well as provide free access to such The corporate governance system relies on the principles and apfor Quality Management) Excellence Model; According to the results of 2011, Vodokanal joined the ranks of finalinformation for all stakeholders in compliance with the law of the proaches set by the international standards: ISO 9001 Quality Manists of the prestigious award by the European Foundation for Quality Russian Federation. agement System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, • assessment of all stakeholders’ satisfaction, including that of Management (EFQM) – Excellence Award 2011. Responsibility. The company shall acknowledge the rights of all OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety System, ISO 27001 internal process users; stakeholders as provided by the applicable law and shall seek colInformation Security System and ISO 50001 Energy Management Both the self-assessment and the assessors’ recommendations set laboration with the stakeholders to reach the company goals and to System. • management systems are based on the standards MC ISO 9001, out in the feedback report helped make a thorough analysis of the maintain financial sustainability and social stability. 14001, 50001, 27001 and OHSAS 18001; innovative managecompany management. Most of the assessors’ recommendations Efficiency. The company will only reach its goal if each employee – Vodokanal’s corporate governance system is continuously development improvement tools are implemented; were incorporated into the Management Improvement Programme from director general to ordinary officer – works efficiently. ing and improving due to the strategic initiatives of the company for the coming years. management and its sole owner – City of St. Petersburg. Since • benchmarking and comparison with the best European water In accordance with the Charter of the company the Director Gen2009, the ideology of EFQM (European Foundation for Quality companies; Basing on its own experience and the experience of foreign and eral is the sole executive body of the company. He ensures the Management) Model has made a significant impact on the company national water companies, Vodokanal is developing the Ideal Water implementation of principles of corporate governance and the future management development and improvement. • sociological studies of public awareness and expectations; Company Concept. Today, it is described in the corporate Strategic development of the corporate governance practice. Plan and covers every field of activity: customer relationship, man• annual public reports. agement and development of treatment plants and infrastructure, environment and society, financial sustainability and investments, Since 2005, Vodokanal has been making a self-assessment of staff development and social support to the employees. The Ideal its activities according to the regional Business Excellence Model Water Company Concept is subject to revision, in form and in subwhich is harmonized with the EFQM Excellence Model. According stance, according to the results of self-assessment for the previous to the results of 2006, Vodokanal won the competition for the Rusyear and in consideration of external factors including new laws, the sian Government’s Quality Prize. outlook for city development and customer expectations. Since 2009, Vodokanal has focused on systematic benchmarking exercise with the best European water companies and development of corporate social responsibility. 22 23 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Key performance management processes In parallel with the process improvements, Vodokanal is upgrading The key performance indicators of the sewerage service proThis performance management process is carried out by process System), EnMS (Energy Management System) and ISMS (Inforits system of indicators for strategic and day-to-day monitoring of cess are: owners both at the company and branch level. mation Security Management System). Moreover, the analysis of processes. The assessment tools are: internal and external audits of process performance is on the agenda of monthly Board meetings management systems, self-assessment based on the EFQM Excel• compliance of wastewater treatment quality with the target regulaPotential areas of process management improvement are identified where they discuss headway in achieving the targets. lence Model, and corporate management rating criteria. Process tory values; in the course of self-assessment based on the company manageperformance is monitored at different management levels using ment systems, internal audit results and performance evaluation The results of analysis are used to identify areas for improvements strategic, tactical and day-to-day indicators. • number of blockages per 10 km of sewers per year. reports for EMS (Environmental Management System), QMS (Qualand work out the necessary corrective measures and actions to imProcess performance is monitored at different management levels ity Management System), OHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety prove the existing approaches in order to achieve the strategic targets. The key performance indicators of the water supply service prousing strategic, tactical and day-to-day indicators. cess are: The process performance management process is based on Dem• compliance of potable water quality in the water distribution neting-Shewhart-Tailor cycle (PDCA): works with the current regulatory values of physical and chemical parameters (expressed as percentage); 1. Plan (P) – target process indicators are planned for the next year Main provisions on before it begins, on the basis of the strategic indicators, required • number of breakdowns per 10 km of water networks per year; resources and result analysis of the previous year. The causecorporate culture and-effect relationships between the approaches applied and • number of reasoned complaints about low water head; the results we want to achieve are determined at this phase. The development of corporate culture at the company is focused on Values and ethical standards have been defined and are followed to the unity of personnel in achieving the strategic targets, identification develop the corporate culture. The leaders use their own examples • water losses in the distribution network; 2. Do (D) – the service is provided; daily operational indicators are and support of social standards and values. For this purpose, regular to disseminate among the personnel the standards of ethical behavmonitored at all process levels. At this phase, management is companywide professional and cultural events are organized. iour towards every stakeholder, support the learning of values dur• duration of customer disconnection from water supply. limited to ensuring the achievement of tactical (monthly) targets. ing the adaptation period and promote corporate unity at different Vodokanal management realizes the priority of social responsibility levels by initiating, and participating in, joint events. The improvement of maintenance function alongside with recon3. Check C – the progress in achieving performance indicators is to the personnel. This realization is based on the company’s internal struction works lead to higher reliability of network operation and checked using the daily and weekly data. standards and supported through the implementation of different The key approaches to development of corporate culture and the lower breakdown rate. social support programmes including the improvement of remuneraprinciples of corporate social responsibility are used in the day-to4. Act (A) – the progress in achieving tactical targets and the reasons tion mechanisms, medical care and voluntary medical insurance, day activities at all company management levels for the purpose of for deviation from targets are analyzed, and the necessary corsubsidized catering, recreation opportunities for the employees and taking managerial decisions, organizing recreation and providing rective actions are worked out at weekly working meetings. Such members of their families, organization of corporate events, and social support for Vodokanal employees. actions help adjust the existing approaches to achieve the targets support of the company veterans and pensioners. The internal communications are effected in the company’s inteThe company has defined and is following its policy in the field of grated information space including, on the one hand, a set of IT information and knowledge. This policy is based on the principles of resources and the corporate newspaper and, on the other hand, openness, completeness, regularity, timeliness, objectiveness, reliindividual meetings between the company managers at any level ability, the raising of staff competence and improvement of corpowith the company employees. rate culture. 24 25 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The main provisions of corporate culture adopted by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” are set out in the company standard STO Vodokanal SPB 1.4-2010 Management system. Code of Corporate Ethics. Improvement of business processes The company employees adhere to the corporate values, and main• Professional skills and teamwork Now, Vodokanal’s corporate structure consists of: two production By the end of 2010, several supporting processes had been retain and develop the corporate culture as required to achieve the Vodokanal employees are good professionals. They build relabranches which provide water supply and sewerage services, the engineered too. As a result, an independent Transport and Logistics highest level of performance. tions with their colleagues on the basis of confidence, collaborabranches responsible for the core operation processes, and the Branch was segregated and an utterly new customer service function, corporate solidarity and mutual assistance. The employees company administration dealing with strategic planning and the tion comprising the units within the company administration and the The corporate values are obligatory for all Vodokanal staff and are take a proactive approach in their teamwork focusing on the monitoring of key performance indicators. branches was established. proposed to all those who cooperate with Vodokanal. result of joint activities. Those who are capable of improving the company performance are offered career promotion, and, moreThe previous management structure could not ensure proper flexIn 2011-2012 Vodokanal continued to build the water supply and The company’s ethical principles are based on the corporate over, implementation of important projects is entrusted to them. ibility of management or achievement of strategic targets. In 2007, sewerage management system in St. Petersburg. For the purpose values, compliance with law, and respect of the rights of Vodokanal for the purpose of building an effective management system, a of optimizing the key production processes, the water supply (sewemployees and partners. They govern both in-company relations • Strategic flexibility detailed analysis of Vodokanal’s business processes was made, erage) districts became independent structural divisions. Now, each and Vodokanal relationship with its partners and customers includVodokanal operates in the environment where governmental regfollowed by optimization of the business processes using a processdistrict deals with the calculation and control of the district’s water ing behaviour in the situations where conflicts of interests arise. ulation of tariffs and fluctuating prices for the suppliers’ products based approach to management and on the basis of the QMS balance; and the levels of responsibility, from the company adminare a reality and have a significant impact on the implementation (Quality Management System) principles. istration to the districts, are clearly defined, demonstrating that we of the company strategy. have reached the next level of the corporate management system The principles are (but not limited to): As a result of re-engineering, two 1st level business processes were development. • Social responsibility defined: Water Supply in St. Petersburg and Wastewater Disposal • Focus on creation of value The company bears responsibility for the social well-being of its in St. Petersburg, their key management elements being: process Water Supply Economy Department and Water Disposal Economy Vodokanal employees carry out their activities in line with the employees. The value created by Vodokanal staff is a huge conowners, process flow, monitoring points and cost structure. The reDepartment were established within the company administration to company strategy and strive to fulfil the most important strategic tribution to the improvement of the living standards in St. Peterssults obtained allowed to look at the company and its strengths and provide methodological assistance to water supply (sewerage) distasks. Implementing various actions, Vodokanal employees realburg and the Baltic Sea Region. weaknesses from a new perspective. tricts in preparing the district’s budget and reports on their producize what value they create for customers, their company and the tion and economic results. society in general. In the years 2008-2010 that followed, the activities in relation to business process re-engineering were implemented in an integrated Today, the corporate structure of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and systematic way: managers at all levels scrutinized the funcis focused on implementation of the functional-zonal principle of tions of different company units and job descriptions of employees, water systems management. Three management levels are formed defined the information flows and revised the targets and key tasks. in the company. The re-engineering of business processes was followed up by the Vodokanal management system is now based on the following key transition from the territorial principle of water systems manageprinciples: ment to the process-based principle: water supply and sewerage • process-based approach, and services within the same area are provided by separate specialized • personification of responsibilities and authority. branches. 26 27 SUE “VODOKANAL OF ST.PETERSBURG” ORGANIZATIONAL CHART (as of 01.01.2013) 28 29 Vodokanal today 30 31 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Company profile Main achievements of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in the Main achievements of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in the field of water treatment: field of wastewater treatment: The State Unitary Enterprise (SUE) “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides water and sewerage services to • all potable water supplied to the city is UV-treated to ensure • 97.1 % of wastewater is treated in Petersburg now; this figure will the city of St. Petersburg. It is the country’s biggest public utility and one of the key municipal companies in epidemiologic safety; grow to 98.4 % by October 2013; St. Petersburg. • liquid chlorine is not used for water disinfection, it is replaced by • Petersburg meets the HELCOM recommendations: phosphorus Since 2012, Vodokanal has taken up a new activity: construction hazard-free, non-toxic sodium hypochlorite; concentrations in the total volume of the city wastewater discharge and operation of permanent snow-melting stations. do not exceed 0.5 mg/l, nitrogen concentrations – 10 mg/l; • hazard-free, non-toxic ammonia sulfate is used for water ammoVodokanal’s assets are owned by the City of St. Petersburg reprenation instead of ammonia solutions; • Petersburg has solved the sludge disposal problem: three sludge sented by relevant public authorities. incineration plants are in operation in the city; • water condition in the Neva is checked by means of a biomonitorVodokanal provides its services to the city inhabitants (5 million ing system where crayfish act as chief “inspectors”; • The geotube technology is used to recycle the sewage sludge people) and to many thousands of companies and organizations in accumulated in the landfills before the incineration plants were St. Petersburg. • PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing is implemented to put into operation; remove odors and oil; As of 31.12.2012, the staff of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” • Biomonitoring technologies are implemented to check the quality numbered 9,279 people. • St. Petersburg is the first city in Russia to implement a water supof treated effluent (by means of crayfish) and the concentrations of ply management system: a pilot project has been implemented in flue gases at the sludge incineration plant (by means of snails); Uritskaya Pumping Station zone, and the system implementation is The water supply system comprises: near completion in Southern water supply zone. • An environment-friendly and energy-efficient snow disposal techThe sewerage system comprises: nology is implemented in Petersburg – permanent snow-melting • 6,755km of water networks; stations utilizing wastewater heat. • 88,119.3km of sewer networks; • 200 boosting pumping stations; • 241.1km of tunnel collectors; • 9 water treatment plants (the biggest are Southern WTP, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has built an effective customer feedback system. Since 2004, a 24-hour Hot Northern WTP and Main WTP); • 138 sewage pumping stations; Line has been in operation where one can get any information about Vodokanal work. The Hot Line can be called by phone 305 09 09. • 2 sodium hypochlorite production plants. • 15 wastewater treatment plants including 13 – for municipal sewage and 2 – for land runoff. The biggest are: Central WWTP, Moreover, Vodokanal is in charge of the city fountains and public The International Advanced Water Technologies Centre established Northern WWTP and South-West WWTP; toilets. by Vodokanal in cooperation with Lahti Science and Business Park, Vodokanal pays great attention to awareness-raising activities. It has Finland, is working on the company premises. • 3 sludge incineration plants. its Information and Training Centre including the museum complex The Universe of Water and the Youth Environmental Centre. Another social awareness-raising project implemented by Vodokanal is the Internet portal da-voda.com which promotes the ideas of careful water use. 32 33 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The most important events in 2012 1. The next-to-last stage of the Northern Tunnel Collector Project was completed. Due to that, as many as 97.1 % of all wastewater is discharged treated. 4. A pilot odour removal project is launched at the sewage sludge landfill Severniy in Novoselki. On 6 December 2012, five untreated wastewater discharges on All in all, from 2008 to 2012, Vodokanal has closed down over 60 The 83ha sewage sludge landfill Severniy was put into operation in geotube technology. In parallel, the automatic deodorant spraying Pirogovskaya embankment (28,000 m3/day in total) were closed direct wastewater discharges (approx. 250,000 m3/day in total) due 1986, concurrently with the startup of Northern WWTP. The sludge system was put into operation as a pilot project for Severniy Landfill down. Now this wastewater is re-routed via the collector to Northern to the construction of Northern Tunnel Collector, and the Neva was produced in the wastewater treatment process at Northern WWTP in September 2012. WWTP where it passes all treatment stages (including those recomrelieved of 90 Mio. m3/year of dirt. had been disposed to that landfill till 2008 (in autumn 2007, the mended by HELCOM). sludge incineration plant at Northern WWTP was put into operaThe system consists of a pumping station with a control unit and a In October 2013, seven more direct discharges (37,000 m3/day) will tion, and sludge was no longer disposed to the landfill). To prevent 300m long pipeline located on the posts, 6 meters above the land be connected to Northern Tunnel Collector. As a result, the wastewaany negative impact of the landfill on the environment Vodokanal is surface, along the landfill perimeter. The deodorant solution is atomter treatment level will grow to 98.4 % in Petersburg. implementing a project to recycle the accumulated sludge using the ized through the nozzles installed on the pipeline at a 6m interval. 2. Wastewaters from the town of Sertolovo (Leningrad Region) have been connected to Northern WWTP. 5. As a result, the discharge of pollutants into the Lake Sestroretsky Razliv reduced by 58.8 %. The main phase of the programme envisaging connection of several CHP plants (Vyborgskaya CHP and Central In December 2012, the official ceremony of connecting the SertoThat was achieved due to the construction of sewage collector CHP’s power plant no.2) to the municipal water networks has been completed in cooperation with OAO TGK-1. lovo wastewater was held at Northern WWTP in the presence of the “Pesochniy-Novoselki-Northern WWTP” in Petersburg, the main Due to that, the hot water quality could be improved since the CHPs Vyborgskaya CHP receives up to 33,000 m3 of cold water, and CenGovernor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko and the Governor of pumping station in Sertolovo and two pressure lines to the inlet now use potable cold water from Main WTP for the preparation of tral CHP’s power plant no.2 – approx. 44,000 m3. Leningrad Region F.Yu. Drozdenko. By joint efforts of the city and chamber of the collector “Pesochniy-Novoselki-Northern WWTP” hot water (formerly, the power plants used raw water from the Neva). the region the discharge of untreated and poorly treated wastewater (Leningrad Region). totaling 7,700 m3/day into the river Chernaya (it falls into the Lake 6. Razliv) was stopped. Vodokanal’s Youth Environmental Centre has celebrated its 10th anniversary. 3. Six permanent snow-melting stations have been built and put into operation. The Youth Environmental Centre (YEC) was opened in September 2002. Since then, over three hundred thousand children have raising system comprising, in addition to YEC, the museum complex “The Universe of Water” and the International Advanced Water Construction and operation of snow-melting stations is a new area Therefore, by disposing snow to permanent stations we can achieve participated in its interactive programmes, projects and classes and Technologies Centre. Since 2010, the Internet portal da-voda.com of activity for Vodokanal St. Petersburg. The stations use the heat of a significant reduction of negative impact on the environment. subsequently, acted as teachers for their parents and friends. focused on active Internet audience has been in operation with the wastewater pumped into the snow-melting chamber. The resulting mix Today, Vodokanal has an integrated environmental awarenesssupport of Vodokanal. of snowmelt and wastewater is sent to WWTPs where it is fully treated. 7. December 2012 marked 25 years since Felix V. Karmazinov became the CEO of Vodokanal. Over this period, Vodokanal has implemented a number of largescale projects which enabled St. Petersburg to reach a new level in the field of potable water supply and wastewater treatment. 34 35 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Investments in 2012 Vodokanal’s investment activities are carried out in accordance with the investment programme developed and In 2012, 16,477.5 Mio. Roubles were invested in the development and reconstruction of water and wastewater adopted for a three-year period in compliance with the applicable law. systems in St. Petersburg. Investment programme objectives are grouped in line with the core production activities of Vodokanal. This amount is the sum of Vodokanal’s investment programme and It was funded from different sources, such as: the budget investments in the projects ordered by the Employer’s • St. Petersburg budget – 616.5 Mio. Rbls. The water supply objectives are: The wastewater objectives are: Office for Construction and Capital Repairs of Engineering and • supply of safe potable water to the customers; • mitigation of wastewater system’s negative impact on the enviEnergy Complex (hereinafter – “the Employer’s Office”). • Vodokanal’s own funds – 3,904.0 Mio. Rbls. ronment; • provision of reliable water services; In 2012, Vodokanal’s investment programme amounted to • own funds (budget investments in the authorized capital – • provision of reliable wastewater disposal services; 11 100.3 Mio. Rbls. 1,779.7 Mio. Rbls. • improvement of energy efficiency and energy saving at water supply facilities; • improvement of energy efficiency and energy saving at wastewa• borrowed funds – 3 297.4 Mio. Rbls. ter collection and treatment facilities; • access to the centralized water supply services • connection fee – 1 502.7 Mio. Rbls. • access to the centralized wastewater disposal services 36 37 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Vodokanal invested 4,260.2 Mio. Rbls in the water supply system The amount of 6,840.1 Mio. Rbls. was invested in the wastewater Awards in 2012 under the investment programme, including: system, including: In 2012, Vodokanal won several national and international awards: • development of bigger water treatment plants – • closure of untreated wastewater discharges – 43.5 Mio. Rbls.; 2 055.4 Mio. Rbls. • reconstruction and development of water networks – • modernization and construction of treatment plants – • Winner’s diploma of the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality In 2012, Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 1 986.2 Mio. Rbls.; 580.7 Mio. Rbls. Management) Good Practice competition in creative use of social Felix V. Karmazinov was awarded a medal and the laureate diploma media of the competition “100 Best Higher Education and Research Insti• improvement of energy efficiency at water facilities – • construction of permanent snow-melting stations – tutes of Russia” in the nomination “Scientist of the Year”; the medal 817.2 Mio. Rbls.; 1 612.6 Mio. Rbls. • “Confidence in Employer” Certificate (bestowed on the Branches of the International Eurostandard Association “For Works Beneficial “St. Petersburg Water Supply” and “St. Petersburg Wastewater to Society”; the Top 100 Rating laureate diploma in the nomination • other items (production bases, procurement of equipment, secu• reconstruction and development of sewer networks – Disposal”) “Energy and Infrastructure”; and the Medal of L.G. Melnikov “For rity systems, development of fountain complexes) – 1 869.9 Mio. Rbls. Personal Contribution to Elimination of Hazardous Industrial Plants 1 413.3 Mio. Rbls. • Laureate diploma of the All-Russian Award “Financial and Ecoand the Use of Safe Advanced Technologies for Construction of • improvement of energy efficiency at wastewater facilities – nomic Olympus 2012” Underground Tunnel Collectors”. Moreover, Mr. Felix V. Karmazinov 104.3 Mio. Rbls. was commended by the Governor of St. Petersburg for his contri• Laureate diploma of the “Company of the Year 2012” Award bution to the implementation of the Governmental Personnel Train• other items (production bases, procurement of equipment, secuing Plan for Russian organizations. rity systems, development of public toilets) – • Badge “Quality Standard” – for compliance with the international 617.2 Mio. Rbls. regulations and requirements to the organization of business processes, quality of management and end products (in the framework of III International Business Forum “Russia-Switzerland: In 2012, the total cost of works ordered by the Employer’s Office to develop water and wastewater systems in Energy Efficiency” – April) St. Petersburg was 5,377.2 Mio. Rbls. • Honorary Certificate for active participation in the St. Petersburg The works were financed from the budget of St. Petersburg. Vodokanal personnel inspected the quality of International Youth Programmes Organization under the Associaconstruction and installation works throughout the year. tion of International Cooperation, Association for Relations with Great Britain and Unions of English-Speakers. 38 39 Risk Management 40 41 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Financial risk management Financial risk management in 2012 Vodokanal follows a balanced financial policy based on the Strategic Plan and long-term perspective. In 2012, Vodokanal continued using long-term forecasting and financial modeling to minimize financial risks. Continuous monitoring of the financial situation and assessTo optimize the use of loan funds provided to the company, as The basis of the forecast is unconditional compliance with the key The model provides instruments for comparative analysis and moniing potential impacts of the current financial situation on the key well as to decrease potential financial risks, Vodokanal as agreed financial ratios, calculated according to both Russian and Internatoring of Vodokanal’s dynamically changing results. Using the refinancial indicators provided prompt update of financial policy and by international financial organizations – the company’s lenders – tional Financial Reporting Standards, maintaining the values as sults of the monitoring and analysis made by means of the financial maintenance of the key financial ratios that describe the company’s made the drawdown of the remaining loan proceeds under the Neva recommended by the International Financial Institutes. model, Vodokanal’s management promptly make necessary amendfinancial stability and solvency at the proper level. Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Program in the amount ments to the company’s production and investment programs. of MEURO 43.6. These loan proceeds were converted into roubles To make a long-term forecast, the company uses its financial model Risk management is integrated into the management system via In 2012, Vodokanal continued improving its financial model. The and partly used to pay for the works performed. The rest part in the calculated for the period up to 2030. strategic management and budgeting processes. Internal control output of the model’s latest version is a package of financial stateamount of RUB 1.4 billion – after the deposit auction at St. PetersIt helps to evaluate Vodokanal’s financial capabilities taking into acprocedures are implemented by the company in order to decrease ments prepared in compliance with the International Financial burg Stock Exchange among the first-class credit institutions – was count the big investment projects implemented through the comall risks. The company internal audit is performed by a separate deReporting Standards (IFRS). The improved model corresponds to deposited with a bank for 1.5 years at an annual percentage rate of pany’s own or borrowed funds. The model enables consideration partment within the Vodokanal’s administration. Scenario approach, the European level and allows to predict and analyze Vodokanal’s 10.13% with the right to quarterly withdraw funds in pre-defined limof macroeconomic factors and company development factors to industry analysis and SWOT analysis are used by Vodokanal St. key financial indicators in accordance with IFRS. its. The funds to be quarterly withdrawn will be used to pay for works identify potential sources of investments and to project development Petersburg as the risk identification and assessment methods. and services performed. Thus, in addition to the profit derived from options under different scenarios. Property insurance and social responsibility insurance of Vodokanal In addition, the model enables forecasting the impact of large difference between loan and deposit rates, the company excluded as the owner of large production sites are used as the most imporinvestment projects implementation scenarios on basic indicators the risk of lower euro-to-rouble rate and, consequently, the lack of tant risk decreasing tools. of the company’s financial and economic activity in the long-term funds to finance rouble contracts. perspective. As the result, the company can choose the most effective implementation scenario taking into account minimization of Vodokanal policy in the field of financial management and minimizafinancial risks. tion of potential risks was appraised by the leading international rating agencies Standard&Poor’s and Moody’s, which gave Vodokanal the following investment-grade credit ratings in 2012: • S&P BB+ . Stable outlook • Moody’s – Ваа2. Stable outlook. 42 43 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Non-financial risk management Segmentation of non-financial risks was made by Vodokanal within the framework of the company self-assessment in accordance with the EFQM Excellence Model. The key aspects of the company activities, which may lead to risks, were identified. Within the Vodokanal’s internal control system there is a special unit that deals with preventive identification They include: of the company risks and implementation of risk minimization activities. 1. Risks associated with the customer dissatisfaction with water 2. Management of risks associated with negative impacts on the environment is performed on the basis of environmental management system ISO 14001, which is used by the company. and wastewater service quality. The internal control department provides the management of VodoGeneral procedure for control of the structural departments and Vodokanal enhances the reliability of water supply and sewerage kanal with the information obtained: internal auditing was formed and regulated. Rules for composition, systems, improves wastewater treatment and sludge utilization 2. Risks associated with negative impacts on the environment. description and execution of the audit report were defined. Methtechnologies, stops discharges of flush water from water treatment • during inspections of the company structural departments, ods for different types of inspections and examinations are under plants by treating it and using it as process water, and focuses on 3. Risks associated with changes in legislation. development. the environmental friendliness of the used motor transport. • upon the analysis of range and price of goods and services pro4. Risks associated with the general decline in the culture of cured by the company during its operation, water use. • during the examination of company basic and supporting pro5. Risks associated with the potable water source contamination. 3. Energy management system on the basis of ISO 50001 was implemented and certified within the company in 2012 in order cesses. to create a system-wide approach to increase energy efficiency of the plants. 6. Risks of industrial accidents. 4. Improvement of the occupational health and safety manage7. Risks associated with potential diseases in hazardous working ment system on the basis of OHSAS-18001 leads to mitigation conditions. of the risks associated with emergency situations and consequently, to the improvement of service quality and mitigation of the environ8. Information security risks related to the company’s information ment pollution risks. Currently, the professional risks assessment assets and personnel. is not only an important part of occupational health and safety management but also a part of the company general management. 1. The above risks are systematically managed by the company using a process-based approach. Implementation of this activity is performed on the basis of OHSAS-18001 international standard and range of national regulations. To minimize the risks associated with the customer dissatisfaction with water and wastewater services, the quality management system based on the International Standard ISO – 9001 is continuously improved. Regular interaction with customers through the Hot Line Service in combination with the company’s transparency policy (including active communication with mass media) as well as questionnaires and customer satisfaction surveys help to mitigate this risk, too. Internal and external audits as a part of the Quality Management System (EMS) enable quick identification of the management areas, which need to be improved and help improve the processes at all stages of the service life cycle. This improves the quality of company operations and increases the customer satisfaction level. 44 45 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Non-financial risk management in 2012 In 2012, the non-financial risk management process was under constant control based on ISO European Standards and EFQM Excellence Model 5. To alleviate the risks associated with undesirable changes in legislation, Vodokanal actively participates in the development Efficient use of natural resources, system approach to the company management, active participation in the development of regulations, In 2012, Vodokanal introduced and certified two more management systems: energy management system (ISO 50001) of regulations, makes suggestions and argues its position. environmental awareness-rising activities, technological innovaand information security management system (ISO 27001). tions, and internal and external benchmarking – all that became a part of the corporate management culture and helps alleviate risks. 6. To prevent the risks associated with a decline in the culture of water use, Vodokanal actively implements environmental awareness-building educational programs. Control of the risk level is performed through monitoring of impleAt present, Vodokanal continues improving its non-financial risk mentation of risk mitigating measures and progress analysis permanagement. Particular attention is paid to the following areas: formed by the company’s top management. 7. The management of the risks associated with potable water • creation of more accurate risk-management system; source contamination is based on early prevention of such conAnnual self-assessment of the company operation in accordance taminations. In particular, Vodokanal has implemented the river water with the EFQM Excellence Model enabled successful introduction • support of energy management system according to the ISO biomonitoring by crayfish at all its water intakes. And oil spills in the of the applied approaches for non-financial risk management into 50001 ideology; river are detected by the monitoring system installed on one of the the integrated system. bridges across the Neva River, upstream of the first city water intake. • support of information security management system according to the ISO 27001 ideology; 8. To minimize the risks associated with accidents and hazardous working conditions Vodokanal continuously performs its • extension of both internal and external benchmarking; activities to improve working conditions, reduce accident frequency • more extensive use of such tools as 20 Keys, Six sigma, Lean rate and control accident risk at hazardous production sites. production, etc. 9. To mitigate the risks associated with information security, the company implements measures to identify risks, determine risk factors and risk probability, carries out analyses and assessment of risks that may affect the company’s information security. The company’s informational security management system in accordance with ISO 27001 was established and certified in 2012 to ensure a system-wide approach to the information security. 46 47 Participation in external initiatives 48 49 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Compliance with HELCOM requirements Vodokanal continues to improve wastewater treatment technologies. pumping station designed to adjust the velocity of wastewater and Since 2011, the 1st line of modernization to intensify the biological prevent tunnel silting. treatment processes according to JHB (Johannesburg) technolDue to the stage-by-stage commissioning of the collector, VodoIn order to fulfil recommendations of the Helsinki Convention on the Baltic Marine Environment Protection ogy has been carried out at CWWTP. The 3d and 4th aeration tank kanal has annually been closing tens of thousands m3/day of direct (HELCOM), in 2012 Vodokanal St. Petersburg strived to reduce untreated wastewater discharges and remove nusections were commissioned in 2012 following the completion of wastewater discharges since 2008. trients (nitrogen and phosphorus) from wastewater. upgrading works in 2011. In 2012, Vodokanal closed five direct discharges (28,000 m3/day) The Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of The main goals of Vodokanal in terms of the Baltic Sea protection are: At the same time NWWTP reconstruction work began. 5 aeration near the Pirogovskaya Embankment. Thus, the Bolshaya Nevka the Baltic Sea (Helsinki Convention) was signed by all Baltic Sea tank sections, 5 primary clarifiers, 6 secondary clarifiers will be River was released from about 10,000,000 m3 of untreated wastecountries in 1974. The Convention for the first time dealt with all pol• closing untreated wastewater discharges; reconstructed under the project. water per year. That allowed to increase the amount of treated luters located in the catchment area of the Baltic Sea. After collapse wastewater up to 97.1 %. of the USSR, establishment of new independent states, unification • reducing nutrient load on the Baltic Sea basin. Besides, in 2012 design work began to modernize wastewater treatof Germany and development of the international environmental ment plants in the catchment area of south-western suburbs of St. Besides, in 2012 Vodokanal began to construct a collector near law, the new Helsinki Convention was signed in 1992 by the states Petersburg, including Kolpino WWTP, Kronstadt WWTP, Pushkin the Robespierre and Smolny Embankments, which is a part of the located along the coast of the Baltic Sea and the European ComBefore 1978, wastewater in Leningrad was not treated at all. At that WWTP and Pontonny WWTP. Northern Tunnel Collector. The scope of work includes installation of munity. It was put into effect upon the ratification on January 17, time about 3,500,000 m3 of untreated wastewater was daily disa 2.2 km micro-tunnel with the inner diameter of 1.5 m (it will be laid 2000. The Russian Federation approved the 1992 Helsinki Convencharged directly into the Neva River and other city water bodies. Major efforts were done in 2012 to reduce the untreated wastewater at the depth of about 20 m) and construction of six shafts (8.5 m tion in October 1998. At present, St. Petersburg has 13 wastewater treatment plants, discharge into water bodies. and 6 m in diameter) and seven solid chambers. Besides, sewerage which receive combined and municipal wastewater, and 2 storm After construction of Pesochny-Novoselki-Northern WWTP collector, networks with the diameter of 0.6-1.2 m and the total length of about The main purpose of the Convention is to protect the marine enviwater treatment plants. The main wastewater treatment plants are the company stopped to discharge untreated and insufficiently treated 200 m will be re-laid. ronment of the Baltic Sea, restore and preserve the environmental the Central Wastewater Treatment Plant (Central WWTP), Northern wastewater from the town of Sertolovo (Leningrad region) into the balance in the region and ensure sustainable use of its resources. Wastewater Treatment Plant (Northern WWTP) and South-West Razliv Lake and then into the Gulf of Finland. Since the end of 2012, To stop untreated wastewater discharges into the Okhta River, the Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWTP). wastewater from the town of Sertolovo is channeled for treatment to Okhta tunnel design works continued in 2012. In 2013, design docuMember-countries committed to take all necessary legislative, adthe Northern WWTP. That enabled to reduce by 58.8% the amount of ments will undergo expertise and then construction of the collector ministrative and other measures to prevent the Baltic Sea pollution At the end of 2012, St. Petersburg treated 97.1 percent of wastewater. pollutants discharged to the Sestroretsky Razliv Lake. will begin. and eliminate the existing pollution sources for the purpose of the Up-to-date technologies are implemented at the city wastewater Baltic Sea ecosystem rehabilitation. treatment plants that allow to remove effectively phosphorus and An important project targeted to the fulfillment of HELCOM recomIn 2013, which is declared in Russia the Year of Environmental nitrogen from wastewater. mendations and closure of the untreated wastewater discharges is Protection, Vodokanal continues work to stop untreated wastewater The governing body of the Convention is the Helsinki Commission, Since June 2011, Petersburg has been meeting in full the Helsinki the completion of the Northern Tunnel Collector. discharges into water bodies. In September 2013, the construction the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (HELCOM), Commission recommendations regarding phosphorus content in The Northern Tunnel Collector is a complicated engineering strucof the Northern Tunnel Collector will be fully completed. That will which in particular issues recommendations (regulations) for muthe city effluent discharges (not more than 0.5 mg/l). The nitrogen ture. There are two main tunnels, each of them being 12.2 km long ensure treatment of 98.4 % of wastewater in St. Petersburg. nicipal wastewater treatment. content in the effluent in Petersburg does not exceed 10 mg/l. and 4 m wide, laid underground at the depth of 40-90 meters; it consists of dozens of inlet and distribution chambers, many kilometers of connecting micro-tunnels, a unique facility – URS – the 50 51 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Participation in the UN Global Compact Involvement in the development of legislative acts SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” supports ten principles of the UN Global Compact confirming its intentions The most important area of regulatory and analytical activities of Vodokanal in 2012 was its involvement in deto promote more stable and open global economy and sustainable development in the field of human right proveloping drafts of subordinate legislation aimed at implementing the Federal Law no.416-FZ dated December 7, tection, responsible approach to labour relations, environment protection and anti-corruption. 2011 “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal”. Principles of the UN GC are based on the UN Universal Declaration conferences, round tables, working groups and advisory panels, Many such subordinate acts were under the development, and the • Requirements for technical inspection of centralized systems of of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Declarawhich were organized as a part of the UN GC Network activities in most important among them are: hot/cold water supply and wastewater disposal; tion, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the UN the RF and devoted to the most pressing issues for business comConvention against Corruption. munity. • Rules of cold water supply and wastewater disposal; • and other acts. Vodokanal considers the participation in the Global Compact as a Vodokanal presented for the second time its sustainable develop• Standard form contracts for cold water supply, wastewater disunique strategic opportunity to promote the principle of corporate ment report at the annual exhibition of non-financial reports of the posal, transportation of cold water and wastewater; Vodokanal’s participation in the development of subordinate legislasocial responsibility in its operations. That allows improving the companies – participants of the UN Global Compact in the Russian tion drafts allowed to include a lot of proposals and wordings aimed company sustainable development practice. Federation. • Basic principles of pricing in water supply and wastewater disat protecting rights and legitimate interests of water companies as posal sector; well as efficient operation of the water sector. A corporate framework of social responsibility has been established In 2012, Vodokanal also participated in the development of The in Vodokanal. Its elements are the social support of personnel’s poBest Practice Manual – “Sustainable development: role of Rus• Water and wastewater tariffs regulation rules; In 2012, employees of Vodokanal also developed amendments to tential and motivation, health and safety system, care for veterans, sian business”. The manual presents ways of the UN GC principles the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal”. Dedevelopment of physical culture and sports, youth policy, interaction implementation by the Russian business community as well as • Rules of commercial water and wastewater metering; spite the fact that this law was adopted recently (at the end of 2011), with trade-unions, continues system of staff training and developits activity to promote general objectives of the UN in sustainable it is necessary to amend the law to protect the rights and legitimate ment. Vodokanal’s participation in the UN Global Compact is the development. • Procedure for setting permissible discharge values and discharge interests of water companies and to ensure efficient operation of the basis for planning and implementation of social responsibility in the limit values for those organizations that discharge wastewater via water sector. company. Vodokanal regularly submits the results of its activities to stakeholdthe centralized sewage system to the city water bodies; ers and general public. This information is published in a consoliDuring 2012, the company worked on other drafts both of normative Vodokanal actively participates in the UN Global Compact Network dated form in corporate reports on sustainable development that are • Procedure to control composition and properties of wastewater; acts both at the federal and St. Petersburg level. activities in the Russian Federation. In 2012, the Deputy Director drawn up annually in accordance with international social reporting General Mr. Anatoly K. Kinebas was elected to the UN GC Network standards. Activities related to the company’s corporate responsibil• Procedure for development and approval of water supply and At the federal level the work was carried out, in particular, on the Steering Committee in the Russian Federation. It was decided that ity are also covered in corporate media – on the web-site and in the wastewater disposal plans, content requirements; following regulations: the Federal Law “On protection of Lake Vodokanal would coordinate the environmental activities within the corporate newspaper. Ladoga”, the Federal Law “On amending separate legislative acts of UN GC ten principles implementation. • Rules for the development and calculation of the target perthe Russian Federation to improve on tariffs regulation for electric Participation in the Global Compact allows the company to be well formance indicators for companies-providers of hot water, cold power, heat, gas, cold water supply and wastewater disposal”, the In 2012, Vodokanal participated in the traditional Russian Business informed about the best international practice in terms of implemenwater and (or) wastewater services; Federal Law “On amending the Federal Law “On Competition”” and Week organized under the aegis of the Russian Union of Industrialtation of ten principles of UN GC and facilitates the development of ists and Entrepreneurs in cooperation with the UN GC Network in the best practices in sustainable development in Russia. the Russian Federation. The company representatives took part in 52 53 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Involvement into the REACH European Regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) is the European Union Regulation that governs production and turnover of all chemicals, including their compulsory registration. some other legislative acts of the Russian Federation, the Federal During the work on the above regulation drafts, Vodokanal’s employIn 2010, within the framework of the Baltic Sea Action Summit in In 2012, Vodokanal proceeded with its work under the CommitLaw “On amending the Federal Law “On Privatization of State and ees developed texts of the drafts, prepared and consolidated comcompliance with the status of a downstream user Vodokanal St. ment with regard to the Baltic Sea in compliance with the REACH Municipal Property” and the Article 9 of the Federal Law “On Water ments and proposals on various versions of regulation drafts, issued Petersburg undertook the Commitment in respect of the Baltic Sea: standards. Supply and Wastewater Disposal”, the Federal Law “On Public and objections to comments of public authorities regarding the regulation “Introduction of improved measures to provide environment-friendly A mandatory and integral part of Vodokanal’s cooperation with Private Partnership”, the Federal Law “On Public Control in the Rusdrafts, developed analytical and other documents and materials on selection and use of chemicals in Vodokanal St. Petersburg in acexternal suppliers is the submittal of existing safety data sheets for sian Federation”, the Federal Law “On amending the Federal Law regulation drafts (conclusions, certificates, comments, special opincordance with the REACH standards”. chemicals and substances by suppliers. “On Concession Agreements” and separate legislative acts of the ions, schemes, tables, etc). The Commitment was undertaken to protect the Baltic Sea from In future, Vodokanal plans to develop its further cooperation with the Russian Federation”, the Resolution of the Russian Government the impact of hazardous substances by way of selecting environBaltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) within the framework of the under“On amending several regulations of the Russian Federation GovThis work was conducted as part of interaction with the State Duma, ment-friendly chemicals to be applied in production processes and taken Commitment to improve the condition of water resources in ernment on housing and public Utilities”, as well as a number of the Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian Federation, the laboratories of Vodokanal St. Petersburg and ensure safe chemical the Baltic Sea. other legislative acts. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Fedhandling. This commitment includes the following items: eration, the Legislative Assembly of St. Petersburg, the Committee At the level of St. Petersburg the work was performed, in particular, for Energy and Engineering Support, Not-for-profit partnership “GKH • informing potential suppliers (importers) about Vodokanal’s methon the following regulations: the Law of St. Petersburg “On delineaRazvitie”, Not-for-profit partnership “National Union of Vodokanals”, ods of using chemicals; tion of powers between the Legislative Assembly of St. Petersburg the Russian Association of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal, and the Government of St. Petersburg in water and wastewater as well as other public authorities and organizations. • collection and review of existing safety data sheets; sector”(to implement the Federal Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal”), Regulation of the St. Petersburg Government “On • informing suppliers about the requirement to submit safety data measures to implement the Law of St. Petersburg “On delineation of sheets in accordance with the REACH standards. powers between the public authorities of St. Petersburg in the field of using municipal water and sewerage systems in St. Petersburg”, the Regulation of St. Petersburg “On the procedure of imposing fees for the discharge of wastewater and contaminants into the municipal sewerage system of St. Petersburg”, the Order of the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support “On approval of wastewater disposal norms or permissible discharges into the municipal sewerage system of St. Petersburg”, as well as a number of other regulations. 54 55 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Participation in UNIDO programmes Activities of the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre In 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg continued its cooperation with UNIDO the United Nations Industrial DevelopIn 2012, implementation of the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre continued. It started one year ment Organization. It mobilizes knowledge, experience, information and technologies, thereby contributing to before and is a joint project of Vodokanal St. Petersburg and Lahti Science and Business Park (Finland). the productive employment, development of a competitive economy and providing environmental sustainability. In 2012, cooperation between Vodokanal St. Petersburg and UNIDO Activities of the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre In order to improve the Centre operation, continuous feedback was built in the following main areas: – both in Russia and abroad – were held in a form of conferences, with trainees has been established by means of their questioning. workshops, laboratory activities, lectures, interactive sessions, trainQuestioning was conducted in four basic areas: satisfaction with • Preparation and participation in the 5th Neva International EnviUnited Nations Conference on Sustainable Development ing abroad. the quality of teaching, curriculum content, and organization and ronmental Congress (17-18 May 2012, the Tavrichesky Palace), (21-23 June 2012, Rio de Janeiro). material support of the teaching process. In the course of questionwhere UNIDO acted as an official partner of the Congress. To provide its training activities the Centre invited as speakers ing proposals of the participants regarding the most important and • Joint participation in preparing and conducting theme-based conVodokanal’s experts, leading experts of well-established European urgent themes, in which the seminars’ participants would be inter• Further participation of Vodokanal in the UNIDO Global Chemiferences, round tables, discussions on environmentally sustaininstitutions and companies. ested in the future, were taken into consideration. The most useful cal Leasing Programme and similarly-named Global Award-2012 able development, promoting the UNIDO Green Industry Platand interesting opinions of participants were used to prepare the (June 2012, Frankfurt). The competition commission highly appreform and the joint UNIDO-UNEP Global Program on Resource In 2012, over 20 events were held according to the program. Over activity program for 2013. ciated Vodokanal’s contribution to the protection of international Efficient and Cleaner Production (RECP). 2,000 people took part in them, including over 400 experts in water water of the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea from nutrients and and wastewater. especially noted the company’s achievements with a relevant The coordinator of this cooperation, as in previous years, was the Participants of seminars by categories in 2012 certificate at the official ceremony, which was held on 18 June Non-Commercial North-Western International Centre of Clean ProBoth Vodokanal’s employees and representatives of other compa2012 in Frankfurt. duction established in St. Petersburg in 2000 with the support and nies participated in the Centre’s training seminars. active participation of UNIDO. At present, the Centre is the UNIDO’s Participants of the activities had an opportunity not only to listen to • Development of partnership relations between UNIDO and Vodocoordinator in the North-West of Russia of all UNIDO’s international lectures, but visit Vodokanal’s production facilities and The Universe 35% kanal St. Petersburg in the area of capacity building and choosprograms and projects, related to environmentally sustainable deof Water Complex. ing the UNIDO optimal international project in order to apply the velopment, as well it is a part of the UNIDO international network of experience accumulated by Vodokanal as well as to train comnational clean production centers operating in 53 countries. pany’s specialists in specific tasks of technical assistance. • Support and participation of Vodokanal St. Petersburg in the new Green Industry Platform presented by UNIDO at Rio+20, the 65% Vodokanal’s employees Other companies’ employees 56 57 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Satisfaction of participants with the Centre training activities The Centre pays particular attention to the work with the younger To make the teaching process more effective, up-to-date technologeneration. In total, in 2012, over 1,800 Russian and foreign schoolgies are actively applied during training courses, for example, 3D children took part in the programs of the Centre. installation with stereo holographic effects, specially equipped labo99 97 94 ratories and multimedia facilities. 100 % 91 92 89 The main tasks to be solved in the course of implementation of the 86 84 activities for children: An interesting and promising direction of work with children is organizing abroad training tours. In 2012, schoolchildren from St. 95 Petersburg visited Finland, and Finnish students – St. Petersburg. • improving the culture of water use; The Centre presents a unique concept, and there are no analogues • fostering the responsible attitude to natural resources; of that concept in other countries around the world. It deals with 90 both best practices of water treatment and issues related to the • developing the socially active position of young people; value of water resources, importance of solicitous attitude to water. The difference of the Centre from other similar Russian and foreign 85 • promoting the ideas of effective environmental education and centers is that it focuses on education in water sector and that both education for sustainable development. Russian and foreign teachers conduct training. 80 75 Quality of teaching Curriculum content and Organization of the Equipment and facilities teaching aids teaching process available for education 2011 2012 The Centre is improving continuously and one of the bright examthe first time at top water companies in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, ples of this improvement is introduction of new forms of activities. In Finland and Germany. In total, about 50 people were trained. The 2012, one of the new activities was training of company’s employee objective of these trainings was to learn about best practices and abroad. In particular, in 2012 as part of the Centre operation, three innovative technologies of drinking water and wastewater treatment abroad trainings for the company’s employees were organized for and their further application in Vodokanal. 58 59 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Membership in the European Foundation for Quality Management Since 1 December 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been a full member of the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). The European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) is a One of the top-priority tasks of Vodokanal St. Petersburg is the confidence in the safety of drinking water and customers’ right to Stages of participation in the EFQM Model competition: not-for-profit membership organization. It was established in 1987 improvement of the company management system aimed to raise the healthy environment not only today but in the following years. by 14 leading European companies with the support of the Euroresponsibility for sustainable future of the region, including: The Foundation organized the EFQM Excellence Model Competi• in 2009, Vodokanal received the certificate confirming complipean Commission to increase the competitiveness of the European tion to motivate organizations, which introduce self-assessment acance of the company management with the “Recognized for economy by promoting new management approaches, stimulating • the increase of the reliability and efficiency of water supply and cording to EFQM Excellence Model, share experience and assess Excellence” 5 stars level of the EFQM Model; the learning of management basics and creating opportunities for wastewater disposal systems through the introduction of up-tothe company management by experts from companies that are the recognition of success in this field. date management and metering systems, improvement of water most successful in management improvement, namely, by EFQM • in 2010, Vodokanal won the International Quality Tournament of and wastewater treatment processes; acting assessors. Central and Eastern Europe; EFQM members number over 800 European organizations totaling several millions of employees. • sustainable use of water resources in the course of treating and The organization, which shows a maximum compliance with the • in 2011, Vodokanal became a finalist of the EFQM Excellence distributing drinking water to consumers; Excellence Model, becomes the Winner of the prestigious EFQM ExAward. The company was the first to achieve such a result among EFQM was established to assist organizations in achieving sustaincellence Award (there are also nominations “Prize Winner” and “FinalEuropean water companies; able success by giving them relevant recommendations. • protection of the environment at water intakes, during transportaist”). However, before the contenders begin to compete for the Award, tion, treatment, handling and incineration of wastewater sludge; they usually must pass several levels: “Committed to Excellence” and • in 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg won the best practice competi“Recognized for Excellence” (on a regional scale) and receive corretion in creative use of social media organized by the European There is a set of key principles upon which the EFQM’s fundamen• guaranteeing to consumers the quality of water supply and sponding EFQM Certificates, and also win the Tournament of Central Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). Vodokanal presenttal concept of Excellence is based: wastewater disposal services that meet and exceed the requireand Eastern Europe. This multilevel scheme supports step-by-step ed at the competition its video-film “The Neva Crayfish and His ments of Russian and European standards; implementation of the Excellence Model. Friends” telling about the da-voda website (www.da-voda.com) • Adding value for customers; Since 2005, Vodokanal has started self-assessment of its activities on – the project aimed to disseminate the ideas of careful attitude to • keeping the investment attractiveness to implement reconstructhe basis of the Excellence Model to improve its management framenatural resources. • Sustainable achievement of the distinguished results; tion and building programs; work. At first the company used the Russian Federation Government Regional Quality Model that harmonized with the EFQM Model. Since • Leading with vision, inspiration and honesty; • effective resource management to optimize costs. 2009, Vodokanal has conducted the self-assessment on the basis of the EFQM Model and participated in the EFQM competition. • Developing organization capacities; All of the above will guarantee the quality of services, customer • Succeeding through people; • Using creativity and innovation; • Managing with flexibility; • Creating a sustainable future. 60 61 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Membership in associations, unions and other organizations Vodokanal St. Petersburg gives much attention to participation in professional associations and unions. In 2012, Vodokanal continued to work within the framework of the Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member of the Non-Commercial Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a member of two self-regulatory orgaThe fact is that from 1 January 2009 the licensing of particular non-commercial partnership National Union of Vodokanals (NUV) Partnership “Association of Builders of St. Petersburg”, which got nizations: the Non-Commercial Partnership “Association of Builders types of works was abolished in the Russian Federation (including uniting companies of different ownership which account for almost the status of a self-regulatory organization in 2009. In the same of St. Petersburg” (the competency certificate for a particular type the licensing of construction works), and self-regulatory organizatwo-thirds of the total water supply in Russia. The main activity of year, this partnership issued to Vodokanal permits for the works of works influencing the safety of permanent facilities no. 0064.02tions were authorized to issue permits for particular type of works NUV is the improvement of interaction between water companies influencing the safety of the permanent facilities. 2009-7830000426-С-003 dated 2 April 2012) and the Not-For-Profit to building companies. And now organizations may carry out design and governmental authorities for the purpose of introducing new opPartnership “Interregional Union of Design Engineers” (the compeand construction works (as well as perform construction supervierational standards and technical regulations and improving investDuring 2010, Vodokanal changed twice its permit for the perfortency certificate for a particular type of works influencing the safety sion/ functions of the project manager/developer) only on the basis ment prospects of the sector. The NUV was established in 2009 and mance of works influencing the safety of the permanent facilities in of permanent facilities no.0176-2011-7830000426-P-30 dated 28 of a competency certificate issued by a self-regulatory organization. Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, order to bring the list of works in compliance with the amendments December 2011). To obtain such a certificate, a company is required to become a was elected its President. to the current legislation. member of the relevant self-regulatory organization. Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains partner relations with Russian In December 2011, Vodokanal joined the Not-For-Profit Partnerwater companies in the framework of other professional associaship “Interregional Union of Design Engineers” (NP MRSP) and tions. The company is a member of the Russian Association of Waobtained the competency certificate for the planning works which ter Supply and Wastewater Disposal (RAWWD); Felix V. Karmazinov, might affect the safety of permanent facilities. Director General of Vodokanal, is a member of the RSWWD Board. In December 2012, Vodokanal in cooperation with Lahti Science Baltvod Association of North-Western Water Companies initiated by and Business Part (Finland) officially established the not-for-profit Vodokanal (more than twenty years ago) actively participates in propartnership “International Advanced Water Technologies Centre” to motion of the advanced water and wastewater technologies in water provide training in the advanced water and wastewater technologies sector of the North-West Federal District. President of the Associafor Vodokanal staff, employees of other Russian and foreign water tion is also Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of the company. companies. Furthermore, Vodokanal St. Petersburg participates in the activities of the Non-Commercial Partnership “The Russian Water Society”. In particular, in November 2012, Vodokanal actively participated in the third Clean Water International Forum in Moscow (organizer is The Russian Water Society). 62 63 Interaction with stakeholders 64 65 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Partnership concept Interaction with customers One of the most important aspects of Vodokanal activities is maintaining everyday contacts with customers. Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains lasting relations with its partVodokanal St. Petersburg maintains active partner relationships with ners on the basis of mutual trust, respect and openness in line with water companies of Helsinki, Stockholm, Tallinn, Hamburg and Berlin. the EFQM Model concepts, knowing that in the dynamic environThe company communicates with customers in several ways: in a service, Vodokanal is implementing a new contract policy to ment of the modern world the company success and satisfaction To share experience, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has built good the course of services provision, in the course of interaction initiformalize contractual relations with its customers. For this purpose, of all stakeholders strongly depend on the development of effective partnership relations with water companies in Russia and the Baltic ated by Vodokanal (interviews, focus groups), by discussing various special customer service units are set up at Vodokanal’s production partnership. Sea Region. The company is involved in development of industry problems in the mass media and by organizing different meetings branches to communicate with customers within their respective standards and other regulations and transfers its experience to with citizens. service areas in each administrative district of the city. The reception Vodokanal St. Petersburg divides its partners into segments – by other Russian water utilities. rooms provide the necessary information and document forms; a types of activities or services and by significance and importance of Customers come to SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” with differbox to collect customers’ wishes and complaints is always there. the partnership in terms of creating value for the stakeholders. The partnership with the Russian and European banking commuent questions about the issuance of authorizations for connection Vodokanal adheres to the multilateral partnership concept including nity, as well as with different investors is successfully implemented to water and sewerage networks, conclusion of contracts, payments Quick response to the customers’ complaints of deficiencies in wathe interaction with its partners and suppliers on technical, processin Vodokanal. Investments through the public-private partnership under contracts. Since water is a product and sewage collection – ter and sewage networks operation is an important aspect. related, financial, organizational and tutorial aspects of activities. scheme are an example of sound and coherent concept of comInternational cooperation gives Vodokanal an opportunity to study pany partnership. This scheme was used for the construction of the and implement best foreign practices in its own activities. South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant some years ago. Since 2003, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has been operating the Hot Line which receives customer calls round the clock (tel.: +7 (812) 305-09-09). The basic principle of the partnership concept embraced by VodoAs for its international partners, in 2012 Vodokanal continued to kanal: each partner fulfils its obligations in due time and at a good Besides, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” receives requests via cooperate successfully with such organizations as: quality level understanding that partnership implies joint work aimed the Internet (there is a separate section “Feedback” on the corpoat long-term, sustainable creation of value for both parties. rate website www.vodokanal.spb.ru). • the Ministry of the Environment of Finland; Over decades of cooperation with foreign and domestic partners, • the John Nurminen Foundation; Vodokanal has never failed to fulfil its obligations, and this fact is highly appreciated by its partners. • Nordic Environment Finance Corporation (NEFCO); Well-defined partnership concept and mutually beneficial coopera• Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida); tion with the partners help us implement innovative technologies, modernize plants, improve the company management and, eventu• Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership (NDEP); ally, raise the stakeholders’ satisfaction with our services. • foreign partners-suppliers of equipment and technologies. 66 67 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Vodokanal-Customers interaction through calls Interaction with suppliers Procurement Vodokanal St. Petersburg is striving to build long-term, mutually beneficial relations with suppliers. A customer calls the Hot Line Informing the customer On 1 January 2012, the Federal Law “On procurement of goods, In July 2012, the Regulation of the Government of the Russian Customer of the process and surveying works, services by certain types of legal entities” no.223-FZ dated Federation no.616 dated 21 June 2012 “On approval of the list of customer opinion on the quality of executed works 18 July 2011 went into effect. goods, works and services, the procurement of which is made in (customer satisfaction) electronic form” came into force. Every request is registered When procuring goods, works and services, legal entities specified in item 2, Article 1 of the Law no.223-FZ shall comply with To procure goods (works, services) in electronic form, as well as Hot Line the principle of transparency (item 1, part 1, Article 3 of the Law to automate the process of organizing and making procurements The request is forwarded to a Follow-up control no.223-FZ). According to this principle, since 1 October 2012, the at its own expenses, Vodokanal chose B2B-Center system as the relevant Vodokanal’s division for processing clients have been obliged to post the information about on pursued company operator of electronic tendering. procurements on the official web-site. Works are carried out to solve Production divisions of Information about the the problem until the request Vodokanal works carried out in relaSince 1 October 2012, Vodokanal has been posting the information To use the company’s own funds in an effective way, Vodokanal is satisfied tion to the request makes procurements using regulated procedures, including: about any of its procurement in the amount of over RUB 500,000 on the national procurement web-site www.zakupki.gov.ru. • tender – a bid process where the purchaser can evaluate the In compliance with the Law no.223-FZ, the following information is bids not only by the price but also by other criteria (warranty All incoming requests are recorded in the information system and The customer call management includes computer registration of to be posted on the official web-site: period, quality, duration of works, qualification level, etc.); forwarded to the production division responsible for remediation of all incoming calls. Codification of calls supports efficient evaluation relevant section of network and informing the customers of the works of service quality and helps determine the areas for improvement in 1. Procurement plan • auction (open or closed) – a bid process where the winner performed. All the call processing stages from the call to remediation order to eliminate the causes of complains preventively. is a person bidding the lowest price or, if the contract price is – are under the control of a body independent from the production di2. Procurement regulation reduced to zero in the course of the auction and the auction parvision which performs works. The monitoring of the request processProcessing of customer calls is based on the information obtained by ticipants compete for the right to make the contract, – a person ing may only be stopped after the customer confirms that the works means of up-to-date technologies, in particular, the Call-Centre auto3. Procurement information bidding the highest price for the contract; are completed. Thus, it is a customer that evaluates the final results of mated call recording and distribution system. The information obtained works in relation to every call. through this system enables us to ensure reception of all incoming 4. Amendments made to a contract during its conclusion and per• request for quotation (open procedure only) –a method of order calls and to optimize both the call processing time and the waiting formance placement where the information about the purchase of goods, Moreover, the above system enabled citizens, customers and clients time required for the caller to get the operator’s answer. works or services is made available to unlimited range of perto receive information and consulting services from the Hot Line All these factors contribute to the improvement of the customer ser5. Data on the number and total value of contracts concluded. sons by posting the call for quotations on the company website; operators. vice quality. the participant which offers the lowest contract price becomes the winner. To develop the call reception system, the time distribution of calls during 24 hours was analysed. The results of the analyses ensured efficient arrangement of work process with a sufficient number of skilled operators available at any time of day or night. 68 69 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with financial institutions In 2012, implementation of the Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Program was going on. The maximum contract price in this procedure is 1,000,000 With such approach, goods and services can be procured on optimal The Program is co-financed with the loans provided by the EuroRoubles, and the procedure may only be launched by the comterms and conditions. pean Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), Nordic pany (including its branches) once in three months for the same Investment Bank and European Investment Bank, and the nonproduct. The most preferred procurement method is bidding (tender, auction). refundable assistance of the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership (NDEP), Swedish International Development Agency • single source (supplier, contractor) procurement – a procedure The published information on bidding and requests for quotations (SIDA), the Ministry of the Environment of Finland (FMoE), EBRD other than tender where the purchaser sends an offer of contract includes customer’s contact persons for inquiries regarding the Shareholder Special Fund and the John Nurminen Foundation. to one supplier (contractor) only. tendering / technical issues. Those who wish to submit their tenders (requests for quotations) can receive clarifications on various issues In addition to the provision of funds, Vodokanal’s lenders and doThe use of this procedure is limited to strictly defined cases in the course of preparing their tender proposals either orally, by adnors monitor the performance of financial obligations by Vodokanal, where other procurement procedures are not feasible or reasondressing the contact person specified in the documentation or in a compliance with environmental requirements, conformity of tender able. written form by sending an inquiry. The Order Regulations Bureau is procedures for procurement of goods, works and services with the responsible for clarification of issues concerning preparation of bids international standards. Prequalification – means selection of contenders for participation while the initiator department is responsible for clarification of isin the procurement procedure in compliance with the requirements sues related to the Terms of Reference and draft contract provisions. and criteria set by the procurement initiator. With such approach, goods and services can be procured on optiIn 2012, Vodokanal began activities under the Small Wastewater mal terms and conditions. Treatment Plants Reconstruction Project. In 2012, Vodokanal continued to perform its obligations of debt The following selection criteria are used for prequalification: repayment and servicing under the loan agreements. The Loan Agreement with Nordic Environment Finance Corporation • bidder’s experience in the area relevant to the subject of the (NEFCO) and associated agreements with each of NEFCO and LLC Vodokanal-Finance (subsidiary of Vodokanal St. Peterstender, FMoE on providing non-refundable assistance for this Project were burg) was paying, in a timely manner and in full, the accumulated signed in 2010. ZAO “Vodokanal Stroy” – the contractor – selected coupon yield to the holders of Series 01 non-convertible interest• availability of production facilities, in an international tender, began works at Pushkin, Kolpino, Krobearing documentary bearer bonds of LLC Vodokanal-Finance, nstadt, Pontonny WWTPs. Besides, supply of the required equipwith obligatory centralized care (state registration number • qualifications of managers and specialists, ment began. 4-01-36398-R dated 16 November 2010). In 2012, the amount of the paid coupon yield was RUB 175,520,000.00. • company ratings, The series 01 bond’s coupons rate was set at 8.8% per annum. • availability of certificates, diplomas, self-regulating organization documents, • other criteria. 70 71 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with other regions in the field of water and Following up upon the cooperation, a working meeting of speciala joint company – an operating entity to carry out modernization of wastewater system development ists from OAO “Petrozavodskiye Municipal Systems” and experts water supply and sewerage systems in the Republic of Karelia. from Vodokanal St. Petersburg was organized to share experience concerning the technical connection to water supply and sewerage In 2012, the training seminar program for heads of municipalities of In 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg provided consulting and information services to water companies in the renetworks. the Republic of Karelia was developed, as well as the training progions of the Russian Federation and the CIS countries. gram for heads and specialists of guaranteeing organizations in the The key moment in implementation of the agreement on cooperaInternational Advanced Water Technologies Centre, jointly established Cooperation was performed under the signed agreements and sector with transparent state regulation that provides the balance by Vodokanal St. Petersburg and Lahti Science and Business Park. tion in regards to water supply and sewerage systems modernizacontracts for rendering services with the assistance and support of of interests of water and wastewater system customers and owners tion in the Republic of Karelia is the decision of the parties to create municipal administrations, as well as in compliance with received and guaranteeing organizations. written requests for consulting services to develop water supply and wastewater disposal systems. The R&D Promotion Department on behalf of Vodokanal interacts In 2012, cooperation with State Enterprise “Kalugaoblvodokanal” continued. with municipal administrations and guaranteeing organizations in Consultations of specialists from SE “Kalugaoblvodokanal”, building network in the city of Kaluga was prepared, as well as training of the In September 2012, the R&D Promotion Department was created in the regions of the Russian Federation. The area of priority is water authority of the Kaluzhskaya Region and the administrative board of deputy heads of the subjects of the Russian Federation and heads Vodokanal. The main objective of this unit is to provide promotion of user companies located in the catchment area of the Neva River, the city of Kaluga were held regarding creation of the base of spatial of municipalities was also conducted in Lahti (Finland). innovative solutions and best practices of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, the main water source in St. Petersburg, whose economic operadata on engineering networks at water and sewerage facilities. Besides, training of a repairmen team from SE “Kalugaoblvodoas well as interaction with companies that render water and wastetions are directly related to the impact on the environment situation The commercial proposal for rendering services to identify priority kanal” was organized and practical works in water supply networks water services, search for potential clients to provide consultancy in the region. measures for reconstruction and construction of the water supply were conducted. and information in order to optimize the clients’ operating costs and the quality of services. Technical inspections of facilities, development of recommendations to modernize water supply and sewerage systems, as well as calIn February 2012, a supplemental agreement to the service contract on the development of the action plan for the long-term development of Promotion is aimed at the introduction of an effective tool for water culation of the estimated value and creation of the financial model water and sewerage facilities and the financial model was signed by OAO “Municipal Systems of the Gatchinsky District”. company modernization in Russia, based on the investment (projhelps regional and municipal managers develop short-term, midect) approach, i.e. on attracting private investments in the water term and long-term programs and mechanisms for their financing. In April 2012, action plan on the long-term development of water submitted to the Administration of the Gatchinsky District and the and sewerage facilities and the financial model to be implemented Government of the Leningrad Region. 19 November 2012, the agreement on cooperation with regard to water supply and sewerage systems modernization in the Republic of Kareby OAO “Municipal Systems of the Gatchinsky District” were lia was signed between the Government of the Republic of Karelia, OAO “Corporation of Development of the Republic of Karelia” and SUE “Vodokanal St. Petersburg”. In May 2012, the partnership between Vodokanal St. Petersburg, Vodokanal Dushanbe and the World Bank began. In 2012, inspections of the water supply and sewerage systems practical options were proposed to improve the condition of water condition were carried out in five municipal districts in the Republic and sewerage systems and reduce the environmental load. A working meeting between representatives of the World Bank, results of which Vodokanal experts went to Dushanbe, where the of Karelia: Lahdenpohia, Pitkäranta, Olonetsky, Sortavalsky and SUE “Dushanbe Vodokanal” and Vodokanal St. Petersburg was Memorandum of Cooperation between SUE “Vodokanal of St. Kondopozhsky. In cooperation with the R&D Promotion Department, In response to the written request of OAO “Petrozavodskiye Municiorganized at the premises of Vodokanal. Petersburg” and SUE “Dushanbe Vodokanal” was signed, as well the Engineering and Innovation Centre and the Bureau of Investpal Systems” from September 2012, the inspection of Petrozavodsk as the draft of the training program for specialists from Vodokanal ment Planning the analysis of the current condition of water and wastewater treatment plant was conducted. In cooperation with the On 10 October 2012, a videoconference between Vodokanal Dushanbe at the premises of the Information and Training Center sewerage facilities was performed and technical solutions and the Engineering and Innovation Centre Branch the report on the basic Dushanbe, Vodokanal St. Petersburg, representatives of the was developed. financial model of facility modernization were developed, as well as conditions of WWTP reconstruction was developed and rendered. World Bank and the city hall of Dushanbe was held, on the 72 73 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements In December 2012, the agreement between the Administration of A lot of work was done to develop legally admissible and costA new type of interaction with industrial enterprises was launched in At the meetings (with participation of the Committee for Energy and the town of Kingisep and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” was effective schemes to modernize water supply and sewerage 2012: Vodokanal assists enterprises in choosing best available techEngineering Support) held during 2012, approaches to the instalsigned and the draft of the paid service agreement on analysis systems in the town of Kingisep. The successfully implemented nologies for the construction of local wastewater treatment plants. lation of wastewater meters on the consumer side were agreed. In of production activities and preparing the report on technical project of the Ust-Luga port resulted in the growth of population in November 2012, a workshop and presentation of up-to-date wasteconditions of water supply and sewerage systems of OAO “Kingisep the town by 25% that set up the problem of providing safe drinking The striking examples of modern local wastewater treatment plants water meters were held on the premises of the Central Wastewater Vodokanal” was developed with OAO “Kingisep Vodokanal”. water in the required amount. constructed in cooperation with Vodokanal specialists are the plants Treatment Plant. Moreover, draft versions of Wastewater Metering of Open Joint Stock Company “UNIMILK Company” and LLC “UniSystem Installation Procedure and Wastewater Metering Implemenlever RUS”. tation Criteria were presented at the workshop. Interaction with industrial enterprises Vodokanal specialists helped “UNIMILK Company” (Petmol Dairy The draft versions were submitted to the St. Petersburg CommitPlant) to select a suitable technology and the type of local treatment tee for Energy and Engineering Support, St. Petersburg Union of plant. Finally, the technology with flotation as the main treatment Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and St. Petersburg Association of The purpose of interaction between SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and industrial enterprises is to help them meet regulatory requirements regarding wastewater discharge into the sewerage system of St. Petersstage was selected, and gave very good results in the long run. Industrial Enterprises for review. According to the proposal, the Cusburg. LLC “Unilever RUS” is a producer of perfumes and cosmetics, the tomers shall, within 2 months after the approval of the Procedure, composition of its wastewater is very complex. The innovative MBRprovide to Vodokanal their action plans of evaluating the feasibility based aerobic biological treatment technology was the right choice of wastewater meters installation and wastewater metering impleThe most problematic issues for enterprises are: To this effect, Vodokanal specialists did the following: for such wastewater. The local WWTP was adjusted with the particimentation plans (if the installation is technically feasible). pation of Vodokanal specialists. As a result, the regulatory values of • compliance with the regulatory values for pollutants concentra• gave advice in relation to the results of wastewater quality tests; pollutants concentrations in wastewater were met. Simultaneously, it was decided that OJSC “KirovTek” together with tions in the wastewater discharged into the sewerage systems of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” should organize a pilot project St. Petersburg; • proposed organizational and technical measures to improve Specialized workshops for industrial enterprises are planned to be where temporary wastewater metering systems would be installed wastewater quality; held in 2013 at the International Advanced Water Technologies Cenand the results of the experiment would be described in the final • collection of fees for discharge of wastewater and pollutants into ter. The topics of the workshops will be the best available technoloreport. the sewerage systems of St. Petersburg; • assessed the customers’ action plans intended to prevent excesgies in wastewater treatment that can be used by dairies, bakeries, sive discharge of pollutants into Vodokanal’s sewerage systems. meat-processing factories, and electroplating productions; and local Furthermore, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” developed the • implementation of commercial wastewater metering. plants for the treatment of runoff from industrial sites. terms of reference for an all-purpose measuring instrument and The water-saving action plans aimed to prevent unsustainable use submitted it to St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists and EntrepreIn 2012, Vodokanal specialists came into close contact with industrial of drinking water and to reduce wastewater/ pollutants discharge are In 2012, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg maintained close contacts with neurs and St. Petersburg Association of Industrial Enterprises to enterprises (in particular, through the Union of Industrialists and Entreintended to improve the city environment. the St. Petersburg Committee for Energy and Engineering Support, consider the prospects for designing and manufacturing affordable preneurs and the Association of Industrial Enterprises) helping them St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, St. Pewastewater metering devices in St. Petersburg. meet the existing standards for pollutant concentrations in the effluent. In 2011, 39 industrial enterprises started to implement water-saving tersburg Association of Industrial Enterprises, Association “Bakers actions, and in 2012 their number rose to 52. of St. Petersburg”, etc. to prepare agreed proposals on the fees for discharge of wastewater and pollutants into the municipal sewerage system of St. Petersburg. The minutes of the meetings and the information about the decisions taken can be found on the website of St. Petersburg Union of Industrial Enterprises. 74 75 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Establishment and activities of Realistic Costs Estimation Steering Group In 2012, Vodokanal worked on the project of estimating the costs of In December 2011, it was decided to start implementation of this The Identification Reference List based on the inventory result was The rules of maintenance and current repairs were developed. water and wastewater systems operation and development. project. issued where each specific unit is linked to a certain process stage. Works aimed at determination of staffing levels for engineering and The timing of maintenance and current repair works was organized technical employees as well as for administration and management The purpose of the project is to develop a formalized cost estimaThe project is implemented in cooperation with the Committees of and implemented. personnel were arranged and started. tion method based on technical and process-related parameters of St. Petersburg Government (Tariff Committee, Committee for Energy water and wastewater systems operation and taking into account and Engineering Support). Managers of Vodokanal and the above In 2013, the Project implementation will continue. The Project results the existing and future requirements to the quality and reliability of listed committees are members of the permanent project managewill be as follows: services, and to test the method using the actual data of Vodokanal. ment body – Steering Group. • approved cost estimation methods to estimate operating/developThe method has to be developed because there are no accurate Different organizations and the public were involved in the project as ment costs of water supply and wastewater disposal, mechanisms today to estimate the cost of operating water and independent experts: • water balance calculation methods, wastewater systems (nor when it is needed for tariff calculation). As a rule, the estimation of operating and development costs and • investment program calculation methods, calculation of tariffs are based on statistical data for the previous • Foundation of “City Economics Institute”, periods. The existing methods cannot factor in the following: • the package of regulatory documents setting rules of mainte• Housing Construction Cooperatives, Residential Complexes and nance and current repair of the equipment used in production • changes in the production facilities and processes applied by the Homeowners Associations of St. Petersburg, processes, company; • St. Petersburg Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, • cost estimation algorithms for all main cost items (chemicals and • increasing wear of fixed assets; materials, electricity, payroll, etc.), • Municipal Boards, • adoption of more stringent requirements to the quality and reli• the integrated data base. ability of services and amendments to environmental and tax • Legislative Assembly of St. Petersburg, legislation. • St. Petersburg Budget-Funded Entity “Tariff and Expert Support Center”. Consequently, economic justification of tariffs becomes non-transparent and subjective with the subjectivity getting stronger in every In 2012, the technical inventory, including technical examination of subsequent regulatory period. the assets used in production processes and systematization of the information obtained, was carried out under the project. 76 77 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with personnel Interaction with trade unions Personnel is a key factor of the Company sustainable development. Interaction with the personnel and social Social partnership with trade unions is an important part of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” interaction system. responsibility to the personnel are incorporated into the Company development strategy and formulated in Vodokanal’s personnel management policy. The main principles of the personnel management policy are: The Company is continuously improving its system of incentives SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” recognizes the trade union as a systematic approach, adaptability and practical focus of personnel and developing its recognition and awards system for the personnel major element of the effective system in terms of company managemanagement systems; flexibility; projectand competence-based at all levels. ment; occupational health and safety; raising personnel satisfaction approach. level; organization of employees leisure and rest; health improveDue to a systematic approach to the personnel training and develment etc. Relations with the employees, the most important asset of the opment the employees can enhance their knowledge, are given company, are based on social partnership, common goals, respect opportunities for professional development and are motivated to The existing Collective Employment Agreement is the result of joint of mutual interests, feasibility of the obligations taken by the parties self-education. efforts of the employer and the trade union. The Collective Employand fulfillment of such obligations in good faith. ment Agreement sets out the responsibilities of the employer and Professional skills contests and the best innovative project contests the trade union as the parties of social partnership and provides for One of the Company priorities is implementation of social programs are targeted to achieve and maintain a high professional level of the social guarantees and benefits for the Company employees and related to recruiting and retaining the personnel, young specialists personnel. labor veterans. and qualified workers, motivation of employees and improvement of their labor and rest conditions. The main component of the interaction with personnel is a compreThe Collective Employment Agreement for 2011 – 2013 developed hensive personnel opinion survey. with the active participation of the trade union was in effect at VodoWork with young employees is organized, “Welcome to Vodokanal” The satisfaction surveys conducted in 2012 gave analytical informakanal throughout 2012. events (for the newly-employed) are held on regular basis. tion about the strengths and development areas of the personnel management process, about the personnel awareness level and The collective employment agreement is revised and amended involvement in different processes. on regular basis in compliance with performance analysis results. All amendments to the collective employment agreement work to improve the employees’ labor conditions. In 2012, twelve amendments were made aiming to improve social and labor relations at Vodokanal. 78 79 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with educational institutions Interaction with Environmental Organizations Vodokanal pays special attention to the training of workers and engineers for the Company. Responsibility before the society and future generations is among the basic values of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. It is related both to implementation of environmental projects by Vodokanal and to interaction with different environmental organizations. Cooperation of Vodokanal and Professional College no. 89 is a • Joint professional contests for the following professions: Vodokanal participates in the activities, organized by the Russian The dialog between Vodokanal and the St. Petersburg Branch of good example of successful social partnership which began six Department of HELCOM, the John Nurminen Foundation (Finland), Greenpeace began in 2008: the Greenpeace representatives have years ago. -pump operators (water supply); the Baltic Sea Action Group (Finland), International Ecological Pubmet the company employees several times since then, and their visit lic Organization GREENLIGHT, etc. to the South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant was organized in 2011. Over all these years, advanced training facilities created together -pump operators (wastewater disposal); with Vodokanal have been used in the College: The informational partnership with international environmental organiVodokanal involves environmental organizations in the implementazations, such as Charity: Water, Water.org, etc., began under Vodokantion of the Youth Environmental Centre’s projects and programs. • a training set to simulate emergency repairs (at water and sewer -emergency repair – individuals and teams (water supply); al’s social project: the Internet portal DA-VODA (da-voda.com) aimed networks) and a training ground; to disseminate the ideas of careful attitude to water. Under the aegis Among the partner organizations, Vodokanal cooperates with Lahti -emergency repair – individuals and teams (wastewater disposal); of the Internet portal, a number of initiatives in cleaning the territory Environmental Service (Finland), Association for Co-operation with • training simulators for welding, sanitary, ventilation and electrical around the lakes were implemented in 2012 with the participation of Nordic Countries (NORDEN), European Association of Underwater works, small-size mechanical equipment, laboratory and workenvironmental volunteers, including the cleaning of territory around the Images Festivals, the interregional children’s club of cultural, eco-electric welders; bench equipment; Dolgoe Lake under the international project “Let’s do it, World”. logical and patriotic activities “Neposeda” and others. • all equipment for PC-89 classrooms to provide training and edu-electrical repair and maintenance specialists. cational process. In 2012, Vodokanal continued its partnership with the following specialized institutions of higher education: St. Petersburg State The material and technical facilities are used not only for training of University of Water Communications, State University of Architecnew comers but for advanced training and retraining of the regular ture and Civil Engineering, St. Petersburg State Transport University employees. In 2012, 105 Vodokanal employees studied in the Proand others. fessional College no. 89. An important field of Vodokanal activities is close interaction with Students from PC-89 study modern production with the help of SUE schools of St. Petersburg, Leningrad Region and other Russian cities “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. For this purpose, the following annual under different programs and projects of the Youth Environmental events are organized: Centre and museum complex “The Universe of Water”. • on-the-job training for water and wastewater department students at the Company’s facilities; 80 81 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with federal and regional authorities SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” works in close interaction with the federal and regional authorities. In 2012, the representatives of Vodokanal were involved in preparaforums and other activities held by state authorities of the Russian Moreover, under the program of developing multilateral relations municipal sewerage system (or to check the performance of the tion of notes, comments and proposals on regulatory acts submitted Federation and St. Petersburg (the State Duma, federal executive between St. Petersburg and APAC countries, the specialists of existing plants). for approval to federal and regional authorities including the Regionauthorities, St. Petersburg environmental prosecutor’s office, comVodokanal St. Petersburg began drafting the Memorandum of al Program “Clean Water of St. Petersburg” for 2011-2025, Rules of mittees of the St. Petersburg Government and other organizations). Understanding with Metropolitan Waterworks Authority of Bangkok All court judgments on the claims brought by the St. Petersburg rendering public services to citizens, the federal law “On amending (Thailand) in October 2012. The memorandum was signed in FebruEnvironmental and District Prosecutors’ Offices against Vodokanal’s the federal law “On natural monopolies” and others. Vodokanal specialists prepared letters, reports, answers to inquiries ary 2013. customers were made in favor of the Environmental Prosecutor’s and other materials for state authorities of the Russian Federation Office, i.e. the Vodokanal’s requirement to install, by the customers, The Company specialists were involved in the activities held under and St. Petersburg, regarding the situation in the water sector, the A new phase of relationship with the neighboring regions of the local wastewater treatment plants before discharge to the municipal the aegis of the State Duma, the Federation Council, the Ministry need to improve the existing legislation, ways to achieve more efNorth-West Federal District started due to the signing of Cooperasewerage system was supported, and all arguments and evidence of Regional Development of the Russian Federation, the Ministry ficient interaction between Vodokanal and its customers, and other tion Agreement between the Republic of Karelia and SUE “Voof the Company were accepted. of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of issues in relation to the Company activities. dokanal of St. Petersburg” on modernization of water supply and Finance of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Economic Dewastewater disposal systems in the Republic of Karelia on the 19th In general, more than 150 claims by the St. Petersburg Environmenvelopment of the Russian Federation as well as the St. Petersburg In October 2012, the representatives of SUE “Vodokanal of St. of November, 2012. tal and District Prosecutors’ Offices were brought to the courts in Government, committees of the city administration and the LegislaPetersburg” as a part of the city government delegation conducted 2012, and 120 of them were satisfied. tive Assembly of St. Petersburg. negotiations with the administration of the Republic of Kirghiziya In 2012, Vodokanal cooperated effectively with St. Petersburg Enviabout modernization of water and wastewater systems in Bishkek ronmental and District Prosecutors’ Offices. It is noteworthy that in 2011, claims were initiated by the St. PetersVodokanal St. Petersburg took part in the creation of the booth for and the training of water utilities personnel. burg Environmental Prosecutor’s Office alone, but in 2012, claims the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation at the Vodokanal employees participated in the court proceedings involvwere also initiated by St. Petersburg District Prosecutors’ Offices. World Water Forum in Marseilles (France) in March 2012. In December 2012, the Memorandum of Cooperation between SUE ing claims by the St. Petersburg Environmental and District ProsIn 2012, the court sessions were held in the territory of Leningrad “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and SUE “Dushanbe Vodokanal” was ecutors’ Offices against the company customers to require them Region, Moscow City and Moscow Region in addition to the territory Vodokanal employees were involved in the organization and work signed by the order of St. Petersburg Government. to install local wastewater treatment plants before discharge to the of St. Petersburg. of different conferences, meetings, panel discussions, workshops, 82 83 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Interaction with the mass media Accessibility of information is one of the most important Vodokanal values. Interaction with the mass media is a good way to make the information accessible. Vodokanal’s information policy aims to create a positive company The mass media’s interest in Vodokanal activities is growing every In 2012, the mass media showed a profound interest in VodokanDevelopment of the Internet sphere was in Vodokanal’s special focus image, improve mutual understanding between the company, its year. Almost 9,000 materials about the Company activities were al’s new activity – construction and start-up of permanent snowin 2012. The information about the Company activities was regularly customers and the society, and to foster the culture of water use publicized (in printed media, Internet, radio and TV) in 2012. In 2011, melting stations. posted on the Vodokanal websites (Vodokanal’s official website www. and responsible attitude towards the environment. Relations with the number of such materials exceeded 8,000. vodokanal.spb.ru and the museum complex’s website www.vodokanalthe mass media are based on the principles of objectivity, reliability The digests of materials on Vodokanal activities are presented to the museum.ru). of information and quick response. Company management on a daily basis. It helps respond to publications promptly, provide comments and clarifications as necessary and In 2012, Vodokanal also continued to develop the awareness-raising The forms of interaction with the mass media are as follows: Number of mass media publications on Vodokanal activities pinpoint new themes for interaction with the mass media. Internet-portal about water (da-voda.com) created with the support of Vodokanal. The interviews with international and Russian • preparation and distribution of press-releases and information celebrities appeared on the website (film directors James Cameron reports about the Company activities; Year Numberь and Peter Greenaway, singer Regina Spektor, journalist and expert Anatoly Wasserman). • response to the mass media’s inquiries; 2006 2756 The video lessons where the Neva Crayfish (main character of this 2007 3177 • interviews of Vodokanal’s representatives in the mass media; website) tells how to save water enjoyed a great popularity. Besides, • press conferences, briefings, round tables; 2008 3835 the website team joined the world project “Let’s Do It, World” by organizing the cleaning of the Dolgoe Lake territory in Primorsky District. • press-tours for journalists to Vodokanal’s facilities; 2009 4364 This video became a nominee of the social video contest within the “Blogger against Garbage” movement. 2010 6138 • initiating publications in printed and electronic media, and TV/radio items; 2011 8108 In summer 2012, Vodokanal and the Neva Crayfish won the International Best Practice Competition in Creative Use of Social Media organized • design and maintenance of websites describing the Company 2012 8836 by the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). activities. 84 85 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Participation in exhibitions and conferences In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” took an active part in different Russian and international exhibitions at all levels in order to optimize interaction with all stakeholders. On February 7, 2012, the Russian-British Conference “Strategies to exhibition booth of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” (General In May 2012, Vodokanal participated in the international exhibition Also in October, Vodokanal was among the participants of the HELimprove energy efficiency of companies” was held on the premises Business Partner of the exhibition). The Forum events attended by IFAT-2012 in Munich (Germany). COM Agriculture and Environment Forum (AGRI/ENV) held in paralof Vodokanal St. Petersburg where experts from Great Britain and Vodokanal were dedicated to environmental safety, and the quality lel with the joint seminar of HELCOM and the EU Strategy for the nearly 100 delegates of various St. Petersburg companies particiof environment, water supply and wastewater disposal services. Traditionally, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” participates in the Baltic Sea Region “Eutrophication and Agriculture: State of Play” in pated. The Conference was organized by the Consulate General Eastern Europe’s largest international water forum ECWATECH. Copenhagen (Denmark). of Great Britain in St. Petersburg, ANO “Transboundary CooperaAlso in March 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” participated On 5-8 June 2012, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg had its booth at 10th tion Centre – St. Petersburg” (CTS-SPb) in partnership with the St. in the XIII International Environmental Forum “The Baltic Sea Day”. ECWATECH-2012 Forum in Moscow attended by over 800 compaIn November 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” became the Petersburg Administration’s External Relations Committee and the Vodokanal St. Petersburg places high emphasis on the developnies from different countries. Vodokanal St. Petersburg was awarded general partner of III International Forum “Pure Water 2012”. The Committee for Energy and Engineering Support, and SUE “Vodoment of spiritual dialogue with regard to ecology, in particular, the a special memorial token for its years-long support by the Forum Pure Water Forum was organized by the Non-Commercial Partnerkanal of St. Petersburg”. International Inter-disciplinary Research and Practice Conference organizers. ship “Russian Water Association” in collaboration with the Federa“Spiritual and Moral Dimensions of Ecology. Cooperation of Relition Council of the Russian Federation and the Government of the The aim of the Conference was to share experience in implementgious and Secular Organizations in the Baltic Region” was held on In October 2012, Vodokanal specialists made a presentation at 4th Russian Federation. ing energy efficiency programs in the production and service sectors the premises of the Information and Training Center on April 26-27. IWA East European Young and Senior Water Professionals Conferand to discuss some hot issues regarding compliance with the The significance of this Conference is due to the fact that, traditionence (in St. Petersburg) and, in November, took part the internaThroughout 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” participated federal energy saving laws. ally, Vodokanal is not only concerned about the Baltic Sea environtional forums “Green Mind” and “Quality Days in Kiev-2012” in Kiev in the international meetings dedicated to the Baltic Sea Action Plan ment but also strives to raise the public awareness and acknowl(Ukraine) under the international project “Sustainable Development: and in different seminars on water supply and wastewater disposal One of the most noticeable and significant events for Vodokanal St. edges the necessity of giving up an aggressive, consumer’s attitude Economy – Ecology – Excellence and Quality”. development. Petersburg in 2012 was its participation in the World Water Forum and converting to respectful perception of environment. which took place in the first half of March in Marseille. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” joined the exhibition stand of the Russian One of the milestone events in 2012 was the V Nevsky International Federation. Environmental Congress in Tavrichesky Palace, St. Petersburg, on 17-18 May. The main topic of the Congress was the EnvironmenOn 20-23 March, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg participated in the tal Framework of Sustainable Development. The Congress was International Environmental Forum “Ecology of Big City” held in the organized by the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the CIS States exhibition complex “Lenexpo” with the support of St. Petersburg alongside with the Federal Council of the Federal Assembly of the Government, Leningrad Region Government, the Ministry of Natural Russian Federation. The United Nations Industrial Development Resources and Ecology of the Russian Federation, the Ministry for Organization (UNIDO) was an official partner of the event. The Regional Development of the Russian Federation and the Russian thematic roundtables of the Congress: “Education and Science in Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The recent achievements of Search for Environmental Solutions” and “Integrated Water Manthe Company in the field of municipal water supply and in preventagement: Water Use and Quality” were held on the premises of ing pollution of the Neva and the Baltic Sea were presented in the Vodokanal’s Information and Training Center. 86 87 Results of Activities in 2012 88 89 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Water Supply SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides potable water to the inhabitants (5 million people) and to the compaDaily average supply of potable water to the city • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift: Mosnies and organizations in the city (37,500 customers). kovskaya, Frunzenskaya, Uritskaya, South-Western, Rybatskaya, Vodokanal activities related to provision of water supply services Pipeline diameters of the municipal water network in St. Petersburg Year Water supply volume ь Kupchinskaya, Strelninskaya, Lomonosovskaya, LGU Petrodinclude the following: range from 50 mm (house connections) to 1.4 m (water pipelines). vortsovaya Waterworks, Petrodvortsovaya Waterworks, Pulkovs2009 2 028 290 m3 kaya, Orlovskaya; • water intake and water treatment; The bigger part (62%) of networks in the St. Petersburg water supply -boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; 2010 1 994 690 m3 • water transportation. system is made of cast iron. Recently, polyethylene pipes began to -water supply and distribution networks. gain in popularity; they are especially widely used for major repairs 2011 1 922 900 m3 St. Petersburg takes water from surface and underground sources. and reconstruction of networks. Since March 2007, Petrodvortsovaya WTP has been operating as a The main water source is the Neva River; Vodokanal takes more 2012 1 853 300 m3 tertiary treatment facility treating water from Southern WTP. than 98% of water from it. About 60% of water networks in St. Petersburg have been in operation for 20 50 years. The operating time of 22% of all networks is over 50 Water losses on the networks amounted to 12.7% in 2012; the breakThe system supplies water to the following administrative districts: The water supply system comprises: years, and such networks need reconstruction or replacement. down rate of water networks (number of damages per 10 km) – 3.7. • 9 water treatment plants • 70% of Moskovsky district, • 200 boosting pumping stations St. Petersburg water supply system is based on the area zoning • 6,755 km of water networks principle. The water supply system is divided into three units: in the • 85% of Frunzensky district, • 2 sodium hypochlorite plants southern, northern and central parts of the City. • 80% of Nevsky district’s left-bank part and 15% Adjusted capacity of water treatment plants:* of Nevsky district’s right-bank part, The Southern Water Supply System comprises: • 65% of Kirovsky district, Plant Capacity • Southern Water Treatment Plant (first-lift pumping station, water Southern WTP 900 thous. m /day 3 treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pump• 100% of Pushkinsky district, ing station); Northern WTP 608 thous.m3/day • 100% of Petrodvortsovy district and the town of Kronstadt • Dudergofskaya WTP (first-lift pumping station, clean water reserMain WTP 422 thous. m3/day • 100% of Kolpinsky district. voirs and second-lift pumping station); Volkovskaya WTP 211 thous. m /day3 • Kolpino WTP (first-lift pumping station, clean water reservoirs and Kolpino WTP 151 thous. m3/day second-lift pumping station); Zelenogorsk WTP 7 thous. m3/day • Kronstadt WTP (first-lift pumping station, clean water reservoirs Kronstadt WTP 18 thous. m3/day and second-lift pumping station); *Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of WTPs calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, technical condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to • ground water sources in Lomonosov District, the Leningrad potable water quality in compliance with the Resolution of the Government of St. Petersburg no. 1270 dated October 21, 2008 except for the Southern WTP which capacity is calculated considRegion; ering the start-up of a new water treatment block (K-6). 90 91 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The Northern Water Supply System comprises: The Central Water Supply System comprises: Water treatment technologies • Northern WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, • Main WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); Treatment of water from surface sources. • Zelenogorsk WTP uses water from aquifers (first-lift pumping • Volkovskaya WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment faciliThe water treatment process at the key WTPs taking water from St. • sand filtration in the contact clarifiers (one-stage treatment station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs and ties, clean water reservoirs and second-lift pumping station); Petersburg surface sources (the Neva River and the Gulf of Finland) scheme), second-lift pumping station); includes the following stages: • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift (Vas• sedimentation and sand filtration in rapid filters (two-stage treat• underground water sources of Kurortny district; ileostrovskaya, Gavanskaya, Petrogradskaya); • a two-stage water disinfection system, ment scheme) • named boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; • coagulation of pollutants (aluminium sulfate is used), • powdered activated carbon is dosed when necessary (if the Neva (Murinskaya, Kushelevskaya, Primorskaya, Severo-Primorskaya, • water supply and distribution networks. water quality becomes worse, or for odour and oil removal). Kolomyazhskaya, Ozero Dolgoe, Martynovskaya, Parnasskaya, • flocculation (polyacrylamide-based cationic flocculant is used), Osinovaya Roshcha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, NovoselovsThe system supplies water to the following administrative districts: kaya, Shuvalovskaya Sestroretskaya WTP); • 100% of Petrogradsky, Vasileostrovsky, Tsentralny, Admiralteisky • boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; districts, The two-stage integrated process of potable water disinfection guarantees epidemiological safety of water • water supply and distribution networks. • 20% of Vyborgsky district, supply in St. Petersburg and full compliance of the microbiological parameters with the current regulations. Since November 2006, Sestroretsk WTP has been operating as a • 10% of Kalininsky district, The process consists of chemical pretreatment with chloramines • filtration through dual-media (sand/granular activated carbon) tertiary treatment plant treating water from Northern WTP. and secondary disinfection with ultraviolet. Chloramines are rapid gravity filters; • 35% of Krasnogvardeisky district, produced in the treated water by dosing of hazard-free chemicals, The system supplies water to the following administrative districts: ammonium sulfate and sodium hypochlorite, and can maintain • air-and-water backwashing of filters; • 5% of Nevsky district’s right-bank part, the disinfecting effect not only in the process of water treatment at • 100% of Kurortny district, WTPs, but also during water distribution via the municipal networks. • equalization, treatment and utilization of backwash water; • 20% of Nevsky district’s left-bank part, • 85% of Primorsky district, The process solutions used to design and build K-6 block, a new • sludge treatment; • 15% of Frunzensky district, 350,000 m3/day water treatment block at Southern WTP, in opera• 80% of Vyborgky district, tion since early 2011, are as follows: • storage, preparation and dosing of chemicals; • 30% of Moskovsky district, • 90% of Kalininsky district, • pre-ozonation; • disinfection with chloramines. • 35% of Kirovsky district. • 65% of Krasnogvardeisky district, • clarification: coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation in lamella sedi• 15% of Primorsky district mentation tank, sludge thickening, sludge recirculation and removal; • 85% of Nevsky district’ right-bank part. 92 93 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Potable water treatment at Zelenogorsk WTP (groundwater) The wire is profiled in such a way that slots widening inwards are Formerly, both Petrodvorets WTP and Sestroretsk WTP used their completed the studies of steel pipe corrosion process and issued formed between its rows. This solution ensures high reliability of the own surface water sources – the Nikolsky pond and the Razliv Lake. recommendations on improving anticorrosion water treatment at Zelenogorsk WTP takes raw water from underground sources. The drainage structure, and the funnel-shaped slots prevent the clogLater, because of excessive pollution of these water bodies both WTPs in St. Petersburg. groundwater treatment process in Zelenogorsk aims at removing ging of filter elements and facilitate the backwashing process. Due plants were converted to tertiary treatment facilities to treat the waexcessive concentrations of iron and manganese and consists of: to TRITON drainage system, a dual-media bed could be used for ter supplied by the city waterworks. The tertiary treatment uses the As a result of these efforts, a stepwise scheme of water treatment the reconstruction of open filters without increasing the bed height. existing water treatment units, i.e. sand filters (one-stage treatment with calcium chloride and soda ash was implemented to enable ac• aeration; The lower filter bed is made of 0.6 – 0.8mm quartz sand, the sand scheme). curate dosing control which led to reduced consumption of anticorlayer height being 800mm. The upper filter bed is made of anthrarosion agents. • removal of the sludge resulting from air oxidation of ferric hydroxcite (0.8 – 2.0 mm); the height of the layer is 400mm. To prevent corrosion of steel pipes and reduce iron concentrations ide (III) by means of filtration through the gravel-sand media of in the tertiary-treated water from Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk As a consequence, the iron concentrations measured at checkthe first-stage rapid filters; The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP is designed for enhanced WTPs, calcium chloride and soda ash are dosed into the water as points in Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk were always low and, removal of iron and manganese and consists of six Culligan presanticorrosion agents. moreover, cost savings were achieved due to lower consumption of • catalytic oxidation and separation of manganese as dioxide on sure filters, Grundfos main-line pumps, flush-water pumps for presanticorrosion chemicals in 2012. the second-stage pressure filters. sure filters, stilling tanks, sodium hypochlorite dosing equipment, Both plants have the equipment as required to receive, dilute flow meters and a chlorine analyzer. and dose 32% solutions of calcium chloride, and the systems for Tertiary water treatment technologies used at boosting pumpWater is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite solution. preparation and dosing of 10% soda ash (sodium carbonate). The ing stations. The water treatment process control is fully automated. The plant dosing of calcium salts and carbonic acid into the treated water and Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron and blow-up of dissolved caroperation data are displayed on the monitors of the plant’s control the resulting pH increase can slow down the corrosion process, and To improve the potable water quality at remote sections of the bonic acid is performed in the aerator. To enhance the oxidation of room operator. in some cases, fully stop oxidation of iron in steel pipes due to the network, tertiary treatment systems are constructed in the boosting iron and manganese compounds, sodium hypochlorite solution is formation of calcium carbonate film which isolates steel from water pumping stations. Special filter media, such as calcite, calcinated injected into water. Chlorination is made after the aeration and the and the dissolved oxygen contained in it. dolomite, etc. are used there to remove iron and, at the same time, sodium hypochlorite dose is 4-5 mg/l of active chlorine. Tertiary water treatment technologies used at Petrodvorets and to make the water less aggressive. Sestroretsk WTP. In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in cooperation with the By using such systems we can facilitate the operation of tertiary The first-stage rapid filters are equipped with TRITON drainage St. Petersburg State Institute of Technology (Technical University) treatment facilities since no chemicals are used. system: hemispheric channels located on the bottom and covered Electrochemical corrosion of steel pipes in the St. Petersburg by slotted elements. These elements are produced by winding stainwater distribution system results in secondary pollution of potable less steel wire and welding it to a guide frame of the element. water with iron. 94 95 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Water quality control Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is carried out at all stages – from raw water intake Levels of water quality control: to the water metering system at the house connection. Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is imple• on-line process control using automatic analyzers and automated The automated analyzers are installed at all stages of water treatmented in accordance with the approved programs. • virological (presence of hepatitis A virus antigens and rotavirus continuous monitoring systems; ment. Signals from the instruments are sent to the control room and antigens), process engineers, thus providing for the real-time control of the The Working Program for Production Control of Potable Water • laboratory control; process. Quality in St. Petersburg for 2012 – 2017 has come into effect since • hydro-biological (phytoand zooplankton), 01.01.2012. • control by an independent organization – Water Research and In 2012, 28,000 water samples were analyzed by 86 parameters. • radiation safety. Control Center; Minor deviations from regulatory requirements with regard to total The Working Program was developed in accordance with SanPiN iron were identified in the distribution water network. 2.1.4.1074-01 “Potable water. Hygiene requirements to potable The main water quality parameter values for 2012 are posted, in a tabu• control by Rospotrebnadzor. water supplied by centralized water supply systems. Quality conlar form, on the corporate website section “Water supply. Water quality” trol. Hygiene requirements to safety of hot water supply systems”; (http://www.vodokanal.spb.ru/vodosnabzhenie/kachestvo_vody/). The monitoring results show that potable water in St. Petersburg is harmless in terms of its chemical composition approved by St. Petersburg Department of Rospotrebnadzor and and safe in terms of epidemiological and radiation conditions. adopted by the Chairman of the Committee for Energy and EngiThe Program for Production Control of Potable Water Quality covers neering Support. 306 additional checkpoints allowing a more detailed assessment In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” also monitored water critical addresses were identified where the iron content reached the of the water supply system. Twelve most important parameters are quality in the distribution networks of residential houses at the adupper limit of maximum permissible concentrations. The action plan The Working Program was amended in compliance with new legal short-listed for monitoring. dresses not included into the Working Program’s list of checkpoints. for these addresses was developed in order to improve water quality. requirements to water quality control. 22,074 samples from the distribution networks at the battery limit A systematic approach based on the principle: “WTP – water mains – were analyzed. According to the water quality monitoring results, In addition to the instrumental metering, the biomonitoring system The program covers 174 checkpoints where 86 water quality paramcity quarter network – customer” was used for selection of the designed by the Russian Academy of Sciences’ St. Petersburg Eneters are monitored. checkpoints to be included into the Program for Production Control. vironmental Safety Research Center is used at all city water intakes to control water quality in the water source, the Neva River. The following groups of indices are used in water quality control: The monitoring results enable us to: Prior to the treatment process, water from the Neva River is monitored by crayfish. Special sensors for on-line recording of the cray• composite, • trace the changes in qualitative characteristics of potable water at fish cardiac rhythm are attached to their carapaces. If there are toxic all stages of water production and distribution, substances in water, the cardiac rhythm of the crayfish changes and • organoleptic, a relevant signal is transmitted to the control room. • identify hot spots and troubled sections of water networks, • chemical (organic and non-organic), This biomonitoring system is improved continuously. • prioritize investments in implementation of technical solutions • microbiological, (selection of water treatment technologies, reconstruction of the existing facilities and capital repair of water networks, change of • parasitological (Lamblia cysts), hydraulic regimes of water system), • evaluate the efficiency of corrective actions. 96 97 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Achievements of 2012 In 2012, rehabilitation and construction of networks and water sup3.2.Centralized water supply to households ply facilities was implemented in order to provide guaranteed safety The design of WTPs in Molodezhnoye and Dyuny (“Rzhavaya 5. Modernization and reconstruction of water pipelines and networks • In order to provide reliable water supply to the northern coastal areas of St. Petersburg, “Kamenka” and “Kolomyagi” quarters, of drinking water for the customers, increase reliability of services kanava”) is near completion. With the WTPs in place, the local the construction of pipeline from Udelny ave. to Severny ave. and improve energy efficiency. ground water sources will be used effectively to supply water The following actions for reconstruction and modernization of pipebypassing the road junction near Poklonnaya Gora is underway. to Kurortny district and new suburban developments. lines and networks were performed to supply water to new housing Two wells were drilled to ensure reliable water supply to the developments in 2012: • The construction of pipeline from the cross of Savushkina str. 1. Reconstruction of water tanks at the Southern WTP. villages of Krasavitsa and Reshetnikovo. The design of downhole water intakes and water networks is near completion. and Primorsky ave. to Gorskoe highway via Lahta, Olgino and • The construction of water supply pipelines system with the total Konnaya Lahta is at the final stage. It will provide water supply to In 2012, reconstruction of clean water tanks no. 1, 2, 3 at Southern length of 25 km from Kolpino WTP to Pulkovo water supply sys“Yuntolovo” residential area and the industrial zone in the northWTP was completed and the internal pipelines were rehabilitated. tem was completed. This pipeline system will provide water to the western part of Konnaya Lahta. The reconstruction works at the second-lift pumping station are in progress. 4. Modernization of the Southern water supply zone of St. Petersburg, implementation of water supply control and water new developments in the south-eastern part of St. Petersburg. The pipeline has been put into operation and is supplying water • To ensure reliable water supply to the existing customers and balance monitoring systems. to the customers of Pushkinsky district. Design of the boosting new developments in Krasnoe Selo, water supply pipelines from pumping station “Moskovskaya Slavyanka” was completed, and Narodnogo Opolcheniya ave. to Volkhonskoye highway were laid. 2. Construction of the first-lift pumping station and water intake facilities at Main WTP. The works under the water supply control system project for the Southern water supply zone were in good progress. In 2012, the the construction is planned for 2013 2014. The construction of networks to supply water from the Neva River to the customers in Krasnoe Selo is ongoing. reconstruction works were completed. • The construction of pipeline from Main WTP to CHP-7 and MorNew water intake facilities and a second-lift pumping station at Main skaya emb. of Vasilyevsky Island is in progress. The purpose is The following construction, rehabilitation and modernization projects WTP are being built under the state contract. In 2012, one water The pumping equipment was replaced, energy facilities were reconto supply water for the new hydraulic fill areas and to improve the are being implemented to supply water to new industrial areas: intake head was installed, the external pressure pipelines were structed, automation systems were arranged, and automated instrureliability of water supply to Vasilyevsky Island. The construction mounted, and the concreting of the underground part of the pumpments for water quality (turbidity, nitrogen, aluminium, iron) moniof inverted siphon across the Neva River from Robespierre emb. • Construction of water networks in Metallostroy is completed; ing station is at the final phase. The new water intake facilities and toring were installed at all numbered and named pumping stations to Petrovskaya emb. is underway. the pumping station are expected to be completed in 2013. (except for Moskovskaya Pumping Station). The pumping stations • Construction of water pipeline from Southern WTP to Southern were equipped with frequency converters to control pressure. The • The construction of pipeline from the Northern WTP to Murinskaya CHP is at the final stage. pumps work according to the checkpoints’ pressure data (in total, 3. Water supply from underground sources 53 checkpoints are installed in the water network). pumping station (the total length 12.5km) is at the final stage. This will provide uninterrupted water supply to the existing customers and to the future developments in the northern part of the city. 3.1.Reserve water supply In order to manage water balance in the water supply districts of the The construction works for the reserve water supply at Southern water supply zone of St. Petersburg, 18 flow meters were Volkovskaya WTP, Murinskaya Pumping Station, Pulkovskaya installed in the networks of St. Petersburg Water Supply Branch. Pumping Station, in 59-b Quarter of Primorsky district (18, The works were carried out under the St. Petersburg long-term target Turistskaya St.) are completed. program “On Energy Saving and Energy Performance Improvement of The construction and installation works at Kolpino WTP to Water Supply Systems in the Southern Zone of St. Petersburg till 2012” arrange reserve water supply in Vyborgsky district (“Parkhomenko” sector) are in progress. 98 99 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Water networks are being built in Olgino and Volodarskiy communi“On Energy Saving and Energy Performance Improvement of The integrated water supply management system will reduce the reduction of water corrosiveness. ties to provide centralized water supply to private houses. In 2012, Water Supply Systems in the Southern Zone of St. Petersburg till operating costs by establishing controllable water supply zones, A stepwise water treatment with calcium chloride and soda ash was 4.6km of water networks in Olgino and 16.9 km – in Volodarskiy 2012”; optimize water consumption patterns, reduce excessive pressure, implemented at WTPs to reduce the chemical costs due to processwere constructed. increase reliability of operation, optimize potable water distribution specific dosing of anticorrosion agents. • 36 sites in Vasileostrovsky district K-1 quarter; and reduce energy consumption. In order to provide reliable, good-quality water supply services to The following results of modernization were obtained in 2012: the customers, the “disconnection” program is under implementa• Design and survey works to remove transit water pipelines out of In 2012, process design, electrical design and automated process tion to separate the buildings with water supply via the internal water the house basements at 55 sites in Kronstadt. control system design for the South-Western and Northern pressure • Iron concentrations in water met the regulatory requirements at network laid through the basements of several houses. The pilot zones were completed. The design of Murinskaya and Primorskaya all times; disconnection projects for the following sites are near completion: To improve hot water quality in the central part of the city by heating pressure zones was also completed. • Lower consumption of chemicals due to process-specific dosing season 2012 – 2013, Vyborgskaya CHP-17 and Power Station-12 of anticorrosion agents. • 243 sites in Kirovsky and Krasnoselsky districts in the zone of of the Central CHP were connected to the potable water supply Uritskaya Pumping Station (block K-17). The works are carried system. The construction of water pipelines to ensure reliable water out under the St. Petersburg long-term target program supply to the CHPs is ongoing. 8. Modernization of chemical water treatment at WTPs to reduce water corrosiveness. 9. Replacement of valves and fire hydrants. Currently, over 20,000 fire hydrants of different types are installed in In 2009-2010, the anticorrosion treatment by dosing calcium the water networks and registered in fire protection service departIn 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” completed construction, reconstruction and capital repair works on chloride and soda ash into the treated water was implemented at ments. The fire hydrants are under the economic jurisdiction of SUE 137.1 km of networks in total. Since the second half of 2012, the breakdown rate of water networks has reduced Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk WTPs. “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. by 21% compared to the same period of 2011 due to the reconstruction works. In 2012, steel pipe corrosion processes were investigated, and Over 80,000 valves with diameters up to 1,200 mm are installed in recommendations on improvement of anticorrosion water treatment the water network. Generally, the operating life of valves is the same at St. Petersburg waterworks were issued. The research results and as that of pipes, i.e. 40 years. 6. Installation of individual boosting pumping stations. 7. Establishment of St. Petersburg Water Supply Management System. recommendations provided the basis for chemical water treatment modernization at Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk WTPs aimed at the In 2012, scheduled replacement of valves and fire hydrants began. In 2012, nine individual boosting pumping stations were installed The main objective of the project is to improve energy performance 3,533 valves including 827 fire hydrants were replaced last year. in the south-western districts of the city and nine individual boostof the water supply system and to provide reliable water supply ing pumping stations in the northern districts of the city to reduce services. pressure in, and the load on the water networks. 100 101 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Prospects of water supply development The Federal Law of the Russian Federation “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” (dated December 7, 2011 no.416-FZ) has The law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” sets out a financial motivation mechanism for water protection: the charges for 3. Volkovskaya WTP modernization and conversion into a boosting pumping station. 5. Construction and reconstruction of water pipelines to Lomonosov, Petrodvortsovy district. come into force since January 1, 2013. negative impact on water bodies can be set off against the cost of protective measures. Drastic modifications of the water supply system in Southern water Due to this project, the quality of water supply in the town of LomonoThe main provisions of the law: supply zone are planned by 2016, with Volkovskaya WTP converted sov will improve, i.e. soft or mixed water will be provided to the inhabitSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has to develop and improve its into a boosting pumping station to receive water from Southern and ant; and the whole town of Kronstadt will be supplied with soft water. • water and wastewater facilities must not be privatized (thus, the water supply system in order to comply with the Federal Law of the Main WTPs. Volkovskaya WTP will be converted into a boosting Moreover, the historical buildings now used for the needs of the water state control in this vital sector is guaranteed), Russian Federation “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” pumping station in the course of reconstruction and, moreover, a treatment plant will be transferred to the Lutheran Church. (dated December 7, 2011 no. 416-FZ), to enhance water supply system of water supply from Southern and Main WTPs to Volkovs• separate contracts shall be made for water supply and for wastewater disposal according to the model form (to avoid disputes services in line with more stringent regulatory requirements and to improve operational safety of water supply facilities. kaya WTP will be constructed for this purpose, more specifically: 6. UV system modernization at water treatment plants. when signing or amending contracts with customers), • a water conduit (approx. 4.5 km long) will be laid along SinopModernization of the existing UV systems will improve the equipVarious water supply reconstruction and development projects are skaya emb. from Moiseenko str. to Obvodny channel and further ment performance and result in energy saving. • the organization in charge shall be responsible for water supdesigned to meet the required quality parameters and provide relito Volkovskaya WTP. ply and wastewater disposal of each community (guaranteed services are provided to the customers), able services. The projects are implemented to raise the citizens’ satisfaction with water supply services given their growing needs. • reconstruction of the existing 11 km long water pipeline along 7. Reconstruction of water networks. Sofiyskaya str. In order to reduce the breakdown rate of water networks and • the organization in charge shall operates the networks under The main projects are: provide reliable water supply service to the customers, 200 km of abeyance (guaranteed reliable services to the customers), 1. Design and construction of St. Petersburg integrated water 4. Construction of water supply system to supply water from Southern WTP to Krasnoye Selo. networks should be rehabilitated, constructed or repaired annually. • agreements stipulating the conditions of regulated operations in the field of water supply and wastewater disposal (regulatory supply system The construction of water pumping station and a pipeline to WTP 8. Replacement of valves and fire hydrants. agreements) shall be made (the interests of water companies are Construction and modernization of four main water treatment plants at Dudergofskoye Lake is planned to support the development of Replacement of all valves and fire hydrants in water networks with taken into account in their relationship with the state authorities). (Main WTP, Northern WTP, Southern WTP and Kolpinskaya WTP) Krasnoye Selo in the period till 2015. In this way, soft and hard water the advanced, directly installed equipment will go on to ensure reliand construction of new water treatment blocks. The design works (the latter taken from the local underground sources) can be mixed able operation of the networks, with the number of disconnected The new law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” enacts are planned for 2013. to obtain water complying with the targeted quality parameters and, customers during scheduled maintenance or emergency repairs the “polluter pays” principle for the first time in the Russian legislation. This principle is the worldwide practice as acknowledged by 2. Development of water supply system in Kurortny district using consequently, the customers would get adequate potable water. reduced from 8 to 2 average. New fire hydrants will have a better performance and higher availability for fire extinguishing. Furtherthe Helsinki Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environlocal underground water sources. more, direct installation of valves and fire hydrants will reduce the ment of the Baltic Sea Area, HELCOM recommendations, the operating and maintenance costs and ensure safety of maintenance Water Framework Directive of the European Parliament and the EU Two new WTPs in Molodezhnoye and Dyuny (“Rzhavaya Kanava”) works by line crew personnel. Council and by the European Urban Waste Water Treatment Direccommunities, the pumping system and water distribution networks tive. The main objective of this “polluter pays” principle is to create will be constructed by 2018 to supply water from local underground conditions for stopping pollution of water bodies. sources to the customers in Kurortny district. 102 103 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements 9. Construction of separate house connections in the groups of buildings of different balance sheet attribution. The project will comprise large-scale modernization of the boosting pumping stations including the replacement of pumps, instalWastewater Disposal lation of frequency converters to control pressure in the network, St.Petersburg system of wastewater disposal and treatment is a complex of interconnected engineering faConstruction of separate house connections equipped with meterand implementation of a pump control system to control pump cilities to provide collection of wastewater from customers, its transportation and treatment at wastewater ing instruments in the groups of buildings which belong to more operation using the pressure measurement data from the network treatment plants. than one owner will go on in order to improve water supply services checkpoints. To ensure reliable water supply in the event of power and customer satisfaction level, and to implement water metering outage, the pumping stations will be ranked as power consumers of for each customer. the special I Category Reliability Group which means that the third St.Petersburg has a combined wastewater disposal system. 70% of Collection, transportation and treatment of wastewater generated in independent (backup) power supply unit (diesel power plant) will be the territory is connected to the combined sewerage system which the city is performed by a complicated system characterized by the installed for them. collects domestic and industrial wastewater as well as surface following criteria: 10. Development of water supply management system. (rainfall, snow-melt) runoffs. The rest of the territory – mostly new construction areas and suburbs is sewered according to a sepa• Length of sewerage networks – 8,119.3 km, including: The pilot modernization project at Uritskaya pumping station completed in 2008 gave positive results: the energy consumption reduced 11. Construction of water networks to connect small communities to the centralized water supply. rate scheme where rainfall and snow-melt waters are collected separately from other wastewater and discharged currently without -gravity pipelines – 7,866.3 km; -pressure pipelines– 253 km. by 42%, water losses by 39% and the breakdown rate by 32%. any treatment. Construction of water networks in Volodarskiy and Olgino communi• Length of tunnel collectors – 241 km; In 2012, large-scale works to implement the Southern water supply ties will go on to provide centralized water supply to private houses. As of 1 January 2013, 97.1% of wastewater is treated in St. Peterszone management system were ongoing. With Central and Northern Construction of networks in Saperny will begin. Design and conburg, the rest of wastewater is discharged without treatment. • Number of sewerage pumping stations – 138; water supply zones modernized, the St. Petersburg water supply struction of networks and plants in Lisiy Nos, Molodezhnoye, Lahta, • Number of wastewater treatment plants of different capacity – 15, management system will further expand. Toriki, Martyshkino, Repino, Beloostrov, Dyuny, Razliv and Ust-IzhoUntreated wastewater is discharged through direct discharge points including: ra is planned for the period till 2019. The project will be completed at managed by Vodokanal and industrial organizations. -municipal wastewater treatment plants – 13, The main objective of the project is to create a reliable and efficient all small communities by 2030. -runoff treatment plants – 2; water supply system, to monitor the operation of water networks, and to achieve sustainable use of resources use and reduction of costs. As of 1 January 2013, Vodokanal has the following discharge points: • Area of landfills and sludge beds 172 ha; Each of the water supply zones will have its water metering system; 12. City territories development provision • 110 direct discharge pipes of combined and domestic wastewater, • Number of sludge incineration plants 3. moreover, all commercial water meters on the consumer side will New developments, such as the hydraulic fill areas north of Lisiy be upgraded to support automatic transfer of readings. Having such Nos, the hydraulic fill areas in the western part of Vasilievsky Island, • 1,081 rainwater discharge points and storm-water tanks, Along the sewerage (courtyard, district, street) networks domestic, system, it will be possible to receive real-time data on water conthe Okhta banks, “Murinskiy Kvartal”, “Tsvetochny Gorod”, “Ruch’i-7”, industrial and surface (rainfall, snowmelt, infiltration) wastewater sumption and the quantity of water supplied to a relevant zone. The the satellite-town “Yuzhny”, “Moskovskaya Slavyanka”, etc., are con• 13 discharge points for backwash water from Vodokanal’s wateris channeled to the system of tunnel collectors and further to the operators will be able to monitor online any failures of measuring innected to the centralized water supply under Vodokanal’s investworks. wastewater treatment plants. struments or potential customer intervention in the meter operation, ment program and the St. Petersburg targeted investment program. to evaluate automatically the condition of networks and changes of Moreover, new residential estates located in the Leningrad Region The main cause of partial discharges of untreated wastewater into Pipeline diameters of the sewerage network range from 100mm flow rates, and to identify leaks in the water supply networks. near St. Petersburg are being connected, one by one, to the centralSt.Petersburg water bodies is the insufficient length of intercepting (courtyard networks) to 1.5m. Pipelines with diameters of up to 500 ized water supply network pipelines and sewers. mm make up 85% of the total length of all sewerage networks. Annually, Vodokanal reduces the amount of untreated wastewaThe main material of sewerage pipes is reinforced concrete ter discharges, eliminating direct discharge points and delivering (61.7 % of the whole network). Polyvinylchloride and polyethylene wastewater to wastewater treatment plants. pipes are widely used in recent years. They are used mainly for network rehabilitation. 104 105 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The results of 2012 showed that the daily average amount of treated The catchment area “Center” incudes the Central Wastewater TreatTunnel sewers are the basic mains for collecting and transporting The design capacity of sewerage pumping stations at the sewerage wastewater was 2.2 Mio. m3/day. The percentage of disinfected efflument Plant. wastewater to the wastewater treatment plants. These collectors networks ranges from 300 m3/day to 1 Mio. m3/day. ent was 19 %. (1.5m 4.8m diameter) were installed by a shield method at the The Central Wastewater Treatment Plant (CWWTP) collects wastedepth of 7-90 m. St.Petersburg wastewater disposal system is based on the zoning water from the Neva left-bank territories: Nevsky (the left-bank), principle. Three catchment areas – “North”, “Center” and “South” Vasileostrovsky, Centralny, Admiralteysky, Frunzensky, Moskovsky are established in St. Petersburg; each including several sewerage and a part of Kirovsky districts. districts. No Adjusted capacity of wastewater Adjusted capacity in treatment plants, m3/day* rainy weather, Mio. m3/day The catchment area “North” includes the following wastewater The catchment area “South” includes the South-West Wastewater treatment facilities: the Northern WWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP, ZeleTreatment Plant, Kolpino WWTP, Metallostroy WWTP, Pontonny nogorsk WWTP, Repino WWTP, Molodezhnoe WWTP. WWTP, Petrodvorets WWTP, Kronstadt WWTP, Pushkin WWTP. 1 Central Wastewater Treatment Plant 1050 2 Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant 690 The Northern WWTP collects wastewater from the Neva right-bank SWTP collects wastewater from a part of Kirovsky and Krasnoselterritories: Nevsky (the right-bank), Krasnogvardeysky, Kalininsky, sky districts, as well as from the town of Strelna. 3 South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant 290 Vyborgsky, Petrogradsky, Primorsky districts and a part of Centralny district. Petrodvorets WWTP accepts wastewater from the town of Petrod4 Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant 69 vorets, partially, from the town of Lomonosov. Wastewater treatment 5 Pontonny Wastewater Treatment Plant 11 Sestroretsk WWTP accepts wastewater from the population and plants of the towns of Kolpino, Metallostroy and Pontonny provide customers of Sestroretsk and neighboring towns of Gorskaya, complete wastewater disposal services to Kolpinsky district. 6 Metallostroy Wastewater Treatment Plant 9 Alexandrovskaya, Razliv, Tarkhovka, Kurort and industrial zones of Beloostrov. Wastewater from Kronstadt is treated at Kronstadt WWTP. Waste7 Pushkin Wastewater Treatment Plant 71 water from the towns of Pushkin and Pavlovsk and communities of 8 Sestroretsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 17 Zelenogorsk WWTP accepts wastewater from the residential areas, Pushkinsky district is treated at Pushkin WWTP. recreation centers and organizations of the towns of Zelenogorsk 9 Zelenogorsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 10 and Ushkovo. St.Petersburg is the first megapolis in the world to solve the problem of wastewater sludge utilization. 10 Repino Wastewater Treatment Plant 10 Repino WWTP accepts wastewater from the towns of Solnechnoe, 11 Kronstadt Wastewater Treatment Plant 28 Komarovo and Repino of Kurortny district of St.Petersburg. Before the commissioning of the sludge incineration plants, dewatered sludge was disposed in full to landfills for storage. 12 Molodezhnoe** Wastewater Treatment Plant 0 13 Petrodvorets Wastewater Treatment Plant 72 TOTAL 2327 * Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants is calculated for rainy weather conditions taking into account wastewater quality requirements. ** Mechanical treatment only. 106 107 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Wastewater treatment technologies At the present time, three sludge incineration plants (SIP) constructThe heat generated in the process of incineration is used for techniTechnologies to ensure wastewater treatment in compliance with the Russian norms and the requirements of the ed at the biggest WWTPs – Central WWTP, Northern WWTP and cal purposes, space heating and electric energy production, thus Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission have implemented at Vodokanal’s wastewater treatment plants. SWTP are in operation in the city. They incinerate 100% of sludge enabling SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” to achieve significant produced in the course of wastewater treatment at all the WWTPs. savings of energy resources. This enabled the city to solve its primary task – to stop storing wastewater sludge and reduce the negative environmental impact. Flue gases of all SIPs go through a three-stage purification process. The main wastewater treatment stages applied by SUE “Vodokanal biological treatment and chemical phosphorus precipitation. Today, Treated gases emitted into the atmosphere at all the SIPs meet the of St.Petersburg” are as follows: the chemical phosphorus precipitation method is introduced at all requirements of the European Committee Directive 2000/76. the WWTPs. The biggest WWTPs Central WWTP, Northern WWTP Advantages of incineration: • mechanical treatment, and SWTP – have stationary units to dose chemicals automatiGross emission of pollutants from all the SIPs is within the limits of cally depending on phosphorus concentration in the influent. As a • 10-times reduction of generated waste amount; maximum permissible emission stated by Rosprirodnadzor. • chemical and biological treatment, result, the efficient phosphorus precipitation is provided with optimal chemical costs. • no pathogenic microflora and unpleasant odor in ash; On-line control instruments are used at all the plants to analyze the • wastewater disinfection, composition of emitted flue gases. Besides, the independent organiUntil recently, iron sulfate (Ferix) was used as a chemical. In the • concentration of harmful compounds in treated flue gases generzation Water Quality Control Center performs expanded monitor• sludge treatment and utilization. course of laboratory tests commenced in the end of 2011 at a numated in the course of sludge incineration meets the requirements ing of gas composition. ber of wastewater treatment plants and successfully completed, the of the Russian Federation and the European Union; The mechanical treatment is designed for wastewater clarification to most efficient and cost-effective chemical – aluminum sulfate was Moreover, the SIP at SWTP applies a unique biomonitoring system. ensure normal functioning of the subsequent treatment stages. This found. Now, it is being used at all Vodokanal’s WWTPs. • use of heat for hot water supply and heating of buildings; The indicators of flue gas quality are the giant African snails which block includes screens, grit removal units, primary sedimentation react not only to one-time emissions, but also to minimal amounts tanks and scum removal units. In order to obtain wastewater treatment quality in compliance with • energy production by means of steam utilization at SWTP and of concentrated hazardous substances, as well as to synergistic efHELCOM recommendations, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” CWWTP fect of various pollutants. The biological treatment stage is the main wastewater treatment has been constantly upgrading biological treatment units impleprocess before wastewater is discharged into the water body. It menting advanced nutrients removal technologies and enhancing • possibility of ash utilization and industrial use. includes aeration tanks and secondary sedimentation tanks. The wastewater treatment processes. biological treatment process is going on thanks to activated sludge activity, in the presence of atmospheric oxygen. Activated sludge is The advanced biological treatment technology UCT (University of a biocoenosis inhabited by different bacteria, protozoa and multiCape Town) has been implemented at SWTP, CWWTP, Sestroretsk cellular organisms which treat wastewater by oxidizing pollutants WWTP, Petrodvorets WWTP, Repino WWTP, Pushkin WWTP, and contained in it. the chemical phosphorus precipitation method is permanently applied there. Previously, only mechanical and biological treatment was implemented at wastewater treatment plants, but it did not ensure the Works on the reconstruction of the aeration tanks for enhanced quality of treated effluent stated by HELCOM requirements for phosnutrients removal by introducing JHB technology (University of phorus removal. Therefore, the chemical biological wastewater Johannesburg) including the automatic process control and chemitreatment process сhas been implemented at Vodokanal’s wastewacal phosphorus precipitation are going on at the Central WWTP ter treatment plants to combine enhanced nutrient removal through the biggest WWTP of St.Petersburg. In 2012, modernization of two aeration tanks (biological treatment units) was completed. 108 109 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The reconstruction of the Northern WWTP is performed under the At the present time, the project of the construction of Molodezhnoe Reduction of nitrogen and phosphorus load on St.Petersburg water bodies project providing for complete modernization of the mechanical and WWTP with a system of connecting pipes in the territory of the old biological treatment units. In 2012, the reconstruction of the 1st line wastewater treatment plant is under development. The project is be23 175 10000 15000 20000 25000 22 288 of the Northern WWTP began. The construction of the raw sludge ing designed for treatment of all wastewater from the town of Molopumping station and return sludge pumping station began. dezhnoe in compliance with HELCOM recommendations, first of all, Discharge of pollutants, tons/year 18 163 in terms of enhanced nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) removal Vodokanal’s plan To ensure collection, transportation and treatment of wastewater and consequently improvement of the condition of the water area from Kolpinsly and Pushkinsky districts with regard to the future of the northern coast of the Gulf of Finland. 12 248 area development and solving a problem of insufficient wastewater Efficiency of domestic wastewater treatment at Vodokanal’s WWTPs 11 048 10 729 10 003 10 049 treatment capacities, a decision to take Metallostoy WWTP out of in 2012 is quite high: suspended solids and BOD – over 95%; total 9628 9337 9150 8403 operation and channel its wastewater to the Central WWTP, and phosphorus – 90% and total nitrogen –71%. expand the capacity of Kolpino WWTP up to 140,000 m3/day and Pontonny WWTP up to 40,000 m3/day was taken. 3973 3502 5000 3027 1930 1178 760 677 492 491,8 392 355 327 In 2012, St.Petersburg fully met HELCOM requirements: phosphorus concentration in total effluent was 0.31 mg/l, 0 nitrogen concentration – 9.3 mg/l. 1978 1985 1987 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 nitrogen, mg/l phosphorus, mg/l Nitrogen and phosphorus content in effluent 10.0 10.0 10 9.6 9.6 9.3 9.3 9.0 8.7 In order to improve the sanitary and epidemiological situation of In 2012, full-scale trials of wastewater disinfection methods were 8 the city’s water bodies and in the Gulf of Finland, a part of effluent made as an alternative to UV disinfection: undergoes disinfection. To minimize the negative impact on the water bodies, the newly • disinfection with PACS chemical at Petrodvorets WWTP; 6 constructed and renovated plants of the city apply UV technologies for effluent disinfection (SWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP, Petrodvorets • disinfection with Lazur-M-250 bacteriological unit combining bac4 WWTP, Repino WWTP). At Pontonny WWTP, Metallostroy WWTP, tericidal effects of ultraviolet and ultrasonic transducers. Kolpino WWTP, Zelenogorsk WWTP, Pushkin WWTP Vodokanal uses sodium hypochlorite for effluent disinfection. In 2013, search for efficient disinfection methods will be continued. 2 1.6 1.3 0.9 0.8 At the present time, Vodokanal has been searching for efficient and Sludge treatment is performed at all treatment plants with mechan0.6 0.5 0.34 0.31 cost-effective effluent disinfection technologies to be implemented ical dewatering method using effective polymeric flocculants. Three 0 at all the wastewater treatment plants of St.Petersburg sludge incineration plants located at the Central WWTP, Northern 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 WWTP and SWTP treat sludge with fluidized-bed incineration method. Incineration is performed in the fluidized-bed furnaces phosphorus, mg/l nitrogen, mg/l under the temperature of 8700С. The ash produced in the course of incineration does not contain soluble compounds and pathogenic microorganisms. 110 111 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Wastewater quality control Wastewater quality control at Vodokanal’s facilities is carried out in accordance with Wastewater Quality AsTo control the customers’ compliance with regulatory values for the discharge of pollutants from indussessment Programs approved by the Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority and Rospotrebnadzor Authority. tries, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” performs continuous monitoring of quality of wastewater discharged by the customers into St.Petersburg centralized sewerage system. Wastewater quality control is regularly performed: Moreover, the South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant has been The main objective of customers’ wastewater quality control is to In 2012, representatives of Vodokanal and its customers jointly per• in the inlet chamber of wastewater treatment plants (control of constantly using the system for biomonitoring the quality of the minimize the pollution of water bodies with industrial wastewater and formed 183 inspections of customers’ territories to identify sources composition and properties of wastewater coming from the cuseffluent to be discharged into the Neva Bay of the Gulf of Finland. to evaluate the customers’ compliance with wastewater quality norms. of wastewater pollution. tomers), Crayfish play the role of bioindicators: it is Australian Red Claw Crayfish in warm seasons, and Native Neva crayfish in cold seaDuring 2012, over 5,800 customers were controlled by Vodokanal. In 2009-2012, the quality of the municipal sewage (mixture of • in the collection chamber in the outlet of wastewater treatment sons. Replacement of crayfish depending on the season is necesWastewater samples were taken from 5,109 customers’ discharge households sewage, industrial wastewater and runoff) was always plants. sary to exclude false operation of bioelectronic monitoring system. points. Total number of determinations of wastewater components worse compared to the quality of the households sewage (conIn spite of the fact that the effluent quality is monitored with special in the customers’ samples was 172,000. In the course of 2012, only centrations of some pollutants in municipal sewage exceeded the Wastewater quality control is carried out by monitoring 21 physiinstruments by various parameters in the laboratories, it is only the 1% of the customers met wastewater quality requirements. concentrations in the households wastewater 1.2-22 times). cal and chemical parameters, 8 microbiological and parasitological organism of an animal-bioindicator that may simultaneously assess The customers shall pay an extra charge for exceeding regulatory parameters. a set of all the qualitative characteristics of water where it lives. values*. The current procedure of taking an extra charge is tarAround 16,500 components are determined annually. geted to promote water protection activities by the customers and Thanks to the bioelectronic control system based on the behavior introduce a concession charge for those customers who implement Besides, wastewater composition control is regularly performed at of animals it is possible to monitor simultaneously the integrated efwater protection measures. the following processes points: the inlet chamber of WWTP, colfect of many factors on water, being the crayfish habitat. As a result lection chamber after primary clarifiers, effluent collection chamber. of such effect, water quality may deteriorate. However in 2012, only 43 out of 3,800 customers (1,1 %), who exThese control activities ensure the operation of the facilities in ceeded regulatory values, agreed water protection plans with SUE compliance with the established regulations. To adjust the treatVodokanal’s wastewater treatment plants are designed for treatment “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg”, 2 companies were granted a concesment mode the following parameters are monitored: temperature, of household wastewater from the citizens. Removal of specific sion charge in due course provided that they would implement water biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), pollutants at WWTPs is performed concurrently and with different protection measures. phosphate group, ammonia nitrogen and nitrates group, suspended efficiency. Many substances which are not removed at the biologisolids, alkalinity, dissolved oxygen. Around 1,150 samples are anacal treatment facilities continually accumulate and may damage the lyzed annually. plant having a disastrous influence on activated sludge. *An extra charge is paid to the special account of Vodokanal. Money from this account is spent only for wastewater quality improvement and payment by Vodokanal of the fee for the negative environmental impact. The Government of St.Petersburg represented by the Committee for Energy and Engineering Support controls over the spending of funds from such an account. 112 113 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Prospects of industrial wastewater treatment In accordance with the new Law no.416-FZ “On water supply and wastewater disposal”, from 2013, the relationships between water companies and their customers will change in terms of wastewater quality control. with the established regulatory permissible values, they will be kanal will consult and hold seminars devoted to the possible ways The customers (categories are determined by the Government On 1st January 2014, statutory provisions amending the procedures obliged to develop the action plan to reduce pollutant discharge of eliminating above-limit discharges into the sewerage systems, the of the Russian Federation) will be obliged to submit a declaration for setting wastewater quality norms and procedures for taking an (including construction and modernization of local WWTPs) and to selection of best available technologies for local wastewater treatabout wastewater composition and properties to a water company extra charge for exceeding regulatory values come into effect. agree it with the territorial federal executive authority responsible for ment and the arrangements for wastewater metering. and pay for the negative impact on water bodies directly to the budIn accordance with the law, to prevent the negative impact from environmental supervision. If the customers have the action plan get (not to Vodokanal). wastewater of industrial companies on the water bodies, regulatory to reduce pollutant discharge, less stringent requirements for the In 2013, the customers will be assisted not only by Vodokanal’s permissible values for pollutants, other substances and microordischarge of pollutants, other substances and microorganism may experts but also by the International Advanced Water TechnoloAt the same time, the customers will be obliged to recover Vodokanganisms will be set for customers. If the customers do not comply be applied to them. gies Centre. The Centre was established in January 2011 aiming at al’s costs for the collection of pollutants which impair the centralized international cooperation and exchange of experience in applicable sewerage systems operation. Regarding the discharges by the customers of substances impostechnologies of water supply, wastewater disposal and environment ing a negative impact on the operation of the centralized sewerage protection. Experts from Vodokanal and Lahti Science and Business If water-protective measures (including construction, reconstruction systems, the requirements to collection of these substances into the Park are involved in the Centre’s activities. In 2013, a number of and modernization of wastewater treatment plants) are taken by the centralized sewerage systems shall be incorporated into “Rules for seminars for industrial companies dedicated to best available wastecustomers, an extra charge for exceeding regulatory values may be cold water supply and wastewater disposal” which are subject to the water treatment technologies of dairy, bred, sausage and meat reduced by the amount of actual costs incurred. approval of the federal executive authorities. Moreover, the requireproduction industries, electroplating and PCB production industries, ments to those customers, who are obliged to install wastewater and to local treatment of run-offs from industrial sites is planned to The declaration mechanism increases customers’ attention to, and meters, and the procedures for wastewater metering by a calculabe organized. responsibility for, the environmental aspects of their activities (labotion method shall be adopted in 2013. ratory control of wastewater composition, selection of water-protecVodokanal on its part intends to accumulate the Russian and tive measures to minimize negative impact). At the same time, this Before the by-laws are adopted, the interactions between SUE international experience establishing a pool of the best available mechanism will enable Vodokanal to reduce expenses for control“Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” and its customers will be governed by technologies for treating not only household wastewater but also ling its customers and Vodokanal will need only to check (verify) the the settled practice under the applicable law. It means that Vodowastewater from different industries. information about wastewater quality declared by the customers. The above regulatory norms will be implemented all over the territory of the Russian Federation after the relevant federal by-laws are adopted and become effective which is planned for 2013. 114 115 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Achievements of 2012 Reduction of untreated wastewater discharges One of the main causes of pollution of the water bodies is discharges of untreated or insufficiently treated wastewater, since wastewater 4. Under the Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge Closure Program, Vodokanal developed design documentation related to: 3. In the course of the year, the implementation of the Project for the Reconstruction and Modernization of Small Wastewater Improvement of the sewerage system reliability To prevent emergency situations and ensure reliability of the sewercontain various pollutants having negative environmental influence, Treatment Plants was going on. In the frames of the project small age system, in 2012, the following activities were performed in the including nitrogen and phosphorus, which cause eutrophication of • the construction of Okhta tunnel collector. The project will be perWWTPs in Kolpino, Pontonny, Pushkin, Kronstadt shall meet wasteframes of the Program for improving the reliability of the tunnel water bodies (water blooming). formed stage by stage. On the first stage the route of the tunnel water treatment level complying with HELCOM recommendations, sewerage system: was determined; чтобы получилось In the frames of the project small WWTPs in St.Petersburg achieved considerable results in solving its task on Kolpino, Pontonny, Pushkin, Kronstadt shall meet wastewater treat• construction of the 2nd line of the backup collector near the Muthe reduction of untreated wastewater discharges and establishment • closure of untreated wastewater direct discharges along the ment level complying with HELCOM recommendations. zhestva Square, of the modern sewerage system. As of the beginning of 2013, 97.1% Karpovka River Embankment, Admiralteyskaya Embankment, • reconstruction of the tunnel sewer along Rizhsky Avenue, of wastewater were treated in the city. Petrovsky Stadium. 4. A project of construction of Molodezhnoe WWTP has been developed. • reconstruction of the tunnel sewer from the shaft no.63 along. 5. Construction of the intercepting sewer along the Robespierre Besides, the design documentation for the following works was 1. Such a result was obtained first of all thanks to the connection of untreated wastewater discharges to the Northern Tunnel Embankment began 1. Odor control To alleviate the negative environmental impact and remove under development: Collector. In 2011-2012, works on the construction of two shafts (dia. Modernization of wastewater treatment plants 9m, depth 80m) near the Grenadersky Bridge, and horizontal shafts At the present time, the quality of wastewater treatment at the most unpleasant odor, in 2012, works on recycling wastewater sludge • reconstruction of the main tunnel collector of the Bely Island; (depth 80m) connected to two main lines of the Northern Tunnel Colof wastewater treatment plants meets the HELCOM requirements. stored at the Severny landfill in the town of Novoselki continued. A lector were conducted. The completion of these works resulted in Vodokanal has accomplished the phosphorus removal task, but the method of wastewater sludge dewatering in geotubes was selected • construction of the ring tunnel from the shaft 1/27 TKK to the the connection of the micro-tunnel laid along the Pirogovskaya nitrogen removal process is more complicated. Introduction of up-tofor landfill reclamation. The method presupposes static dewatering – shaft 441/2 PGKS; Embankment to two main lines of the Northern Tunnel Collector in date biological treatment technologies presupposes comprehensive filtration of sludge liquid phase through the walls of containers made December 2012, and in the elimination of 28,000 m3/day untreated reconstruction of the facilities, including installation of new equipof polymer filter cloth (geo-tubes) located on specially arranged • construction of the ring tunnel along Basseynaya Street; wastewater discharges. ment and introduction of technological processes. drainage area. Sludge is fed into the geo-tubes after being treated with special chemicals. The result of such treatment is the produc• construction of the ring tunnels along the Fontanka River Em2. In the frames of the Main Tunnel Collector Completion Project, works on the construction of a pumping station in the shaft 1. To improve treatment efficiency and stabilize the nutrient removal process at the Northern WWTP, in 2012, Vodokanal tion of a harmful substrate which is odor free and may be used for manufacturing fertilizers or technogenic soil (to be used for the bankment; no.422, the collector along the Robespierre Embankmen, and the began the 1st stage of reconstruction works that will be completed construction and reconstruction of motoways). • construction of the ring tunnel collector along Petrogradskaya 2nd connection of the tunnel laid in Petrogradskaya Storona to the in 2014. On the 1st stage Vodokanal performed reconstruction of 5 Storona on the section from the shaft 471 to the shaft 474. tunnel collector were conducted during in 2012. aeration tanks, 2 primary clarifiers, 4 secondary clarifies. The construction of raw sludge pumping station and return sludge pumping 2. To prevent odor propagation, a project on the installation of the odor removal system at the Severny landfill was develConstruction and reconstruction of networks oped. The system is based on fine spraying of deodorant along the To ensure the connection of new developments in the southern 3. In the end of December 2012, discharges of untreated wastewater from the town of Sertolovo into the Razliv Lake were restation was begun. landfill perimeter. part of the city to the engineering networks, including new developments of the Leningrad Region, a new development scheme of 2. duced by 58.8 %. Up to that time, a 7,700 m3/day wastewater from In 2011, the 1st stage reconstruction works began at the Sertolovo was channeled to the inefficient wastewater treatment Central WWTP. In 2012, modernization of the aeration tanks the southern part of the city was designed, the long-term territorial plant and discharged into the Chernaya River. Today, wastewater was completed. water balance was developed, the list of activities on construction from Sertolovo is channeled to the sewer “Pesochny – Novoselki” and delivered to the Northern WWTP for treatment. 116 117 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements and reconstruction of networks to be connected to the new devel• construction of a sewer from the shaft no.611/2 to shaft no.611/5 Future Development of the Sewerage System opments of the city and the Leningrad Region (residential develalong Tsentralnaya str.; opment project “Tsarskoselskie Kholmy”, industrial development project “Metallostroy-2”, industrial development project “Shushary”, • construction of a sewer from the sewerage pumping station no.7 St.Petersburg sewerage system development is focused on solving • closure of untreated wastewater discharges along Admiralteyskathe town of Yuzhny, and other projects) was prepared. to Kolpino WWTP. Reconstruction of the sewerage pumping stathe following tasks: ya Embankment, Petrogradskaya Embankment, Karpovka River tion no.7; Embankment, Petrovsky Stadium, etc., by 2016; In 2012, design and survey works related to disposal of wastewater • elimination of untreated wastewater discharges into St.Petersburg from the town of Metallostroy to the Central WWTP were going on. • construction of the combined sewerage system for “Konnaya water bodies; • construction of Okhta tunnel collector by 2018; The design assignment for the reconstruction of Kolpino WWTP Lakhta” facility; and Pontonny WWTP were developed. • upgrading and construction of wastewater treatment plants by • continuation of reconstruction and modernization works at the • construction of local run-off treatment facilities for the residential introducing the enhanced nutrient removal, tertiary treatment and Central WWTP and Northern WWTP. area “Osinovaya Roshcha”; disinfection technologies; Works on the construction of sewerage networks for the following In the southern part of the city: residential development projects were going on: • construction of a single-line sewer from the sewerage pumping • construction of backup tunnel collectors and rehabilitation of the station no.6 to the sewerage pumping station “Slavyanka”, the existing tunnel collectors; • connection of wastewater from Metallostroy to the catchment • construction of a sewer to be connected to the housing developworks being completed. area of the Central WWTP by 2016; ment areas 7 and 10А Krasnoe Selo; • modernization of the sewerage system; • comprehensive reconstruction of Kolpino WWTP extending its • establishment of St. Petersburg wastewater disposal managecapacity up to 140,000 m3/day by 2017; reconstruction of Pontonny In total, 114 km of sewage network were constructed and rehabilitated in 2012 (1.6 times more than in 2011). ment system; WWTP extending its capacity up to 40,000 m3/day by 2023; • construction of networks and facilities to provide wastewater • Construction of intercepting collectors and elimination of disIn 2012, works on design and construction of sewerage networks to Stationary snow-melting stations disposal for city districts. charges in the town of Lomonosov and Kolpinsky district. be connected to the following new projects were going on: In order to solve the snow disposal problem, six stationary snowmelting stations were put into operation in 2012 to receive snow in 1. To decrease the negative environmental impact and reach In the Kurortny district: • residential development (including schools, kindergartens, the amount of 35,000 m3/day. The stations are located at the follow100% level of wastewater treatment in St.Petersburg, the folhealth care facilities, board and care facilities for the veterans of ing addresses: lowing major environmental projects are to be implemented: • by 2016, construction of Molodezhnoe WWTP with the capacity the Great Patriotic War and houses for large families); of 2,500 m3/day, reconstruction and modernization of Zelenogo• 2, Oktyabrskaya Embankment; In the central part of the city: rsk WWTP; • cultural and business facilities development (shopping malls and • 77, Peterhoffskoe Highway; offices); • 20, Sevastianova str., Kolpino; • completion of the extension of the Northern Tunnel Collector and • construction of sewerage networks from the town of Zelenogorsk • 45, Rizsky Avenue; the collector along Robespierre Embankment in 2013. 7 untreatup to the towns of Reshetnikovo and Krasavitsa • industrial development. • 83, Stachek Avenue; ed wastewater discharges (37,500 m3/day) will be connected to • 69 Krasnoputilovskaya str.. the collector. Moreover, it is planned to introduce tertiary treatment technologies To provide centralized water supply and wastewater disposal serand disinfection systems at all the wastewater treatment plants. vices to the citizens of the towns of Volodarsky and Olgino, works Besides, in 2012, works on construction and installation of a station• Total amount of wastewater channeled to the Northern Tunnel In 2013, a program of environmental restoration of St.Petersburg on the installation of 25 km sewerage network and around 33 km ary snow-melting station at the address: 123, Volkhonskoe Highway, Collector in 2008 2013 will be 284,000 m3/day. Wastewater treatand Leningrad Region water bodies is planned to be prepared and water network were completed (as of 1 January 2013). were completed. ment level will reach 98.4%; implemented. 118 119 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements 2. To increase the reliability of the tunnel sewerage system, the construction of ring tunnels and backup collectors is planned with further rehabilitation of the existing tunnel 3. To ensure the optimal hydraulic control of the sewerage network and the improvement of energy efficiency and rational use of resources, the reliable integrated wastewater 5. In 2013, 2 snow-melting stations are planned to be constructed in St. Petersburg at the following addresses: 2, Rybinskaya str., intersection of Mebelny Driveway and 7. To eliminate the negative environmental impact of sludge landfills, the works on sludge processing by geotubing method are going on. sections. management system shall be established. Mebelnaya Street. Besides, it is planned to start the construction of stations at the addresses: 24, Obvodny Canal Embankment, 2 – 1, The planned activities are aimed at meeting the following goals: • completion of the construction of the 2nd stage of the backup For this purpose, Vodokanal needs to establish the system to Bestuzhevskaya Street, with the works to be completed in 2014. collector from Vernosti str. to the Murinsky Ruchei near the Mumeasure wastewater flow and water level in sewerage collectors • reduction of the negative environmental impact of the sewerage 6. zhestva Square, in 2014; and wet compartments of sewerage pumping stations, as well as To ensure the availability of centralized wastewater disposal system facilities; the automated system of remote control and the wastewater quality services to the citizens by 2025, Vodokanal plans to con• completion of the reconstruction of the tunnel collector along control system. struct street networks and wastewater treatment facilities in • continuous provision of wastewater disposal services to the Rizhsky Avenue and the tunnel collector along Revolyutsii 71 communities located in the territory of St. Petersburg (providing customers; Highway from the shaft no.63 to the shaft no.2 along Piskorevsky First of all, it is necessary to reconstruct the main pumping stations the private residential structures with the possibility to be connected Avenue, by 2015; replacing old pumps. to the system). • increase of the energy-efficiency of the sewerage system and introduction of the energy-efficiency policy in the wastewater 4. • completion of the reconstruction of the main inlet collector conThe establishment of the advanced wastewater system of At the present time, the projects of construction of potable water disposal system; nected to the Central WWTP and construction of the ring tunnel St. Petersburg is not possible without solving a problem of and household wastewater networks in the towns of Olgino, Volofrom the shaft no.1/27 of the tunnel collector to the shaft no.441/2 significant physical deterioration of pipelines. darsky and Saperny are under implementation. Works on designing • availability of the centralized wastewater services to the populaof the Northern tunnel collector, in 2016. and construction of the networks and facilities for the towns of Toriki, tion of St. Petersburg. The networks shall be rehabilitated. The replacement of pipelines Lisiy Nos, Molodezhnoe, Martyshkino, Lakhta, Repino, Razliv, UstBy 2018 we plan: shall account for 180-200 km per year and restoration by Vodokanal Izhora, Pontonny, Beloostrov and Dyuny are planned for future. of pipeline tightness 700 km per year. It will allow to renovate the • construction of the ring tunnel collector along Petrogradskaskya sewerage network, ensure continuous and failure-free transportaStorona on the section between the shafts 471 – 474; tion of wastewater for treatment as well as to eliminate cesspools. • Commencement of design works for the second line of the NorthIn 2013, it is panned to install and rehabilitate 147.2 km of sewerern Tunnel Collector. age networks. 120 121 Specialized vehicles and equipment 122 123 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements As of 1 January 2013, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has 1,062 transport units. Vodokanal’s vehicle park includes: Types of fuel In 2012, Vodokanal purchased 29 transport vehicles including the • 4 emergency vans on the Volkswagen chassis characterized by following: better chassis specifications and more comfortable transportation • 160 specialized van trucks, conditions for the teams, to replace outdated emergency vans on • 3 combined hydraulic jet cleaners FICO 2KDE-SCANIA the ZIL chassis; 9% • 138 dump trucks, P420CB8x4*4HSZ. The equipment installed on the cleaner allows to clean sewerage pipelines and at the same time to remove sludge • 1 laboratory on the chassis Mercedes-Benz Sprinter for express• 48 JCB loader-excavator, from sewer manholes even in winter periods (down to 25 0C). analysis of the customers’ wastewater. 64 % 23 % • 66 Scania, Mercedes, MAN specialized combined vehicles, • 11 dump-trucks KAMAZ-65115-62 to remove sewerage sludge. Timely renewal of Vodokanal’s transport facilities allows to: 4% • 31 steam generators (STEAMRATOR MHT700), • 2 buses KABZ-4235-31 for passenger transportation. • increase the operational reliability of the vehicles, • 619 other transport vehicles. • 3 vehicles (B10М.0111-ЕН, AGROMASH 90ТG, АТLES 946RZ) • execute water supply and wastewater disposal production programs, for bulldozing and ripping works. Diesel fuel Ai-92 • establish positive conditions for implementation of infrastructure • 10 vans GAS-2705 to provide for general production processes, development projects and provision of engineering support of А-76 Ai-95 transportation of personnel and small freight. St.Petersburg. Age of vehicles as of January 1, 2013 Types of vehicles SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” plans to upgrade and develop its transport facilities, equip them with EURO-4 class motors with 486 increased technical capability, as well as to apply multi-function 500 117 64 449 transport units thus reducing the number of transport facilities: 126 400 • 22 emergency vans on the МАN chassis characterized by bet24 ter chassis specifications and more comfortable transportation quantity, units 373 conditions for the teams, to replace outdated emergency vans on 300 the ZIL chassis; 200 358 103 100 trailers, semi-trailers road machinery 23 passenger vehicles buses 0 up to 1 year 1 – 3 years 3 – 5 years over 5 years freight vehicles specialized vehicles 124 125 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Establishment of backup power supply system at Vodokanal’s facilities Installation of backup power supply sources at socially significant In 2012, 25 sites to accommodate and connect backup power supIn 2012, 2 backup power supply units were put into operation; the The establishment of the backup power supply system at Vodokanand life-support facilities of St.Petersburg is envisaged by St. ply units were established at Vodokanal’s core production facilities: rest of them will be commissioned in the 2nd quarter of 2013. al’s facilities will result in maintaining water head in the networks of Petersburg Government Decree no.1454 “On the program of instalA decision to use variable frequency drives in combination with up to 10 – 15m thanks to the reserve power supply units installed at lation of backup power supply sources at socially significant and • 14 sites for mobile diesel-electric power units; diesel-electric power units allowed to decrease the number of facilities supplying water from clean water tanks (potable water storlife-support facilities for 2012-2013” dated October 20, 2011. DEPUs (because of reducing the starting current) and will ensure age capacity – up to 12 hours), and in ensuring wastewater delivery • 11 sites to accommodate stationary high-voltage diesel-electric the pumps operation with variable frequency drives in normal mode to the wastewater treatment plants in case of external power supply As early as in 2010, Vodokanal prepared the program of the develpower units at the following core facilities: thus considerably reducing energy consumption. interruption. opment of the backup power supply system to increase the energy -Main Water Treatment Plant; safety of water/wastewater facilities. The program fully complies with -Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant; the requirements of St. Petersburg Government Decree. -Northern Water Treatment Plant (2 sites); -Southern Water treatment Plant (2 sites); For the first time the company as big as Vodokanal will ensure, -Kolpino Water Treatment Plant, 2nd elevation; within the framework of the backup power supply system, that high-Moskovskaya Pumping Station; voltage pumps (up to 1.5 MW) are powered by reserve power supply -Central Wastewater Treatment Plant; sources (diesel-electric power units). Technical solutions used in the -Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant; course of the system development are unique and unprecedented. -South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. 126 127 Customer service 128 129 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Customer service in 2012 Customer service was a priority area for Vodokanal in 2012. In 2012, Vodokanal continued activities on introducing advanced technologies into the work with customers and: Vodokanal’s territorial divisions established within the Water Supply Functions of water supply (wastewater disposal) districts include: • implemented the system of electronic notification of customers • continued to develop an electronic archive of contractual docuand Wastewater Disposal Production Branches provide consultation about the expiry of draft water/wastewater agreements reviewmentation aiming at prompt delivery of information about availservices to customers. • consultation on issues related to contractual arrangements of ing and about the necessity to deliver a signed agreement or a ability of a certain document in the company’s archive; delivery of potable water and collection of wastewater; protocol of disagreements; Communication with customers of the service areas is a main task • implemented, within the development of the Personal Account, of water supply and wastewater disposal districts, which ensures • inspection of water supply and wastewater disposal systems at • continued to implement the system of remote reading of meaon-line application and submittal of documents to execute promptness of such communication and provision of services by location of a customer’s facility; surements to ensure the possibility of on-line water consumption (amend, terminate) water/wastewater agreements (the system relevant subdivisions taking into account specific features of water monitoring by a customer (including receiving prompt informawill be commissioned on a large-scale in 2013). and wastewater networks located in a certain area. • preparation of draft agreements on delivery of potable water and tion on breakdowns at in-site networks) as well as the possibilcollection of wastewater (conclusion of agreements). ity to make contract payments according to the meter readings received by the company by remote transfer; In 2012, Vodokanal completed the inventory of customers’ facilities. In 2012, Vodokanal continued work related to consultations and exchange of opinions with different categories of customers. The purpose of inventory carried out by the company was to receive • number of facilities consuming potable water (disposing wasteWithin the working group with the participation of St.Petersburg auin apartment buildings and residential buildings, approved adopted reliable information about the situation at customers’ facilities and to water); thorities, Vodokanal actively cooperated with the Union of Industrialby the Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation no.354 bring contractual arrangements with customers in compliance with ists and Entrepreneurs of St. Petersburg (with regard to wastewater dated 6 May 2011, entered into force on September 1, 2012. the actual situation. • number and characteristics of service connections, sewer outlets, disposal norms, construction of local wastewater treatment plants availability and condition of meters; and installation of wastewater meters). Meetings of the working group organized by the Concierge newspaDuring the inventory process, Vodokanal received reliable informaper with the participation of the public services providers were held tion related to: • free access to metering units, control sewer manholes; In 2012, substantial changes were introduced into the legislation quarterly to discuss issues of water supply for apartment houses, regulating relationships between service providers and public utiliinstallation of house meters and estimation of public service con• an entity carrying out activities at a specific address, and its • area of land plots and types of pavements at the land plots. ties. On 14 February 2012, the Government of the Russian Federasumption by an apartment house if there are no metering instrurights for water supply and wastewater disposal systems directly tion issued the Decree no.124 approving the Mandatory Rules for ments). connected to the municipal water and sewage systems; The information received by Vodokanal in the inventory process was the execution of agreements between service providers (a managused for execution (re-execution) of contractual arrangements with ing company or condominium or house-hold cooperative or another Vodokanal conducted consultations with the Association of Housing customers, for conclusion of separate agreements on delivery of specialized consumer cooperative) and public utilities. The Rules Construction Cooperatives, Housing Companies and Condominipotable water and collection of wastewater and pollutants. for providing municipal services to owners and users of apartments ums (answers to questions, meetings with company management). 130 131 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Volumes of sales The results of Vodokanal activities in 2010-2012 show a clearly stable reduction in water consumption of customers in St. Petersburg. The diagram shows a 7.5% reduction of water volumes consumed Reduction of water consumption in St. Petersburg has been caused by: by St. Petersburg customers in the last three years. In 2012, volumes of sales were reduced by 3.6% compared to 2011. • transition from the billing according to the standard consumption rate to the billing according to actually consumed volumes followVolumes of water and wastewater services sales for 2010 – 2012, in physical units (‘000 m3) Water supply reduction trend may be observed for both Households ing the installation of cold and hot water meters; and Other Consumers tariff groups. • energy saving measures taken by customers (emergency repairs, elimination of leakages in in-house networks, repairs of in-house 800 000.0 Reduction of water consumption volumes by the Households catpipes and etc.); egory is a result of application by housing organizations of com700 000.0 prehensive measures on minimization of water losses in in-house • water savings by the citizens; networks to ensure rational water consumption in the housing and public utility sector. • implementation of energy saving measures by housing organiza600 000.0 tions, managing companies, condominiums and housing coopThe major factor that has impact on the reduction of energy reeratives (improvement of metering systems and control over the 500 000.0 sources consumption by customers is the obeyance of the Federal consumed services). Law no.261-FZ “On energy saving and energy efficiency increase, 400 000.0 and on amending certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation” dated 23 November 2009, and the application of the mechanism of 728 547.9 economic incentives of rational water consumption. 684 244.8 300 000.0 640 240.2 614 295.6 680 044.0 592 068.0 Water sales reduction for Other Сonsumers category, started from 200 000.0 2009, has been caused by saving of fuel and energy resources by the companies, application of resource-saving technologies, 100 000.0 elimination of breakdowns and leakages in in-house networks and modernization of equipment of industrial companies. 0.0 2010 2011 2012 Water supply Wastewater disposal 132 133 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Accounts receivable In 2012, due to the taken measures, payments from customers under customers, who were confronted with the lack of funds required to pay the “St. Petersburg Budget” category were collected in full. for the provided services. 113 such agreements were made in 2011. In 2012, 128 debt restructuring agreements were concluded with the Vodokanal has developed a mechanism of individual interaction with customers aimed to ensure timely collection of payments for potable water and wastewater services and settlement of any receivables. The algorithm of monthly reporting has been developed to analyze In 2012, the overdue accounts receivable were monitored more efficiently. The activities aimed to limit or stop From 2011, the management of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” the provision of services to certain customers were better coordinated. decided to hold regular meetings with the participation of Vodokanal actual results achieved by each expert. Branches (Customer Service Centre, Water Supply Branch and For example, in 2012, upon the request of the Customer Service services for 213 customers, terminated the provision of services to Wastewater Disposal Branch) to strengthen control over receivables. Monthly development and implementation of plans on identification of Centre, the production branches limited water supply/wastewater 92 customers and resumed provision of services to 137 customers. In the second half of 2012, meetings related to customer service isadditional sources for settling accounts receivable was proved to be sues were held with representatives of the Customer Service Centre, economically feasible. The plan of additional measures to generate inWater Supply and Wastewater Disposal Branches every ten days. come and reduce accounts receivable is monthly made and approved Totally, 607 such meetings were held in 2012. by First Deputy Director General and then is sent to the production branches. Limitation or termination of services To improve operations with the accounts receivable and assign experts of the Income Department of the Customer Service Centre with In 2012, cooperation with the Housing Committee and the Commit250 personal responsibility, individual payment collection plans split by tee for Energy and Engineering Support was organized regarding the customer categories (“Service providers”, “Budget of St.Petersburg”, measures aimed at collecting debt from customers attributed to the 210 213 “Federal Budget”, “Other”, “Organizations of the Leningrad Region”, “Service Provider” category. “Industry” and “Energy Suppliers”) are approved monthly. 200 Numerous meetings were held at the premises of SPb GUP VZKP “Housing Services” to optimize exchange of information with due regard to the changes in legislation. 150 137 In 2012, Vodokanal had close interaction with the city authorities responsible for the distribution of the funds from the St. Petersburg budget, including: 100 92 96 • regular meetings (at the level of district administrations money terms) and accounts receivable with the city authorities 69 of St.Petersburg, executive bodies of the St. Petersburg responsible for distribution of St. Petersburg budgetary funds. Government) aimed to determine reasons for the accounts receivable and debt collection dates. • full-scale quarterly reconciliation of payments with customers of 50 the relevant categories. • exchange of information and electronic data about the allocated funds, actual volumes of the provided services (in physical and • timely issuance and delivery of bills to relevant customers on a monthly basis 0 Limited Terminated Resumed 2011year 2012 year 134 135 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Thus, in 2012, the number of customers for whom water supply / Recovery of accounts receivable through legal proceedings is one of wastewater services were limited or terminated increased by 9%. It the instruments to liquidate the accounts receivable. In 2012, VodoTo increase the efficiency of payment collection and decrease the In 2012, Vodokanal continued to publish the information about its led to reduction of overdue accounts receivable with regard to the kanal received 671 enforcement orders at the total amount of RUB accounts receivable, Vodokanal assigned experts of Water Supply main debtors on its corporate website (section “Lists of Debtors”). customer categories “Industries” and “Other”. 793,004,680 on the basis of juridical acts. and Wastewater Disposal Branches with personal responsibility Such information is updated on a monthly basis. for the work with customers under the categories “Tenants” and “PriAs of 1 January 2013, Vodokanal’s accounts receivable amounted The customer category “Providers of Services to Households” has The total accounts receivable recovered under the enforcement vate Owners”. to RUB 4,472,067,700. the biggest share (56.4% as of 1 January 2013) in the overall strucorders amounted to RUB 543,560,060 including RUB 144,996,580 ture of accounts receivable. In 2012, this share increased by 1%. under the 2011 enforcement orders. Structure of accounts receivable in 2012, ‘000 RUB The share of different customer categories in the structure of accounts receivable, ‘000 RUB Customer group Accounts receivable Accounts receivable Difference in accounts Customer group As of 1.01.2012 As of 01.01.2013 Growth or reduction as of 01.01.12 as of 01.01.13 receivable of share Providers of services to households 2 211 115,0 2 521 232,6 310 117,6 Providers of services to households 55,4 % 56,4 % 1,0 % GUP TEK (heat supplier) 159 093,1 168 875,6 9 782,5 GUP TEK (heat supplier) 4,0 % 3,8 % -0,2 % TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 268 003,7 238 311,2 -29 692,5 TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 6,7 % 5,3 % -1,4 % St. Petersburg budget 37 772,2 36 655,1 -1 117,1 St. Petersburg budget 0,9 % 0,8 % -0,1 % Federal budget 297 742,4 388 591,3 90 848,9 Federal budget 7,5 % 8,7 % 1,2 % Organizations in Leningrad Region 309 488,9 448 061,8 138 573,0 Organizations in Leningrad Region 7,8 % 10,0 % 2,3 % Other 241 677,7 269 222,8 27 545,2 Other 6,1 % 6,0 % 0,0 % Industries 464 944,3 401 117,3 -63 827,1 Industries 11,7 % 9,0 % -2,7 % TOTAL 3 989 837,2 4 472 067,7 482 230,5 Total 100,0 % 100,0 % 0,0 % 136 137 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Connection to water distribution and sewerage networks Vodokanal issues authorizations for connection of new (reconstructed) facilities to municipal distribution and sewerage networks. This includes the issuance of: • connection contracts, Customers’ applications for authorizations are received by the CusThe scheme of issuing authorizations for connection of facilitomer Service Centre at the address: Letter A, 21 Gakkelevskaya ties to municipal water and sewerage networks • specifications, • project validation, Street, from 9:00 till 18:00 (without lunch-break). The principle of “one window” is used. • connection conditions, • certificates of conformity of built facilities to connection conditions. Other visiting addresses for the customers are: Receiving specifications • Room 103, 7 Filtrovskoye shosse, Pushkin, The data on the issued authorizations for 2012 are shown in the table: Receiving connection conditions and • Room 218, 15 Saperny pereulok, Kolpino, concluding the Connection Agreement Annual report on the issued authorizations for connecting facilities to municipal distribution and sewerage systems • Room 12, 1 Pereulok Suvorovtsev, Petrodvorets Number of developed documents Increase in the Type of work number Applications for specifications can be submitted via the Internet. Approval of project documents of documents Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in 2012 com(project validation) Time periods for issuing authorizations by Vodokanal: pared to 2011 Issuance of authorizations (includ6281 7250 6987 8623 11 354* 12 394** 8% • Specifications – 2 working days (by law – 14 working days), ing specifications, connection Receiving the certificate of conformity of conditions, initial data, etc.) • Connection conditions – 5 working days (by law – 30 working days), the built facility to connection conditions Consideration of design 3045 3169 2950 3456 3794 4120 8% • Connection agreement – 5 working days (by law – 30 working days). documents • Project approval – 10 working days (the term of the project review The number of connection 123 311 314 476 34% is not regulated by law), agreements prepared • Certificate of conformity of built facilities to connection conditions The number of agreements 24 181 260 374 30% – 5 working days (the term of issuing the certificate is not reguconcluded lated by law). The number of letters confirming 489 466 489 5% conformity to connection conditions * Including specifications — 3,261; connection conditions — 1,663;, initial data — 219 **Including specifications —2,761; connection conditions — 1,532; initial data -— 298 138 139 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Call Centre SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has its Hot Line to receive calls from the customers (phone: +7 (812) 305-09-09, see also “Interaction with customers” for more details). In 2004-2012, the implementation and use of the calls recording 200 calls per hour are received). At present, the average time of The number of inquiries related to Vodokanal activities has inThe number of complaints received by the Hot Line reduced from and handling system, as well as other improvements of this prowaiting for the operator’s reply is 2-20 seconds. creased over these years. It can be explained by the increase of 30,146 to 27,826 in 2004-2012. cess, led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 minutes with the In 2004-2012, the number of calls (general inquiries or consultanew customers and the growing interest of the citizens in the commaximum waiting time of 2 minutes (in peak periods, when up to tions) increased from 55,659 to 108,700. pany operations. The most serious complaints are those related to low cold water head and blockages in the yard sewers. In 2004, 2,673 complaints about low water head were received, and in 2012 there were only 38 legitimate complaints, i.e. the number of complaints has reduced by more than 70 times over 8 years. Information requests Complaints about low water head 116 869 3000 120 000 111 273 2673 108 700 2500 100 000 93 084 83 983 84 355 80 000 2000 73 395 60 000 55 659 55 047 1500 40 000 1000 839 730 20 000 500 378 218 127 113 156 38 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 140 141 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Customers’ satisfaction survey SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” annually performs opinion surveys among its customers and end-users (residents of apartment blocks). In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” held a traditional ransocial projects of Vodokanal. By analyzing the results of such The overwhelming majority (89%) of residents were satisfied with More than a half of city residents (53%) are satisfied with cold water dom polling of customers representatives of budgetary organizasurveys Vodokanal can identify problems, as the citizens see them, cold water odour (in 2011 82%). Likewise, satisfaction with tap tariffs, and approximately 20% were at a loss to evaluate the tariff. tions, providers of services to the population, tenants and industrial and improve its performance in relevant areas. water color and taste increased to 87% and 86%, respectively (comHowever, 86% of respondents could not say what tariff they paid for enterprises. The polling-2012 was organized taking into account all pared to 79% and 77% in 2011). cold water supply and wastewater disposal services. recommendations previously expressed by customers. In particular, The sociological survey procedure is improved every year. Before the number of questions in the questionnaire was reduced. 2008, opinion polls were made by phone only. In 2009, Vodokanal The city residents highly appreciate the quality of Vodokanal’s According to the survey results, 60% of households in St. Petersused two methods: telephone polling and outdoor polling. According Hotline Service – 98% of those who have ever called the Hotline are burg have water meters installed in their flats. The majority of those 256 respondents participated in the poll. The analysis of questionto the results of the surveys and on the grounds of the opinion given satisfied with its performance (for reference, 93% in 2011). who have the meters (84%) think that they are worthwhile. naires revealed that 83% of customers were satisfied, in general, by marketing companies, it was decided that outdoor polling was with the quality of the water and wastewater services (in 2011 it more effective. was 79%). But 16% of customers made critical remarks about the reliability of water supply services (and about the head loss too), Since 2010, Vodokanal has conducted opinion surveys in the form 19% of respondents were dissatisfied with the time period needed of outdoor polling. Questionnaires are developed on the basis of a to conclude contracts for potable water supply and for wastewater/ Likert-type scale (rating scale). Mathematical-statistical methods pollutants collection. 28% of customers were dissatisfied with the are used to analyze the collected data (e.g. scalogram analysis). location of customer service offices. In 2012, the sample size was increased from 500 to 1000 persons. In 2012, Vodokanal also made an opinion survey among the citizens Respondents are grouped by age, gender, social status, district of regarding the services provided by Vodokanal, i.e. end-user satresidence, etc. to ensure representative sampling. isfaction survey. The data were collected by street interviewing of 1000 persons of all age groups and different social status, living in The survey-2012 results showed that the overwhelming majority of different city districts. residents (80.5%) were satisfied with cold water quality. It corresponds to the 2011 result. Vodokanal makes annual opinion surveys among the citizens of St. Petersburg. The objective of such surveys is to find out to what 95% of residents were satisfied with the reliability of water supply extent the end-users are satisfied with the quality of services and (77% in 2011), and 86% with the tap water head (81% in 2011). 142 143 City fountains 144 145 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements In 2012, State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” operated 60 fountains and 4 fountain complexes. The history of St. Petersburg fountains goes back to 1705; the founthe city. Most of them were in a state of failure because no mainteIn 1996-2012 Vodokanal St. Petersburg renovated 31 fountains. way Station (put into operation in 2005) and the fountain complex tains have lived through several periods of prosperity and decline. nance or repairs have been made from long ago. In addition to the renovation of the existing fountains Vodokanal at the Moscow Square (put into operation in 2006). And by the time the decision was taken to pass the city fountains into has also constructed new fountains in the most prominent places. the economic management of State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been operating fountains and founAll city fountains are located in the places which are the most popof St. Petersburg”, fewer than 20 of 350 fountains were functioning in tain complexes since 1996. By 2008, Vodokanal had constructed 15 fountains and fountain ular among citizens and guests of the city. All fountains are unique: complexes using its own and budgetary funds, including the colorthey differ by the year of construction, size, architecture, and are music fountain complex in the square in front of Finlyandsky Railmade of different materials. Fountain complexes are technologyintensive facilities that require extensive maintenance. 70 The biggest and most advanced stationary fountain complex decorates the Moscow Square. It was set into op4 60 eration in 2006. 4 The total area of the fountain complex at the Moscow Square is The bowl itself is made of in-situ reinforced concrete. There is a 18,000 m2; the total volume of bowls is 3,700 m3. The ensemble bronze monument in the center, a lion who tries to reach the sour 50 consists of 11 bowls. The pumps of the fountain complex pump orange tree. Initially, this tree decorated the Oranienbaum city coat about 580,000 m3 of water per day. The fountain bowls are installed of arms (the German word “Oranienbaum” means “a sour orange 4 4 1-3 meters below the level of Moskovsky pr. tree”). Today, it is used as the coat of arms of Lomonosov. The 40 monument is 5.8 m high. In 2009, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peters60 The fountain complex at the Lenin Square consists of 20 separate burg” developed the Rules for complex fountain maintenance, which 4 3 granite units with light and music. The total water volume of all determines maintenance methods and costs for each fountain. 55 1 bowls is over 2,000 m3. 30 Among the fountains operated by SUE “Vodokanal of St. PetersOne of the most remarkable fountains is the fountain in the town of burg” are the fountain in the garden near the Kazan Cathedral, the 42 Lomonosov. The outer and inner sides of the large fountain bowl fountain in Aleksandrovsky Garden, the fountain in Yuzhno-Primor41 20 (its diameter is 14.2 meters) are lined up with red granite plates. sky Park, the fountain in the garden near Gostiny Dvor (Kronstadt) 35 33 and others. 31 27 20 10 17 In 2012, five new fountains were taken into economic management by Vodokanal St. Petersburg. The “Bowl” fountain in Zelenogorsk, Primorskoye shosse 549, was morsky Park (27 Petergofskoye shosse, lit. K); began construction put into operation after the capital repairs. and installation works of the fountain in 3, Pisareva Street, building 0 1, lit. F; initiated the design of fountains in “St. Petersburg 300th 1996 1999 2002 2005 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Moreover, in 2012 Vodokanal completed the design and began Anniversary” Park (74 Primorsky pr., lit. N and M) and “Slava” construction and installation works of the fountain in Yuzhno-Prifountain in Moskovsky Park Pobedy (Victory park) (188, Mostotal number of fountain complexes total number of fountains kovsky pr., building 1, lit. F). 146 147 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The fountains operated by Vodokanal St. Petersburg are equipped • Reconstruction project design for four fountains in Smolny garden; Public toilets with more than 8,000 lamps, 4,700 nozzles, 880 pumps, 915 electromagnetic valves and almost 340km of cabling. During the winter • Reconstruction project design for the fountain in 3, Admiralteysky In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” operated 646 public toilets. period the performance of all fountain equipment is tested; the pr., bld. 1, lit. F; relevant parts and units are repaired or replaced. There are 794 public toilets in the economic management of VodoThe following were in operation: • Reconstruction project design for the fountain on 160, Fontanka kanal St. Petersburg, including: In 2013, it is planned to complete the capital repairs of the fountain emb., bld. 1, liter F. in Yuzhno-Primorsky Park and reconstruction of the fountain on • 143 stationary toilets Pisareva Street, bld. • 217 stationary toilets Moreover, since 2012 Vodokanal has closely cooperated with the • 66 modular toilets public institution “State Research and Design Center of St. PetersBesides, the following works are planned in 2013: • 140 networkable modular toilets burg Master Plan” subordinate to the Committee for City Planning and Architecture, with the aim of developing the concept of “City • 34 modular toilets with storage containers fountains design. Light and hydrodynamic effects”. • 34 modular toilets with storage containers to be installed in the • Design, construction and installation works for capital repairs of the gardens and parks • 348 mobile cabins fountain in Zelenogorsk, 559/1, Primorskoye shosse, bld. 1, lit. А; • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes installed on vehicle • 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes (installed in buses, • Design, construction and installation works for capital repairs of chassis semitrailers and Valday vehicles) the fountains in the western and eastern lanes of the “St.Petersburg 300th Anniversary” Park; • 348 mobile cabins • 35 urinal-type toilets • Design, construction and installation works for capital repairs of • 35 urinal-type toilets the fountain-lighthouse on 74, Primorsky pr., lit. L; • Design, construction and installation works for reconstruction of the fountain “Slava” in Moskovsky Park Pobedy; Number of inhabitants per one toilet (for Vodokanal-operated toilets only) • Design, construction and installation works for reconstruction of the fountains in Rumyantsevsky garden; 35 000 31 724 • Design, construction and installation works for reconstruction of 30 000 27 104 the “Aphrodite” fountain on 64-66, Ligovsky pr., bld. 1, lit. F; 25 000 • Reconstruction project design for the fountain in Kolpino, 34/2, 20 000 Pavlovskaya Street, lit. А; 15 000 9272 • Reconstruction project design for the fountains in 1, Komsomola 10 000 7194 7006 6981 6591 6574 Street, lit. G, bld. 1, 2; 5000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 148 149 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The total number of outdoor public toilets in St. Petersburg in SUE “Vodokanal St. Petersburg” was the first to purchase mobile In addition, it is planned to purchase 110 mobile toilet cabins and As a result, Vodokanal will operate 840 public toilets in 2015 including: 1950-70s reached 700. They were managed and operated by GUP sanitary and hygienic toilet complexes installed on the vehicle 14 mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet complexes and to connect 20 “Tsentr-Servis”, the municipal authority “Spetssluzhba”, landscapchassis. With such toilets, visitors can get services of better quality modular toilets to utility networks in the next three years. • 203 stationary toilets; ing companies, housing offices. compared to mobile toilet cabins. Currently, Vodokanal intends to purchase improved models of such toilets. • 140 modular toilets without storage containers; In early 1990s, the number of public toilets was reducing. As a All in all, by 2015 Vodokanal is planning to: result of privatization many buildings and facilities were bought out The vehicle-based complexes and modular toilets are useful in cen• 34 modular toilets with storage containers; or leased. tral districts where they help satisfy the demand for such services. • reconstruct 30 stationary public toilets; • 34 mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet complexes installed on According to the inventory made by territorial district authorities The subcontractor’s trained personnel works in every public toilet • perform capital repairs of 12 public toilets; vehicle chassis; of St. Petersburg, at that time there were about 300 toilets on the managed by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, and Vodokanal city balance sheet, a part of which had already been let out on a specialists supervise their work on a regular basis. The toilets have • purchase 14 mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet complexes installed • 443 mobile toilet cabins. long-term lease, and the others were either devastated or falling security systems to ensure the personnel security. Over 500 people on vehicle chassis; into decay. Vodokanal St. Petersburg was assigned with the task to are involved in operation and maintenance of toilets. As the result, the availability of Vodokanal’s public toilets will reach solve this problem. Toilets are open from 9:00 till 21:00. On public holidays toilets are • purchase 110 mobile toilet cabins. the level of 6554 persons per one toilet. open according to a special schedule. Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been operating public toilets since Moreover, Vodokanal can extend the open hours if necessary, Due to advanced construction methods and the use of new environ2001. In December 2001, the Order of the Administration of St. Peespecially, during public events. ment-resistant materials the rehabilitated toilets will be in a servicetersburg no.1492-ra “On the development of St. Petersburg public able condition for a long time. toilet network” was issued. Vodokanal St. Petersburg assumed During the city festivals – the New Year, Christmas, Victory Day, Day responsibility for the maintenance of public toilets owned by the city of the City, and “Scarlet Sails” – Vodokanal set up mobile toilets. For the convenience of the city residents and visitors, Vodokanal of St. Petersburg, and took the client’s in relation to repairs, renovaclosely cooperates with the Committee for Press and Mass Media tion and development of toilets. In total, mobile toilets were provided for more than 730 events in Relations aiming to have the information on toilets location posted 2012 on requests of different organizations. on the city’s information facilities. The information will be updated Pursuant to the Sanitary Rules of Installation and Maintenance of annually as new toilets are put into operation. Public Toilets no.983-72 dated 19.06.1972 approved by the Deputy In May 2012, the Government Decree no.502 “On targeted proChief Sanitary Inspector of the USSR, when new shopping centers are gram for capital repairs of public toilets owned by St.Petersburg for built Vodokanal St. Petersburg issues technical specifications for the 2013-2015” was approved. It is expected to rehabilitate 12 stationmandatory construction of public toilets there. Today, almost every big ary toilets under this program. shopping center has free public toilets for all categories of visitors. In 2013, two toilets will be rehabilitated, construction and installaSince 2006, a lot of work has been done to install new-generation tion works will begin on 4 toilets and 3 new toilets will be designed modular toilets next to underground stations and in the places under the program. In March 2013, the Government Decree no.154 approved by district administrations. The toilets are equipped with “On St.Petersburg public toilets network development program” modern sanitary and hygienic facilities. They are more comfortable was approved. In accordance with this program 30 toilets will be and look nicer. According to the public toilets development proreconstructed (9 of them in 2013). gramme the target is to have 140 such toilets by 2015. 150 151 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Permanent snow-melting stations Construction and operation of permanent snow-melting stations is a new activity of SUE “Vodokanal of Vodokanal is the operator of snow-melting stations and, under the The snow-melting stations work round-the-clock throughout the St.Petersburg”. It is performed by the company in accordance with the St. Petersburg Government Decree no.1334 contract with the Landscaping Committee, provides snow collection operating period. Each station is served by 16 operators (4 shifts, dated 16 October 2007. and disposal services. 4 operators each) who measure and keep records of the incoming snow masses, make visual inspections of the snow composition, The above work is performed in accordance with “Provisional arrange access to separator-crushers for trucks, and control the During the winter 2011-2012, approximately 200,000 m3 of snow Before October 2012, St. Petersburg had only one permanent Rules of interaction with SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” for the operation of separator-crushers (collection of big-sized industrial was removed from St. Petersburg roads and streets daily. The snow-melting station at 43, Rizhsky prospect. It was quite an outpurpose of snow collection and processing at Vodokanal’s snowand domestic garbage, etc.). Moreover, each snow-melting station snow storage capacity of St. Petersburg was depleted and, for dated facility by the time when it was transferred to Vodokanal for melting stations with subsequent wastewater treatment”. has a front-end loader to handle the dumped snow and big-sized environmental reasons, the city had to make a transition from economic management. garbage. snow disposal to special dumps to the snow melting practice. The technology of mixing snow with warm municipal sewage is energyUnder the St. Petersburg Government Order no. 713 dated The operation of snow-melting stations is divided into the following From 31.10.2012 to 31.12.2012 six snow-melting stations have colefficient and environment-friendly. 12.07.2012 “On the action plan for design, implementation and periods: lected and processed 396,294.3 м3 of snow, more specifically: modernization of permanent snow-melting stations in St. PetersThe snow-melting stations work on the principle that the sewage burg in 2012-2013”, Vodokanal approved its program of design, • operating period; 1. 45, Rizhsky pr. – 64,993.5 m3; heat (the average temperature is 16–18°C) melts the snow loaded implementation and modernization of permanent snow-melting into the melting chamber; it takes about 3 minutes to process 10 stations. • interseasonal maintenance period. 2. 2, Oktyabrskaya emb. – 103,211.0 m3; tons of snow. 3. 20, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino – 65,200.0 m3; The permanent snow-melting station consists of an underground In 2012, seven snow-melting stations were constructed at the folDuring the inter-seasonal maintenance period: snow-melting chamber with separator-crushers (snow is unloaded lowing addresses in compliance with this Order: 4. 77, Petergofskoye shosse – 86,163.3 m3; from the truck into the chamber and melted there), a grit removal • the stations are made ready for the operating period (the last 15 unit (for sedimentation of suspended solids and litter), a sewage 1. Oktyabrskyay emb., bld. 2 – 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. days of the interseasonal maintenance period); 5. 83, Stachek pr. – 40,136.0 m3 ; pumping station, a crusher control panel and a checkpoint. 2. 77, Petergofskoye shosse – 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. • the stations are prepared for interseasonal maintenance (the first 6. 69, Krasnoputilovskaya str. – 36,600.5 m3 . Wastewater can be pumped into the snow-melting chamber by the 15 days of the interseasonal maintenance period). existing or newly-constructed sewage pumping stations depending 3. 20, Sevastyanova str., Kolpino – 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. The snow-melting stations proved to be serviceable, energyon the location of the station. efficient and environment-friendly; they can work round-the clock 4. 45, Rizhsky prospect – 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. receiving snow from the city roads and streets during snowfalls, and from temporary snow dumps in dry weather. The permanent snow-melting stations have big advantages over 5. 83, Stachek pr. – 3,500 cubic meters of snow per day. the snow dumps: 6. 69, Krasnoputilovskaya str. – 3,500 cubic meters of snow per day. • all contaminated wastewater from the snow-melting stations comes to WWTPs where it is fully treated in compliance with the 7. 123, Volkhonskoye shosse – 7,000 cubic meters of snow per day. HELCOM recommendations; In July 2012, construction and installation works at 2, Rybinskaya • they require a much smaller land area than snow dumps. str. began. 152 153 Innovations 154 155 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Implementation of new water and wastewater technologies 2. 3. Modernization of chemical water treatment process at water Installation of new-type fire hydrants treatment plants to reduce corrosive activity of water. One of the main challenges of underground fire hydrants opSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” implements up-to-date technologies on a large scale to ensure provision of In 2009-2010, a corrosion-preventing water treatment eration is their use in winter periods due to specific hydrologigood-quality water and wastewater services to its customers and to minimize the environmental impact. process (dosing of calcium chloride and soda ash into the treated cal conditions in St. Petersburg. Seasonal fluctuations of groundwawater) was implemented at Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk water ter level, the flooding of fire hydrant manholes in thaw periods and treatment plants. subsequent freezing made it difficult to ensure a 100% operational availability of fire hydrants resulting in significant operating costs. Water supply In 2012, corrosion of steel pipelines was investigated, and recom1. Selection of slit-type water intake pipe heads for water treatBy using the slit-type heads it is possible to: mendations on how to improve the corrosion-preventing water New Russian fire hydrants are highly reliable as they have no rotatment plants of SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” treatment process at St. Petersburg waterworks were issued. The ing elements or threaded joints in the valves. Such design prevents In 2006-2007, potential implementation of slit-type water • avoid the clogging of slits and facilitate the regeneration prochemical water treatment process at Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk groundwater infiltration into the hydrant body and eliminates the risk intake pipe heads was considered by scientific-technical councils cess, because mechanical particles contact with the head in WTPs was modernized on the basis of research and recommendaof freezing. (STC). This activity was recommenced in 2011. only two points, tions aiming at water corrosive activity reduction. SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” together with designers and • extend the equipment lifecycle, By implementing stage-by-stage water treatment with calcium The fire hydrant design has following features: builders performed search of possible pipe heads alternatives. Difchloride and soda ash at the water treatment plants, reduction of ferent designs were scrutinized and the slit-type water intake pipe • extend the filtration time between backwashing cycles, chemicals consumption could be achieved due to controlled dosing • device for removal of residual water from the fire hydrant shaft; heads were considered to be the most technically and economically of anticorrosion chemical. feasible option. Slit-type pipe heads are widely used in the world. • reduce the (time, liquid) costs of filter elements regeneration. • water flow can be controlled with the valve after the hydrant The following results were obtained in the course of system modstand pipe is installed; ernization in 2012: Advantages of slit-type heads are the following: In 2011, the STC meeting recommended to implement slit-type • the hydrant body is made of corrosion-resistant steel; heads at SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” water treatment plants • continuous production of water of required quality, in terms of • minimal hydraulic resistance, as one of the options, and select places of installation taking into aciron concentrations; • direct installation; count the conditions of the navigable, slush ice carrying Neva River. • significant reduction of filter surface clogging (the triangular pro• chemicals saving due to the control of anticorrosion chemical • no risk of groundwater or surface water infiltration into the hydrant; file contacts with particles in 2 points only), In 2012, slit-type water intake pipe heads were used for the Main dosing. WTP’s 1st lift pumping station reconstruction project. By the end • no rotating parts; • wound-wire screen creates ideal conditions for backwashing, of 2012 slit-type heads have been mounted in the Neva River, the water source of the city. • height can only be changed by adjusting the body length; • uniform distribution of the filtered medium flow in the contact area, Slit heads’ screens that were used at the Main Water Treatment • light weight. • no stagnation zones in the distribution units. Plant are made of high-precision triangular profile and traversal supporting structures with different cross-sections, which are It is planned to replace all fire hydrants in St. Petersburg by 2018. welded in each junction. As a result, the triangular profile forms a smooth stiff screen with strictly sized longitudinal slits with allowance up to ± 15 μm. 156 157 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements 4. 6. Experimental research and feasibility study of the surface Follow-up of innovative ideas implementation for creating an decrease manifold and, hence, the breakdown rate is lower Advanced control valves which operate off-line according to prewater treatment technology. effective water supply management system. because the water hammer is prevented. Automatic self-start set parameters can control pressure in separate sub-zones and In 2012, the evaluation of new surface water treatment The main activities aimed at implementation of the integrated of pumps after power failure and automatic startup of standby minimize excessive pressure, thus reducing water losses. process solutions was completed. The solutions were tested on a water supply management system in St. Petersburg are as follows: pumps minimize interruptions of water supply and reduce the mobile pilot plant constructed at Southern water treatment plant. number of operators. Maximum-efficiency operation of pumps Air valves help avoid air accumulation in water pipelines, thereby 1. Further improvement of hydraulic models for water supply zones results in lower energy costs and extended life of pumps. increasing the network reliability and performance and ensuring The technology developed is a combination of new natural surface allowing determination of optimization strategy for water network high accuracy of flow measurements. water treatment steps performed by means of new tools and new (elimination of excessive pressure, improvement of velocity, 3. Installation of up-to-date valves that improve the water supply structural solutions, and using new materials. building an advanced system of hydraulic mode control). reliability, ensure failure-free operation of networks, prevent 4. Installation of pulse-output metering systems to calculate water hydraulic hammers and avoid air locks. balances and monitor water consumption and leaks online. The full-scale implementation of the plant (as a container-type Mathematical (or hydraulic) models allow to make multivariate package plant) will begin in 2013. hydraulic calculations, particularly to identify the sections with With the automatic meter reading there is no need for inspecminimal velocity and overloaded sections and select the best tors’ visits, and the readings can be taken and invoices issued activities to eliminate these defects; to calculate various sceexactly on required dates, therefore, the collection of payments 5. Full-scale tests and selection of new chemicals. narios of water consumption, strategies to repair, modernize and is improved and the “human factor” minimized. Automatic comIn 2012, the development of technology for anionic bioconstruct water pipelines. An important point is the hierarchical parison of meter readings taken at pumping stations, on the netdegraded flocculants production on the basis of natural approach to the network sections: the most important sections, works and on the consumer side allows to diagnose and locate polymers to be used by Vodokanal WTPs was completed. water conduits, street distribution networks etc. are singled out. leaks, to identify unauthorized connections and faulty meters. Emergency teams get preliminary information about the locations The results can be considered as positive. The technical and eco2. Modernization of pumping stations to reduce energy consumption of leaks and losses before water flows out on the surface and nomic parameters of the new product equal those of the flocculant by 30-40 % by improving the efficiency and implementing autopeople start to make calls. that is used now. mated pressure control using “check points” in the networks. 5. Installation of “reference points” for online water quality control Further research in this area is planned aiming at improvement of As a result of the pumping equipment modernization, variablein the network and on the customer side. the technical parameters, and full-scale tests will be made in differspeed drives will be used for all pumping units to enable soft ent seasons. starts and stops of motors reducing the load on the power grid. Online water quality control in the network allows to adjust the Operating regimes of pumps are selected automatically based water supply modes in a timely manner and guarantee compliImplementation of anionic bio-degradable flocculants will mitigate on the readings of flow meters, pressure recorders in “check ance of water quality with regulatory requirements. the negative impact on the environment while the flocculant efficienpoints” and other criteria (for example, water level in clean water . cy will be the same and the water treatment quality will be good. reservoirs). As a result, the optimal values of water pressure and water flow are maintained at the outlets. Reduction of excessive pressure in the water pipeline reduces breakdown rates and distribution losses and increases its lifetime. Due to the soft start and stop of pumping units the network loads in transient modes 158 159 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Wastewater disposal That was the third phase of cooperation with PAC Solution Oy. Pre5. In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” continued consistent Moreover, tests of ferrous sulfate (II) used for chemical phosphorus Sewage sludge incineration. actions aimed at implementation of new wastewater treatment techprecipitation were launched in 2012. Laboratory tests were made viously, PACS pilot tests were made at Sestroretsk and Kronstadt Vodokanal WWTPs produce 6,000 cubic meters of raw nologies to reduce the negative impact on the environment, and at all wastewater treatment plants aiming at further optimization of WWTPs. sludge daily. To solve the sludge problem, Vodokanal is sucimprovement of municipal sewerage performance in St. Petersburg. wastewater treatment processes and reduction of operating costs. cessfully applying the incineration technology to dewatered sludge. The tests will continue in 2013. The bactericidal plant “LAZUR-M-250” designed by ZAO “Svarog” Sludge is burnt at three sludge incineration plants (SIPs) located at was tested at the South-West WWTP. 1. Wastewater treatment plants technological process imthree bigger WWTPs: Central, Northern and South-West WWTPs. provement 2. The reconstruction of Central WWTP, Kolpino, Pushkin, KroTesting of chemicals used for sludge treatment The plant is designed for water disinfection with UV light and ultraA biomonitoring system is largely used by Vodokanal for flue gases nstadt and Pontonny WWTPs is ongoing. The most advanced techLaboratory and performance tests of Superfloc flocculant sound. Its special feature is simultaneous use of powerful bacteriquality control. Biosensor information systems are implemented at nological solutions and equipment, such as biological enhanced were made at SWWTP and Petrodvorets WWTP. cidal UV lamps and the ultrasonic transmitters enhancing the plant the South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant to check air toxicity. nutrients removal system, online effluent quality control, tertiary performance. Such systems use living organisms, in this case snails, as inditreatment and disinfection system, are implemented at wastewater The aim of this work is to compare Superfloc with the FLOРAM cators. A characteristic feature of the system is the possibility to treatment plants. flocculant now used for sludge dewatering. Comparative tests of Research in this area will proceed in 2013 for the purpose of selectassess the cumulative negative impact (synergetic effect) of every the flocculants were made on the basis of the existing technical ing effective and economically feasible wastewater disinfection pollutant in the immediate environment (in the air on the border of Among these actions, the laboratory and field testing was percapabilities and production conditions, trying to create identical methods the site’s buffer zone) on the indicator organism. formed and aluminum sulfate was implemented at all wastewater experimental conditions to the maximum extent possible. Samples 6. treatment plants for chemical precipitation of phosphorus one of of raw sludge, cake and reject water were tested to assess the flocRecycling of landfilled sludge. 4. the main nutrients contributing to eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. culant performance. Studies of chemicals for lipolysis and prevention of incrustaSince 2010, Vodokanal has been using the landfilled sludge Each wastewater treatment plant requires an individual approach to tion in sewers. recycling technology Geotube to the best advantage. Due to select effective doses and optimal dosing points. Performance tests The test results show that Superfloc flocculants are effective and Laboratory tests of “Economic” and “GreaseTrap”, the this technology, the recycled sludge has no negative impact on the and pre-commissioning works were performed at all wastewater can be an alternative to FLOРAM that is used now. concentrates used to remove grease in sewer networks, were made environment and can be used for different applications. treatment plants. in the chemical bacteriological laboratory of the Northern WWTP in 7. collaboration with LLC “Premium Clean”. Selection of advanced odour removal technologies. UnpleasThe coagulant (ferrous sulfate (III), or Ferix, was used for chemical phosphorus precipitation before mid-2012) was changed to improve wastewater treatment efficiency and reduce operating costs. The 3. Search for technologies and chemicals for wastewater disinfection. In 2012, full-scale tests of PACS chemical used for treated effluent disinfection were made at Petrodvorets The purpose of the laboratory tests was to evaluate the efficiency and reaction time of the grease removing agents at different conant odours appear at different points of wastewater disposal system: sewer networks, sewage pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants, and sludge landfills. results obtained at all wastewater treatment plants showed that, WWTP in cooperation with PAC Solution Oy (Finland), PACS being centrations. compared to Ferix, a lower dose of aluminum sulfate gave a better an alternative to UV disinfection. Currently, sorption-plasma-catalytic air treatment systems at wastephosphate removal efficiency, and, moreover, it has no negative The comparative lipolysis tests gave satisfactory results. water pumping stations and the filter cartridge in a rainwater drainimpact on the activity of activated sludge and sludge dewatering The purpose of the experiment was to select the chemical dose as The tested concentrates can be recommended for application in age well are in operation. In 2012, the search for sludge landfill ability. These efforts helped reach compliance with the HELCOM required to meet the MAC values for coliphages, total coliforms and different companies’ internal sewer systems to remove grease from odour removing technologies continued. recommendations regarding lower concentrations of nutrients in the thermotolerant coliforms; and to find the dosing regimes that ensure wastewater before draining to the municipal sewerage. treated effluent. allowable concentrations of residual acetic acid and hydrogen peroxide in the disinfected effluent. 160 161 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements In 2012, a pilot odour removal project at Severniy landfill was impleDevelopment of the Road Map to mitigate the negative imDevelopment of hydraulic simulation mented successfully. Under the project, the water solution of Air Solution concentrate was atomized along the landfill perimeter to 9. pact on the Baltic Sea, Lake Ladoga and Lake Onega. Following the initiative of SUE “Vodokanal of St. PetersAn integral part of the whole water supply system modernization is the improvement of water distribution remove the odour. The system consists of a pumping station with a burg”, the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) in cooperation with SUE system. Hydraulic simulation is an important part of this work. control unit and a 300 meter long pipeline with nozzles. “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” are developing the Road Map aimed at the reduction of negative impact on the Baltic Sea, Lake Ladoga Works on hydraulic simulation are carried out in order to resolve the The applied mathematical model of water supply network is a The programmable control unit sets operation regimes according to and Lake Onega. following tasks: modern and efficient tool to plan and develop the water network the indications of wind, rain and other sensors. Odour removal soluas well as to perform strategic control over the hydraulic modes. tions of Air Solution are a special chemical composition a mixture The action is implemented in the framework of preparations to the 1. Forecasting of changes in pressure, directions of water flow in Operational and design hydraulic calculations are performed. Calof essential oils and organic compounds extracted from plants. They St. Petersburg Baltic Sea Summit 2013. case of the scheduled service disconnection, changes of presculations can be made by pressure zones, water supply districts or eliminate rather than mask odours, and are nontoxic, bio-degradable sure valves positions, changes of operational mode of pumping other territory units. and environment-friendly. The plan is to implement the technology The studies of water quality in the Neva River and its tributaries stations and etc. (performance of hydraulic calculations of water along the perimeters of Severniy and Volkhonka-2 landfills. (the Utka, Okkervil, Izhora, Murzinka, Lubya, and Okhta rivers) supply networks operation). In order to improve the existing water distribution facilities, the were made to identify the sources of microbiological and chemical hydraulic calculations of the existing network at peak (maximum 8. Snow processing at permanent snowmelting stations. pollution. Each river was divided, from head to mouth, into several 2. Evaluation of the impact produced by the connection of new city and minimum) loads are performed by means of the mathematiThe construction and commissioning of permanent snowmonitoring sections. Depending on the river morphometric characterritories on hydraulic mode of the network operation, evaluation cal model. Problems in the water supply system are identified, the melting stations continued in 2012. teristics, a certain number of verticals and horizontals were selected of the feasibility of changing pipe diameters in course of the netsearch for solutions to improvement the situation and model calin each section as sampling points. work reconstruction, forecasting of changes in the water supply culations are carried according to the calculation results. Upon the The stations use wastewater heat (the average wastewater temareas borders (performance of design hydraulic calculations of completion of the scheduled works at the network experts compare perature in winter is 16–18°C) to melt snow. The resulting meltwaThe emphasis was upon the Neva River as the main city waterway. water supply network). the results of performed calculations with actually measured data ter is pumped via sewers to wastewater treatment plants for full During the investigation, 126 samples were taken and tested in the of the network operation. treatment. laboratory for microbiological parameters (total coliforms, thermo3. Development of the proposals on water supply pumping stations tolerant coliforms) and nutrient (phosphates, ammonium nitrogen) operational modes with due regard to the anticipated hydraulic In order to achieve compliance of the hydraulic simulation with the Snow-melting stations reduce the burden on water bodies because concentrations. conditions of the network. results of field measurements, hydraulic model of the St.Petersburg meltwater with pollutants and chemicals is no longer discharged water supply networks is calibrated and updated on a yearly basis. untreated, less city area is required for snow dumps, and uncontrolThe results obtained proved that the Neva water quality becomes 4. Operational simulation of emergency situations at water supply Hydraulic simulation is arranged in PDCA cycle, ensuring constant lable loading of sewer networks and collectors with melted snow is worse, in terms of microbiology, in the downstream direction due to facilities and possible case scenarios during remedial actions. improvement of both mathematical model and methods of calculation. prevented. the negative influence of settlements located along the banks of the Neva and its tributaries. Hydraulic simulation of the water supply network is performed by In 2012, 95 operational hydraulic calculations were performed upon specialized software SynerGEE Water. requests of the water supply districts. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and the Baltic Sea Action Group are discussing potential key areas of joint efforts aimed to Hydraulic calculations of the scheduled and emergency service reduce the negative impact on water bodies in St. Petersburg and disconnections and switching are performed for the water supply the Leningrad Region. network with diameter of 500 mm or more, since such disconnections may cause substantial changes in pressure and impair water quality on the consumer’s side (due to the changes of the water flow direction). 162 163 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements A large-scale project completed in 2012 is multiple-option calculaWater Treatment Plant, Main Water Treatment Plant, Moskovskaya tions and feasibility study on the conversion of Volkovskaya Water Pumping Station, Frunzenskaya Pumping Station, as well as new Treatment Plant into the booster pumping station. New borders of operational modes of water treatment plants and pumping stations pressure zones for Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant, Southern have been determined based on the made hydraulic calculations. Existing pressure zone of Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant Pressure zone of Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant upon its conversion into the 3d lift pumping station, including additional works Central District Central District Центральный район 7 77 Admiralteysky District Admiralteysky District 6 6 5 Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant 4а 5 Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant 2 Nevsky District 2 2а Nevsky District 4 4 1 Kirovsky District Kirovsky District 1 3 Frunzensky District 3 Frunzensky District Фрунзенский район Московский район Московский район Moskovsky District Moskovsky District Yellow colour – existing pressure zone of Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant Yellow colour pressure zone of Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant upon its conversion into the 3d lift pumping station Figures 1-7 – subzones of Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant to determine new boundaries of pressure zone Figures 1-7 – subzones of Volkovskaya, Main and Southern WTPs and pumping stations 164 165 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Development of the geoinformation system An important task of geoinformation system is an informational supToday, IS “Baltics” cartographic database contains over 140 cartoport of works carried out by the line and emergency crews, using graphic layers, and includes the following materials: mobile workstations. Assets of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” comprise 15,000 km water distribution system, over 800 land plots • present cadastral plan of the St. Petersburg Committee for Land and near 1,700 buildings and structures located at the main and auxiliary production facilities in the territory This enables: Resources and Land Management; of St. Petersburg. • prompt access to any permitted information in the working area; • data of St. Petersburg urban-planning information system from The use of advanced information technologies is of priority importechnical inventory of networks; accounting of scheduled and the Committee for Urban Development and Architecture; tance for the companies, which own a large number of property items. emergency operations at the engineering network. • map positioning and display of location of the engineering networks. For that purpose the double-frequency GLONASS/GPS re• information on investment projects received from GU “InvestGeoinformation system (officially – “Baltics” information system of The system is also used for including into the balance sheet the ceivers (with the accuracy in the differential mode of not less than ment Management”; St.Petersburg water supply and wastewater disposal) is a combiengineering networks from external organizations, the engineering 2 m and in RTK-imaging mode – not less than 0.20 m) are used. nation of software-technological and information-graphical means networks constructed at the expense of Vodokanal, engineering • the digital 1:10000 map of St. Petersburg dated 2005; allowing reception and processing of information regarding spacenetworks following their capital repair as well as for the recording IS “Baltics” is a distribution information system established by usdistributed facilities. the engineering network following their writing-off from the balance ing MapXtremе tools (MapInfoCorp.). It has an open-architecture • raster tablets (1:500, 1:2000); sheet of the company. core, which enables to develop the system and establish modules Geoinformation system is designed for providing actual, reliable for solving monitoring, design-modeling, simulation and other tasks. • orthophotomaps of the territory of St. Petersburg produced and comprehensive geoinformation about company facilities and Geoinformation system also ensures: based on materials of aerial survey conducted in April-May 2011 city infrastructure facilities to Vodokanal subdivisions, ensuring Application of the own technology for the development of the inforwith resolution of 18 centimeters; consolidation of all types of accounting, registration of rights to • development and maintaining the registers of the territorial zones mation system allowed to resolve problems of security restrictions property, information communication with state authorities, and (development and keeping the registers of the territorial divisions when working with cartographic data related to the location and • digital surface map of St. Petersburg, where all types of surface solving queries of engineering and operation services of Vodokanal of production branches, catchment areas of booster pumping characteristics of engineering networks at users workstations by (grass plot, bushes, asphalt, tile and etc.) are presented in the on information support for the production tasks resolving. stations and sewerage pumping stations); means of installing information security software. form of areal objects (1:2000); The structure of geoinformation system includes technical means, • keeping the registers of water wells and licenses for the right of • digital map of the territory of the Leningrad Region within a rasoftware, and cartographic database of Vodokanal and communicathe use of subsurface resources in relation to Vodokanal assets; dius of 30 km from St. Petersburg, as well as the town of Luga, tion channels. • keeping the register of the boosting and sewerage pumping stations of Vodokanal; • thematic information about engineering networks, land plots, IS “Baltics” is a unified storage for all types of information of the carbuildings and facilities of the company. tographic database. It ensures implementation of the following tasks: • development and keeping a unified database of hydrodynamic cleaning of sewerage networks; • Storage and use of information layers of the address system and the present cadastral plan of St.Petersburg. • keeping the register of the quality control points; • Input and update of information regarding Vodokanal’s property. • works on the integrated inspection of water supply networks; • Ensuring constant update of technical and spatial information • exchange of the information with the hydraulic calculations softabout Vodokanal engineering network (including entry, storware to develop an up-to-date model of engineering networks with age, control and editing of information on specifications of the further back uploading of the calculation results to IS “Baltics”; engineering network elements; information support of works on • determination of disconnection sections at the water supply network. 166 167 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects In 2012, IS “Baltics” was developed in the following three main directions: SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is one of the biggest energy consumers in St. Petersburg. In 2012, energy consumption of the company accounted for 732 mio. kW/h. 1. 3. Integration of Vodokanal information systems with IS “Baltics”. Development of a package of interrelated information-comMoreover, due to the implemented energy-saving projects Vodoenergy-efficient solutions, the use of alternative energy sources Information exchange between IS “Baltics” and IS of the puting tasks and models to ensure operation of the engikanal managed to reduce its energy consumption almost by 33% (heat and electric power produced by sludge incineration) as well Customer Service Centre allowed in 2012 to finish works neering networks. over the past twenty years. as activities implemented to establish St. Petersburg water supply on formation of a block of tasks targeted at information support Communication module with hydraulic calculation software (SynIt became possible because of the reduction of drinking water management system. of the inventory process of Vodokanal’s customers. For customer erGeeWater) was designed and put into operation in 2012. This volumes supplied to the city, replacement of the equipment with services, the interface was upgraded thus enabling to perform the module is used to form the up-to-date engineering network model, dimensional analysis of territories, form different search queries in transfer the model to the hydraulic calculation software with further the address and customer base and generate different cartograms back uploading of the calculation results to the “Baltics” IS. In 2012, Vodokanal completed comprehensive energy inspections to prepare energy passport of the company. for informational support of company’s specialists. The energy passport will be valid for 5 years. The clogging module was designed and successfully commissioned in 2012 to ensure a prompt and visual presentation of information In 2012, Vodokanal has implemented and certified the energy management system (EnMS) under ISO 50001: 2011 “Energy Management Systems. Requirements with Guidance for Use”. 2. Updating and build-up of the fundamental cartographic base. regarding clogging in sewerage networks and processing of statistic Since it is necessity to revise on an on-going basis availreports for the specified districts over a certain period. able cartographic materials, in 2012, the layers of a specialThe net of satellite navigation base stations was also upgraded in The company developed EnMS policies and procedures, includ“Monitoring, Measurement and Evaluation of Energy Efficiency”, purpose digital plan of the territory of St.Petersburg were updated. 2012 in order to increase efficiency of information support of the ing the corporate EnMS standard 8.1-2012 “Guidance to Energy improved the integrated procedures of the company in line with A special-purpose digital plan is needed to calculate volumes of line and emergency crews. Equipment was replaced at ten base Management System. General Provisions”, “Energy Assessment EnMS requirements. surface runoffs when concluding contracts with customers. The stations, including the installation of ZephyrGeodetic 2 and doubleProcedures”, “Planning of Energy Management Activities” and development and updating of the digital plan is an integral part of frequency GPS/GLONASS receivers (SBS–363). The company conducted EnMS training for its personnel and interwork on the determination of St.Petersburg surface runoff volumes nal auditors. and formation of water balance in order to identify all sources of sewage discharged into the municipal sewage system and assess SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Energy Policy has been develsewage volumes. oped by company experts and approved by the Director General. Today, it is posted on the company’s website. In 2012, a digital topographic map of the territory of the Leningrad Region in a radius of 30 km from the city borders and of the town of The company worked out objectives and tasks in energy manageLuga was added to the cartographic database in order to improve ment as well as the programme for energy-saving and increase of operations related to the provision of services to Vodokanal cusenergy efficiency. tomers outside of St.Petersburg. Full range of EnMS internal audits was performed. In November 2012, the energy management system of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” was certified for conformity with ISO 50001:2011 requirements by the international certification company SAI GLOBAL and the certification association the Russian Register. 168 169 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Patents In 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” received 22 intellectual property assets patents. Besides, 7 new applications for useful model patents were submitted, patent studies on 21 topics were carried out and 11 patented technical solutions were implemented. Cost benefit from the use of intellectual property in 2012 amounted pipelines on the bottom of rivers and water bodies; a water disinA pilot model of the treatment system for domestic wastewater from During the International Water Forum ECWATECH-2012 Vodokanto 131 mln. Rubles. fection device, and patents for useful models: the settlement tank oil-and-gas extraction platforms and terminals was constructed as a al represented at its exhibition booth the following products: for sewage treatment; the mobile laboratory and diagnostic unit; result of the third stage. Main principles of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” intellectual energy-saving system for operational control of energy consump• a model of the wastewater treatment plant for oil extraction property policy are to: tion at sewage pumping stations and others. The Commission of the Department for Ship-Building and Marine platforms; Technology of the Ministry for Industry and Trade of the Russian • provide timely legal protection of intellectual property results in Upon the receipt of intellectual activity results it is essential to furFederation approved the results of R&D project. SUE “Vodokanal of • a prototype model of the non-freezing stand pipe; compliance with the intellectual property law (including technical ther introduce and use the patented technical solutions. St. Petersburg” forwarded a letter to the Department for Ship-Buildsolutions as inventions and useful models, architectural-design ing and Marine Technology of the Ministry for Industry and Trade • a model of tunnel sewers diagnostic system. solutions as industrial models); Over 2012, 11 technical solutions were implemented, including the of the Russian Federation on the transfer of the pilot model and the following inventions: method of mechanical removal of sludge from related technical documents to the research engineer for further test• prevent the violation of the company’s exclusive rights on the radial-flow settlement tank; integrated plant security system, and ing and application to the benefit of water and sewage utilities. intellectual property; useful models: the submerged pump installer, settlement tank for sewage treatment, telephone directory of the company and etc. According to the minutes of meeting of the Scientific and Technical • plan and manage design works and/or development of services. Council dated 11 October 2012, the results of the R&D project were Since 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has been particirecommended for introduction. In 2012, the company obtained, inter alia, the following patents for pating in research and development project on the establishment inventions: method of mechanical removal of sludge from radialof standard modules and systems for treatment, disinfection and The experience gained in the course of the project will allow introflow settlement tank; wastewater disposal system for megalopolis; utilization of wastewater from oil-and-gas extraction platforms and ducing small capacity wastewater treatment plants in little-inhabited method of construction and repair of shallow level water/sewage terminals on the basis of modern technologies. Such research and settlements, including cottage estates. development project has been carried out under the public contract with the Ministry for Industry and Trade of the Russian Federation. In October 2012, the third project stage was completed. 170 171 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Development of information infrastructure Information infrastructure of SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” is a foundation for ensuring production, financial and economic operations of the company. Development of information infrastructure is implemented simultaThis system enables to increase significantly the efficiency of infor• Information system to present environmental information about cesses and prepare the corrective actions plan with its subsequent neously in several directions: mation and process management, namely, to: untreated wastewater discharges of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peimplementation. tersburg” and customers of the relevant catchment areas; • development of communication means and systems, • provide reliable information to the staff; In 2012, within the existing automated billing and payment col• Integrated system of management accounting and bookkeeping. lection system, Vodokanal centralized the instrumentation data • development of production automation means and systems, • organize an integrated information space; It completely covers system of bookkeeping, personnel records management and started to establish the general purpose interface and inventory accounting, transportation and logistics tasks. for selecting and automatic analysis of the accuracy degree of the • development and maintenance of information systems, • ensure end-to-end data exchange between subsystems and asdata from customer’s metering devices equipped with pulse output. sociated information systems of the company; In 2013, in framework of further development of Vodokanal informaAs a result, the established interface will enhance the automation of • information security of the company, tion systems, it is planned to update the existing business prothe billing and reduce handwork. • avoid duplicated entry of the required information. • technical and process support of IT infrastructure. Information infrastructure of Vodokanal is divided into the following At present, the following components of the integrated information levels: system are in full operation: Information security • automation of company business processes, first of all financial • Customer Service Center. It provides for the whole range of activiand economic operations and supporting activities; ties with company’s customers, starting from receiving applicaSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has developed, implemented, fundamentals in 2012. Also, Vodokanal performed the inventory tions for connection to Vodokanal networks up to customer billing; prepared for certification and certified under the International Stanof its information assets, established the registers of company’s • automation of production tasks; dard ISO/IEC 27001:2005 the Information Security Management assets, carried out evaluation and analysis of information security • Integrated Production Planning System “Water Balance”. At this System (ISMS) of the company. risks and developed plans of information security risks handling. • automation of equipment control. moment, this is the main tool for monitoring and metering water reAs a result of this work, Vodokanal developed the plan of managesources from water sources to a customer. This subsystem allows 137 employees of the company (managers responsible for ISMS of rial and technical measures to enhance company’s information Main activities to improve information technologies are targeted for optimizing and controlling production capacities, consumption the branches, managers responsible for ISMS of structural subdivisecurity, which included internal audits of information security, to the automation of Vodokanal’s business processes. First of all, of chemicals, fuel for sludge incineration and electric power; sions of the company’s administration, managers responsible for acquisition of hardware and software for raising technical level of this is a transition to the uniform standards for software selection, ISMS of water-supply areas, sewerage areas, wastewater treatinformation security and reducing detected and evaluated risks. throughout integration of the existing information systems and crement plants and water supply plants) underwent training on ISMS ation of an integrated system of corporate management. 172 173 Social responsibility 174 175 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Awareness-building Youth Environmental Center Undertaking its mission, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” puts special emphasis on developing careful and In September 2012, the Youth Environmental Center of Vodokanal celebrated its 10th anniversary. Over ten years responsible attitude towards environment in general and water resources in particular. more than 300,000 children participated in interactive programmes, projects and lessons of YEC, more than 50 large projects, including international projects, were implemented. The recent years’ stable trend towards reduction of water conpart of Internet community was launched with the support of Vodosumption is, in particular, the result of Vodokanal’s awarenesskanal. The principal character of the Portal – the Neva Crayfish – In 2012, 27 projects and programmes for children of all ages were The renovated YEC halls are equipped with modern instruments building efforts. has its own pages in social networks. implemented at the Youth Environmental Centre and 35,815 chilwidely used for interactive programs and activities. dren were involved in these activities. Each hall has advanced multimedia devices (touch panels, interFor the purpose of disseminating the culture of water use and deThe key instruments of the company’s awareness-building activities active boards, etc.) and laboratories. Dozens of various animaveloping environmental thinking Vodokanal widely cooperates with are the Youth Environmental Center (YEC) and “The Universe of tion videos and video films about water properties, waterworks mass media and uses the potential of different Internet-resources. Water” museum complex – both being part of the Information and 30 and wastewater treatment plants operation, the Baltic Sea and its 26 27 inhabitants were prepared specially for new programs of the Youth In 2010, the Internet-portal www.da-voda.com targeted for the active Training Center. 25 25 Environmental Center. All this made the educational process more 21 23 effective and fascinating. 20 21 Waterdrop, the main YEC character, meets kids in “The Hall of First 15 Discoveries”. It helps them to find out how dew, snowflakes and 10 rain drops are formed. Besides, there is also a ship here waiting for kids to set on an imaginary journey over the Baltic Sea. 5 In the children’s laboratory of the Youth Environmental Center young guests can conduct their first tests, watch Paramecium cau0 2010 2011 2012 datum and other microorganisms via microscope. Number of projects and significant events YEC specialists have developed new environmental and educaPlanned tional interactive programs for the groups of different age, series of new brain educational games, particularly for computer medias; the scenarios of educational films have been written, the series of tutorial experiments have been developed, new training materials have One of the key targets of YEC is distribution and promotion of been prepared and the rest of them have been updated. importance of the environment and water resources protection, defining a vision about Vodokanal Petersburg activities and its impact In 2012, the interactive programs for children of four years and on the city development among the younger generation, disseminaupwards were daily performed in the renovated halls of YEC. tion of sustainable development ideas and urgent questions of the YEC specialists have developed programmes for young children modern world. devoted to environmental aspects of water use, conservation of the Baltic Sea, modern water treatment technologies, resource-saving, In 2011, the Youth Environmental Center was reconstructed. Two including “Water on Earth”, “Water in everyday life”, “Mysteries of thematic halls were created: “Hall of the First Discoveries” for kids Nature”, “Big-Small Sea”, “The Sea Nearby”, “Secrets of the Bal(from 4 to 9 years old) and “The Baltic Sea Hall” for school children tics”, “The City by the Sea”, “LAB – laboratory for water analysis”, and students. “Baltic Expert”, “Water – a global resource” and etc. 176 177 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements YEC halls are equipment with up-to-date technical devices, which • an electronic encyclopedia of the Baltic Sea inhabitants make the learning process more efficient and exciting for nowaIn 2012, the Youth Environmental Center in partnership with the One more project “Dialogues about water in school and famdays children. • video quizzes with the electronic voting system Consulate General of Great Britain in St. Petersburg and St. ily” – has been implemented within 2 years in partnership with Petersburg Association of International Cooperation launched the schools of the Leningrad Oblast. Primary and junior schoolchildren YEC experts use the following equipment: • laboratory Russian-British Project “Green is great: freshening up ideas for of Vsevolozhsk District of the Leningrad Oblast participate in the water use”. project. • 3D-cinema with stereo and holographic effects New proposals from YEC in 2012 were the thematic festive-educational programme “Sea adventures on the birthday” and “Programme 30 schools with profound learning of the English language and The project is aimed at improving the understanding by school• a game table with the touch panel for a school class” (a theme-based programme for the class). English-speaking students from St. Petersburg higher education inchildren of environmental problems and solutions in water use stitutions underwent training at the seminars and started to develop and preservation of water resources as well as to develop skills of solutions for pressing problems of sustainable water use. taking simple practical actions to save water at home and in school. The final project event was the youth festival “Freshening up ideas The project objective is to develop and test a model of environmenOne of the most important directions of activities of the Youth Environmental Centre in 2012 was project for water use” in March 2013, where young people presented their tal education for a city district. implementation. ideas to the experts in water resource conservation. In 2012, the Baltic Regatta Project was organized for lower grades. In 2012, the YEC experts rapidly developed environmental aware1,943 children participated in the project. The project participants ness programmes for the youth within the framework of the Internalearnt about Vodokanal operations, mission and values of the comtional Advanced Water Technologies Centre together with Lahti. The Youth Environmental Center participates in high-profile city, regional and international programmes and events. pany, how to help the Baltic Sea inhabitants and become sea defenders during project activities in the Youth Environmental Center Main directions: The YEC experience was demonstrated at the V International Neva and independent work according to methodic approaches of YEC. Environmental Forum in May 2012. YEC experts developed and • the Baltic Sea and its specific features; conducted a demonstration lesson on ecology for primary school in The Russian-German Project for the youth of St. Petersburg and live transmission mode at the plenary session of the Forum. Pupils Hamburg “Next Generation!” was launch in April 2012. The Project • water treatment technologies; from the school no. 631, who participated in the demo lesson, was implemented under the partnership with the Government of answered well the questions from the chairperson of the Federation Hamburg, St. Petersburg and Hamburg Filmmakers and Cine Ama• ways to reduce environmental load on the Baltic Sea. Council of the Russian Federation Ms. Valentina I. Matvienko. teurs Union. In the course of the project 25 school teams watched motion picture films, which were made by the youth from Germany One of the new areas of work of YEC in 2012 became the Safe and devoted to environmental conservation. During the next project 2,671 people took part in the programme, including 48 teachWater Use Programme developed by the experts of the Youth Enstage children participated in master classes in cinematography ers from educational institutions, 50 students from St. Petersburg vironmental Center. The programme was tested and implemented and environmental training in the Youth Environmental Center in higher education institutions and 2,573 senior pupils. for 5-11 forms pupils at the city round of the All-Russian Health and order to make their own short eco-videos. Wellness Competition. Senior pupils, who underwent training in YEC, implemented In November 2012, there was the Eco-Vision Festival, where projects related to the Baltic Sea in 36 schools of the city as well In the course of the IV International Forum “Clean Water” in schoolchildren from St. Petersburg represented their conception as participated in the interschool quiz “Baltic Expert”. The best November 2012 the experts of the Youth Environmental Center of urgent environmental issues. Videos of the Eco-Vision Festival project teams from school no.16 and lyceum no.126 competed with conducted series of interactive programmes for schoolchildren from prize winners (schools no. 623, no.631, no. 391) are posted on schoolchildren from Finland at the international quiz in Lahti. The Moscow in one of the exhibition halls of the Forum. Vodokanal’s website. programme will proceed in 2013. 178 179 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements One of the remarkable events was the participation of YEC in the Work with youth core groups is an integral part of YEC activities. Museum Complex “The Universe of Water” International Youth Forum “Water and World Heritage” organized By getting knowledge and experience in the environmental work, within the 36th session of UNESCO World Heritage Committee in young people not just participate in YEC projects and programmes, 204,500 people visited The Universe of Water in 2012. Total attendance of the museum complex and the Youth Envithe All-Russian Children Health Center “Orlenok”. The experts of but become enthusiastic promoters of the gained knowledge, misronmental Center was 240,400 people. the Youth Environmental Center worked out and conducted for the sion and values of Vodokanal among children of their age. forum participants the environmental programme “Water and Nature Heritage” as well as acted as experts in implementing projects In 2012, the youth core group of YEC took part in the All-Russian The Universe of Water museum complex in 56 Shpalernaya str. is • Multimedia exhibition “The Universe of Water” (in the former of young people from 10 regions of Russia and near-abroad. Contest “Your Footprint on the Planet”. 46 works were represented an open social project of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. The underground clean water reservoir). It is a unique storage of at the contest from regions of Russia and CIS countries. The ecomuseum complex not only offers the full picture of the man’s views modern water knowledge. The exhibition is based on multimeYEC took part in arrangement and conduction of the International video “Vuoksa – the international river” headed the list of eco-vidof water and its properties, but also shows the history of St. Petersdia technologies, stereo effects and textual explanations. Over Program of the UN Model for high school children education certieos. YEC core group members were awarded with package tours burg, the city where water is a city-forming essence and the source thirty video-films disclosing various aspects of the water element fied under the Hague UN Model. 132 delegates took part in the to the All-Russian Children Health Center “Orlenok”. of scientific, engineering and cultural achievements rather than just are demonstrated here. conference from 17 countries in the age of 14-18 years. Delegates something that is used for household or industrial needs. made decisions on the environmental protection and challenges of The exhibition in the Water Tower was opened in 2003 – it was the Baltic Sea. YEC promotes ideas of efficient environmental education and The museum complex comprises three exhibitions: Vodokanal’s present on the occasion of the 300th anniversary of interacts with teachers. YEC experts developed and conducted 16 St. Petersburg. The former clean water reservoir was transformed In 2012, the Youth Environmental Center for the first time participattheme-based programmes for efficient environmental education, • Classical museum exhibition “The Water World of St. Petersburg” into The Universe of Water museum in 2008 when Vodokanal St. ed in the international event “Museums at Nights-2012” and offered which involved more than 300 teachers. (in the old Water Tower). The exhibits – documents, pictures, Petersburg celebrated its 150th anniversary. to the visitors the educational express-quiz devoted to the secrets objects, collections of sanitary equipment and hatches – show of the coastal city of St. Petersburg. the history of water supply and sewerage origination and development. • Multimedia exhibition “The Underground World of St. Petersburg” (in the left annex to the Water Tower). Visitors can trace the route of water from the intake to treatment plants, then to the flats via distribution networks and back to the treatment plants. Here, they can also look at a gigantic model of the historical center of St. Petersburg. The model was produced by the Institute of Architecture to Vodokanal’s order. 180 181 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Visitors of the museum complex (number of persons) Visitors of the museum complex during the international Visitors of the Festival “Children’s Museum Days event “Museums at Nights-2012” (number of persons) in St. Petersburg” (number of persons) peo. peo. peo. 250 000 240 368 12 000 200 00 19 503 19 700 11 236 10 910 18 000 215 769 10 210 202 408 204 553 191 733 10 000 15 727 200 000 15 000 8000 150 000 6000 10 000 100 000 90 552 4000 4000 67 820 69 265 3000 66 560 5000 50 000 2000 37 052 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2003 – 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of persons number of visitors museum and YEC number of visitors museum and YEC Museum complex “The Universe of Water” offers novel interactive 10,910 people visited exhibitions of the museum complex and In the frame of this festival our experts developed and presented In 2012, the following temporary theme-based exhibitions were programs for visitors of different age groups. Interactive programs the Youth Environmental Center during the event of “Museums at the Museum Programme “Where do crayfish winter?” organized in the premises of the museum complex: are developed for preschoolers and schoolchildren, general and Nights”. various thematic excursions are offered to students and adults. In the course of implementing game activities programme partici• “Looking for Mummy” Exhibition. The exhibition was organized Experts of the museum complex continued to interact with the parpants learnt about drinking water treatment processes, bio-indicain the frame of the “Children Wait” Project to help orphaned Museum complex “The Universe of Water” is a permanent particiticipants of the “Museums at Nights” event also upon its completion methods, when crayfish, snails and gold fish help to assess air children to find new families. This exhibition was implemented pant of the international event “Museums at Nights”. Participation tion. They organized special interactive programme “Secrets of the and water quality, about various types of domestic pollution and together with the regional non-governmental organization “St. in this event helps to draw also attention of those people who are Old Tower” and presented pleasant souvenirs to the winners of the ways to reduce the load on the Neva and the Baltic Sea. Petersburg Parents”, which supports children deprived of parennot regular museum visitors. quiz contest. tal care. As a result of the exhibition some orphaned children 19,700 people participated in the special festival programme. It is a found new families. For the international event “Museums at Nights 2012” experts of On 2-18 November 2012, during school holidays, the museum maximum turnout over the whole period of museum participation in the museum complex and the Youth Environmental Center develcomplex participated as is customary in the City Festival of Muthe festival. • “Valaam Island in Art” Exhibition. The exhibition was organized oped a special museum rout map which allows visiting all three exhiseum Programmes for Children “Children’s Museum Days in St. together with “Zolotoy Plyos” Gallery and the cultural-educationbitions of the museum complex and the Youth Environmental Center. Petersburg”. Our experts developed rout maps for the visitors of the historical al center “Light of Valaam”. exhibition “The Water World of St. Petersburg”, which helped festival participants to learn about new technologies and achievements of Vodokanal. 182 183 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements • X Anniversary Corporate Exhibition of creative works by Vo• Creative Women’s Works Exhibition. Works of Swedish womenWith help of the Neva Crayfish the portal Da-Voda.com tells and In the section “Da-Voda TV” a short-video “Monster of the Dolgoe dokanal employees “Water – a Source of Inspiration”. Various inventors were presented together with the Consulate General of shows the following: Lake” was increasing in demand. It was viewed over 37,000 times. works of figurative arts were presented at the exhibition, includSweden and St. Petersburg Social-Economic Institute. This short thriller is devoted to the main problem of city water boding painting (oil and water color), photos, decorative and ap• why celebrities do not waste water carelessly; ies neglectful attitude of the citizens. plied arts (wood engraving, embroidery, knitting, floristics, bead In the end of 2012, 64 times the New Year environmental-educaweeding, quilling, scrapbooking, decoupage, string art), as well tional programme was held in the museum complex for children of • what technical means help to save water without any loss in Film shooting inspired the team of Da-Voda.com to organize solid as literally works. 60 participants took part in the exhibition and Vodokanal employees and schoolchildren of the city. quality of life; waste collection in the frame of the international project “Let’s Do presented over 250 works. In the course of the programme children learnt about water treatIt, World”, which took place in September 2012. Editorial staff of ment technologies applied by Vodokanal in an easily accessible • how to solve water-related problems within a household; the website and volunteers, who followed the project news in the and exciting form. media, collected more than fifty garbage bags in the public garden Visitors of the New Year Programme (number of persons) • to what thoughtless attitude towards water might lead. in front of the Dolgoe Lake. One part of the garbage was subject to peo. A record number of participants – 7,857 people – attended the New recycling, the rest was disposed to the landfill. The administration Year programme. of the Primorsky District of St. Petersburg supported the event and 8000 7857 The Neva Crayfish as the main character of the portal has its provided all participants with tools, garbage bags and gloves. 7000 In 2012, the museum complex “The Universe of Water” hosted the accounts in the social media, including Facebook, VK.com and 6000 following events: Twitter. The Neva Crayfish communicates in social media in the In 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has won the best practice com5755 5000 Russian and English languages. petition in creative use of social media organized by the European 4405 • an evening with the honored artist of Russia Mr. Nikolay Pozdeev, Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). The competition is 4000 By the end of 2012, the Neva Crayfish had over 7,000 friends. a part of the EFQM quality management programme comprising 3000 • an evening with the honored people’s artist of Russia Ms. SvetThe structure of the portal Da-Voda includes several sections. recognition of the leading organizations and the sharing of best 2000 lana Kryuchkova, One of these special sections “Gadgets” contains information practices. 1000 about different devices that can reduce water consumption (without • an evening with the Russian filmmaker, film scripter, people’s impairing your comfort) and evaluates their pros and cons. The When announcing Vodokanal’s victory, the jury of the Good Prac0 artist of RSFSR Ms. Valeriya Uskova. Portal visitors will learn how much water can be saved by using tice Competition mentioned that ‘they were impressed by the excel2009 – 2010 2010 – 2011 2012 – 2013 infrared sensor mixing faucets; why spray nozzles should be used; lent example of using social media by a company for which on-line number of visitors For the first time in Vodokanal there was a festival for Vodokanal what shower meters are, etc. communications are not a must”. According to the jury, “Vodokanal employees and members of theirs families devoted to the Day of responds to the needs of society and has achieved good results’. Family, Love and Fidelity. In 2012, we posted in the section “Thirst for networking” interviews The results of competition were evaluated taking into account both with pop-stars and well-known people such as film makers Peter the professional jury’s opinion and the number of votes given to the Greenaway and James Cameron, American singer Regina Spektor, video during the Internet voting. a person of keen intellect Anatoly Wasserman. Russian Ded Moroz Website Da-Voda (the Father Frost) and his Finnish colleague Joulupukki told about It is not one and only award of the Da-Voda Internet-portal. In 2010, solicitous attitude to water. the Da-Voda Internet-portal won the Runet award in the nomination “Health and Recreation”. Moreover, in December 2011, the website The Internet portal www.da-voda.com – a social project of St. Petersburg Vodokanal. It is a web-site about water and why we should have thoughtful attitude towards it. The project that has been implemented since 2010 One of the most popular sections of the portal is Video-lesson, became the winner of the international competition in the field of enables to attract the attention of active Internet users. where the Neva Crayfish acts as a teacher. The aggregated numpublic relations PROBA-IPRA Golden World Awards -2011 in “The ber of viewing figures of the short animated cartoons about careful Best Social PR-project” nomination. attitude to water was about four thousand. Visitors of the website The main character of the Portal is the Neva Crayfish. water intakes of Vodokanal. They monitor quality of water taken and the Crayfish social media accounts were mainly interested in It is a recognizable and directly linked with Vodokanal operations from the Neva. These crayfish are very popular among journalists two global questions: how to check water quality and why we need character. The point is that the Neva Crayfish (the Neva is a major and visitors of companies’ premises; they are a special brand of to save water. source of water for St. Petersburg) really work at all municipal Vodokanal. 184 185 Labor safety and environment protection 186 187 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Environment protection Protection of the environment and the Baltic Sea, rational use of natural resources and responsibility for the results of the company’s activities before future generations have been stated among the key priorities of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and comprise one of the strategic targets of the company. Vodokanal’s environmental concept is based on understanding of • Increase of energy efficiency of water supply and wastewater 4. Another achievement was the implementation of wastewater efficiency of the company. Key energy-saving projects impleits role to ensure a positive environmental situation in the whole disposal facilities, implementation of resources and energy saving sludge utilization technology. St. Petersburg became the first mented by Vodokanal include the recovery of energy produced Baltic Sea Region. A key international line of leader’s activity policy (plants renovation, implementation of the energy consumpmegalopolis in the world to solve the problem of wastewater in the course of wastewater sludge incineration and establishprovides for participation in public and intergovernmental structures tion regimes management, implementation and certification of the sludge utilization. Now, three sludge incineration plants are in ment of the water supply management system. of the countries of the Baltic Region, particularly, in terms of the Inpower management system in compliance with ISO 50001). operation in the city. One of them, located at the South-West ternational Convention of the Helsinki Commission – Baltic Marine Wastewater Treatment Plant, is equipped with the flue gas bio8. A great success was achieved in lessening water consumption Environment Protection Commission (HELCOM). • Development of the water consumption culture and environmenmonitoring system, which uses snails. through educational and awareness-building activities undertal consciousness. taken by Vodokanal. The company has the Universe of Water Taking into account the company’s responsibility for the sustainable 5. To alleviate the negative environmental impact of sludge landMuseum and the Youth Environmental Center (more detailed development of the city and the Baltic Sea Region and considering Our target in terms of the environment protection is to apply the fills, since 2010, we have been implementing the first phase of information see in “Awareness Building” Section of this report). the approaches applied in the environmental management and the best practices and technologies, create conditions for sustainable sludge landfills reclamation at Severny Landfill near the village experience of similar European companies, the company impledevelopment not only of our city but the whole Baltic Sea Region. of Novoselki. The methods of chemical treatment and stationary “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has done a lot to improve its image. mented and certified the environmental management system in dewatering of wastewater sludge in geo-tubes has been used for The history of the city’s success proves that political will and motiaccordance with ISO14001. In 2012, Vodokanal carried out the following activities in these decreasing the hazard class and sludge volume, and removal of vation are very important when environmental law requirements are directions: odor. Reduction of pollutants emission is achieved by decreasing not enough, and more strict measures should be taken. In terms of During 2012, Vodokanal continued a successive implementation of the area of sludge landfills. harmful discharge reduction, St. Petersburg reached higher results the environmental management system as an essential part of the 1. The next stage of a large-scale program of untreated wastewater than stipulated by the Russian and EC norms”, states Anne Chriscompany management by way of studying current and future needs discharges closure was completed. As a result 97% of wastewa6. The company launched the programme for construction of statine Brusendorff, the HELCOM Executive Secretary. of all stakeholders, developing water consumption culture and conter will be treated in St. Petersburg. tionary snow-melting stations in St. Petersburg. tributing to preservation of the Baltic Sea basin. The company successfully underwent the scheduled inspection by 2. HELCOM requirements to phosphorus content in the discharged 7. The energy management system is based on a package of acRospotrebnadzor in October 2012. In 2012, the following strategic targets in terms of the environment effluent were fulfilled. Phosphorus content in St. Petersburg tivities aimed at automation of energy metering, identification and protection were updated: treated effluent is under 0.5 mg/l, even with regard to the wasteelimination of irrational use of energy, improvement of energy water discharged directly into water bodies. Such a figure could • Improvement of the ecological state of water bodies and the be achieved by reaching a level of 0.3-0.4 mg/l phosphorus in environment (decrease of the environmental load on the water effluent at the main wastewater treatment plants. bodies of St. Petersburg, the Gulf of Finland and the Baltic Sea; reduction of landfill areas used for wastewater sludge storage, 3. Along with implementation of the enhanced phosphorus removal closure of untreated wastewater and flush water discharges). from wastewater, Vodokanal dealt with the problem of eliminating from wastewater another nutrient nitrogen. 188 189 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Parameters of pollutant discharges (from wastewater treatment plants and untreated wastewater outlets) to St. Petersburg water Labour safety bodies, emissions and waste production Vodokanal’s Occupational Health & Safety Management System developed in accordance with the requirements of the international standard OHSAS 18001-2007 and applicable Russian law guarantees that identified risks are Parameter Mea. unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 under the control of the company. Wastewater flow discharged Mio. 1026,1 1023,6 1034,6 970,4 952,1 931,6 931,6 The main purpose of the company’s updated occupational health employees, monitoring of working conditions and health of employthrough public sewerage systems m3/year and safety policy is no occupational accidents and the creation of ees, as well as monitoring of efficiency of the taken measures have into water bodies necessary conditions at workplaces to achieve high performance become an important element of OHSAS. results, the complexity of production, the diversity of applied technologies and equipment being taken into account. The monitoring system includes: Mass of suspended solids t/year 20 535,0 19 418 21 845,4 15 826,9 14 120,8 13 706,9 12 382,2 discharged into water bodies Employees of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and all stake• monitoring of working environment (assessment of sanitary and holders (contractors, visitors) are informed about the company’s hygienic working conditions, organization of labour and maintainoccupational health and safety policy. ing favourable social-psychological environment at work); Mass of BODtotal discharged into t/year 26 860,2 26 074,3 28 627,3 18 718,2 17 677,9 15 635,6 13 311,7 The effective operation of OHSAS at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Pe• monitoring of health status of employees (health survey for the water bodies tersburg” provides also for the employee’s health safety managedetection of early symptoms of diseases, biological monitoring, ment. Programs for disease prevention and health improvement of polling of employees). Mass of total nitrogen discharged t/year 11 282,1 11 037,3 11 048,2 10 729,6 10 003 10 048,6 9627,7 The international audit carried out in October-November 2012 confirmed that OHSAS at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peinto water bodies tersburg” operated in compliance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001-2007. During 2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” carried out as a • monitoring and assessment of safe working conditions at 1,086 part of the Occupational Health & Safety Management System the workplaces was organized and carried out based on instrumental Mass of total phosphorus t/year 1576,7 1269,7 1177,8 759,9 677,7 492,4 491,8 following activities: measurements of hazardous and harmful production factors; discharged into water bodies • working conditions at six company production facilities were • it was ensured that 100% of employees had means of individual improved due to the introduction of new, safe practices and protection; Total pollutants emission into the t/year 4468,0 4555,7 4538,2 4653,9 4790,0 3952,0 2745,8 advanced technologies that ensure reliable and failure-free atmosphere operation as well as reduce the rate of injuries and professional • training and knowledge assessment of 6,108 company employdiseases; ees in occupational health and safety was carried out. 190 191 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Accident rate in different years Industrial safety compliance inspection is organized and implemented The company management issued orders to organize control over in the company in accordance with the Article 11 of the Federal Law industrial safety at the hazardous production facilities of the company. 12 12 no.116-FZ dated 1997 “On industrial safety at production facilities’ Action plans to ensure compliance with industrial safety requirements 11 and Rules “On organization and implementation of control over in the course of operation of the hazardous production facilities are industrial safety at the hazardous production facility” approved by developed annually. Information about the organization of control over the Resolution of the RF Government no.263 as of March 10, 1999. industrial safety is provided to the local compliance authorities of the 10 On the grounds of the Rules the company developed the Regulation Federal Mining and Industrial Safety Inspectorate of Russia. 9 “On the control over industrial safety in the course of operation of the 9 hazardous production facilities of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” As of December 2012, 55 hazardous production facilities were regapproved by the Director General in December 2012 and agreed istered and operated by the company. Vodokanal performs opera8 8 upon with the North-Western Department of Rospotrebnadzor. tion of chemically hazardous facilities, explosive and fire hazardous plants according to the relevant licenses issued by the North-Western 7 Department of Rospotrebnadzor. 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 3 2 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Accident prevention enabled to ensure the following core indicators in the company: • the number of insurance events per 1,000 employees (Vodo• the number of days of temporary disability per one insurance kanal’s average is 1.23; industry average is 1.54); event (Vodokanal’s average is 50.6; industry average is 59.92). 192 193 Personnel Policy 194 195 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The basis of all achievements of Vodokanal is personnel competence that is why the company pays special attenagement (recognition of services of employees, stimulation of profesIn 2012, one of the tasks of personnel appraisal was to increase the tion to personnel development issues, economic incentives and social protection of employees. All of these sional growth, medical support for personnel, recreation organizanumber of employees being appraised. As a result, 544 employees contribute to harmonic conjunction of interests of both the company and its employees. tion, carrying out mass cultural events, insurance of employees and of Vodokanal took part in this procedure, including 84 people as members of their families). Personnel motivation system is described part of work with high potential staff. As of 1 January 2013, the staff of Vodokanal numbered 9,279 The strategic goals of the company in personnel management are: in the Collective Agreement of SUE “Vodokanal St. Petersburg”. persons. All employees who are candidates of personnel reserve pass apThe average age of the employees was 43.13 years. • increasing of the personnel deployment efficiency, Vodokanal is a socially liable employer, maintaining social propraisal by competences. Out of number of employees included in 37.8% of the company’s employees have a higher and incomplete grams for its employees. This work is carried out through the Centhe high potential staff the Talent Group is formed, who are workers higher education. • improvement of the personnel development system, tre for Implementation of Social and Economic Programs and the with the highest development potential. In 2012, employee turnover was 10.49%. Medical Centre. Vodokanal has two health and recreation resorts, • preservation and development of the human resources, where health-improving rest and treatment are available for comBased on appraisal results, Plans of Individual Development of EmWork with the personnel in Vodokanal is performed in accordance pany’s employees. ployees included in the Company personnel reserve are created, with the personnel management strategy and policy. • increasing of the personnel satisfaction. career planning is built. Personnel evaluation is carried out according to the standard of Vodokanal’s personnel management policy is aimed to implement Vodokanal “Personnel Appraisal System” and aimed at personnel these goals. development. Personnel management work is based on the process approach. Analysis of personnel satisfaction Personnel recruitment, motivation and appraisal In 2012, the second stage of the analysis of satisfaction, loyalty 2010 no substantial changes of indices have been observed, but a and commitment of the Vodokanal’s personnel was conducted. The positive trend in general dynamics was noticed. The current employment system applied in Vodokanal allows to for middle managers developed and implemented. For the same analysis was carried out by the international research company recruit the most competent specialists from the external market. purpose professional workmanship contests, the best innovative EPSI. The basis of this analysis is a regression model of Vodokanal Among the most important for personnel, the following factors can design contests are held, participation in conferences, exhibitions personnel satisfaction. be noted: Personnel recruitment is performed in compliance with the Company and other activities is organized annually that contribute to personstandards “Labor Market Research” and “Recruitment and Employnel improvement. Within the framework of analysis two models have been consid• Satisfaction at work and motivation ment Procedures” both in the internal and external labor markets. ered for managers and specialists, and for workers. The analysis To appraise the efficiency of used personnel management methinvolved over 25 % of Vodokanal workers: in total 2,649 question• Image of the employer Modern HR-technologies are used to search for, and select, candiods, analysis of personnel satisfaction is carried out regularly. naires were processes (1,205 of them were filled by workers and dates through Internet resources, specialized publications, inter1,444 by managers and specialists). • Professional and personal growth in the company. viewing, case studies and comprehensive candidate appraisal. Motivation system for company’s personnel is targeted at high-effiThere is a procedure of adaptation and tutorship used for new staff. cient work of personnel, constant development, increase in personThe questionnaire filled by employees in 2012 was expanded and At the same time, the analysis showed that the company should Knowledge transfer is provided through constant personnel training. nel engagement, as well as its satisfaction, loyalty and commitment. supplemented with new questions related to aspects of social policy work actively on improvements directed at increase of personnel In order to increase professional level and development of manageof Vodokanal and awareness of employees. satisfaction. Satisfaction growth will have positive effect on both ment competences, there is a Program of Education and Training The motivation system includes both incentive means (bonuses, alloyalty and commitment of employees. Upon the analysis results, lowances, lump-sum remunerations, additional paid leaves, material As compared to the data on satisfaction, loyalty and commitment, action plans to increase satisfaction have been developed. aid and targeted social assistance) and measures of moral encouras well as satisfaction factors, according to the analysis results for 196 197 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Personnel training and development Number of trainees by internal and external programmes in 2012: In 2012, training for heads of water supply and wastewater disVodokanal of St.Petersburg pays great attention to personnel training and development. posal districts and their deputies by the program “Fundamentals of Management and Economics for District Managers” was organized. One of the conditions for efficient work of Vodokanal is systematic, population according to the legislation requirements. 759 trainees According to the training results, 74 people passed test successtargeted and high-quality training of its personnel. took part in computer and communication competence educational 231 peo. 105 peo. fully, and the average test score was 4.26. programs. 458 people attended workshops and courses of profes3% 1% Development of the personnel training system is aimed at the imsional development for managers and specialists, and 231 of them In June, as part of this program, practical training for district heads provement of key processes of Vodokanal and ensuring the persontook training in “Modern Technologies of Water Supply and Disin top water companies of Sweden, Norway and Denmark was nel is ready to conduct current and strategic tasks. posal” course as part of workshops of the International Advanced conducted. In autumn, the second practical training was carried out, Water Technologies Centre. in course of which the participants got acquainted with operation of Training process in Vodokanal is implemented according to the 3336 peo. water and wastewater plants in Turku, Helsinki and Lappeenranta. 3695 peo. company standard “Personnel Management in SUE “Vodokanal of In total, 7867 employees of Vodokanal took part in trainings in 2012. 49 % In December, the third practical training took place. 47 % St. Petersburg”. The System of Planning, Organization and Control of Personnel Training”. These practical trainings helped the participants to consolidate exNumber of trainees by types of training isting knowledge and learn best practices, process schemes and An important factor of successful training is accurate identification methods of work with customers. of training needs subject to shortand long-term targets of the com9893 10 000 pany, as well as evaluation of training efficiency. In 2012, 77 Vodokanal employees were studying at 6 higher educaIn-company training tion institutions in St. Petersburg to get their first or second higher 8000 7867 The targets of training and professional development of personnel are: External training (under contracts) education. • acquiring of knowledge and skills by Vodokanal employees 6000 In the International Advanced Water Technologies Centre required for successful work performance; In cooperation with Professional School no. 89 4000 • increasing the performance of company’s employees; In 2012, new training areas were introduced: 2000 1469 • making employees ready to accept and implement changes carried out in Vodokanal; 0 41 • commercial computer courses (14 programs) 0 2011 2012 • encouraging to constant professional growth and self-training. • self-training programs for Vodokanal employees (3 programs) Training according to Vodokanal’s needs In 2012, 445 company’s employees took training, refresher courses • workmanship contests in “Master Class” format (1 contest) Training on the “educational initiative” of the and advanced training, and 105 of them were trained in Vocational employee School No. 89. 6,205 employees passed training in labour, industrial, road-traffic safety and sanitary and hygienic welfare of the Training for district heads 198 199 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Professional skill contests 250 245 A special form of training activities is professional skills contests In 2012, Vodokanal held 19 final professional skills contests “Best 222 that make it possible to maintain a high professional personnel Professional”, where 245 persons participated. That figure has level, ensure dissemination of advanced and innovative techniques been a record-breaking indicator since 2006. 200 and methods of work, as well as provide employees with access to 182 knowledge and experience gained in Vodokanal. 175 172 170 Number of participants 158 150 150 Participation in professional skills contests “Best Professional” in 2012 120 120 108 100 102 100 20 100 19 18 18 50 15 15 Number of professions 12 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 10 10 Planned Actual High professional level of the company’s workers is evidenced by Vodokanal St. Petersburg was awarded a big collection of prizes in 5 Vodokanal workers success in interdisciplinary professional skill the Stroymaster 2012 contest: contests. • in The Best Team nomination: Thus, in the contest Best Professional among workers of housing -1st place – team of emergency repair men (water supply), and public utilities of St. Petersburg and the Leningrad Region, -2nd place team of emergency repair men (wastewater disposal); a representative of Vodokanal St. Petersburg took the first place 0 among electric welders. In a contest within the Russian Industrialist • in The Gifted Hands Master nomination: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 exhibition, the company’s employees took the first and the third -3rd place autocrane mechanist, places in the Maintenance Electrician category. -3rd place excavator operator, -3rd place car driver, -3rd place –maintenance electrician. 200 201 Social policy 202 203 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements SUE “Vodokanal St. Petersburg” implements social policy in compliance with the current legislation and as part of social commitments specified in the Collective Agreement for 20112013. Social protection program and targeted material assistance Social payments and benefits to company employees and veteran of labor are specified in the Collective Agreement of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. The key principle of corporate social policy is the principle of social Top priorities of the corporate social policy of Vodokanal are: responsibility. • high management competences and qualification of the personnel; According to it, Vodokanal: In 2012, the following payments were made: In 2012, the material assistance was provided to 871 people: 824 • efficient use of labour resources; employees, 47 former employees and their relatives. • builds its strategy taking into account the interests of society in • lump-sum payment to retiring employees; to employees who general; • improvement of salary and bonus systems, motivation of emreached jubilee age; as well as for an uninterrupted service in ployees; the company; • observes the laws; • compliance with global standards in occupational health and safety; • monthly targeted material assistance to veterans of the Great • observes commonly accepted moral and ethical norms; Patriotic War (former company employees), payments to the war • growth of pesonnel’s living standards, creation of favourable veterans on the occasion of the Full Lifting of Leningrad Siege • respects human rights; conditions for work and rest, social support of retired employees; and the Victory Day, payments to the citizens of besieged Leningrad, to Nazi camp prisoners (former company employees); • tends to ensure in its activity the balance of interests of stake• creation of conditions to implement constructive initiatives of holders personnel, consumers, other social groups that are young employees; creation of conditions for professional growth • quarterly targeted material assistance to retired employees (forone way or another related to Vodokanal activities; and self-realization of the youth; mer company employees); • considers interests of future generations and tends to maximize • creation of the end-to-end training system, promotion, develop• financial assistance for medical treatment, in case of damage sustainable use of natural resources and improve living condiment and evaluation of personnel; caused by fire, natural disaster, theft etc.; tions of the population; • development of the dynamic corporate culture that helps em• payments for childbirth; • works consistently to provide health and occupational safety of ployees to interact efficiently and accelerates integration of new its personnel. assets and employees; • payments after death of a relative; The basis for implementation of corporate social policy is social pro• provision of optimal age and personnel composition; • payments to employees, who worked for the company prior to a grams that have the highest value for employees and aimed at inrecruitment into the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation and volvement and retention of high-qualified personnel in the company. • development of relationships of social partnership, mutual rewere newly employed. sponsibility and trust; First of all, it refers to such social programs as healthcare (including voluntary medical insurance of employees and their children), organi• personnel loyalty, stable and positive social environment. zation of recreation and rehabilitation of employees and their families, social support of current and former employees of the company. 204 205 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Recognition of employees’ achievements and corporate award Catering and transportation SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” values its employees and recognizes their contribution to objective fulfillUltimate nutrition with partial payment of its value is provided to VoIn the night time, emergency teams working 24-hour shifts are proment and company development. dokanal workers at the premises of the company. For that purpose, vided with free hot meals, which are delivered to their work places in 2012 Vodokanal organized operation of 18 fitted foodservice in specially equipped vehicles. Awarding the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” Awarding company employees certificates of honour and gratitudes outlets at its premises, where over 4.5 thousand people a day of Vodokanal, prizes from executive and legislative bodies of St. could be served. For over 10 years the employees have been provided with special The title “Veteran of Work of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is Petersburg and Russia transport to deliver them to their work places in the morning and to awarded to employees, who have the unbroken record of service of the nearest underground station at the end of the working day. 20 years in the company and have achieved high labour indices. In 2012, 177 employees were awarded the Vodokanal certificate of At the same time the winner is awarded a lapel badge and certifihonour, 431 people were got the gratitude of Vodokanal. cate, as well as a cash bonus. 44 employees were awarded departmental and national prizes: In 2012, the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” Recreation organization for employees and their families was awarded to 164 Vodokanal employees. • 6 people got certificates of honour and gratitudes of the Ministry of Regional Development of the Russian Federation, Top priority of social policy of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is organization of a proper rest for employees and their families in Burevestnik sanatorium. Awarding the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg”. • 38 people got awards of executive and legislative bodies of St. Petersburg. The title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” is The Burevestnik sanatorium is one of the most comfortable and well as the company personnel rehabilitation. The Company gives awarded to company employees for great services and contribution advanced recreation and rehabilitation facilities in the Leningrad an opportunity for the employees and their families to buy vouchers to development of water supply and wastewater disposal systems Region. It is located in the vicinity of the town of Luga and surfor health care and recreation in a sanatorium “Burevestnik” at a of St. Petersburg, adoption and implementation of new technolorounded by century-old pines forest lakes. reduced price. gies, application of advanced methods of labour organization, The sanatorium has three sites (Burevestnik, Omchino and Zvezstrengthening of corporate culture and high professionalism. dny) and provides a wide range of services: swimming pools, Vodokanal employees working in harmful and (or) hazardous labor At the same time the winner is awarded with a lapel badge and cerfitness facilities, a gym, and tennis courts, outdoor playgrounds conditions are provided extra leaves (over-leaves under the legistificate, as well as a bonus. for badminton, volleyball, basketball and Finnish sauna. There is a lation of the Russian Federation) up to 10 days long. Within such library, a café and a cinema and concert hall. For those who prefer a leave employees can undergo rehabilitation and health improveIn 2012, the title “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersequestrian sport there is a riding hall. ment in the Burevestnik sanatorium. burg” was awarded to 13 Vodokanal employees. The sanatorium’s modern medical centre with a diagnostic and 185 employees spent their rehabilitation holidays in the sanatotreatment department can do all types of necessary analyses and rium in 2012. procedures. The sanatorium can accommodate over 600 holiday-makers at the In total, Vodokanal employees bought 7,250 vouchers to the Buresame time. vestnik sanatorium in 2012. The main objective of Burevestnik sanatorium is support and proDuring summer vacations the company employees can send their motion of health of al Vodokanall employees and their families, as children at age 6 to 15 to Zvyozdny children’s health camp. 206 207 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Healthcare Educational and health improvement programs for children are The tasks and objectives of the programs meet the new educational developed based on the entire Zvezdny infrastructure and include: standard “School-2020”. Vodokanal of St. Petersburg implements a range of measures A new system of medical service quality assurance is available in the aimed at health care and disease prevention, and rendering timely Medical Centre, which is based on PDCA method (Plan-Do-Check-Act). • sports and health improvement, Special attention in these programs is paid to children’s health. The and high-quality medical care. programs are also aimed at gaining knowledge in various areas, Also, the system of customer information on medical services is • art and aesthetics, developing communicative skills and explaining environmental Vodokanal has the Medical Centre branch, which provides multiarranged in the branch, which includes: values to children. level system of medical care for company’s employees. • mass-culture sector, • meeting of the director and officials of the branch with person2500 children aged 6 to 15 took holidays in Zvezdny recreation The Medical Centre branch includes: nel of branches, active trade unionists, and representatives of • historic and patriotic sector, camp for children in 2012. labour safety subdivisions on improvement of quality of medical • two sites of the Diagnostic and Treatment Centre with departservices for Vodokanal employees; • Environmental sector, ments of preventive medical examination and professional suitability examination, radiodiagnosis, clinical laboratory, a depart• telephone hotline of the service of operating management, orga• social and adaptive sector. ment of rehabilitation treatment; nization and accounting of medical and preventive care (telephone 326-52-78); • a dental clinic; • a web-site of the Medical Centre branch: http://www.med-vdk.ru, • a medical division of Burevestnik sanatorium; where all information about doctors and service prices is available, a Contact section is created for making online an appointment • a medical division of production branches with the doctor (a patient leaves in a special form his/her data, a contact number, describes a problem to be solved; the data goes • Orlovsky sanatorium. to a monitoring service and analyzed; the patient receives a call from an operator proposing to arrange an appointment with the All of this allowed creating a uniform system of medical care, includdoctor at a convenient time); ing occupational medicine, up-to-date outpatient care, high-tech diagnostic techniques, health-improving recreation and rehabilitation. • information on “Vodokanal-Info” internal portal of the company, where the section “Social Package” includes information about Medical services are rendered to Vodokanal employees by a the procedure of making an appointment with the doctor in the program of mandatory medical insurance, and by programs of Diagnostic and Treatment Centre, with telephone numbers of revoluntary medical insurance (outpatient and dental care, house call, ceptions and monitoring services, a scheme and telephones for emergency medical service). employees to contact aid posts of a medical division of production branches, with contact information of medical workers of the There are 8 Doctors and 14 Candidates of Medical Science, 47 aid posts; physicians and 69 nurses of higher category working in the Medical Centre branch; 49% of workers have higher professional education. • announcements and advertisements in mass-media; • advertising booklets. 208 209 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Due to conducted work, indices of number of days of labour loss A range of actions aimed at health care of company’s employees, In order to increase economic efficiency and decrease costs for In general, in 2012 on two sites of the Diagnostic and Treatment and cases of disability in Vodokanal for the recent years are at a besides treatment measures, also includes: maintenance, operation and repair of medical equipment, for Centre (with a department of rehabilitation treatment based on the stable low level. realization of a lean production project, there is a general system sanatorium “Orlovsky”), over 200 thousand medical services have • case follow-up; of preventive maintenance called Total Productive Maintenance been rendered to Vodokanal employees, which is 28% higher than The results of Vodokanal efforts regarding health care of employ(TPM) implemented. the indices of 2011. ees can be evaluated by such an important index as the healthy • professional examination of workers.. and apparently healthy persons index (health groups I II): in Vodokanal of St. Petersburg is around 40%. 120 000 113 546 6000 100 000 5160 5047 5000 4877 89 949 4474 4589 79 385 4150 80 000 4000 70 162 3323 3408 60 000 3000 2297 2100 40 000 2000 20 000 1000 6064 5090 6993 7337 4786 1360 0 0 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Medical center (Kavalergardskaya str.) Orlovsky Medical center (103 Moskovsky pr.) professional examination case follow-up Medical unit at production Radiodiagnostics branches Department 210 211 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements The total number of Vodokanal employees who passed regular To prevent tuberculosis and early detect of respiratory diseases, all Sports support medical examinations in 2012 was 4,589 people; 5,047 people Vodokanal employees passed photofluorographic examination. underwent case follow-up. Medical information system “Avicenna” has been further improved. In 2012, specialists of the Medical Centre branch and representaImplementation of the comprehensive enterprise rehabilitation proVodokanal teams took part in sport contests arranged by Physical The new requirements for conduction of preliminary (when hirtives of ZAO “Kosta” implemented the developed in 2011 Electronic gram and arrangement of sports events contribute to development Training and Sports Society FSO Russia (1st place winner), Intering) and regular medical examinations, due to entry into force on Medical Record on External Electronic Media (EMR), where secand support of healthy life, team building, strengthening interperregional Trade Union Committee (1st place), Central St. Petersburg January 1, 2012 of the Decree of the Ministry of Health and Social tions for storage of the results of laboratory examinations and medisonal relationship and friendly ties. District (2nd place). Development of the Russian Federation as of 12 April 2011 no. 302 cal (X-ray, CT, MRT) images have been added. For that purpose, “On approval of a list of harmful and/or hazardous production faca module for communication with Siemens Medical Image Server In the territory of “Burevestnik” sanatorium spartakiada games for waA sport contest of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” was arranged tors and works, at which mandatory preliminary and regular medical was designed, and Laboratory Information System using bar-coding ter services units, festivals and traditional winter and summer sports among the branch teams that included 13 kinds of sports. examinations (check-ups) are to be conducted, and the Proceelements was created. tourist meetings are held annually for the Vodokanal employees. dure of conduction of mandatory preliminary and regular medical examinations (check-ups) for employees engaged in heavy works In 2012, Vodokanal employees also participated in the following and in works with harmful and hazardous labour conditions”, were In the collective agreement, valid in SUE “Vodokanal of St. PeIn 2012, the following events took place on the territory of the sports activities: implemented in a standard of SUE Vodokanal SPB 24.2-2012 The tersburg”, the following opportunities of obtaining a medical care sanatorium: Procedure of preliminary and regular medical examinations of SUE are settled: • FSO “Russia” Ping-Pong Club Championship Vodokanal personnel, engaged in heavy works and in works with • a winter sports Vodokanal meeting with the participation of over harmful and/or hazardous labour conditions. • obtaining medical care by the policies of obligatory medical 500 employees, • Central District Head Mini Football Cup insurance and VHI based on the Medical Centre branches (a DiIn 2012, in framework of the national project titled “Health” adagnostic and Treatment Centre and a dental clinic are standard • two sports contests of Russia’s vodokanals “Fellowship” partici• Central District Mini Football Friendship Cup ditional clinical examination of 820 employees was conducted in for Vodokanal employees); pated by teams from Nizhny Novgorod, Cherepovets, Vologda, Vodokanal. The program is aimed at early detection and effective Veliky Novgorod, Vladimir (over 350 people in total). • “Veterans” Mini Football Championship treatment of diseases that are major causes of death and disabil• obtaining individual medical and cosmetological services beyond ity among working-age population of Russia, including diabetes, the OMI and VHI programs; • the Youth Games Festival allowed more than 300 young employ• Football tournament between teams of Vodokanal St. Petersburg tuberculosis, cancer and cardiovascular diseases, diseases of the ees to express their sports achievements. and Hamburg Wasser musculoskeletal system. The employees who have passed addi• medical care of the former Vodokanal employees participants in tional clinical examination received health certificates, and record the Great Patriotic War, who have the certificate “The Participant • a summer sports Vodokanal meeting, participated by over 600 • City Football Championship cards of additional clinical examination were forwarded to district of the Great Patriotic War”, and also enterprise personnel and employees. polyclinics at place of residence of employees. former personnel, who worked during the Siege of Leningrad at • Volleyball Championship (amateur league) company’s facilities by the program of obligatory medical insurSports activity is one of the most important lines of Vodokanal corAn important direction of health care work is conduction of mandaance in the diagnostic and treatment center. porate life. Sports grounds and swimming pools are rented for sport• Russia Kayak and Canoe Paddling Championship among veterans. tory vaccination of employees of decreed groups, and vaccination ing activities and exercises. The trade committee leased more than in order to prevent seasonal infection (flu). In 2012, the number of 10 pools in different districts of the city, where over 700 employees At present, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is one of the vaccinations against enteric fever as compared to 2011 increased from our company go in. Vodokanal volleyball, football, table tennis, leading teams in development of physical training and sport in St. by 74%, which is related to seasonal revaccination of employees swimming, ski race teams are gathered on a regular basis and a Petersburg. once in 3 years. Also, number of flu vaccinated employees inveterans’ football team. creased by 38%. 212 213 Tariff policy 214 215 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Legal framework of tariff regulation Tariffs for services of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is carrying out regulated activities in St. Petersburg and the suburbs. Tariffs for 2012 are established by the instruction of the Tariff Comtariffs for cold water and wastewater disposal by the State Unitary mittee no. 374-r dated 29 November 2011 “On establishment of Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in 2012”. The legal framework and general principles of pricing and tariff The Tariff Committee issues a special instruction establishing tariffs regulation for public utilities are established by the Federal Law no. for Vodokanal water services for each customer group and each Cold water tariffs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in 2012 210-FZ dated 30 December 2004 “On Principles of Public Utility subsequent fiscal year. Tariffs Regulation” and the Decree of the RF Government no. 520 dated 14 July 2008 “On Pricing Principles and Regulation of Tariffs, In addition, the Tariff Committee sets payment for connection to cold Cold water tariffs, RUB/m3 Customer groups Tariffs for wasteSurcharges and Limiting Indices to Be Used by Public Utilities”. water and sewerage networks of newly constructed (reconstructed) Period water services, real estate units (buildings, structures, facilities and other units). Potable water Utility water RUB/m3 Under the current law, the tariffs for municipal water companies are regulated at the federal level by the Federal Tariff Authority. This Meeting the information disclosure standards approved by the from 01.01.2012 to 30.06.2012 13,37 13,37 federal executive body is authorized to exercise legal control over Government of the Russian Federation Decree no. 1140 dated 30 the national regulation of prices (tariffs) for services and to moniDecember 2009, the approved tariffs are published in the magazine from 01.07.2012 to 31.08.2012 Municipal service 14,17 14,17 tor the use thereof; it sets the average price change limits for the “Newsletter of St. Petersburg Tariff Committee” dated 8 December providers subjects of the Russian Federation. 2011, published at the official website of the Tariff Committee of St. from 01.09.2012 to 31.12.2012 15,02 15,02 Petersburg and at the website of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. At the level of the subject of the Russian Federation, supervision from 01.01.2012 to 30.06.2012 15,78 15,78 and control of tariff activity of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is exercised by the St. Petersburg Tariff Committee. from 01.07.2012 to 31.08.2012 Population 16,72 16,72 (including VAT) Principles of tariff policy from 01.09.2012 to 31.12.2012 17,72 17,72 The Federal Law no. 210-FZ dated 30 December 2004 establishes • motivate reduction of production costs, improve economic effrom 01.01.2012 to 30.06.2012 18,70 3,38 21,74 the following general principles of tariff regulation: ficiency of operations and the use of energy saving technologies by the public utilities; from 01.07.2012 to 31.08.2012 Other customers 18,70 3,38 21,74 • the balance of interests between the public utility and its customfrom 01.09.2012 to 31.12.2012 18,70 3,38 21,74 ers should be reached to ensure affordability of goods and ser• create conditions as required for the raising of investments in vices provided by the public utility and, at the same time, efficient order to develop and upgrade the infrastructure of public utilities; work of the public utility; Note: the tariffs are shown without the value-added tax except for the “Population” group tariffs • full repayment of the costs incurred by a public utility in the pro• the tariffs and surcharges should cover financial needs of the cess of implementing its production and investment program; In 2012, the tariffs were set with the calendar breakdown: public utility as required for the implementation of its production and investment programs; • accessibility of information on the structure of tariffs and sur• From January 1, 2012, the tariffs were kept at the level of 2011; • From 01.07.2012 to 01.09.2012 the tariffs were increased for charges. municipal service providers (population) by 6%. 216 217 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Moreover, in the framework of implementation of the Federal Law ers” and the population was increased by 5%. At the same time, in Reasons for tariff increase no. 185-FZ of July 21, 2007 “On the Fund of Assistance of Refor2012, the tariffs for cold water, wastewater disposal and wastewater mation of the Housing and Communal Sector” under the agreed treatment for “Other customers” group were kept at the level of schedules, the Tariff Committee of St. Petersburg envisaged a 2011. When planning financial activity of Vodokanal, the total expenditures • For provision of services by the Company departments: step-by-step elimination of cross-subsidization between the groups include material costs. The latter are estimated on the basis of: of “Municipal service providers” (Population) and industrial customFollowing the results of 2012, average weighted tariff growth rate -planned depreciation of the existing and newly commissioned ers – “Other customers” group. The annual average tariff rate for was 2.9% in comparison with the average weighted tariff of 2011; • For purchase of materials, works and services: fixed assets; cold water and wastewater disposal for “Municipal service providthis value is lower than the inflation rate. -state-regulated tariffs (prices) or their projected values officially -payroll costs based on the planned number of employees. communicated by a relevant tariff (price) regulating authority; -forecasted price change indices by sectors of industry; The main reasons for tariff increase are as follows: Connection tariffs -forecasted consumer price indices officially published by the • Sufficient growth of expenditures for energy, fuel, gas and heat Russian Ministry of Economic Development; energy due to the tariff increase for above listed resources. Tariffs for connection of newly constructed (reconstructed) real Petersburg” in 2012-2014 are established by the Instruction of the estate units (buildings, structures, facilities and other units) to cold Tariff Committee no. 381-r dated 29 November 2011 -macroeconomic indicators of forecasted socio-economic devel• Inflation causes rise in the costs for materials and services water supply and sewerage systems of SUE “Vodokanal of St. opment approved by the Government of the Russian Federaneeded to implement the company production activity. tion’s subject in consideration of specific features of regional Tariffs for connection of newly constructed (reconstructed) real estate units (buildings, structures, facilities and other units) development; • Increase of amortization expenses due to introduction of fixed to Vodokanal’s cold water supply and sewerage systems in 2012-2014, RUB/m3/hour assets under the production and investment programs -actual price trend (the soundness of such calculation should be confirmed by a relevant regulatory body). Description Connected capacity Connected capacity Connected capacity under 4.17 m3/hour 4.17-41.67 m3/hour over41.67 m3/hour (inclusively) Cold water supply 714000,00 711600,00 709200,00 Wastewater disposal 738000,00 735600,00 733200,00 Note: the tariffs are shown without the VAT. The charge for connection to Vodokanal networks is calculated, in declared demand (in m3/hour) and connection tariff. compliance with the Decree of the Russian Government, Articles In 2012, connection tariffs were not raised and were at the level 14.1 and 14.2, no. 360 dated 9 June 2007 “On Approving the Rules of 2009 – 2011. of Public Contracts Execution and Performance”, as the product of 218 219 Financial Statements 220 221 Calendar of events 2012 About the company Results of activities in 2012 Annual report 2012 Innovations Social responsibility Tariff policy Financial statements Main financial indicators of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Indicators, Mio. RUB 2008 year 2009 year 2010 year 2011 year 2012 year Indicators 2008 year 2009 year 2010 year 2011 year 2012 year Turnover 16720 18413 20060 22797 23649 Current ratio (standard: 1 to 2) 2,0 1,6 1,1 1,3 1,4 Operating costs 14123 15484 17694 19853 19546 Cash ratio (0.2 or higher) 0,2 0,2 0,2 0,3 0,6 Operating profit 2597 2929 2366 2944 4103 Net profit 24 72 379 404 1074 Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains a rather high level of solvency the standard range meaning that the Company has sufficient funds which is evidenced by the fact that its profitability ratios are within for current payments. Profitability of core operations, % 18,4 18,9 13,4 14,8 21,0 Due to the growth of its main financial indicators over the recent high compared with that of other municipal utilities. The company Indicators 2008 year 2009 year 2010 year 2011 year 2012 year years Vodokanal can finance different actions aimed to achieve the profit was used for connection to water supply and sewerage netservice quality targets in line with the long-term company developworks implemented under the investment program. Equity to Total Assets 0,84 0,87 0,88 0,90 0,88 ment strategy. The indicator “profitability of core operations” is Financial Leverage 0,16 0,13 0,14 0,11 0,14 Vodokanal is a company with a high capital coefficient. The share The Equity to Total Assets Ratio is high which means that the Comof fixed assets in the balance sheet structure is over 90%. pany capital structure is stable. 222 223 BALANCE SHEET CODES ClassifiItem Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December OKUD 0710001 cations 2012 2011 2010 as of 31 December 2012 Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 Organization SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” OKPO 03323809 structures, transfer devices 1152 114 857 627 105 019 925 91 879 569 Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 90.00.1, 41.00.1, machinery and equipment, vehicles 1153 7 148 391 6 607 662 5 815 150 41.00.2, 85.11, Type of business OKVED 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 6,10 Construction in progress 1154 18 059 305 15 428 773 16 344 349 Form of incorporation / Type of ownership Income-bearing investments in inventories 1160 State Unitary Enterprise / RF subject owned OKOPF/OKES 42 13 Unit of measurement: ’000 RUB OKEI 384 7, 2.4 Financial investments 1170 395 879 118 110 63 870 Location (adress) 42, Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg, 191015 2.16 Deferred tax assets 1180 396 148 381 877 361 766 8 other non-current assets 1190 125 897 105 350 93 943 ClassifiItem Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December Section I, TOTAL 1100 160 578 575 144 808 147 128 027 574 cations 2012 2011 2010 1 2 3 4 5 6 ASSETS I.NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1, 2.2 Intangible assets 1110 215 013 207 592 156 093 2, 2.2 R&D results 1120 3 167 2 279 4 232 Intangible development assets 1130 Fixed development assets 1140 3-6, 10. Fixed assets 1150 159 442 471 143 992 939 127 347 670 2.3 from Line 1150: buildings 1151 19 139 393 16 679 513 13 067 473 224 225 BALANCE SHEET ClassifiItem Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December ClassifiItem Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December cations 2012 2011 2010 cations 2012 2011 2010 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 BALANCE 1600 175 880 233 154 910 361 135 519 409 II.CURRENT ASSETS LIABILITIES 9, 2.5 Inventories 1210 1 767 648 1 718 962 1 292 440 2.8 III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES from Line 1210 Registered capital 1310 3 475 580 1 467 627 1 167 627 Raw materials, materials, etc. 1211 784 320 769 228 618 691 Own shares bought out from shareholders 1320 Deferred expenses 1212 983 328 949 734 673 749 Revaluation of non-current assets 1340 88 630 171 88 719 533 85 679 921 Value-added tax on purchased valuables 1220 121 641 110 348 231 234 Additional capital (not revaluated) 1350 58 259 598 46 160 777 30 047 255 from Line 1350 10, 2.6 Accounts receivable 1230 6 652 670 5 688 978 4 491 515 Special-purpose receipts 1351 7 072 029 6 500 138 4 493 212 from Line 1230 Reserve fund 1360 86 339 80 356 60 167 Accounts receivable due beyond 12 months after 1231 1 232 155 707 059 418 315 the reporting date Undistributed profit (uncovered loss) 1370 2 352 430 1 249 067 883 143 Section III, TOTAL 1300 152 804 118 137 677 360 117 838 113 from Line 1231 Buyers and Clients 12311 29 884 76 436 95 954 Accounts receivable where payments are 1232 5 420 515 4 981 919 4 073 200 expected within 12 months after the reporting date from Line1232 Buyers and Clients 12321 4 684 707 3 990 130 3 158 544 7, 2.4 Financial investments (other than cash 1240 922 000 equivalents) 2.7 Monetary resources and cash equivalents 1250 5 837 699 2 583 926 1 476 646 Other current assets 1260 Section II, TOTAL 1200 15 301 658 10 102 214 7 491 865 226 227 BALANCE SHEET ClassifiClassifications Item Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December cations Item Code As of 31 December As of 31 December As of 31 December 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES payroll debt 1522 156 934 149 841 133 102 2.10 Borrowings 1410 9 860 025 7 440 358 7 814 639 debt to state extra-budgetary funds 1523 71 188 64 334 41 313 from Line 1410 tax arrears 1524 1 144 173 1 050 881 198 546 Loans repayable beyond 12 months after the 1411 7 866 025 5 446 358 5 813 223 other creditors 1525 3 877 026 2 175 567 910 298 reporting date Credits repayable beyond 12 months after the 1412 1 994 000 1 994 000 2 001 416 Deferred income 1530 2 061 092 1 774 136 1 864 252 reporting date 12, 2.11 Estimated liabilities 1540 547 257 493 265 429 608 2.16 Deferred tax liabilities 1420 180 359 98 560 84 647 Other liabilities 1550 Estimated liabilities 1430 Section V, TOTAL 1500 13 035 731 9 694 083 9 020 273 Other liabilities 1450 761 737 Section IV, TOTAL 1400 10 040 384 7 538 918 8 661 023 BALANCE 1700 175 880 233 154 910 361 135 519 409 V. SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES 2.10 Borrowings 1510 2 860 483 832 633 1 710 427 from Line 1510 Loans repayable within less than 12 months after 1511 2 850 129 823 239 1 296 729 the reporting date Credits repayable within less than 12 months 1512 10 354 9 394 413 698 Director General F.V. Karmazinov after the reporting date (signature) (name) 11, 2.9 Accounts payable 1520 7 566 899 6 594 049 5 015 986 Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) from Line 1520 29 March 2013 suppliers and contractors 1521 2 317 578 3 153 426 3 732 727 228 229 INCOME STATEMENT CODES ClassifiItem Code 2012 2011 OKUD 0710002 cations as of 2012 Date (day, month, year) 31 12 2012 03323809 Before-tax profit (loss) 2300 2107249 1181235 Organization SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” OKPO Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 2.16 Current profit tax 2410 (966106) (783238) Type of business OKVED 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 2.16 incl. constant tax liabilities (assets) 2421 (612003) (539570) Form of incorporation/ Type of ownership OKOPF/OKFS 42 13 State Unitary Enterprise/RF subject owned 2.16 Change of deferred tax liabilities 2430 (81907) (13766) Unit of measurement: ’000 RUB OKEI 384 2.16 Change of deferred tax assets 2450 14560 21187 2.16 Other 2460 (192) (1634) ClassifiItem Code 2012 2011 cations Net profit (loss) 2400 1073604 403784 2.14 Turnover 2110 23649007 22797415 FOR REFERENCE 13, 2.15 Cost of sales 2120 (19546351) (19853247) Result of non-current assets revaluation not included 2510 3111904 into the net profit (loss) of the period Gross profit (loss) 2100 4102656 2944168 Result of other transactions not included into the net 2520 profit (loss) of the period Commercial expenses 2210 Cumulative financial result of the period 2500 1073604 3515688 Administrative expenses 2220 Base profit (loss) per share 2900 Sales profit (loss) 2200 4102656 2944168 Diluted earnings (loss) per share 2910 Income from participation in other organizations 2310 2211 580 Interest receivable 2320 3935 2923 Director General F.V. Karmazinov (signature) (name) Interest payable 2330 (363806) (494824) 2.14 Other income 2340 786925 667373 Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 29 March 2013 2.15 Other expenses 2350 (2424672) (1938985) 230 231 КОНТАКТНАЯ ИНФОРМАЦИЯ ГОДОВОЙ ОТЧЕТ 2012 Contact Information State Unitary Enterprise Burevestnik Sanatorium: “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”: Office in St. Petersburg: 42, Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg 191015, Russia Lit. A, 7, Zelenkov per Tel.: +7 (812) 274-16-79, Fax +7 (812) 274-13-61 (Documents Division) Tel./Fax: +7 (812) 438-44-85 e-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru e-mail: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru – Personnel Department (for CVs) Office in Luga: Website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru 16, Zapadnaya Street Tel. +7 (813-72) 4-33-03, 2-36-60 Hot line – +7 (812) 305-09-09 Customer Service Center Branch “Medical Center” Branch Treatment & Diagnostic Center Lit.A, 21, Gakkelevskaya str., St. Petersburg Open hours: 9.00 a.m. – 6.00 p.m. Lit. Я, 42, Kavalergardskaya str. +7 (812) 702-12-98 – Reception room, Tel. +7 (812) 438-44-20, 326 52 78 +7 (812) 329-34-51 (-52, -59, -68, -74, Fax – 329-34-62) consultancy on calculations, Open hours: Monday-Friday, 8.00 a.m. 8.00 p.m., +7 (812) 438-44-17 consultancy on prolongation and amendment of the agreements on potable water supply, Saturday and Sunday – closed. wastewater and pollutants receive (“unified” agreements), +7 (812) 438-44-11; +7 (812) 326-52-32 consultancy on connection to the networks. Treatment & Diagnostic Center (including X-Ray Diagnostics Department): The detailed contact information can be found at the official website of the company: http://www.vodokanal.spb.ru in “For Block 2, 103, Moskovsky Prospect, St. Petersburg. customers” page. el. +7 (812) 438-47-77, 326-52-78 Open hours: seven days a week, 8.00 a.m. -10.00 p.m. Museum complex “The Universe of Water”: Dental Clinic: 56, Shpalernaya str. (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”) Lit. AK, 56, Shpalernaya str. Tel.: +7 (812) 438-43-75, 275-43-25, 438-43-01 Tel. +7 (812) 326-53-19 Open hours: Wednesday-Sunday (Monday and Tuesday– closed). Open hours: Monday-Friday, 9.00 a.m. 9.00 p.m., The museum is open 10.00 a.m. -7.00 p.m. Tickets can be bought till 6.30 p.m. Saturday: 9.00 a.m. 3.00 p.m., Website: www.vodokanal-museum.ru Sunday – closed. E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru Youth Environmental Center of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”: Website : www.med-vdk.ru 56, Shpalernaya str., (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”) Orlovski Sanatorium Tel. +7 (812) 438-43-96 3a, Novo-Narvskoe shosse, Strelna E-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru Tel. +7 (812) 421-40-71 Website: www.vodokanal-ecocenter.ru Website: orlovskiy.med-vdk.ru Tel.: 8 (812) 421-40-71 Website: www.orlovskiy.spb.ru 232 233
