SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Introduction SCA at a glance ............................................................. flap Value for people Value for people .............................................................. 42 CEO’s message .. ............................................................... 2 Code of Conduct ............................................................ 46 The SCA sustainability effect ........................................ 4 Supply chain .................................................................... 50 – Drivers and trends ........................................................ 6 Health and safety . . .......................................................... 52 – Stakeholder dialog........................................................ 8 Employee relations . . ....................................................... 56 – Materiality analysis .................................................... 12 Community involvement ............................................... 58 – Strategy ........................................................................ 14 Control and assurance – Targets and outcome .. ............................................... 16 Sustainable governance ............................................... 60 Value chain ....................................................................... 18 Environmental data ........................................................ 62 Economic value creation Social data ....................................................................... 70 Economic value creation............................................... 20 About this report ............................................................. 71 Stakeholders ................................................................... 22 Assurance report ............................................................ 72 Shareholders ................................................................... 23 Global Compact Report .. .............................................. 73 Sustainable business .................................................... 24 GRI Index .......................................................................... 74 Sustainable innovations .. .............................................. 26 Glossary .. .......................................................................... 76 Addresses Value for nature Value for nature ............................................................... 30 Climate and energy ........................................................ 32 About this report Biofuel and wind power.. ................................................. 34 SCA publishes a separate sustainability report each year. Fiber sourcing .. ................................................................ 36 The report describes the environmental, social and economic perspectives of SCA’s sustainability ­initiatives, and is aimed at Biodiversity........................................................................ 38 specialist audiences with an interest in SCA’s sustainability Water usage ..................................................................... 39 performance, i­ncluding analysts, investors and NGOs. As of Waste . . ............................................................................... 40 2008, SCA is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. The Product safety ................................................................. 41 ­sustainability report represents the Group’s Communication on Progress, describing SCA’s work to address the Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, working conditions, the environment and anticorruption. The Global Reporting ­Initiative guidelines, level A+, are applied in this report, and the GRI content index (pages 74–75) provides a cross-reference to the indicators included in the report. The entire report has been reviewed by PwC. All data in this report has been collected over the 2012 calendar year, and covers the SCA Group, including wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. For further information regarding the sustainability report and its reporting principles, see page 71. Recognition SCA was named one of the world’s most SCA is included in the Dow Jones SCA is included in the Carbon SCA has been listed on the FTSE4Good ­global ethical com­panies by the Ethisphere Sustainability Index, one of the D ­ isclosure Leadership Index. sustain­ability index since 2001. Institute. world’s most prestigious sustain­ ability indexes. SCA is on the Fortune Most Admired SCA became a UN Global SCA is a member of the World In WWF’s Environmental Paper ­Company Companies list, ranked third in the C ­ ompact member in 2008. B ­ usiness Council for Sustainable Index 2011 SCA had the highest score in both ­Forestry and Paper class, and number Development (wbcsd). in the tissue and packaging categories. one in this class for social responsibility. SCA is listed on the Global Challenges SCA is a constituent of ECPI SCA is included in the indexes SCA was awarded for Best Sustainability Index. ­indices. OMX GES ­Sustainability Nordic and Report 2011 by FAR (the professional institute OMX GES ­Sustainability Sweden. for authorized public accountants in Sweden. Business areas Share of net sales (share of Group) Personal Care, 30% SCA is a leading that deve Tissue, 49 % Forest Products, 21 % Total Group: SEK 85,408m Share of operating profit (share of Group) Personal Care, 35 % Tissue, 50 % Forest Products, 15 % Total Group: SEK 8,646m Excluding items affecting comparability. “I believe that people and nature are meant to co-exist. We have a responsibility to take care of nature so nature can take care of us. Even before it became popular for com­ panies to be ‘green’, SCA was committed to raising the awareness and importance of creating value from nature.” Bernice Cator, Laboratory Engineer in Philadelphia, USA Europe (including Africa) 2012 20111) Employee age distribution Asia3) 2012 20111) Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm 62,538 57,013 % 40 Net sales, SEKm 5,000 4,113 % 40 Average no. of employees 22,149 20,357 30 Average no. of employees 2,531 1,862 30 Women, % 25 26 20 Women, % 60 60 20 Salaries2), SEKm 9,303 8,271 10 Salaries2), SEKm 359 282 10 Social security costs, SEKm 2,705 2,301 0 Social security costs, SEKm 46 43 0 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ Americas 2012 20111) Employee age distribution SCA Group total 2012 20111) Employee age distribution Net sales, SEKm 17,870 16,130 % 40 Net sales, SEKm 85,408 81,337 % 40 Average no. of employees 8,446 8,038 30 Average no. of employees 33,775 31,646 30 Women, % 30 32 20 Women, % 29 29 20 Salaries2), SEKm 2,312 2,258 10 Salaries2), SEKm 12,241 11,850 10 Social security costs, SEKm 696 620 0 Social security costs, SEKm 3,446 3,094 0 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 0–20 21–30 31–40 41–50 51–60 60+ 1) 2011 adjusted for the divestment of SCA’s packaging operations, excluding the two liner mills in Sweden. 2) And other personnel costs. 3) Excluding joint-venture in Australia and New Zealand. global hygiene and forest products company lops and produces sustainable personal care,­ tissue and f­orest products. Personal Care Tissue Forest Products The business area comprises three The business area comprises two product The business area comprises five product ­product segments: incontinence products, segments: consumer tissue and Awaysegments: publication papers, kraftliner baby diapers and feminine care. ProducFrom-Home (AFH) tissue. Production is (packaging papers), pulp, solid-wood tion is conducted at 30 facilities in 25 conducted at 55 facilities in 23 countries. ­products and renewable energy. Produccountries. tion is conducted at 20 facilities. Products are mainly sold in Europe, but also in Asia, North Africa and North America. 36,000 ­employees A symbolic journey with the brand in focus SCA has decided to participate in the 2014–2015 edition of the Volvo Ocean 85 Race. Participation in the event aims to promote the SCA brand and the Group’s product brands. The Volvo Ocean Race is the most demanding sailing competi­ Annual sales of SEK billion tion in the world, while it also provides a unique global marketing 100 platform. Just like in business, qualities such as interper­ sonal skills, leadership and the ability to define a success­ SCA has sales in about countries ful strategy are decisive factors for the outcome. One of SCA’s sustainability ambitions is to support wom­ strong brands en’s rights to live their lives on their own terms, which is one of the reasons why the Group has Many chosen to participate with an all-female crew. The Volvo Ocean Race is a symbol for the journey of change that SCA is under­ going – in cultural, organizational and ­commercial terms. Highlights 2012 • Acquired Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue • SCA achieved 100% control of the origins of ­operations. fresh fiber-based materials. • Divested packaging business, excluding the two • Rolled our global Code of Conduct awareness kraftliner mills in Sweden. ­campaign. ­ • Launched new sustainability targets for SCA. • All major SCA facilities reported in the Sedex • Decided to invest in a biofuel lime kiln at ­Munksund ­ethical database. kraftliner mill in Sweden. • SCA and E.ON signed an agreement to establish a wind power cooperation. Construction commenced on the first wind farms as part of the ­Statkraft ­collaboration. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 1 Introduction | CEO’s message Sustainability – part of our business model Sustainability not only forms an integral part of SCA’s operations, it is also part A company in transition – a journey into the future of our business model. Our sustainability program is based on financial, environ­ In 2012, SCA completed two historically impor­ mental and social value creation – all of which hold equal importance in efforts tant corporate transactions: the acquisition of to create a successful company. Furthermore, the business model is underGeorgia-Pacific’s European tissue operation and the divestment of our packaging business, pinned by our strategic priorities: efficiency, innovation and growth. excluding the two kraftliner mills in Sweden. We purchased the Asian hygiene company Ever­ Delivering value and return to our shareholders, and we use our sustainability program to help our beauty and sold our paper mill in Aylesford in the both in the long and short term, is fundamental customers strengthen their market positions and UK. We also signed an agreement to sell the for SCA. To ensure the company’s relevance in fulfill their own sustainability targets. The Empire Austrian publiation paper mill in Laakirchen. The the future, it is important to understand the link State Building in the US is one such customer; end result is an SCA that is somewhat smaller between financial return and value creation for SCA’s Tork products played a part in the environ­ than before in terms of sales and number of people and the environment. Global macro mental certification of the building (LEED). employees, but with full focus on hygiene and trends, such as population growth, an aging Our sustainability initiatives not only forest products. population, higher standards of living, shortage strengthen the SCA brand, they also play a During the year, the hygiene business carried of resources and climate change, are altering the vital role for our product brands, such as Tork, out a major reorganization at the same time as conditions for our business operations. TENA, Libero, Libresse and Lotus. Our innova­ we launched comprehensive efficiencyAddressing these opportunities and challenges tion work is governed by sustainability criteria enhancement and savings programs in both the using a sustainable business model creates new and our efforts to attain various types of certifi­ hygiene and the forest products operations. opportunities for efficiency enhancements, cation to facilitate the choice of brand for the These major restructuring efforts will facili­ innovation and growth. consumer. tate continued and future growth and profitabil­ ity, but will also naturally entail a considerable Business value New ambitious sustainability targets strain on our employees and our organization. When we use our resources efficiently, we Our ambition is to improve hygiene standards I have been impressed with the ability of employ­ reduce our environmental footprint and our across the globe and to minimize our environ­ ees to continuously put the interests of the cus­ costs. In 2012, for example, we decided to invest mental impact. Through our hygiene and forest tomer and consumers first, to focus on innova­ SEK 490m in a lime kiln at the kraftliner mill in products operations, we have a unique opportu­ tion and to act as professionally as always. Munksund, resulting in annual cost savings of nity to make a real difference for people and the There is a great inherent sense of pride and approximately SEK 50m and a 75% reduction in environment. We do this through our products strength in our corporate culture and this is fossil carbon emissions. and offerings, and also via comprehensive edu­ something we at SCA continously build on! By effectively managing our business and cation initiatives to raise knowledge of hygiene’s supply chain, we save money and reduce the significance for health and well-being as well as Standing up for who we are risk of corruption and health and safety viola­ breaking taboos surrounding conditions such as At SCA, it has always been our belief that we tions. We do this by continuously educating incontinence. should be as transparent as possible. By provid­ people in our Code of Conduct and expanding To further raise ambitions in the sustainability ing a clear picture of the direction we are taking, our review of compliance. In 2012, audits were area and to cascade these ambitions into meas­ we enable our stakeholders to better under­ carried out in Russia, the US, Sweden and urable milestones, we launched a number of stand our business and we form the basis for Poland. Our plans for 2013 include increasing new sustainability targets last year. We have establishing the stakeholder dialog that is so the number of audits and continuing our report­ selected the targets on the basis of what is most important for our continued development as a ing in the global Sedex ethical database, both in relevant for SCA’s business and our stakehold­ company. SCA’s own operations and in our supply chain. ers. Measurable targets make it easier to under­ We know that, in essence, there are only a Being recognized as a sustainable company stand how sustainability contributes to busi­ few unique ideas. What sets high-performing makes SCA an attractive employer and instills ness. The targets have a value in themselves – companies apart from average ones is the exe­ employees with a sense of pride. The sustaina­ if something is measured, it gets done! – and cution itself – doing the right things, doing the bility requirements of investors regarding the they are by no means static; the related efforts right things, surpassing customer and consumer companies in which they invest are becoming will be concluded when the targets have been expectations, and being innovative and quick. more stringent. Customers and consumers are achieved and new targets will be added as the These insights are the reason why we are requesting sustainable products and services need arises. increasingly focusing on using open innovation 2 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 CEO’s message | Introduction through collaboration with external parties to the sixth consecutive year, we were named ­further strengthen our market positions and develop our offerings. Such partnerships make one of the world’s most ethical companies by continue to provide opportunities for growth us stronger and enable us to intelligently use the US think tank Ethisphere Institute and we and value ­creation. resources. were once again included in the prestigious In 2008, SCA signed the UN Global Compact Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes. The Swedish and, in 2012, we became a member of the World Organisation of Certified Public Accountants Business Council for Sustainable Development, (FAR) named our 2011 sustainability report as WBCSD, which further confirms our commitment the best in Sweden. We endeavor to do the to sustainability. right things, surpass the expectations of our stakeholders and work to achieve continuous Proof that we are doing the right things improvements with clear and measurable goals. We are continuously reminded that we are Combined with an in-depth understanding ­leading the way in the sustainability area. For of global trends, I am convinced that we will Jan Johansson, President and CEO SCA Sustainability Report 2012 3 Introduction | The SCA sustainability effect The SCA sustainability effect Care and respect for people and nature are ­absolutely Economy central to SCA’s way of working. This is the lens we use to look at the world – from the big ­picture right down to the finer points of harvesting a forest, ­testing a new innovation or designing a new diaper. It means we constantly challenge ourselves to deliver solutions that make a difference to everyday life. And we have found that it is amazing what you can achieve when living our ­values of respect, excellence and Nature People responsibility. Drivers 1 Population growth, higher standards of living, shortages of resources and climate change are the macro trends that are Dialog with external players 2 ­rapidly altering the conditions for SCA’s business operations. By analyzing the external environment and trends, we capitalize on these drivers to create long-term sustainable growth. page 6 Millions of people across the globe have an impact on and an interest in our business. SCA believes that an active and constructive dialog with our stake­ holders improves the way we formulate and implement our business strategy and helps us understand the needs and expectations that exist in the com­ munities in which we operate. page 8 4 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 The SCA sustainability effect | Introduction Our choice of direction 3 Our materiality analysis highlights the issues that are ­significant to the company and forms the basis for SCA’s ­sustainability Strategy 4 SCA’s sustainability strategy is an integral part of our business strat­ egy, based on economic, environmental and social value creation. program. The 2012 analysis lists the factors that are most Our ambitions for people and nature describe what we want to achieve important to stakeholders in com­bination with our own percep­ in the long term. tion of the relevance of the area for our business strategy. page 10 page 12 Target and results 5 In 2012, we launched a number of new sustainability targets that were chosen on the basis of what is most relevant to SCA’s business and our stakeholders. Ambitious and clear targets serve as an excellent means to drive and guide operations. Measureable targets also make it easier for those outside the ­company to understand how sustainability contributes to the business. page 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 5 Introduction | Drivers Driving forces – a changing world offers new opportunities Global macrotrends, from population increases and higher living standards, to resource shortages and ­climate change, rapidly change the conditions for SCA’s business operations. By analyzing the external environment and trends, SCA can leverage the drivers, thus enabling the creation of long-term sustainable growth. MORE AND OLDER When SCA was founded in 1929, the world’s population was about ­2 ­billion. Today, we are 7 billion. According to figures from the UN, the global population will reach 9 billion by 2050. We are also getting older. Over the coming decade, the number of people over the age of 65 will increase by 33%. This generates demand for incontinence products and other hygiene products. HIGHER STANDARD OF LIVING Improved economic conditions around the world mean new opportunities for consumers, especially in emerging markets such as Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. Those who do not have the same financial possibilities nonetheless want to have access to the same hygiene products, freedom to choose and the right to the same degree of well-being as those who live in coun­ tries with a more developed market. SCA sees opportunities to generate growth and profitability with new business models and relevant offerings for consumers with limited resources. HEALTH AND HYGIENE As healthcare services struggle to meet the increasing demands from a growing and aging population, it becomes even more important to improve standards and products in health and hygiene. Poor or no access to hygiene and sanitation is one of the greatest global challenges to be resolved. Here, hygiene products are an important part of the solution. 6 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Drivers | Introduction FOREST MANAGEMENT WATER SHORTAGE 1 Every year, seven million hectares or 0.2% of all The UN predicts that two-thirds of the forest areas globally is deforested. Illegal log­ world’s population may live in areas with ging and timber from controversial sources water shortages in 2025. Access to water is threaten the forests of the world and biological critical for people, industries, agriculture and diversity. Checking the origin of the wood raw food production. A large proportion of SCA’s material is therefore extremely important. Sus­ production processes are dependent on tainably managed forests are one of the world’s access to water. A great deal of focus is few renewable resources. Growing forests also thereby placed on effective water consump­ absorb carbon dioxide and counteract climate tion and purifying processes. Special focus changes. SCA has goals for both preservation of is placed on reducing water consumption in biological diversity and responsible use of wood the mills that are located in water-stressed raw material. SCA’s forests have an annual net areas. growth of 1% and are FSC and PEFC certified. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Access to energy has become a strategic issue in most countries in the world. The Inter­ national Energy Agency (IEA) predicts that the need for energy will increase by 36% up to 2035, which will probably entail higher costs and shortages in some cases. Since SCA is a large energy consumer, it is important for the company and its competitiveness to con­ stantly work to streamline energy use. SCA conducts development in renewable energy, such as wind power and biofuels, in order to secure access to sustainable energy and reduce the risk of higher costs. CLIMATE CHANGES The climate issue is one of the most serious environmental and social problems facing the world. Authorities are setting targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and the private sector is expected to contribute. SCA has the target of reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 20% by 2020. Every year, the Group’s forest holdings net absorb 2.6 million tons of carbon dioxide, which exceeds the emissions from SCA’s production. CHANGED CONSUMER BEHAVIOR CHANGED MARKET BALANCE The planet’s limited resources, political prioritizations and more knowl­ Emerging markets are accounting for an increasing share of the global edgeable and aware customers and consumers increase demand for economy in pace with the development of the economies in these sustainable products and services. This drives SCA’s innovation of prod­ regions. In recent years, SCA has strengthened its presence in emerging ucts, services and business models to meet the growing demand for markets where a growing share of the Group’s future expansion will take sustainable consumption. place. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 7 Introduction | Stakeholder dialog Stakeholder dialog – stake in the ground Having a voice in the public debate and engaging in broad dialogue is crucial Nadine Viel Lamare for SCA – not only as a way to share insight and expertise but also as an Analyst, Sustainable Investments, First Swedish National Pension Fund opportunity to advocate for solutions to the global challenges shared by SCA “I have been monitoring SCA for a number of and its stakeholders. years now and I have always had a positive view of the company’s sustainability work. I have also seen that in recent years it has expanded its sustainability focus outside the company’s own operations to also encompass the supplier stage. SCA is active in an industry that not only has considerable sustainability challenges, but also business opportunities, which SCA has taken to heart. It is positive that sustainability is not regarded as something that is done ‘outside’ Roberto S. Waack of normal business operations, but rather is CEO Amata S.A. , Brazil viewed as a tool to achieve long-term financial growth, while there is also an ambition to make a “The Amata partnership with SCA relating to cialists, auditors, certifiers (all operations are positive contribution to the environment and the the Velvet Three Trees Program brought a new FSC certified), civil society activists and mar­ communities in which the company operates. It perspective on tropical forests to Brazil. keting professionals. This is the way we believe is worth noting that SCA’s customers also view Recovering degraded lands by planting native the global sustainability challenge should be sustainability work as an important parameter trees gave us the opportunity to involve differ­ tackled; creating new possibilities in the real when making purchasing decisions. ent sources of knowledge on how to plant and world, feet on the ground, hands on, relevant For me as an investor, transparency and clar­ maintain tropical trees and enable them to take scale, sharing knowledge, admitting mistakes, ity play an essential role in enabling me to effec­ back their former territory. 2012 marked the putting our brains together to solve something tively assess a company’s actual risks and what fourth year of the partnership in which close to that can make a real difference for the planet is being done to address these. It is obvious that five million trees have been planted and tens of and for people, while also making it economi­ the structured stakeholder dialog that SCA con­ millions of trees have been protected. SCA and cally attractive. The potential of the program is ducts with various groups has not only impacted Amata worked together to identify traditional immense and it has uses throughout the trop­ the way it approaches and works with sustaina­ knowledge on seed collection and germina­ ics, but also in the Northern hemisphere of our bility, but also its method of reporting on the sub­ tion. The project attracted the attention of planet. We learned a lot from SCA on how to ject. SCA’s transparent reporting on risks, stake­ research institutions and civil society organi­ access risks and leverage the opportunities holders’ perceptions of the company, targets zations that joined the effort to plant and main­ generated by such an innovative venture. We and target fulfillment not only creates credibility tain more than 15 Amazonian species of trees. are very proud of the project and so too is the for its sustainability efforts, but also increases Traditional cattle ranchers also participated in Brazilian forest community. There is a long way the internal understanding of the company’s the initiative. We were impressed by SCA’s to go and we are very pleased that – together chosen areas.” commitment to accessing and developing with SCA – the prospects are extensive.” know-how in the various areas. We were able to explore the opportunities presented by sus­ For more information on the Velvet Three Trees tainability with the assistance of local people, Program, see page 35. workers, scientists, foresters, financial spe­ Jacqueline Macalister Sustainable Supply, McDonald’s Europe “Our ambition at McDonald’s is to source all our sustainable wood fiber that’s recycled or from food and packaging sustainably. Achieving this sustainable forests, partnering on initiatives to goal requires a strong commitment from and drive down our paper consumption, optimizing strategic partnerships with our suppliers. SCA is the supply chain to reduce transportation dis­ a business that understands the sustainability tances and working with us to test closed loop agenda and has demonstrated its willingness to recycling. Their engagement with us is vital to incorporate it into their core business. SCA is a being able to achieve our sustainability goals in key partner supporting McDonald’s to source all of these areas.” 8 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholder dialog | Introduction As a leading global hygiene and forest products company. SCA considers (NGOs), trade associations and other networks and alliances. The com­ 2 it important to tackle shared global challenges in dialog with a wide variety pany is actively engaged in a number of issues and seeks to conduct all of stakeholders. This includes employees, customers and consumers, such interactions in a spirit of openness and transparency. governments and regulatory bodies, non-governmental organizations Stakeholder group 2012 activities Key areas How do we address the issues (page number) Customers Customer surveys Carbon footprint Life Cycle Assessments (26) Seminars Ecolabelling CO2 target (32) Human rights compliance Sourcing target (36) Fiber sourcing FSC certification (36, 38) Code of Conduct audits (47) Business Practice Reviews (47) Implementation of supplier standard (50) Consumers Consumer surveys Impact of products on people and LCAs including carbon footprint (26) Consumer research nature, for example, carbon footEco actions (www.libero.se/eco-actions, www.libresse.com, print, ecolabelling www.tena.com) Product safety (41) Chemicals (41) Employees Training Talent management Code of Conduct training (49) Feedback Performance management OHSAS 18001 certification (52) Workforce planning All employee survey (56) Compensation and benefits Diversity survey (57) Corruption Global Performance Management System (57) Health and Safety Investors SRI questionnaires ESG integration into business Inclusion in sustainability funds and indexes (23) One-on-one meetings ­strategy CO2 target (32) Telebriefings Energy efficiency ESAVE (32) Analyst interviews Risk management Code of Conduct audits and Business Practice Reviews (47) Roadshows Risk analysis (AR 56) Field visit Suppliers Supplier audits Raw material sourcing Sourcing target (36) Supplier questionnaires Supplier guidelines and standards (50) Supply chain assurance (50) Sedex reporting (50) NGOs Ongoing dialog Forest management FSC commitment (10) CO2 emissions Dialog with NGOs, such as WWF and the Swedish ­Society Energy utilization for Nature Conservation (11) Water supply Society Participation in industry initiatives SCA’s dialog with society Public affairs (10) and standardisation bodies Community involvement Stakeholder dialog (10) Ongoing dialog Membership in organizations (11) Community involvement Community relations initiatives (58) > SCA Sustainability Report 2012 9 Introduction | Stakeholder dialog In 2012, SCA developed a more systematic and coherent approach by all business units. Two relevant examples include a customer sat­ to public affairs and stakeholder engagement, conducting a risk isfaction survey in Italy with pharmacies and homes for the elderly on mapping and prioritization of key public policy issues and challenges incontinence care, and SCA Timber customer surveys in the UK. likely to impact the SCA Group over the next five years. The results In-depth consumer insight reveals issues of concern. SCA also are used to support future strategy development and related advo­ conducts quantitative market research and consumer visits in peo­ cacy. SCA has a dedicated global public affairs function across all ple’s homes to learn about their lives and interests. In North America, business units. Its aim is to monitor policy and legislative develop­ SCA completed a survey in which 53% of consumers surveyed said ments and identify opportunities to engage in ways that can lead to they prefer recycled napkins in restaurants. SCA’s numerous con­ a successful outcome for all relevant stakeholders. sumer hot lines and its complaint-handling procedures also provide valuable input for the company’s operations. Understanding stakeholder concerns To reach out to other key stakeholder groups, both internally and SCA has a broad product portfolio and a diverse range of customers, externally, SCA continuously engages in dialog with non-govern­ both end consumers and customers, such as retailers, companies, mental organizations (NGOs), regularly meets with investors and distributors, printing houses and healthcare institutions. With such analysts, and conducts employee satisfaction surveys. In addition, a varied customer base, relationships are managed by the business the company holds discussions with other groups and individuals on units, with support from the Group. SCA seeks to meet or exceed matters that impact both broader societal challenges and local com­ customers’ expectations and to gain insight into the issues that are munities, for instance, with the Sami communities that utilize parts of important to them. In order to gauge customers’ assessments of SCA’s forestland in northern Sweden for reindeer husbandry. SCA, customer satisfaction surveys are conducted and followed up Hygiene and healthcare new service models for elderly care are further data, trends and opinions around the agenda A key focus of SCA’s engagement with society developed (see p. 24). Similar outreach occurs “Strategies through life – an integrated approach concerns hygiene and health and SCA’s related globally, with activities initiated in 2012 in South to incontinence care.” products and services. The focus is on reaching Korea and many European countries facing the out to key opinion leaders in healthcare, in par­ challenges of an aging population. Forests at the center of debate ticular elderly care, SCA works to support the SCA takes its responsibility in the field of As Europe’s largest private forest owner, SCA development of sustainable incontinence care care for people suffering from incontinence as a considers that it has an important role to play in and hygiene promotion programs. major priority. The company is committed to engaging with stakeholders on a variety of The World Health Organization (WHO) has clas­ raising the awareness of incontinence and creat­ issues, such as illegal logging, forest certifica­ sified incontinence as a set of diseases. The ing better provisions for people with this condi­ tion, and related environmental policy and legis­ classification entails that incontinence care tion, within the health and social care systems of lation. With Europe as SCA’s main market, and products can be prescribed at a subsidized price the different countries. One of the ways of the European Union’s leading role in developing or free of charge, signifying major improvements achieving this is SCA’s support to the Global environmental regulation with global impacts, in countries where such aids were previously not Forum on Incontinence (GFI). The GFI is a plat­ many of the company’s efforts are directed offered, for example, in certain Eastern European form for education and debate around inconti­ towards EU institutions. countries and the Asia Pacific Region. nence care for stakeholders in the incontinence With SCA being one of the largest provider of As governments are important customers care arena, including medical experts, policy­ FSC-certified (Forest Stewardship Council) for­ and stakeholders for SCA, the global public makers and sponsors. est products globally, fiber sourcing policies and healthcare debate is of primary concern to the In April 2012, SCA hosted the 4th Global forest certification programs are a critical issue. company, particularly as patient-centered care, Forum on Incontinence in Copenhagen. This SCA seeks to have a prominent voice on these community care and other healthcare models event was attended by more than 450 people issues and, in 2012, SCA Sustainability Director that benefit patients and reduce healthcare from around the world, including governmental Hans Djurberg was named as a member of the costs are further developed. SCA works to representatives, policymakers, health insurance board of FSC International. FSC is regarded by actively communicate with decision makers in companies, leading clinicians, patient and care many as one of the leading platforms for certifi­ countries where new structures are being built. organizations, and other stakeholders. A faculty cation, both globally and nationally. For instance, SCA is working to strengthen rela­ of world opinion leaders from globally recog­ In 2012, SCA joined the World Business tionships with the Chinese Ministry of Health as nized centers of excellence presented the latest Council for Sustainable Development, WBCSD, 10 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholder dialog | Introduction Memberships SCA is a member of a large number of asso­ ciations, organizations and networks that • • International Water Association Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) 2 discuss issues material to the Group’s busi­ • European Branded Goods Trade ness. These include: ­Association (AIM) • The World Business Council for Sustain­ • European organisation for medical able Development (WBCSD) devices (EUCOMED) • The UN Global Compact and Global • The Human Rights network in Sweden Compact Nordic Network • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Inter­ SCA is also active through the appropriate national and the Swedish branch of FSC trade associations in standardization activi­ • Confederation of European Paper Indus­ ties in ISO (International Organization for tries (CEPI) Standardization), and CEN (European Com­ • The Swedish Forest Industries Federa­ mittee for Standardization). tion (SFIF) • Programme for the Endorsement of For­ est Certification International (PEFC) • European Disposables and Nonwovens Association (EDANA) • European Tissue Symposium (ETS) SCA supports the Global Forum on Incontinence, a platform for education and debate around incontinence care. and is a member of their Forest Solutions Group. holder dialog in the broader energy policy The group is engaged in multi-stakeholder dia­ debate and supports the move towards a bioOther environmental concerns logs driving a broad spectrum of sustainability economy. SCA recently joined the European Climate change is high on the agenda of initiatives at all stages of the forest product sup­ Bio-based Industries Public-Private Partner­ SCA stakeholders and the company ply chain. Increasing competition for food, fuel, ship. Its aim is to spur sustainable growth and closely follows developments. SCA par­ fiber, forests and fresh water pose critical chal­ boost Europe’s competitiveness by building new ticipates in the EU Emissions Trading lenges to the forest sector. Sustainable forest value chains based on the development of sus­ System and tracks developments and management is essential to meet future tainable biomass collection and supply ­systems. emerging policies within the climate demands for forest-based products while pre­ Every year, SCA also holds dialogs with envi­ debate. Sustainable consumption and serving biodiversity and forest ecosystems and ronmental NGOs that share concerns for the production are also rising concerns for guaranteeing the continuous provision of their sustainable management of forests and other both SCA and society. services. environmental issues. These include the Swed­ As a major consumer goods com­ As a member of the Royal Institute of Interna­ ish Society for Nature Conservation, and the pany working with many fiber-based tional Affairs, Chatham House, SCA has been World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). products, global recovery and recycling involved in discussions around steps to prevent policies are of importance to the com­ illegal logging and the implementation of the EU pany. In addition, with increasing global Timber Regulation, due to come into force in consumption of paper and tissue-based 2013. It prohibits operators from placing illegally products, post-consumer waste is an harvested timber and timber products on the issue that SCA considers to be of European market. importance in the coming years. For issues of specific importance to the com­ SCA is engaging in multi-stake­ pany, SCA works directly in cooperation with holder solutions to address the issue regulatory and public bodies. Examples of this (see p. 40). are the wind power projects in northern Sweden and the substantial biofuels business. With its growing forest-based biofuels busi­ ness, SCA is involved in discussions and stake­ SCA Sustainability Report 2012 11 Introduction | Materiality analysis SCA’s choice of direction and priorities – a materiality analysis Our materiality analysis determines the issues that are 1 significant for the company and forms the foundation for Human rights was the area ranked highest by SCA’s sustainability efforts. The 2012 analysis is based all stakeholders in the 2008, 2010 and 2012 surveys. Human rights has been assigned the on a survey of 450 internal and external stakeholders in highest priority by SCA. SCA’s Code of Con­ combination with SCA’s own assessment of the strateduct is based on the UN Declaration of Human gic importance of the areas. Rights, ILO Core Conventions and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, The subject areas included in the study were chosen thereby guiding SCA and its suppliers. The in accordance with such governing documents as the company has systems in place to monitor Global Reporting Initiative, the UN Global Compact, compliance with human rights. SCA’s Code of Conduct and SCA’s own assessment. SCA had previously carried out materiality analyses in 2008 and 2010. Topic 1 Human rights issues, including child labor and forced labor 2 Emissions to air and water 3 Product quality and safety 5 4 Use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing 2 1 Very important 5 Occupational health and safety 24 17 3 6 Innovation 30 25 22 12 10 7 6 7 Energy and raw material consumption 29 21 15 Significance to SCA’s business strategy 20 8 Diversity and non-discrimination 9 Waste management (production waste) 14 10 Customer service 19 11 Water management 33 16 13 8 12 Corruption and bribery 23 18 9 32 13 Workforce training and development 27 14 Environmental performance of products 28 15 Labor rights 11 35 31 26 16 Renewable energy Somewhat important 17 Forest management 34 18 Transparency 36 19 Risk and crisis management 4 20 Climate change 21 Talent attraction and retention 22 Financial performance 23 Post-consumer waste (used tissue, diapers, etc.) 24 Hygiene sanitation 25 Biodiversity 26 Community relations Somewhat important Very important 27 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 28 Transports Significance to stakeholders 29 Supply-chain management 30 Active stakeholder dialog The materiality analysis is a tool used to understand the issues that are most important and relevant to SCA. The 31 Certification – environmental, quality and health & safety horizontal axis shows the degree of importance stakeholders attach to the various subject matters while the vertical 32 Investment and procurement practices axis represents SCA’s assessment of how important the areas are to its business strategy and operations. In most 33 Corporate governance cases, the assessments of stakeholders and SCA coincide. 34 Policies and regulations 35 Performance management systems e.g. EMS Strategy Social responsibility Control and assurance 36 Business and organizational restructuring Environmental responsibility Economic responsibility 12 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality analysis | Introduction 2 3 3 Emissions to air and water was ranked Stakeholders placed Product quality and safety in third position. SCA has also second highest by stakeholders in terms assigned this high priority, particularly as many of the company’s products come into of importance. SCA has worked system­ close contact with people’s skin. atically with these issues for many years and has established targets for reduc­ tions in carbon dioxide emissions and water usage as well as for wastewater treatment. 4 Use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing is considered very important by stakeholders. SCA ranks this area lower than its stakeholders since the most dangerous chemicals are not used in SCA’s operations and a well-developed system is in place to ensure the safe hand­ling of chemicals. 24 Hygiene and sanitation are deemed to A total of 450 customers, suppliers, inves­ However, the results did not always coin­ be of lesser importance by stakeholders. tors, media, NGOs and SCA employees par­ cide with what is of material or strategic The subject is broad, making it difficult to ticipated. Survey respondents were asked to importance for SCA. For example, child labor assess, but because 80% of SCA’s busi­ assess the importance of various sustaina­ is an area to which both internal and external ness comprises hygiene products, it is of bility issues. stakeholders attach great importance. SCA the highest importance for the company’s In the 2008 and 2010 materiality analyses, naturally strongly distances itself from child future development. SCA presented external and internal stake­ labor, but because the risk of child labor in holders on the x and y axes, respectively. operations is considered small, SCA has This year’s results have been amalgamated assigned it a lower ranking. SCA has pro­ into a single axis – what stakeholders con­ cesses in place to monitor its own and its sider important. This result has been com­ suppliers’ operations. bined with SCA’s own assessment of how The results from this study seem reason­ important the area is for the company’s busi­ able and relevant and have provided SCA ness strategy and expressed as coordinates with support in its work to prioritize the con­ in the materiality analysis. tent of the sustainability report and its future The reason for the change is because sustainability initiatives. ­earlier surveys have shown that the opinions of internal and external stakeholders largely coincided, which was also the case in the 2012 survey – the greatest differences of 30 ­opinion could be noted for Use of hazardous chemicals in manufacturing, Management of Active stakeholder dialog is not as production waste and Energy and raw mate­ highly ranked by our stakeholders as it is rial consumption, which internal stakeholders by SCA. SCA considers a systematic believed were more important than external stakeholder dialog crucial to understand­ stakeholders, while external stakeholders ing and predicting the expectations of the thought that Corruption and bribery was more external environment and customers, important than their internal counterparts. which is vital to ensure future growth and profitability. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 13 Introduction | Strategy Strategy Strategy SCA is a leading global hygiene and forest products company. SCA’s Increasing the hygiene business’ share of the SCA Group is a stra­ strategy is based on a sustainable business model where value crea­ tegic direction to reduce sensitivity to economic fluctuations and tion for people and nature is equivocated with growth and profitability thereby ensure a more long-term stable level of profitability and to ensure a successful company in both the short and long term. A growth. In 2012, SCA acquired Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue continuous stakeholder dialog and a comprehensive risk analysis lay operations and the Asian hygiene business Everbeauty. The Group the foundation for the strategic priorities. Three strategic priorities are divested its packaging business, excluding the two kraftliner mills in in focus to deliver on the strategy: efficiency, innovation and growth. Sweden. In addition, the 50% holding in the newsprint mill in Ayles­ Efficient processes are a part of SCA’s endeavor to reduce costs, ford, UK, was divested and an agreement was signed regarding the improve capital efficiency and increase cash flow. A higher pace of sale of the publication paper mill in Laakirchen, Austria. innovation, based on customer and consumer insight, improves SCA’s competitiveness and strengthens and differentiates the offering. SCA has the ambition of growing in both mature and emerging markets. Efficiency Innovation Growth SCA operates in an intensely competitive SCA’s presence in some 100 countries com­ SCA has strong leading positions in Europe, market and a continuous focus on cost effi­ bined with local innovation centers around North America, Latin America and Asia. ciency is vital to ensure continued competi­ the world, form the basis for innovation activi­ Through strong global and regional market tiveness. Reducing costs and increasing cap­ ties that are founded on extensive insight into positions and brands, innovation, efficient ital efficiency is important to improve cash customer and consumer needs – today and in production and world-leading sustainability flow and value creation. the future. Innovation is a means of develop­ work, SCA is well positioned to leverage the Enhanced capital efficiency, lower costs ing and differentiating SCA’s products and growth potential existing in both mature and and strengthened cash flow are achieved services, retaining and strengthening market emerging markets. SCA’s competitiveness is through restructuring, efficiency enhance­ positions, building strong brands, driving also supported by the Group’s broad product ment, savings measures and optimization of growth and profitability by expanding the portfolio, with strong brands and raw material capital employed in all parts of the Group. offering to existing customers in existing mar­ integration. More efficient production provides lower kets, and attracting new customers in new SCA aims to be the leading company in costs and in most cases positive environmen­ markets. Sustainability aspects and product the markets that it serves. All operations in tal effects. One example of this is the 1,700 safety are high on the agenda of customers mature markets, such as Western Europe and small-scale energy-saving activities carried and consumers and, consequently, so is the North America, will continue to strengthen out by the Group in recent years, resulting in a development of new products and services. their positions. In addition to defending and reduction in carbon dioxide emissions and Innovation work is an important tool for devel­ reinforcing its position in mature markets, the annual savings of about SEK 700m. oping sustainability programs and helps to aim is to advance positions in emerging mar­ SCA leverages synergies between opera­ satisfy the growing demand for sustainable kets, primarily in regions where SCA already tions and improves productivity and the sup­ and safe products. Special focus is also has representation. ply chain, while it also discontinues non-com­ reserved for identifying new and more costWhile growth will mainly be organic in old petitive units. efficient and sustainable production solutions and new segments, acquisition-driven growth Global functions in the hygiene operations and processes. New innovations enable will also be pursued. In existing markets, the relating to, among other areas, innovation and improved resource utilization and reduced aim is to continue growing by, for example, brand activities, as well as production, gener­ environmental footprint. broadening the offering of product catego­ ate cost synergies and enable efficient For the hygiene operations, the strategic ries, product ranges and services. A strategic resource allocation. direction is to increase the pace of innovation, priority is also to increase the number of During the year, SCA launched an effi­ capitalize on global economies of scale and global brand platforms. During the year, SCA ciency program in hygiene and forest prod­ ensure that all segments have a competitive strengthened its market positions in Europe ucts operations. and balanced portfolio of innovations. Partic­ and Asia through the acquisitions of Georgiaular focus is given to exploring the possibili­ Pacific’s European tissue operations and the ties of broadening the product portfolio. Asian hygiene company Everbeauty. In Forest Products, the strategic focus is to increase the value for customers and iden­ tify new alternative fields of application for existing products. 14 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Strategy | Introduction 4 efficiency innovation Growth S ustainability SCA’s people and nature ambitions In 2012, SCA presented a number of new sustainability ambitions and targets based on the ­factors that the company believes are most relevant to SCA and its stakeholders. While the ambitions describe the long-term vision, the targets are more specific and measureable and comprise steps along the path toward achieving the stated ambitions. The ambitions for people and nature represent a living tool to drive development forward and in the right direction. New circumstances may require new targets and, as these are fulfilled, they will be closed or replaced with new ones. People ambitions Nature ambitions We build our position as one of the most trusted companies in the We deliver sustainable solutions with added value for our customers world, delivering sustainable growth and value for our stake­holders. based on safe, resource-efficient and environmentally sound sourcing, production and development. We improve hygiene standards worldwide with our hygiene solutions. For the millions of existing users of our products and services, and for the We combat climate change and minimise our impact on the environbillions of ­people in emerging markets, we develop innovative solutions ment through a combination of new innovations and technologies, effi­ that make it easier to live healthy, ­sustainable lives. ciency gains, consumer initiatives and carbon sequestering in our forests. We support women’s empowerment and their freedom to participate We care for the forests with all of their bio­diversity and we are commit­ fully in society – socially, educationally and professionally – across the ted to managing and utilizing them responsibly. We aim to ­maximize the world by giving them access to and education about hygiene solutions. benefits our forest have on our ecosystem, climate, customers and soci­ ety, through a combination of innovation, efficiency gains and wise and long-term management. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 15 Introduction | Targets and outcome Targets and outcome Hygiene Sustainable Code of Employee ­solutions innovations ­Conduct Health & Safety target target target target 1. We will make our knowledge 2. We will deliver better, safe and 3. Our SCA supplier standard will 5. Our aim is zero workplace about hygiene available to cusenvironmentally sound solutions to be used to drive shared values and ­ ccidents, and we will decrease a tomers and consumers and our customers. We strive to con­ priorities through our supply chain. our accident frequency rate by ensure access to affordable, sustinuously improve resource effiWe will use it in all our supply chain 25% between 2011–2016. tainable hygiene solutions to help ciency and environmental perforcontracts by 2015. 6. OHSAS 18001 will be implethem lead a healthy and dignified mance considering the whole life4. We will maintain compliance mented at all main sites by 2016. life. In markets in which we operate cycle for new innovations. with our SCA Code of Conduct. All we will: employees will receive regular Outcome 2012 • Provide information on hygiene Outcome 2012 training in the code. matters around our products and 5. The accident frequency rate, • We defined criteria for sustainaincluding acquired sites, amounted services. ble product and service innovaOutcome 2012 to 8.5% (7.1). • Strive to implement education tions. 3. A total of 73% of SCA’s global Status: programs for girls, women and • A number of innovations were hygiene supplier base and 65% of caregivers. 6. By the end of 2012, 28% of evaluated in accordance with its forest product’s supplier base • Strive to offer the best value for SCA’s main sites were certified these criteria. had committed to adhere to the consumers making hygiene soluaccording to OHSAS 18001. • We launched several sustainable SCA Global Supplier Standard. tions affordable to everyone. Status: innovations, including TENA Status: Solutions, Tork Easy Handling, 4. 87% of employees had received Outcome 2012 and GraphoInvent. Code of Conduct training. • SCA holds the number one or Status: Status: two position in at least one hygiene product category in nearly 80 countries. • We conduct hygiene training programs in all product categories on all continents. • SCA offers a broad portfolio of products ranging from the premium segment to the economy segment. • Our products are distributed to both major corporate customers and to small local stores. Our 14 TENA online stores are examples of how the company works to make our products more ­accessible. Status: pages 24-25 and 58-59 pages 26-29 pages 46-51 pages 52-55 Status: = Off plan = Off plan, actions identified = On plan 16 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Targets and outcome | Introduction Climate & energy Fiber sourcing & biodiversity Water Financial targets 5 target target target target 1. We will reduce CO2 emissions 4. We will achieve and maintain 6. We aim to achieve water sus­ The target for return on capital from fossil fuels and from pur­ our target of zero fresh fiber-based tain­ability and we will reduce our employed is 13% over a business chased electricity and heating by material from controversial water usage in water-­stressed cycle. For Personal Care, the tar20% by 2020, with 2005 as ­sources*, including pulp. regions by 10% by 2015, with get is 30%, for Tissue, the target is ­reference year. 5. We will preserve the biodiversity 2010 as reference year. 15% and for Forest Products, the 2. We will triple our production of of our forests. A minimum of 5% of 7. All SCA pulp and paper mills will target is in the upper quartile of the biofuels from our forests by 2020, our productive forest land will be employ mechanical and biological industry. with 2010 as reference year. set aside from forestry in our ecowater treatment plants by 2015. 3. The production of wind power logical landscape plans and a furOutcome 2012 on SCA forest land will increase to ther 5% will be set aside as part of Outcome 2012 The overall return on capital 5 TWh by 2020, with 2010 as our consideration for nature in our 6. By year-end 2012, water usage employed was 10%. For Personal ­reference year. managed forests. in water-stressed regions declined Care, it amounted to 28%, for by 3.4%. ­Tissue to 13% and for Forest Outcome 2012 Outcome 2012 Products to 4%. Status: 1. By year-end 2012, CO2 emis4. All deliveries of pulp to SCA 7. Of the Group’s 40 pulp and sions had declined by 10.4% in facilities met the Group target. All paper mills, mechanical and biorelation to the production level. of SCA’s wood-consuming units logical effluent treatment is are reviewed by independent audiStatus: installed, or in the process of being tors and meet the requirements of 2. Energy production from SCA’s installed, in 39 plants. the Group target. forest-based biofuels in 2012 was Status: Status: approximately 890 GWh (870 GWh in 2010). 5. Nearly 7% of SCA’s productive forestland is set aside from forestry Status: in ecological landscape plans. 3. 0.4 TWh of wind energy from ­Furthermore, 12% of the 18,500 SCA forest land was delivered to hectares planned for harvesting the grid. The first turbines from the was set aside for preservation. Statkraft SCA joint venture SSVAB Status: were established this year. Status: pages 8-9 pages 32-35 pages 36-38 page 39 in the Annual Report * Controversial sources are defined as: – Illegally logged timber. – Timber from forests with a high conservation value. – Timber from areas where human rights or ­traditional rights of indigenous people are being ­violated. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 17 Introduction | Value chain SCA’s value chain SCA utilizes a value-chain perspective to identify and in which the various areas affect each other. In this way, we address the most relevant environmental, social and ecobetter understand the implications of the Group’s impacts nomic issues. This approach provides an overview of SCA’s and the importance of engaging in dialog with stakeholders impact, where it arises and is at its greatest and the manner to better address relevant issues. This helps us establish Water management SCA uses water to transport fiber during the paper production process and as cooling water, with the breakdown between the two being 60–40. SCA’s goal is to reduce water use in ­facilities located in regions that suffer from water shortages. Read more on page 39. Climate change and carbon emissions The Group’s use of fossil fuels together with emissions from pur­ chased electricity are the major sources of its carbon dioxide emissions, followed by transport activities. Most of SCA’s emissions from its fossil fuel usage derives from its tissue production while a smaller proportion (below 10%) is derived from production of publication papers, pulp and sawn timber. SCA’s personal care plants account for less than 1% of the company’s carbon footprint. The Brand activities majority of the climate impact in the production of Through our strong tissue and forest products is generated in SCA’s brands, we engage with own production processes, while for personal ­customers, consumers care products, this occurs mainly in the raw and distributers. material phase, meaning at suppliers. SCA works Read more on page 10 continuously to reduce emissions in its own man­ in the Annual Report. ufacturing and in cooperation with raw material suppliers, to minimize its climate impact. Read more on page 32. Sustainable forestry SCA is Europe’s largest private forest owner with 2.6 million hectares of forest land. Nearly 7% of this area has been reserved in ecological landscape plans to pre­ serve the biological diversity of the Group’s forests, and at least a further 5% is set aside in conjunction with harvesting. The forests have a net growth of 1% per year, corresponding to carbon sequestration of 2.6 million tons annually. This is higher than the carbon emissions generated by SCA’s combined operations. About 50% of the wood raw material used by SCA is derived from the Group’s own forests and is thus under the direct control of the company. SCA works along the entire supply chain to guarantee 100% responsible raw material sourcing. Read more on pages 36 and 38. 18 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Value chain | Introduction priorities so that we minimize our environmental impact and pany to focus on different issues within the various busimaximize the positive value for shareholders. ness areas. The issues deemed to be of particular signifiThe value chains for personal care, tissue and forest cance to the value chain are described here. products vary in a number of respects, requiring the comRespect for human rights and business ethics Honesty and integrity in relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and organizations, in addi­ tion to respect for human rights, are fundamental parts of SCA’s entire business. By assessing compliance with the Code of Conduct and business ethics, the Group monitors its own operations. Through the supplier standard and supplier audits, SCA unequivocally shows the demands and expectations it has in relation to its suppliers, thereby gaining the trust of its customers. It is essential to minimize the risks throughout the value chain. Read more on page 46. Health and safety The provision of a healthy and safe workplace has been assigned high prior­ ity at SCA and is in line with the expectations of customers and consum­ ers. By having employees who feel safe and are well trained in health and safety procedures, SCA enhances productivity and reduces the number of workplace accidents. Read more on page 42. Innovation and product management Innovation is one of SCA’s strategic priorities and is relevant to all parts of the Group’s value chain. Dialog with customers and consumers helps SCA to better understand user needs and to deliver more insight­ ful innovations. Sustainability, product quality and product safety are factors of major significance for SCA’s customers and consumers and are thus decisive drivers in SCA’s innovation activities. Using the Group’s lifecycle perspective as the starting point, SCA strives to achieve resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact, as well as contrib­ uting to people’s quality of life. Read more on page 26. Transport activities Transport activities account for approximately half of SCA’s carbon dioxide emissions. More efficient and coordinated freight, more compact packaging and eco-driving are some of the methods used by SCA to reduce its environmental impact. Read more on page 33. Waste and recycling SCA has worked for some time now to reduce its production waste. About two-thirds of the waste is recycled either into new products as a raw material for other industries or is used to generate energy. As much as 70% of European newspapers are currently recycled. Diapers are an example of a product that is best recycled by being incinerated. SCA is participating in projects aimed at identifying new ways to reduce consumer waste. Read more on page 40. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 19 Economic value Economic value creation For SCA, sustainability is central in the work to generate economic value. Our contribution to economic development is measured by both the direct and indirect economic impacts of our business on all of our stakeholders. SCA provides hygiene and forest products to its Sustainability activities enhance SCA’s comIncorporating a sustainability perspective customers and consumers, fair pay and other petitiveness and contribute to healthy and longinto innovation activities contributes to resource benefits to employees, tax revenue to governterm business relationships. Our cost-efficient efficiency, which in turn leads to reduced costs ments and municipalities, payment for delivered hygiene solutions improve the quality of life of and a smaller environmental footprint. Meangoods and services to suppliers, and dividends millions of people around the world, thereby while, customer and consumer demands for and share price appreciation to shareholders. entailing reduced costs for healthcare systems. better, safe and environmentally compatible SCA contributes to the economic prosperity of SCA shares its know-how in the area of hygiene products are driving development toward sussociety in its capacity as a major employer in because it knows that improved hygiene results tainable innovations. many regions and through its community in healthier human beings. involvement. Read about our economic value creation: Hygiene Sustainable Financial ­solutions innovations targets pages 8-9 pages 24-25 pages 26-29 in the Annual Report 20 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Economic value “For me, creating value is what makes the difference. We produce products that put the smile back on the faces of the elderly and the people who care for them. The products we produce come from sustainable forests that help to combat global warming. This creates value for people and nature. Wesley Chiu, General Counsel, China SCA Sustainability Report 2012 21 Economic value | Stakeholders Mapping economic impact across the value chain SCA affects a broad range of stakeholders. We have an economic impact on With local production, SCA creates work opportunities for many people. In 2012, 11,509 ­society and create opportunities for customers, suppliers, employees and society. (12,339) were employed by SCA in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America, receiving SEK Supply chain Investing in people 1,430m (1,563) in salaries. Maintaining transparent and long-term relationSCA generates value for its employees through SCA often chooses to enter an emerging ships with suppliers is essential to ensure high the wages it pays and competence development market through joint ventures. The combination quality and financial stability for both parties. opportunities it provides. of deep market knowledge, retaining local manSourcing represents the single largest In 2012, employee salaries totalled SEK agement and SCA’s technological know-how, expenditure item for SCA – corresponding to 65% 12,241m (15,046), and social security costs economics of scale, etc. has a generally favora(71) of sales. In 2012, the Group purchased raw amounted to SEK 3,446m (4,297). As a principle, ble impact. materials and services for some SEK 55,540m the Group pays competitive remuneration to its (77,197). Many input goods, such as paper pulp, employees and follows local wage structures, Raising customer value electricity and chemicals, are global commodities assuming that these terms are not below interSCA has a range of customers – from end-conand are largely purchased centrally, with the aim nationally established rules for minimum salaries sumers of SCA products to business-to-busiof achieving economies of scale. and reasonable compensation. In all the reportness customers that include retailers, distribuWood-based raw materials are goods that ing countries, SCA pays above the legislated tors, printing houses, and healthcare instituare almost exclusively purchased locally. Nearly minimum pay. The company may pay minimum tions. SCA’s practices and products help busiall of the fresh fiber acquired and used in the wages in certain individual circumstances, for ness-to-business customers reduce their risks Swedish mills are purchased from local suppliexample, in connection with summer jobs, stuand add value to their brand. By jointly pursuing ers. This provides substantial economic contrident pay, and so forth. product efficiency and innovation targets, SCA butions to local suppliers and the local economy. The Group also contributes to pension plans. and its customers deliver high-quality products Enhancing suppliers’ skill sets also adds SCA has both defined-contribution and definedthat fulfil and exceed consumers’ needs and value. SCA trains and supports suppliers in benefit pension plans. The most significant expectations. hygiene operations and provides forest contracdefined-benefit plans are based on the period of tors with guidance in such areas as quality, employment and employee salaries at, or just Contributions to national economies safety, environmental performance and Code of prior to, retirement. The total net cost for penSCA also contributes to local communities by Conduct. sions in 2012 amounted to SEK 428m (358). For paying taxes and employing people in the counfurther information, see Note 26 in the SCA 2012 tries in which the company is active. In 2012, Annual Report. SCA paid SEK 1,193m (961) in income taxes globally. In addition, SCA pays property taxes, payroll overheads, pension taxes, customs duties, energy taxes and indirect taxes. Value created by stakeholder in 2012 Taxes paid, 1% (SEK 1,193m) Interest paid to creditors, 2% (SEK 1,264m) Dividend to shareholders, 4% (SEK 2,997m) Employee social security costs, 4 % (SEK 3,446m) Remaining in the company, 10 %* (SEK 8,727m) Employee salaries, 14 % (SEK 12,241m) Suppliers, 65 %** (SEK 55,540m) * Current expenditures, restructuring costs, strategic investments and acquisitions. ** Raw materials, transport and distribution, energy and other cost of goods sold. 22 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Shareholders | Economic value Sustainability builds shareholder value As investors increasingly make the connection between sustainability and ­long-term value creation, SCA is well ­positioned to deliver on expectations for sustainable growth for its shareholders. Sustainability is a core part of SCA’s business GRI and the International Integrated Reporting Consolidated net sales for 2012 amounted to strategy and investors are taking notice. SRI Council (IIRC) are looking at developing new SEK 85,408m (81,337), up 5% (11% excluding investors (Socially Responsible Investment) reporting systems. As a member of the World exchange rate effects and divestments). The have long taken Environmental, Social and GovBusiness Council for Sustainable Development, Hygiene operation grew by 15% while Forest ernance (ESG) indicators into account when SCA is involved in discussions on developing Products’ sales declined by 8%. assessing SCA’s value but today, a growing integrated reporting. Operating profit, excluding items affecting number of mainstream investors are also looking Major institutional investors (such as certain comparability, increased by 12% (17% excluding more closely at these performance aspects. pension funds) often add environmental and exchange rate effects and divestments) to SEK Sustainability has a strong role in a profitable social parameters to their risk analyses, while a 8,646m (7,738). Operating profit (excluding business; for example, in the form of a product number of sustainability funds have a strategy of exchange rate effects, divestments and items portfolio that makes SCA’s customers achieve only investing in companies that are among the affecting comparability) for Personal Care and their sustainability targets and makes consumbest from an environmental, social and ecoTissue rose by 28% and 50%, respectively, while ers feel secure in their choice. The growing nomic perspective. SCA is included in 96 (83) Forest Products declined by 46%. The Group’s demand from customers for FSC-certified prodEuropean sustainability funds, making it one of operating cash flow improved by just over SEK ucts is one such example. SCA’s focus on the most frequently occurring companies in 2bn and amounted to SEK 9,644m. reduced energy consumption to reach its clithese funds. mate and energy target also benefits the bottom line. Strong sustainability performance generShareholder facts & figures ates growth opportunities in emerging markets, SCA generates value for shareholders through such as SCA’s dialog and collaboration in China dividends and share price appreciation. Noron improving elderly and incontinence care. mally, about one-third of cash flow from current Investors in particular recognize that sustainaoperations, after interest expenses and taxes, bility spurs innovation and strengthens the over a business cycle is used for dividends. Over In the rankings brand. the past ten years, the dividend has increased There was a large amount of interest in our by an average of 3.5% annually. The Board has SCA is assessed annually by several ranking institutes and in 2012 was included in: sustainability programs from investors in 2012. proposed a dividend of SEK 4.50 (4.20) for 2012. SCA regularly holds meetings, attends conferThe 2012 closing price on the Nasdaq OMX • The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes ences, and organizes roadshows to maintain Stockholm for SCA’s B share was SEK 141. This (DJSI), which track the financial per­ formance of the leading sustainability-driven contact with investors, including SRI investors. corresponds to a market capitalisation of SEK companies worldwide. Sustainability is integrated into investor presen99bn. Since the beginning of 2012, the share tations. price rose 38%, while the Nasdaq OMX Stock• The Ethisphere Institute’s list of the world’s most ethical companies. Yet there is a need for more quantifiable and holm rose 12% during the same period. comparable data to measure not only the enviAt year-end 2012, SCA had 78,854 registered • The FTSE 4Good, an index measuring earnings and performance among companies ronmental but also the more elusive social and shareholders. The largest owners are Industhat meet ­globally recognised norms for governance indicators and their impact on ecotrivärden AB, Handelsbanken and Norges Bank corporate responsibility. SCA was included nomic performance. Organizations such as the Investment Management. as a supersector leader in the FTSE4Good ESG ratings, with a supersector-relative score of 99 out of 100. • The Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, which recognizes companies with the best carbon reporting ­practices and perforLargest shareholders Number of European sustainability funds with mance to tackle climate change. investments in SCA shares % of votes % of shares • SCA ranked third in the Fortune list of the Industrivärden 29.7 10.0 % world’s most admired forest and paper Handelsbanken* 14.6 4.5 companies. 100 Norges Bank Investment • The German Global Challenges. Management 8.1 7.5 80 Skandia 2.0 0.5 • EPCI Euro Ethical Equity and EPCI Global 60 Swedbank Robur funds 1.1 2.5 Ethical Equity. 40 AMF – Insurance and Funds 1.1 2.5 • Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence SEB Funds & SEB Trygg 20 Europe. life insurance 1.0 1.4 Capital Group funds 0.8 1.7 0 • The OMX GES Sustainability Nordic and 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SCA Employee Foundation 0.6 0.1 OMX GES Sustainability Sweden indexes. Skagen funds 0.5 1.1 ** Including funds and foundations. Source: SIS SCA Sustainability Report 2012 23 Economic value | Sustainable business A shared value proposition SCA seeks to create economic value for the company in a way that also creates TARGET shared value for people and nature by addressing key social and environmental Hygiene solutions We will make our knowledge about needs. Customers, consumers, suppliers and others in the SCA value chain all hygiene available to customers and consumers benefit from this holistic, long-term perspective. and ensure access to affordable, sustainable hygiene solutions to help them lead a healthy Economic value creation derives from exceeding significantly lower cost to society of caring for and dignified life. In markets in which we operate customer expectations and helping customers incontinence at home compared to in nursing we will: meet their own targets. Customers increasingly homes or institutions. • Provide information on hygiene matters demand safe products with no hazardous ingreWith its TENA Solutions offering, SCA proaround our products and services; dients, produced safely and under decent workvides customers with a before and after analysis • Strive to implement education programs for ing conditions and that have minimal impact on of their institution or home through a compregirls, women and caregivers; the environment. Consumers expect companies hensive benchmarking process of their inconti• Strive to offer the best value for consumers, to have insight into and appreciation for their nence care, including such factors as products making hygiene solutions affordable to needs and priorities. Society, including governused, routines and costs. The benefits include ­ veryone. e ments and other decision makers, expect the improved well-being for care recipients, a better private sector to help address larger social chalwork environment and less waste and use of Outcome 2012 lenges. Engaging on all fronts, with sustainabilresources as well as a lower total cost. • SCA holds the number one or two position in ity as the engine of economic value creation, at least one hygiene product category in builds confidence in the Group’s consumer Training caregivers in China nearly 80 counties. brands, its thought leadership and ability to In China, citizens aged over 60 years account for • We conduct hygiene training programs in all bring positive solutions to the table. 13% of the total population, a number expected product categories on all continents. A primary way in which SCA works towards to grow by 3% each year. China will face chal• SCA offers a broad portfolio of products solutions is in the area of hygiene, which reprelenges in meeting economic and health burden. ­ranging from the premium segment to the sents 80% of its business. The company has set Effective nursing is one of the ways to better economy segment. a target to make its knowledge about hygiene address incontinence and other elderly health • Our products are distributed to both major available to customers and consumers and issues, which is why SCA has trained some corporate customers and to small local ensure access to affordable, sustainable 6,500 nurses in 12 Chinese cities since 2009. stores. Our 14 TENA online stores are hygiene solutions to help them lead a healthy SCA decided in 2012 to broaden the scope of ­examples of how the company works to and dignified life. This means providing informathe training program in China and about 1,000 make our products more accessible. tion on hygiene matters around SCA products caregivers and 1,000 nursing home managers and services, implementing education programs were trained about elderly people’s hygiene for girls, women, children and caregivers, and needs. offering the best value for consumers by making hygiene solutions more affordable. Read more Expanding new business model in Asia about SCA’s hygiene programs on page 58. The homecare model is taking root in Asia. In Affordable, accessible and green 2012, SCA teamed up with two major Singapore Offering the best value for consumers to make An aging population hospitals – Ren Ci Hospital and Tan Tock Seng hygiene solutions affordable for everyone means Many developed and emerging countries are Hospital – to support the general public and carunderstanding the needs of diverse groups. In facing rapidly aging populations. The problem of egivers in their care of loved ones in a home the US, more than 43 million people trace their incontinence and other health issues related to environment. This is the first healthcare collaboorigins to Mexico. The Saba brand of feminine aging will only increase. According to the UN, ration between an acute hospital, a community care products, already successful in Mexico and the elderly population (>60 years) is expected to hospital and a corporate partner to develop and Central America, is being introduced to Mexican swell by 200 million within ten years, past the provide a dedicated homecare training platform Americans in southwestern US. one billion mark and soar to two billion by 2050. for Singaporeans. The shared value proposition is growing in This presents significant challenges to welfare, SCA continues to pilot-test door-to-door parallel with SCA’s continued expansion in pension and health care systems. home nursingservices in Shanghai, which were emerging markets, both through recent acquisiAn aging population, along with increased initiated together with the Singaporean comtions and organic growth in these markets gendisposable income from a growing middle class, pany ECON Healthcare in January 2012. While it erally. SCA acquired hygiene operations in Turcreates growth opportunities for SCA. At the was started as a joint venture, SCA has taken key and Brazil in 2011, and acquired or extended same time, its products and services add value over full leadership. Initial customer feedback is investments in China, Taiwan and Chile in 2012. by enabling people with chronic and aging conpromising, however scaling up the service There is a growing movement within green ditions to stay at home instead of in nursing or requires increased government support. In purchasing to encourage public authorities to other residential homes, respecting dignity and 2013, various subpilots in local communities will procure goods and services with a reduced quality of life. Another aspect of shared value of be tested to further refine the business model environmental impact, which is particularly releSCA’s incontinence products and services is the before a roll out can be considered. vant for SCA’s B2B areas of incontinence care 24 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable business | Economic value and Away-From-Home tissue. Public authorities are major consumers in Europe, they spend feature rounded edges and an enhanced color pallet, adding a new dimension to North Ameri”The number of people approximately EUR 2 trillion annually, equivalent to some 19% of the EU’s gross domestic prodca’s best-selling napkin dispensing system. SCA is one of the world’s largest supplier of over 60 is expected to uct. In Green Public Procurement, the EU set a forest products certified by the Forest Stewardgoal that 50% of all purchases should be ship Council (FSC), and is experiencing increasgrow from 600 million in ”green”. According to a 2011 survey, some 45% ing demand for such products from customers. of purchases measured in value were green In 2012, SCA introduced GraphoInvent, a publi2000 to 2 billion in while the figure was 55% measured in the numcation paper for advertising material, catalogs ber of purchases. SCA estimates that generally and magazines that is as thick, bright and 2050. 10 to 30% of the criteria in purchasing requests printer-friendly as other, more expensive paper for incontinence care products are related to grades and also has a low carbon footprint— environmental or social aspects. In Sweden, thus offering both economic and environmental where all 20 counties have a strong emphasis on value. sustainability, SCA currently has 50% of the Using thinner saw blades at Bollsta sawmill in market for absorbent incontinence products. Sweden has improved both revenues and SCA does not offer the least expensive products resource efficiency. The yield has increased in the market, but has achieved success by from about 43% to nearly 50%, which means an adapting resource-efficient solutions and a additional 7% of the log becomes solid-wood lower total cost for customers. products. Another source of value creation within the Meeting customers’ needs forest products operations is identifying new In the environmental area, value creation is leadalternative fields of application for existing proding to customized products and solutions to ucts and services, with forest-based by-prodmeet customers’ needs. SCA’s Tork Xpressnap ucts as one example. In 2012, SCA supplenapkin dispenser system offers a way for cusmented its production of fuel pellets by adding tomers to save money, since the dispensers pellets manufactured from pure sawdust for stall offer at least a 25% reduction in usage combedding and horsekeeping to its range. pared with traditional dispensers, while also proAside from its valuable contribution to raw viding a benefit to the environment. The system material integration, SCA’s forestland offers the controls consumption and minimizes waste by potential for energy production, both in the form only dispensing one napkin at a time. of biofuel and windpower (see p. 34). In 2012, SCA introduced the Tork Xpressnap Signature, offering contemporary designs that Economic implications of climate change SCA participates in the EU Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS), the first participating installations must be cut to 21% below 2005 levels by 2020. international trading system for carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, and a This will probably result in a deficit of carbon emissions allocations for mainstay of EU Climate Policy. Launched in 2005, ETS caps carbon emisSCA, although the exact allocations had not been finalized by late 2012. sions on factories and plants across the European Union, forcing emitters The market price for emission rights (corresponding to one ton of carbon to buy carbon permits if they exceed limits. The first phase lasted until 2007. dioxide) has hovered around EUR 7.5 per ton during 2012. A plan by the The ETS system’s second phase began in 2008, and ended in DecemEuropean Commission to remove some allocations from the market to ber 2012. During that time, a surplus of emission allocations has accumudiminish the surplus has not yet been approved. lated. The next phase will run for eight years, from 2013–2020. 38 EuroFor SCA to avoid a future deficit of allocations resulting in the need to pean-based SCA sites participate in the ETS. SCA’s average surplus of purchase permits, the company must continue to save energy, and invest annual emission rights was approximately 300,000 tons of carbon dioxide in new energy-saving technology. EU efforts to reduce emissions from fosduring the second phase. SCA did not sell any allowances in 2012, sil fuels and promote renewable energy production could increase the although it did perform EUA-CER swaps. demand for biofuel, although this market is currently weak. SCA’s extenSCA’s surplus provides some compensation for the increase in power sive production of biofuels could represent a competitive advantage in the prices caused by the EU ETS. In the third phase, however, emissions from future. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 25 Economic value | Sustainable innovation Innovation everywhere Innovation is key to SCA’s business success and also one of our strategic TARGET ­priorities. In 2012, we worked to define sustainable innovation in order to Sustainable innovations We will deliver better, safe, and ­adequately measure progress toward fulfilling the target. environmentally sound solutions to our customers. We strive to continuously improve resource Innovation modelling residents and the working atmosphere for the efficiency and environmental performance SCA has long had a culture of innovation leading staff while minimizing resource usage – a result ­considering the entire lifecycle of innovations. to more energy-efficient and less materialsconfirmed by numerous assessments. intensive processes and products. In terms of Beyond products and services, SCA is Outcome 2012 processes, ESAVE (see p.32) provides a model expanding how the process of innovation is • We defined criteria for sustainable product for continuous improvements, while for prodapproached internally. A good example of this is and service innovations. ucts, life cycle assessments help point the way the 2012 72-hour “race to innovation” within For• A number of innovations were evaluated in toward sustainable innovation. est Products. Two teams of six employees from accordance with these criteria. SCA’s innovation is deeply embedded in the different parts of the business unit met at the • We launched several sustainable innovations, Group’s strategy and business model, and is Ortviken paper mill in central Sweden to brainincluding TENA Solutions, Tork Easy Handling, driven by consumer and customer insights and storm ways to use SCA wood fiber in new prodand GraphoInvent. technological advances. With its new target, ucts. A group of experts in everything from patSCA began to define what sustainable innovaents to marketing were part of the process, tion truly means, as a necessary step to measuradvising the teams on the feasibility and ecoing performance in relation to the target. nomic potential of the 18 promising ideas that emerged from the race. Some of the innovative cycle, from raw materials to manufacture, transRacing to innovate ideas are now advancing into patent and prodport, use, re-use, and disposal. Establishing and/ In total, SCA invested SEK 845m in research and uct development. SCA is also evaluating perfecor updating LCAs for all hygiene products is a top development in 2012, corresponding to 1% of tion of the race process so that it can evolve into priority and one of the major tools used for evalutotal sales. a production system for innovation, utilizing difation, follow up and setting targets in sustainable SCA strives to broaden the concept of innoferent disciplines and expertise from inside and innovation. vation beyond innovating existing product lines outside the company. In addition to LCAs, SCA is also working with or creating new product innovations to also SCA is aiming to achieve an open model of Life Cycle Management (LCM), which combines encompass service innovations, process innosustainable innovation in which acquisitions of value, environment, and safety analysis throughvations, logistics innovations, experience innoand joint ventures with small high-tech compaout all parts of the product life cycle. LCM helps vations and system innovations. nies can be fruitful. SCA’s 2012 partnership with highlight what SCA sources, produces and TENA Solutions, for example, is a unique Swedish company Biogaia to innovate in health develops, and which products and services are SCA offering that provides the institutional cuscare with probiotics and beneficial bacteria is an finally delivered to the company’s customers. tomer a before-and-after analysis of their instituexample of this approach. SCA’s 2011 Global Supplier Standard aids in this tion or home service through a comprehensive process, since it results in the gathering of assessment of their incontinence care. TENA Life cycle management every day detailed data from suppliers and encourages Solutions encompasses products and care rouSince the 1990s, life cycle assessments (LCAs) goals for improvements. LCAs and product tines, with SCA providing expertise to instituhave evolved to become central to the way that safety are well integrated in the development of tional customers based on best-practice inconSCA designs and innovates toward sustainability hygiene products. SCA puts substantial effort tinence management – caring for each individual in both tissue and personal care products. Life into developing an equally sound methodology in the best possible way. cycle assessment is an analytical methodology, to analyze and assess the socioeconomic beneSCA products like TENA Flex and TENA based on ISO standards, that examines environfits of sustainable products in 2012, with work Pants all focus on improving the well-being of mental data from every phase of a product’s life continuing into 2013. Carbon footprint Product reduction 2008–2011, % TENA Flex –7 SCA’s definition of sustainable innovations TENA Lady –17 TENA Men –3 In SCA’s definition, sustainable innovations are better, safe and environmentally sound prodTENA Pants –7 ucts, services and technologies. “Better” implies enhanced function, social improvements TENA Slip –11 TENA Comfort –6 and added value for customers and SCA. Social improvements are defined as better quality of Libero open diaper –19 life, health, and handling before, during and after use. “Safe” means securing safety for Libero pants –8 employees, users and nature, while “environmentally sound“ is measured by resource effiFeminine thin towel –18 ciency and environmental performance. To be described as a sustainable innovation by SCA, Feminine panty liners –7 at least one social or environmental value of a product or service must be improved, while Life Cycle Assessments are calculated annually. Carbon other parameters remain the same or preferably also improve. footprint data for 2008–2013 will be presented in the 2013 Sustainability Report. 26 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable innovation | Economic value “I don’t know if there is a better word than proud to describe the great feeling of being part of one of the largest companies in the world that brings so much to the lives of people and to nature. As a mother of three, I appreciate the opportunity to be able to combine my professional and personal life with support from SCA. Karla Etcharren, Key Account Manager in Mexico SCA Sustainability Report 2012 27 Economic value | Sustainable innovation Sustainable innovations The launch of innovative products and services generally spans a couple of years. Initially, a pilot is lauched, followed by the introduction of the product into different markets. Some examples of SCA’s sustainable innovations are presented below: = Social innovations = Environmental innovations TORK Hand towels Compressing hand towels and making longer paper rolls leads to reduced volume, less stock, reduced packaging transports and increased dispenser capacity. TORK Easy Handling SCA launched Tork Easy Handling on a broad front. It is a combination of a Carry Pack and a Carry Box – two social innovations for cleaning workers providing several alternatives to lift and carry packs, thus reducing workplace strain. TORK Foam soap dispenser An easy-to-use foam dispenser with low push resistance was ­launched in 2011. This makes life easier for people with reduced hand strength, due to disabilities or age. The antimicrobial soap is based on alcohol that cleans and sanitizes at the same time. TORK Xpressnap With SCA’s Tork Xpressnap napkin dispensing system, customers are guaranteed at least a 25% reduction in usage compared with traditional dispensers. The system controls consumption, improves hygiene and minimizes waste by only dispensing one napkin at a time. In 2012, SCA introduced the Tork Xpressnap Signature line with new features. 28 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable innovation | Economic value LIBERO Open diapers TENA Pants A thinner baby diaper was introduced in RusTENA Pants with ConfioFit technology is a new, sia and in the Nordic market in 2011. In 2012, discreet product which improves fit and comfort it was lauched in Hungary, Greece, Romania while maintaining leakage security. The smarter and Bulgaria. More efficient materials and design, together with improved logistics and pack smarter design improves fit and environmenoptimization, yields a 7% reduction in the carbon tal impact. Reduced weight results in fewer footprint. Between 2008 and 2011, the carbon footresources used, more efficient transport and print reduction for TENA Pants in Europe was 7%. less waste generated. The Libero diaper is approved by the Nordic Ecolabel. Between 1987 and 2012, the carbon footprint reducTENA Belt tion for the Libero open diaper was 49%. TENA Belt is a product that encompasses pads and a reusable belt. The product combines better ergonomics for the caregiver with less consumption and a reduction in the carbon footprint in up to 25%. TENA Belt was introduced to the Chinese market in 2011 and a more affordable belt product was launched in 2012. TENA All in one A TENA Slip with elastic side panels with improved design, fit and environmental performance was launched in Europe in 2011. TENA Classic Briefs in North America were optimized during 2012, which led to improved environmental performance. The reduction in the carbon FEMININE Towel footprint of Tena Slip was 11% between 2008 and 2011 in In 2012, a slimmer Maxi feminine care towel Europe. with improved fluid retention capacity and improved fit was launched. The carbon footTENA Solutions print of feminine care thin towels was TENA Solutions was piloted in Europe in 2010–2011 and launched in 19 countries in Europe, reduced by 31% between 1998 and the most North ­America and Asia in 2012 (see p. 28). recent measure­ment in 2011. Modified bleach method A modified chemical sequence of the totally chlorine free (TCF) bleaching process at the Östrand pulp mill in Sweden saves large quantities of chemicals and electricity, reducing costs by SEK 10m annually. GraphoInvent Paper GraphoInvent, a bright, high-bulk paper that feels as thick and strong as more expensive papers, was launched in the market. FSC-­ certified GraphoInvent has a lower carbon footprint compared with similar papers in the market and a low weight to reduce customers’ postage costs. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 29 Value for nature A commitment to care for nature Economizing on natural resources is part of SCA’s business strategy to create responsible, long-term growth. Our stakeholders expect us to assume our environmental responsibility across the entire value chain, from protection of biodiversity in the forest to production and end use of the company’s products. SCA takes a 360-degree approach to tackling its By controlling the origins of all fresh fiber, the climate footprint and the Group has established Group ensures that it does not purchase wood targets to reduce carbon emissions and raw materials from controversial sources. SCA’s increase production of biofuel, and is participatown forests are both FSC and PEFC certified ing in several wind power projects. and SCA has ambitious goals to preserve bioWater is a local issue and SCA has thus logical diversity. The forest is also a valuable decided to focus its efforts related to water conrenewable energy resource that enables prosumption on areas where water is in short supduction of both forest-based biofuel and wind ply. On all sites, however, it is important that the power. quality of the water that is discharged from operations maintains a high standard. Read about our value creation for nature: Climate & Fiber sourcing Water energy & biodiversity pages 32-35 pages 36-38 page 39 30 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Value for nature “All of the environmental work we do at the ­tissue manufacturing sites supports a better environment and quality of life for our neighbors and employees. Respecting the environment at our production facilities enables us to operate now and in the future. Artem Lebedev, Site Manager at the Sovetsk tissue mill in Russia SCA Sustainability Report 2012 31 Value for nature | Climate and energy Invested in the future SCA has an ambitious carbon dioxide target. It will take investments in new TARGET technology and a continued focus on efficiency improvements in day-to-day CO2 emissions SCA will reduce CO2 emissions operations to achieve the target, and the roadmap is well in place. from fossil fuels and from purchased electricity and heating by 20% by 2020, with 2005 as Investment is key New tissue technology ­reference year. SCA reduces its carbon dioxide emissions priSCA is investing in new tissue production techmarily through major investments in key technolnology that will enable energy savings and carOutcome 2012 ogy improvements that will save energy, cut bon reductions. At the Kostheim production • By year-end 2012, CO2 emissions had emissions and lower costs. SCA views its facility in Germany, SCA is investing SEK 1.1bn declined by 10.4*% in relation to the producplanned investments as part of the annual stratin new drying methods for premium tissue prodtion level. egy process, analyzing investments for their ucts. This project, to be completed in the first • Continuing with its large-scale investments potential to impact the company’s sustainability quarter of 2013, will allow increased tissue proaimed at achieving the climate target, SCA targets and carbon emissions. duction at Kostheim as well as reduced energy inaugurated a biofuel-powered lime kiln at its One example is the installation of the new usage and CO2 emissions, compared with alterÖstrand mill in Sweden, reducing fossil CO2 lime kiln, powered by forest-based biofuels, at native technologies. emissions by 50,000 ton annually. SCA the Östrand pulp mill in Sweden in 2011, resultannounced it will invest SEK 490m to install ing in an 80% reduction in fossil CO2 emissions ESAVE everywhere a similar unit at the ­Munksund kraftliner mill. (50,000 tons) compared with using oil to power Since 2003, SCA has embedded the ESAVE • The company’s ESAVE energy efficiency prothe kiln, and reducing costs by SEK 50m annu(Energy Savings and Efficiency) program gram resulted in a 1.7% (1.7) reduction in ally. SCA is installing a similar bio-fueled kiln at throughout its operational business units. It has energy used per ton, corresponding to a the Munksund kraftliner mill in Sweden, to be completed about 1,700 projects that have genreduction in CO2 emissions of approximately operational by 2014. The project will reduce the erated estimated accumulated savings of SEK 47,000 tons. plant’s fossil CO2 emissions by 25,000 tons 700m in energy spending annually. ESAVE has * Including pulp and paper mills in SCA’s possession the 2012 calenannually, representing a total carbon emissions its own ambitious Group target, adopted in dar year. reduction of 75% ­compared with emissions from 2010: the company plans to achieve a 14% the current oil-fired lime kiln, and a reduced reduction in energy used per ton of product annual cost of SEK 50m. ­produced by 2020. In 2012, over 225 ESAVE The installation of a biofuel-powered lime kiln at the Östrand pulp mill in Sweden reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 50,000 tons compared with using oil to power the old kilns. 32 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Climate and energy | Value for nature ­ rojects were implemented, resulting in a 1.7% p ests is higher than harvesting levels, which Swedish National Road and Transport Research (1.7) reduction in energy used per ton, which is results in a 1% net increase of standing timber Institute (VTI) to investigate the possibility of well in line with the overall reduction target. This every year. The net carbon sequestration of running longer and heavier freight trains for forcorresponds to a carbon emissions reduction of SCA’s forests is equivalent to 2.6 million tons est industry transport. approximately 47,000 tons. annually, more than the Group’s 2012 production SCA owns three sea vessels, since sea transTypically, savings generated by ESAVE proemissions of 1.6 million tons (this figure excludes port accounts for the largest portion of the jects have derived from improving or replacing divested packaging operations and includes six Group’s transport work at 72%. SCA’s three pumps, compressors, fans or lighting. As SCA’s months of company acquisitions for 2012). RORO (Roll on Roll off) ships transport approxiESAVE focus has become more process-orimately one million tons of goods. Another ented, employees have become more involved Transport takes steps 200,000 tons of goods are moved via container in day-to-day energy and material savings. In Together with only a few other large companies, ship companies. A new regulation from the UN’s addition, the company is constantly on the lookSCA is among the first to report its total carbon International Maritime Organization, to be impleout for innovative technology solutions to cut dioxide emissions from transport. SCA’s total mented in 2015, will reduce allowable sulphur energy consumption in ways that combine effitransport emissions in 2012 were 0.82 million content in marine fuels to just 0.1% from the curciency with profitability. tons. rent 1.0% levels in defined regions, increasing A prime example of this is the upgrade and Road haulage accounts for about 21% of fuel costs for the Swedish export industry by an optimization of the power plant at the tissue mill goods transported, and SCA is participating in estimated SEK 13bn annually. at Altopascio in Italy. A new steam boiler and a an innovative Forestry Institute of Research In early 2013, SCA launched the company’s new cooling system increased efficiency of both Sweden project aimed at reducing CO2 emission biggest overseas container tender ever, includsteam and electricity generation. The measures in transport. The “One More Stack” project, ing both hygiene and forest operations. It marks reduced energy costs by more than SEK 2.5m ongoing since 2009, has experimented with a step towards a more coordinated approach to Heat recovery is an area that is a recent focus of adding an extra trailer to timber-hauling trucks. transport procurement, aiming to attain cost ESAVE efforts – the SCA Tissue mill in Neuss, SCA has one of these longer trucks, and plans to efficiencies and synergies. The joint volumes Germany, has implemented a number of proincrease the number. In three years of testing, amount to some 75,000 TEUs* on an annual jects, including assembling a mill-wide districtthe project’s pilot fleet hauled nearly 200,000 basis, with total sales of roughly SEK 700m, heating network that recovers process heat from cubic meters of timber and saved about 20% in including terminal handling and several transthe tissue paper drying, for use in heating all of fuel costs, thus reducing CO2 emissions comports to and from the ports. The largest volumes the mill’s buildings. The project will save SEK pared to traditional three-trailer rigs. are exports from Europe, but there are also 1.6m each year and reduce heating costs by At its Benelux plants, SCA reduced transport ­considerable flows from Asia Pacific and the almost 60%. emissions by 26% over a five-year period Americas. through improved logistics, engine optimization, Forest’s impact on climate change and enhanced truck aerodynamics, and * Twenty-foot equivalent unit, a unit of cargo capacity. SCA’s 2.6 million hectares of actively and received the European Logistics Hub’s 2012 responsibly managed forests provide an imporLean and Green award for its efforts. tant carbon sink. Young trees growing swiftly Currently, rail constitutes just 7% of total need 1.3 tons of carbon dioxide to produce each transport work, yet even here SCA is striving to cubic meter of wood. Current growth of SCA forfind carbon-cutting solutions, working with the Electricity consumption 2012 Fuel consumption 2012 From national grids, 84% Natural gas, 42.9% Own production, 16% Biofuel, 52.5% Oil, 2.8% Coal, 1.2% Electric boiler, 0.6% Electricity consumption 2012: 7,780 GWh Fuel consumption 2012: 52,828 TJ fuel The majority of SCA’s electricity, 84%, comes from A total of 42.9% of SCA’s fuel consumption comes from national grids, while 16% derives from electricity natural gas and 52.5% from biofuel. Oil and coal account produced in the Group’s co-generation plants. for a mere 2.8% and 1.2%, respectively. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 33 Value for nature | Climate and energy Renewable energy: meeting multiple goals SCA’s vast forest lands provide ample resources for production of wind power TARGET and the generation of biofuels. Our industrial processes provide residues and Wind power The production of wind power materials that may be used for energy production. SCA is also exploring other on SCA forest land will increase to renewable energy opportunities where they make good business, environmen5 TWh by 2020, with 2010 as the reference year. tal and social sense. Biofuels We will triple our production of biofuels from our Clean energy from wind power is one cornerForest-based biofuels forests by 2020, with 2010 as reference year. stone of SCA’s renewable energy target and in SCA’s renewable energy operations include bio2012, the company made solid progress towards fuels from the forest, not just logging waste in Outcome 2012 its 2020 goal. The company is working simultathe form of treetops and branches, but also Wind power neously with three models of wind power develstumps and peat. In addition, the company uses 0.4 TWh of wind energy from SCA forest land opment: residue products from industrial operations. was delivered to the grid. The first turbines from • SCA leases out wind sites to energy producMuch of this raw biofuel, such as bark and black the Statkraft SCA joint venture SSVAB were ers. This is often done when the sites are liquor, is used internally in SCA’s industries. established this year. small or a minor part of a wind farm, where Some of these residues, however, are proBiofuels the majority of the wind turbines are located cessed, as is the case with fuel pellets, proEnergy from SCA’s forest-based biofuels in 2012 on the land of another landowner. duced in two mills in Härnösand and Stugun, was approximately 890 GWh (870 GWh in 2010). • Joint ventures with energy producers, Sweden, from sawdust from SCA’s sawmills. That is enough power to heat 40,000 single-­ whereby SCA is a part owner of the wind These can be sold to customers outside of SCA. family homes. farm. The joint ventures with Norwegian Fuel pellets are used for energy production in energy companies Statkraft and Fred.Olsen boilers of various sizes, ranging in size from Renewables fall into this category. those used in single-family homes to large CHP • Wind projects initially developed by SCA plants. An increasing share of fuel pellets is used without a partner. SCA may, as development in SCA’s own industrial operations. In December progresses, decide to sell the project, bring 2012, the SCA Board decided to invest in a bioin a partner, or fund the project itself. fuels expansion project together with the community of Sundsvall in Sweden. SCA will invest in The joint venture with Norwegian company Stattwo boilers fueled with pellets, which increases kraft started to yield effects. Owned 60% by the energy the company will deliver to the comStatkraft and 40% by SCA, Statkraft SCA Vind munity’s district heating grid. This means that AB was formed in 2007. In 2012, construction both the community of Sundsvall and the Ortwork at the first of seven wind farms with a viken paper mill can drastically reduce their use planned total of 360 turbines began, with 13 turof fossil fuels, decreasing consumption of fuel bines erected. Eventually, these seven farms will oil by 30,000 cubic meters each year. deliver approximately 3 TWh of renewable elecIn 2012, SCA produced 2.9 TWh of bio-based tricity to the Swedish power grid annually. energy, a small decrease from the previous year. SCA is also part of a joint venture with NorOf this amount, SCA‘s forest-based biofuels wegian company Fred.Olsen Renewables, energy production amounted to 890 GWh (a called FORSCA, and project permissions are slight increase from 870 GWh produced in 2010, currently being sought. FORSCA will develop the reference year). The reduced production is turbines generating approximately 2 TWh of due to market conditions. There is a large potenelectricity each year. tial for biofuels production in SCA’s vast forests. SCA has been developing a number of wind These resources, however, are located far from projects on its own in northern Sweden. For cities and population centers. Recent mild winthree of these projects, permissions were ters and the cost of production and transportasought during the final quarter of 2012. In tion have reduced the profitability of the biofuel December 2012, an agreement was signed with sector. Work is ongoing, both to increase the Swedish energy company E.ON to cooperate productivity throughout the whole supply chain on the development of a number of wind power and to find more efficient uses for the energy projects with planned production amounting to resources that SCA controls. 2 TWh annually. 34 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Climate and energy | Value for nature “Three Trees” initiative supports community In partnership with the ethical Brazilian comSince 2009, almost five million seedlings the “Three Trees” project resulted in 300 local pany Amata, the SCA Velvet tissue brand has have been planted for “Three Trees” in the tree-planting jobs, creation of a fleet of bikes developed a unique model for forest restoraPará region in Brazil. The goal is to plant 14 for workers, and the establishment of new tion in previously deforested areas of rural million seedlings by 2022. SCA and Amata are tree seedling nurseries, according to the Brazil. The project has demonstrated measplanting a combination of mixed tree species, Brand Science consulting group, the camurable business value to the Velvet brand, the all indigenous to Brazil. The plan is to harvest paign also delivered measurable business local environment, and community livelihood. these trees when they are between seven and value to SCA in a highly competitive market. In introducing the ‘Three Trees’ initiative in 40+ years old. They will then be replaced by Marketing and advertising communications 2009, SCA pledged to replace three trees for other trees. about “Three Trees” were considered twice every one used to make Velvet tissue. This As many as 15 million additional trees on as effective as the nearest competitor’s pledge is achieved by working with specific Amata’s forested lands, both planted and the efforts, and Velvet’s market share grew 1.3% pulp suppliers for the Velvet Brand, in combinatural reserves, will be permanently prosince the program was launched. nation with a tree-planting initiative. Amata tected in designated protected or reserve was a perfect partner in the endeavor, as the areas. All of the trees are certified to FSC company is a pioneer in forest management standards. that protects ecosystem services, while SCA receives no financial return from the developing sustainable markets for diverse trees. Yet the project has already provided timber products. significant economic benefits. Not only has As part of its cooperation with the ethical forest company Amata, SCA has planted nearly five million domestic seedlings in previously deforested areas in Brazil. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 35 Value for nature | Fiber sourcing Securing a responsible fiber supply SCA’s commitment to sourcing all of the wood raw materials it uses from nonTARGET controversial sources involves considerable control efforts along the supply Fiber sourcing We will achieve and maintain chain. A global supplier standard is strengthening the company’s ability to verify our target of zero fresh fiber-based material, supplier performance. including pulp, from controversial sources. Since 2005, SCA’s target has been to ensure supplier sites were audited in 2012; another Outcome 2012 that no wood fiber in its products originates from twelve will be audited in 2013. • All deliveries of pulp to SCA facilities met the controversial sources. Controversial sources are The new pulp supplier database provides Group target. defined as: mills with fast and easy access to key informa• All of SCA’s wood-consuming units are • Illegally logged timber. tion about suppliers, including certification reviewed by independent auditors and meet • Timber from forests with a high conservation options, pulp specifications, ecolabel compatithe requirements of the Group target. value. bility, bleaching technology used, and so forth. • A new global fiber-sourcing group for the • Timber from areas where human rights or the hygiene operations strengthened supply traditional rights of indigenous peoples are Recovered fiber chain management. being violated. SCA uses recovered fiber within its tissue opera• The global supplier standard was impletions. Currently, the mix is 46% fresh fiber and mented among pulp suppliers. A pulp supplier The goal of no controversial sources anywhere 54% recovered fiber, but the ratio varies in difdatabase was also introduced. in the supply chain means for example that SCA ferent markets due to the supply situation and does not currently purchase any wood pulp from market demand. The North American business Indonesia or other Asian sources. Today, SCA is based on almost 100% recovered fiber, while has 100% control of the origins of wood fiber, the percentage of recovered fiber used in Latin including pulp. America is 72% and in Europe it is 36%. towards forest certification. Therefore SCA recWith the decreasing demand for publication ognizes diverse schemes for forest management, Group approach to fiber sourcing papers in North America and Europe, sourcing including PEFC, as well as the Sustainable ForMore than ever, SCA’s globe-spanning product recovered fiber will become more difficult. SCA estry Initiative (SFI), and the Canadian Standards lines and growth of the company’s hygiene busiremains committed to its use, working with trade Association (CSA). Other certification schemes ness necessitate a Group approach to the associations and recovered paper partners to may be considered on a case-by-case basis. sourcing of fiber for personal care and tissue improve the collection of recovered paper and Over the next two years, SCA will work to products. SCA sets high environmental and paperboard for reuse. In Sweden, SCA is part achieve FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody certifisocial standards for suppliers (see p. 50). owner in Pressretur, a company that oversees cation at the European mills acquired from GeorSCA requires pulp suppliers to demonstrate paper recycling across the country. SCA’s stake gia-Pacific. Work will also begin to integrate FSC reliable systems and have documented procein Pressretur ensures a stable supply of recovChain of Custody into SCA’s North American dures in place to enable control of the supply ered paper and good quality control. Recovered operations, in preparation for the launch of furchain and traceability of the origin of wood raw paper quality can be a major problem in counther FSC products. materials. The company continues to perform tries where recyclables are not separated. To SCA collaborates closely with FSC, the most assessments and supplier visits to ensure supcollect and sort paper, Pressretur has contracts important and recognized platform for dialog on pliers meet policy and expectations. with large and small waste management com­ forestry. SCA also engages with other standAll SCA’s pulp suppliers are FSC Chain-ofpanies throughout Sweden, operating more than ards’ bodies and stakeholders on responsible Custody and/or PEFC Chain-of-Custody certi5,000 recycling stations. sourcing in the pulp and paper industry. SCA fied. The company’s wood sourcing policy sets Forest Products participates in the WWF’s out a tiered approach to help suppliers achieve Forest certification and dialog Global Forest and Trade Network with respect to SCA’s ultimate goal of sourcing fiber from forSCA’s privately held forest lands have been its purchasing operations. SCA also discloses ests independently certified as sustainably man­certified by the Forest Stewardship Council information in the WWF Environmental Paper aged. The decision by a number of pulp suppli(FSC) since 1999 and by the Programme for the Company Index, receiving the best environmeners not previously involved in FSC to now offer Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) tal footprint score in both the tissue (65% of the FSC-certified products is seen as a positive since 2011. Both of these standards form the total achievable score) and packaging category result of the dialog between SCA and suppliers basis of the Group’s audits. SCA’s ambition is (75% of the total achievable score) in WWF’s concerning sourcing policy and goals. to source all its fiber from forests that are most recent ranking in 2011. In addition, SCA Since the wood sourcing policy’s introduc­independently certified. engages with forest stakeholders by participattion in 2004, the number of pulp suppliers has While the company has a preference for FSC ing in the World Business Council on Sustain­ been reduced to approximately 20. Twelve pulp materials, SCA encourages all suppliers to move able Development’s Forest Solutions Group. 36 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Fiber sourcing | Value for nature “As a newcomer to the company, I already feel really proud of SCA. The Group’s activities extend much ­further than the small number of sustainability ­examples that can be viewed on the intranet, which include tree planting, supporting schools and communities in developing countries, major investments to reduce CO2 emissions and water usage, cooperation with ­universities and schools, and so forth. Tom Berben, Director Environmental Compliance, B ­ elgium, former Georgia-Pacific employee SCA Sustainability Report 2012 37 Value for nature | Forest managament The forest and the trees As Europe’s largest private forest owner, SCA has the dual role of business TARGET leader and forest manager. Preserving the ecosystem services and biodiversity Biodiversity We will preserve the biodiversity of these forest holdings is a top environmental objective. of our forests. A minimum of 5% of our productive forest land will be set aside from forestry in Ecosystem services benefit everybody these trees that will never be harvested is estiour ecological landscape plans and a further 5% Biodiversity is the most important environmental mated at approximately SEK 200m annually. will be set aside as part of our consideration for objective of SCA’s forest management. Nearly In 2012, 39% of the total raw material used by nature in our managed forests. 7% of SCA’s actively managed holdings of two the company came from SCA’s own forests. The million hectares of land is set aside through remainder of wood consumed came from SweOutcome 2012 long-term landscape plans for ecosystem beneden (44%), Central Europe (13%) and the Baltic • Approximately two million hectares of SCA fits. The forest is not only a source of raw mateStates (4%). Normally about half of the wood raw forest holdings are used for timber producrial, it also provides other benefits, including as a material derives from SCA’s own forests. All of tion. Nearly 7% of this area, forest with signifiwildlife habitat and for its biodiversity, waterits wood suppliers meet the FSC Controlled cant natural features and important for biodished services, carbon storage, and scenic Wood Standard. versity, is preserved from felling or managed beauty. Another 600,000 hectares of less proFSC audits of SCA forests in 2012 resulted in to enhance those features. ductive forestland and bogs also provide animal no major CARs (corrective actions required). • Furthermore, 12% of the 18,500 hectares and plant sanctuary. Two minor CARs were received, one regarding planned for harvesting was set aside for In addition, a minimum of 5% of each year’s oil barrels being left at a harvesting site, and a ­preservation. designated harvest area is also preserved. In second case concerning unsufficient control of 2011, the last time the biannual inventory was a contractor. The oil barrels were removed, and carried out, 12% of the forest area of the 18,500 processes were put in place to avoid similar hectares planned for harvest, was set aside for cases. SCA is conducting a review together with preservation. the trade union for forest workers to ensure that This means SCA is not only meeting its biodiall contractors are controlled accurately. A 2011 versity target, it is exceeding it by a good marCAR related to handling and management of Defining ecosystem gin. In re-visiting and analyzing areas set aside hazardous waste, such as used hydraulic oil and ­services for their high conservation value, SCA has found lubricants. Corrective action was carried out in Ecosystem services are the processes that approximately 200 species – over 100 speearly 2012 to address this. by which the natural environment procies of insects, nearly 50 types of fungi and SCA forests are also certified in line with duces multiple benefits – clean water, about 50 different kinds of mosses and lichens – PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest healthy forest habitat for flora and can be at a disadvantage in managed forest Certification Standards), and the Group basis its fauna, pollination of plants – that are lands, and these need special consideration. audits on this standard and on the FSC standard. often taken for granted. Natural eco­ For example, environmentally compatible SCA’s forest management also applies ISO systems perform crucial services upon management methods such as controlled fires 14001 certification, first achieved in 1998. which life depends, and careful manare being used to re-create the natural qualities SCA’s forest inventories indicate that its foragement of these benefits is required to of burned trees that are attractive for some speest holdings have a net growth of 1% per year. make sure valuable ecosystems are cies. In another example, during harvest all This growth rate has improved over time as a maintained for the good they provide broadleaf trees in a diversity area may remain result of the Group’s active management and for all. untouched in order to create an environment nurturing of new seedlings post-harvest. That more attractive for certain species of insects means in another 25 years or so, post-World War and birds. II forests will be ready for harvest, delivering More than one in every ten trees that SCA 20% more sustainable wood than current harmanages is left in the ground to die from natural vests. causes. These standing trees – and in time, SCA’s forest-tree nursery produced more fallen trees – are critical, as they constitute a refthan 100 million seedlings, providing 44.5 million uge for care-demanding species and they bring seedlings for use on SCA’s forestland. Another nature qualities of the old forest into the new, 58 million seedlings were sold to other forest growing replacement forest. The market value of owners. 38 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Water usage | Value for nature The way to water sustainability Pulp and paper mills require large volumes of water. SCA aimes to reduce water TARGET usage in water-stressed areas and provide the highest levels of wastewater Water We aim to achieve water treatment. sustainability and we will reduce our water usage in water-stressed regions by 10% by Getting tough on water targets western US – only accounts for 2.5% of the com2015, with 2010 as the reference year. All SCA SCA’s approach to water management – a clear pany’s overall usage, planned reductions will pulp and paper mills will employ mechanical and environmental priority – is multi-faceted, and make a big difference locally. By year-end 2012, biological water treatment plants by 2015. includes looking at where water comes from, water usage in these regions had declined by how much is used, and the quality of wastewa3.4%. Former Georgia-Pacific sites are not Outcome 2012 ter. Water goals adopted from 2005–2010 included in the water usage target. These will be • By year-end 2012, water usage in waterhelped the Group reduce water usage by 12%. surveyed in 2013. stressed regions declined by 3.4%. During that time, the organic content of Group As minimization of water usage has been a • Of the Group’s 40 pulp and paper mills, 39 wastewater dropped by 35%. Thus, SCA has top priority for SCA for many years, the chalhave installed, or are in the process of installadopted new, challenging water goals: lenge will remain to find technologies to reduce ing, mechanical and biological effluent treat• Reduce water usage in water-stressed use further. SCA’s tissue plant in Sahagún, Mexment. regions by 10% by 2015, and ico, is a good example. The Sahagún site, offi• Ensure that all of SCA’s pulp and paper mills cially inaugurated in 2011, features integrated employ biological and mechanical effluent wastewater treatment with water reuse. Rainwawater treatment by 2015. ter is collected for re-infiltration to the under2013. When this has been completed, the plant ground aquifer. Two major technological addiin Medellin, Colombia, will be the only facility of SCA used 210 million m3 of water in 2012 in pulp tions, including a Moving Bed Biofilm Reactor SCA’s 40 pulp and paper mills not to deploy bioand paper production, the majority – 90% – (MBBR), reduce the content of organic material logical effluent treatment. Pilot studies are drawn from surface water sources. Most SCA and allow nearly half of wastewater to be recyongoing in Medellin to determine the type of mills (corresponding to 97,5% of the Group’s cled back to tissue manufacturing. technology to be installed to enhance water total water use) are located in areas with adequality. quate access to water. SCA has decided to Wastewater quality improvements Improvement of biological wastewater treatfocus water-saving efforts in regions experiencSCA aims to continuously improve the quality of ment facilities took place at a number of mills, ing water scarcity. The company identified mills wastewater at its facilities. Mechanical treatincluding the plant at Allo, Spain, which received in countries with water scarcity using globally ment removes sludge, and biological treatment its own MBBR system as well as a new buffer recognized methodology from the World extracts the organic impurities that affect Biotank to improve efficiency. Resources Institute and internal SCA evalualogical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and Chemical tions of local conditions. Oxygen Demand (COD). Although SCA’s water consumption in the SCA is investing in biological effluent treatidentified countries and regions – Italy, Spain, ment at its facility in Lasso, Ecuador, an initiative Mexico, Colombia, Australia, and the souththat is expected to be concluded in September SCA Sustainability Report 2012 39 Value for nature | Waste in operations Managing not to waste SCA strives to minimize waste in its production. The company is also paying grade in the municipal and commercial composting facilities that are becoming increasingly continued close attention to smart innovations and partnerships that allow common in major US cities. Tork Universal and ­consumers to create less waste when using SCA products. Advanced napkins also carry the EcoLogo and Green Seal certifications. Additionally in 2012, Perpetual reduction sent off to become raw material for future park North American products were awarded the Minimizing waste – from product design through benches. national Cedar Grove Composting standard. to manufacturing and disposal – is an essential Increased product volume levels and incluSCA has realized that growing populations way to reduce resource use and thus the carbon sion of former Georgia-Pacific sites have caused increase the need for solutions to address postfootprint of SCA products. Life cycle assessments levels of hazardous waste – mainly waste oil, consumer waste, and the company has become (see page 26) help SCA reduce waste when organic solvents, batteries and strip lights –­to proactive in working with waste collection and designing product innovations. SCA is also makincrease from 2,420 tons in 2011 to 4,058 tons in treatment authorities to form relevant partnering strides in reducing waste from manufacturing. 2012. Starting in 2013, a mapping and details of ships to deal with these major issues. Identifying Between 2005 and 2012, waste sent to landan action program will be prepared for these solutions that will work across global markets is fill was reduced in SCA’s European personal units. a challenge, but the key to success is finding care operations by 72% and in North American collaborations like the Power of Three project operations by 91%. At the manufacturing plant in Post-consumer waste (see below). Bowling Green in the US for example, 90% of Considering the waste prevention hierarchy prowaste already bypassed landfill. To take care of moted by the EU Waste Framework Directive, Closing the loop through collaboration the final 10% of the plant’s waste, a team of nine reducing the amount of waste from product A new collaborative effort with Casella Waste SCA employees worked to finely separate manmanufacture is one of the most effective steps to Systems and Foley Distributing in the US is ufacturing, office, distribution and maintenance preventing waste. By using life cycle assessallowing SCA to be part of a closed-loop prowaste so that it could either be recycled, comments, especially for its personal care products, cess encouraging further recycling directly into posted, or used as a new source of fuel. This SCA has created an internal culture in which new goods. Casella Waste Systems has worked work helped Bowling Green achieve zero-wasteactions to reduce waste, save money and to encourage recycling systems on college camto-landfill in 2012. improve product performance are a continual puses in the northeastern US states in which it Meanwhile, recovery of materials streams part of an innovation mindset. In addition, mateoperates. Casella collects recyclable material useful to other industries – especially to the rials’ innovation – thinner plastic films, and more from the campuses and, in return, provides colcement, brick making, and construction indusabsorbent cores using less fiber, for example – is leges with data to calculate their own carbon tries – continues to increase, rising from 886,456 a promising avenue for cutting waste. footprints. Since mid-2012, the recycled material tons in 2011 to 1,227,317 tons in 2012. The SCA also plays a role in dealing with postis delivered to SCA’s paper mill in South Glens increase is partially due to the inclusion of the consumer waste. An example is SCA’s work to Falls, N.Y. as a source of recycled fiber, and is acquired Georgia-Pacific units in reporting for have its products certified as biodegradable. further fashioned into new, 100% recycled-conhalf of 2012. The company was the first Away-From-Home tent hand towels and tissue. Foley, a distribution At the Lilla Edet mill in western Sweden, ash manufacturer to obtain certification for its napcompany, then delivers new products back to from the sludge-burning process is being used kin line from the Biodegradable Products Instithe colleges. The close proximity of the three as construction material for forest roads, as a tute (BPI), one of the largest independent compartners tightens supply chains and reduces binder in asphalt, and to raise the pH of farm post certification groups in North America. BPI carbon emissions from transport, in addition to soil. At SCA’s Drummondville factory in Quebec, certifies that Tork Universal and Advanced napincreasing recycling rates. This project, dubbed Canada, punched-out leg holes from incontikins, including those featuring custom print, can the Power of Three, plans to expand to new local nence briefs are now packaged into bales and be safely disposed of and will quickly biodecustomers in the region. 40 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Product safety | Value for nature Safeguarding product safety Product safety is vital in the creation of SCA’s products. The company pays program, the University of Chalmers in Sweden, and companies SCA and Akzo Nobel. Positive strict attention to how it handles chemicals and complies with regulations outcomes from the project include improved throughout all of its operations. SCA also conducts safety assessments to cooperation, reduced environmental impact and ­continually maintain and improve product safety and, by extension, ­safeguard dissemination of good examples of effective tools and ways of working (For more information, consumers’ trust. visit www.tosca-life.info). Product safety measures are also important Securing product safety (see p. 50), approved in 2011, is the foundation in manufacturing, with contamination prevention Securing the safety of products and the safety of for SCA’s work with suppliers. It specifies imporand hygiene control being of great importance, the working environment is a continuous protant safety aspects, lists chemicals of special along with occupational health and safety. SCA cess. SCA works hand-in-hand with suppliers to concern, and spells out how suppliers shall profollows GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) for ensure that chemicals of concern are reduced or vide the detailed information that will be used for the majority of the different applicable types of eliminated in the formulation of materials and safety assessments. Safety assessments follow products it manufactures. In addition, SCA has products. This focus is a key part of maintaining principles of general risk assessment, and an approved product safety policy for all its consumers’ trust, and making sure products are include elements such as hazard identification, hygiene business units and is implementing this compliant with all necessary legislation and exposure assessment and risk characterization. policy on a global basis. standards. Experts in the fields of chemistry, toxicology, The monitoring of changing scientific findProduct safety requirements vary depending microbiology, and environmental science ings and trends is included in SCA’s efforts to on the product types, and the categories most assess SCA products and take into account reduce or exclude chemicals or materials of conrelevant to SCA are general product safety, the type of material, type of product, and its cern. In the past few years, minimizing the presmedical devices, food contact, chemicals, cosintended use. ence of trace elements from chemicals not metics, biocidal products and electronics. Between 2009–2011, SCA was part of intentionally added to formulations has been The product safety process begins with TOSCA, a project to encourage sustainable a key effort. ­suppliers, thus SCA’s Global Supplier Standard ­supply chains, jointly funded by the EU LIFE+ Chemicals compliance The European REACH legislation (Regulation, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals) covers the use of chemicals and their effect on occupational health and safety, consumer safety and the environment. Entering into force in 2008, REACH is strictly followed and SCA ensures its compliance through a detailed and careful system. As SCA is a significant user of certain industrial chemicals, the company’s adherence to REACH is part of daily operations and integrated into all levels of activity. The latest phase of REACH, to come into effect on June 1, 2013, requires SCA suppliers to register anything over 100 tons of chemicals manufactured or imported and consequently the company works closely with suppliers to maintain open and ongoing communication. This ensures that Safety Data Sheets (SDS), the long established method of passing on information on chemicals, are updated and new information passed along the supply chain, thus ensuring that SCA receives information at all stages. This is also important as REACH’s list of ‘substances of very high concern’ is expanding, and SCA must continiously review and act upon this growing list. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 41 Value for people Social responsibility at the core Through a business strategy permeated by sustainability and social responsibility, SCA contributes to society in ways that reflect our core values of respect, excellence and responsibility. The SCA Code of Conduct has a central role in our social responsibility programs and is an integral part of how we do business. As new international standards emerge and aware of the content of the Code and underOur people are our greatest asset, and stakeholder demands rise in areas such as stand its significance. attracting and developing talent is a strategic human rights, labor standards, responsible All employees should feel secure at their priority. Leadership, development and diversity sourcing and anti-corruption, companies must place of work, and health and safety has been are key factors to attract committed and multihave in place robust processes and policies to assigned the highest priority. SCA imposes rigtalented employees. meet high standards of social responsibility. orous demands on the work environment and SCA helps to raise the quality of life for many Our Code of Conduct forms a framework for continuously endeavors to encourage a safety people through our products and services and the way in which we translate our core values mindset. No task or activity is worth risking by sharing knowledge. We want to create value into practical action and provides guidance for injury and every accident that occurs should be by positively influencing society and becoming how our employees are expected to act in their viewed as a failure. actively involved in the local community. day-to-day activities. All employees should be Read about our value creation for people: Code of Employee Hygiene ­Conduct Health & Safety ­solutions pages 46-51 pages 52-55 pages 58-59 42 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Value for people “Through its active role in social responsibility aimed at improving access to hygiene for everybody, SCA goes beyond its core mission to manufacture and sell hygiene products. SCA’s Lotus brand is a partner of the French branch of the charity SOS Children’s Villages, making hygiene accessible to the inhabitants of villages in the south of Madagascar through on-pack campaigns. These activities make me all the more proud of being part of SCA. Charlotte Fourest, Senior Brand Manager, France SCA Sustainability Report 2012 43 Value for people | Acquisitions and transformation SCA on a journey of transformation The year of change that characterized SCA in 2012 affected our employees in a ensure that organizational changes are handled with respect and integrity towards all the number of ways that challenged the organization, but in placing the emphasis i­ndividuals affected. on openness, transparency and communication, the fabric held. A supportive process In 2012, SCA experienced unprecedented cation paper mill in Laakirchen. This was part of In the design and implementation of any new change to the organization. In 2011, SCA the company’s strategy to enable sustained organizational structure to leverage on synerannounced one of its biggest acquisitions to growth in its hygiene business, which today repgies, the aim is to handle personnel changes date, of Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue operresents 80% of net sales. with openness, fairness and dialog. ations, adding 4,700 employees, and 15 producParallel to these changes, SCA reorganized its During periods of restructuring, the compation sites in seven countries. The integration of global hygiene operations, which employs 25,000 ny’s focus is to provide support to employees our “new” colleagues was a major activity during people. This was one of the largest reorganizaaffected by organizational changes. This is done the year and is still ongoing. Other significant tions in the company’s history, designed to allow primarily through transparent and early discusacquisitions occurred in China, Taiwan along for increased efficiency, market presence and sions with unions, and by developing a social with the remaining 50% in a joint venture in Chile. growth. plan, tailored to local conditions and to assist In 2012, SCA divested its packaging operaWhile all of this transformation was taking employees in finding new opportunities. Typitions, excluding two kraftliner mills in Sweden, place, SCA still had to deliver its products and cally, the plan contains job search assistance, affecting 12,000 employees. SCA also sold its services with the same level of quality. Such a training and other support. It may also include 50% share in the papermill in Aylesford, UK, and significant amount of change puts pressure on severance pay, early retirement schemes, and signed an agreement to sell the Austrian publian organization. SCA has a process in place to financial incentives to those who find work before A personal welcome to SCA The completion of the acquisition of Georgiadialog. Employees could ask questions durPacific’s European tissue operations in July ing an interactive session that followed. This 2012 was a big event for SCA; a group of SCA was the first Group-wide contact between senior managers, supported by the former SCA and its new employees. Georgia-Pacific management, visited 20 pro“We understood that our initiative to welduction sites and offices across Europe over come of the new employees was unexthree days, meeting the majority of the new pected,” says Hans Kisjes, Regional Director employees. At the new locations, employees NorthWest Europe at SCA, who greeted were personally greeted by management, about 250 employees at the new SCA site in who were waiting at the gates or reception Cujik in the Netherlands. “The employees areas. Employees also received a backpack really appreciated this gesture because it that included a welcome letter and informashowed just how important they are for tion about SCA, its values and its Code of SCA.” Conduct translated into the local language. An integration campaign was developed The backpack also contained samples of and launched across Europe at all internal SCA products so that employees could learn communication touch points, including large more about the company. welcome banners mounted on the factory Later during the day, town hall meetings walls, roll ups at the reception areas, and were held at all sites across Europe. The aim posters on the walls. All employees received of the SCA and former GP management was access to their personal SCA e-mail address to personally welcome the new employees, and to the SCA Group intranet. inform them about SCA, the acquisition and the shared journey ahead and to start a 44 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Acquisitions and transformation | Value for people the end of their termination period. Support serUnderstanding both companies’ strengths vices include individual career counselling, workand potential differences is key to success. shops – ranging from supplying practical knowTherefore, SCA invested in a cultural analysis how to support in change management – and that involved speaking to leaders from both the administrative support. Local employers are former Georgia-Pacific business and from SCA often engaged to help find employment opportuto enable an understanding of areas of differnities. The average notice period for employees ence and similarity. In a series of workshops in the SCA Group, in connection with organizaheld throughout the year and still ongoing, joint tional changes, is six weeks although it varies teams have the opportunity to both understand depending on the country. and address potential differences. Integrating new employees Aligning core values Effective integration of new employees is central Another important component has been to inform to the acquisition process and for many employthe new employees of the SCA way of working, its ees of the former Georgia-Pacific sites, the intepolicies, guidelines and values. All new employgration is well underway. By communicating ees were introduced to the SCA Code of Conduct openly about the reasons for and benefits of the by the end of 2012. In addition, they were trained acquisition and other changes, SCA’s aim was to in SCA’s performance management system and establish employees’ support for the journey other tools and processes. The training is to be ahead. completed by the first quarter of 2013. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 45 Value for people | Code of Conduct Code sets compass for corporate conduct In a year of transformation, the Code of Conduct has remained constant as the TARGET foundation on which SCA delivers on our commitment to sustainability. Code of Conduct We will maintain compliance with our SCA Code of Conduct. All employees will be Since 2004, the Code of Conduct has been an During 2012, there was substantial focus on regularly trained. integral part of how SCA does business and further ensuring compliance with the Code lives up to its core values of respect, responsithrough a more systematic approach to audits, Outcome 2012 bilty and excellence. Covering a wide range of action plans and follow-ups. • Rollout of global awareness training issues (see box, “Code at a glance”), the Code Using the ethical database Supply Ethical ­campaign for Code of Conduct. sets expectations for conducting SCA business Data Exchange (Sedex) risk assessment tool, as • 87% of employees have received Code of in a socially, environmentally and ethically well as assessments by Transparency InternaConduct training. responsible way. It is aligned with universal tional, Amnesty International and Maplecroft, a • Code of Conduct audits were performed standards of business conduct as defined by the global agency that monitors political, economic, in Russia, the US, Sweden and Poland. UN Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO (Intersocial and environmental risks, SCA identifies ­Business Practice reviews took place in national Labour Organisation) Core Conventions markets most susceptible to human rights and ­Hungary and Malaysia. and the OECD (Organisation for Economic corruption violations. • All SCA main sites reporting to the Supply Cooperation and Development) Guidelines for Ethical Data Exchange database (Sedex). Multinational Enterprises, and the UN Global Monitoring compliance Compact Principles. It is essential that the Code of Conduct and the With the emergence of new international values it bears does not become merely a docustandards and heightened stakeholder expectament, but is truly being respected and repretions for corporate responsibility in areas such sented throughout SCA and our operations. s­ upply chains across four key areas: labor as human rights, labor issues, and the supply SCA uses a number of methods to monitor and standards, health and safety, the environment chain (see sidebar “Changing landscape” p.48), safeguard the implementation of the Code. and business ethics. Sedex features a com­ SCA will undertake a review of the Code of ConRespect for human rights, anti-corruption and prehensive self-assessment questionnaire to duct in 2013–2014 in order to ensure it reflects all other risks are part of SCA’s due diligence probe completed by site management and a risk relevant standards, legislation and expectations cess in connection with all acquisitions. For assessment tool that analyzes the self-assessfor the highest standards of corporate conduct. example, prior to the acquisition of Brazilian ment results in combination with the inherent company Pro Descart, a thorough review was country and industry risk data in order to generStrong focus on risk assessment conducted, examining employee salaries, ate a risk rating. These tools enable SCA to SCA monitors compliance with the Code of Con­benefits and working conditions. ­evaluate and inform customers of company duct through reporting systems and auditing of Since 2011, SCA uses Sedex as a tool for ­performance, risks and approach in a com­ specific operations according to a risk-mapping monitoring adherence to the Code. Sedex is parable format. analysis. used for driving improvements in responsible By end of 2012, all of SCA’s 54 wholly owned and ethical business practices in global main sites were reporting in Sedex through the Code of Conduct at a glance SCA is committed to creating value for our stakeholders and to building • Business practice: to compete fairly when pricing its products and relationships based upon respect, responsibility and excellence with its services, with zero tolerance for all forms of corrupt and unethical busiemployees, customers, consumers, shareholders and other business ness practices. SCA expects our suppliers to adhere to the same conpartners – and to do so in a socially and environmentally responsible ducts it sets for itself, in line with its supplier standard. ­manner. The SCA Code of Conduct is the guiding document for living up to • Human rights: to ensure compliance with human rights, with focus on this commitment. preventing child and forced labor. • Community Relations: to contribute both directly and indirectly to the Here are some of the key elements: societies in which it operates. • Health and safety: to continuously improve health and safety and offer • Communication and data privacy: To ensure open communication, employees a safe working environment. while taking into account commercial confidentiality and respect for • Employee Relations: to foster a corporate culture where all employindividuals’ rights to data privacy. ees are treated with respect, without discrimination and where they can exercise freedom of association. The Code of Conduct is published on the company website and is available in 20 languages. 46 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Code of Conduct | Value for people In 2012, employees all over the world received training in such subjects as SCA’s core values, Code of Conduct training and Active Employeeship (a program with the purpose to raise awareness of the operation’s goal and future challenges and changes). self-assessment questionnaire and we expect The operations identified for audits are based on salaries are generally low, there is a risk of unethiour suppliers to do the same (see p. 50). The four criteria: cal payment. SCA has given clear instructions to Sedex risk assessment showed that none of • if the facility is located in geographical areas its sales force about ethical behavior. The nursing SCA’s main sites are classified as high risk. Now deemed most vulnerable to risks, such as home sector has a general business practice of that it is being used at all main sites, the Sedex human rights violations and corruption requesting financial support from suppliers and tool is proving valuable in quickly identifying • the size of the operation’s sales business partners. Accordingly, SCA makes problem areas to be addressed to ensure com• if the business has recently been acquired small donations to the nursing home foundations, pliance with the Code of Conduct. By the end of • if there are indications of non-compliance at a practice that is legally correct. SCA’s recom2013, all of the former Georgia-Pacific sites will a facility, for example, through SCA’s grievmendation is not to buy or donate any items that also be part of the Sedex database. ance procedure. could be used by private persons. The risk of Business Practice Reviews are performed unethical behavior from SCA’s part was regarded by the Internal Audit team. Business Practice About 23% (22) of the Group’s sales currently as low. reviews have been performed in a total of ten derive from countries with an elevated risk of countries since its launch in 2008 and they corruption and 3% derive from countries known Code of Conduct Audit findings address SCA’s relationships with customers, for other human rights-related challenges. In 2012, Code of Conduct audits were carried distributors and authorities. The reviews are About 69% (63) of SCA’s operations in riskout at SCA facilities in Russia, the US, Sweden based on a paper trail review and interviews with identified countries have been audited for Busiand Poland. In general, the audits indicated ten to 20 individuals holding managerial, sales ness Practice compliance. SCA’s internal reportalignment to the Code, policies and the SA8000 and purchasing positions who are potentially ing system collects data from every operation at standard, while also revealing some areas of exposed to issues such as corruption and least once a year and is based on relevant Global improvement. The audit of the operation in Venunethical business practices. Reporting Indicators (GRI), the most respected iov, Russia, identified compliance to eight of the SCA also monitors adherence to the Code framework for non-financial reporting. nine SA8000 chapters, with the outstanding and ethical business practice through Code of area highlighting the need for improvement in Conduct audits. The audits are conducted by Business practice reviews 2012 overtime. Similarly, at the facility in Barton in the cross-functional teams using SA8000, the In 2012, reviews were conducted in Malaysia and US, the only SA8000 chapter not fulfilled conglobal social accountability standard for decent Hungary. There were no indications of any cerned overtime. Internal Audit and local manworking conditions. A Code of Conduct audit breach of the Code of Conduct in respect of agement agreed on corrective action, which will usually involves thorough review of documentabusiness practices in either of the audits. be followed up by Internal Audit. If necessary, tion, facility tours with special focus on health In Hungary, a certain risk area could be seen Internal Audit escalates these issues to the next and safety and interviews with some 50 individuin the Incontinence Care business. In the home management level. There were also minor recals, including the management team, employee care sector, General Practitioners (GPs) prescribe ommendations on improvements to health and focus groups and union representatives. products for the individual consumer. As the GPs safety at both the Russian and US facilities. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 47 Value for people | Code of Conduct The audit of the Olawa mill in Poland revealed In Malaysia, a follow-up was conducted in Raising concerns compliance with seven our of nine SA8000 2012 of an audit performed in 2011 that identiA Code of Conduct is only as strong as the prochapters, indicating a need for considerable fied issues concerning management being unacesses and people that support its implementaimprovement within health and safety (for examble to demonstrate full compliance with the need tion. The successful implementation of a Code ple, locked emergency exit doors or substandto pay a living wage. Management committed to of Conduct requires high employee awareness ard firefighting equipment) as well as overtime. independently establish what would constitute a as well as an effective mechanism for reporting Only minor changes are required for compliance local living wage. Meanwhile, the Malaysian govgrievance and raising complaints. All employees with SA8000 for the Ortviken mill in Sweden, in ernment has issued minimum wage legislation are encouraged to contact their managers, the areas of health and safety and employee effective January 2013. Naturally, SCA will be Human Resources, legal departments or, if relegrievance procedures. required to comply with such legislation, but in vant, their union representative, if they wish to Audit findings are reported to the Board the meantime, management will undertake report a situation of potential violation of the through the Audit Committee. All audits are research to determine how a local living wage Code. Additionally, an intranet grievance proce­followed up. On site follow-up visits are only compares to the minimum wage, taking into dure form, which can be submitted anonymade where requested, or in the case of major consideration local trade union recommendamously to SCA headquarters, is available online. non-compliances. Where necessary, evaluations. In China and Australia, third party-operated tions are performed together with a third party. In 2013, Code of Conduct audits are planned Code of Conduct helplines are also in place. In to be conducted in France, Chile, Slovakia and 2013, SCA will review its grievance procedure to China. ensure effectiveness of reporting. Changing landscape Stakeholder expectations, legislative requireThe primary focus of the UN Guiding Princistandards for child-friendly business pracments and voluntary standards for corporate ples is to ensure businesses respect human tices. SCA has attended workshops in 2012 responsibility are rapidly evolving across a rights by taking action to avoid infringing on held by UNICEF, and hosted one as well, to wide range of issues, including the supply human rights and addressing any adverse learn more about the ongoing consultations chain, labor standards and human rights. impacts that arise. The Guiding Principles are to create principles to guide companies on While SCA has worked with these issues for voluntary and do not create any new legal actions they can take in the workplace, marmany years, we are currently reviewing this obligations for states or business. Rather, ketplace and community to respect and supchanging landscape to ensure that the Code they provide guidance on how these constituport children’s rights. of Conduct continues to reflect the highest ents can better meet their responsibilities in standards. line with existing human rights standards, as Combatting human trafficking well as identifying gaps where improvements In adhering to new legislative requirements, The UN Guiding principles can be made. SCA has acknowledged and signed the CaliOne of the key recent developments now Other guidelines for due diligence in fornia Transparency in Supply Chains Act of under review by SCA is the UN Guiding Princihuman rights being taken into consideration 2010, or S.B. 657. The law became effective ples on Business and Human Rights, also in SCA’s review are the new International on January 1, 2012. It requires retail sellers referred to as the UN “Protect, Respect and Standards Organization’s ISO 26000; the and manufacturers who have annual worldRemedy” human rights framework. It rests on standards of the International Finance Corpowide gross receipts exceeding USD 100 milthree pillars: the State duty to protect against ration; the European Union’s new strategy on lion dollars and who are doing business in the human rights abuses by third parties, includcorporate social responsibility, and specific state of California to post a disclosure on their ing business, through appropriate policies, provisions of the US Dodd-Frank Act. websites concerning their efforts to combat regulation, and adjudication; the corporate human trafficking and forced labor in their responsibility to respect human rights, which Children’s Rights own supply chains. SCA’s disclosure can be means avoiding infringing on the rights of SCA is also looking closely at the Children’s found on http://www.sca.com/en/sustainabil­others and to address adverse impacts that Rights and Business Principles, being develity/sustainability-targets/sustainability-taroccur; and greater access by victims to effecoped by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact get-code-of-conduct/human-rights/ tive remedy, both judicial and non-judicial. and Save the Children as the first-ever global 48 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Code of Conduct | Value for people Violations Joint ventures SCA views all forms of violations of the Code of We encourage our joint ventures and partners, Conduct very seriously and consistently takes such as distributors, to apply the SCA Code of suitable measures when such events occur. In Conduct. SCA is involved in seven joint venture 2012, a total of 14 (27) cases of non-compliance operations. Each of these joint ventures is manwith the Code of Conduct were reported: ten aged by a local Board comprising SCA reprecases related to business ethics and corruption, sentatives and its partners. Issues relating to one to sexual discrimination and the remaining compliance with the Code are regularly three to insubordination and inappropriate addressed at their Board meetings and, in cases behavior, among others. In all cases except for of serious non-compliance, reported directly to one, SCA terminated the employee’s employSCA. ment contract or the employee requested the employment to be terminated. In the case in which the employee’s employment contract was not terminated, a warning was issued. In the case of sexual discrimination, the employee has appealed the termination of employment in court. From commitment to action Training, raising awareness and workshops support SCA employees in this issue, and not least because of a growing number of international and bringing the Code of Conduct into their everyday decision-making. All national laws regulating this area, most recently the UK Bribery Act 2010. employees are regularly trained in Code of Conduct compliance and A robust compliance program helps to prevent breaches from happening, sound business practices, including guidelines on human rights, how to identifies any irregularities quickly if they do occur, and demonstrates that counter corruption, bribery and unethical behavior and how to deal with SCA does not accept unethical behavior. ethical dilemmas that may arise. Face-to-face and online training on the The program is aimed at managers and other employees who interact Code are provided at regular intervals for all employees, and is a mandawith customers and suppliers, for example, sales, marketing and procuretory part of onboarding for all new employees. To date, 87% (98)of employment. The course explains corruption and bribery and identifies high-risk ees have received training in the Code, which includes guidelines on situations that arise in SCA’s business, contains “real-life” case studies human rights and corruption. The decline is due to the fact that the criteria and provides guidance on how to prevent and identify corruption/deal with that determine what can be regarded as training have become stricter potentially difficult situations relating to corruption. It includes essential compared with 2011, and that it is now necessary to either have completed do’s and don’ts (practical examples to explain how the principles should in-classroom training or online training in order for the employees to be be applied), followed by a test. included in the statistics. New anti-trust learning tool Raising awareness of Code A separate e-learning tool will focus on anti-trust practices. While this During 2012, an updated e-learning module and training material was issue is already addressed regularly with relevant managers by the legal translated into 20 languages as part of a global awareness campaign and counsels in SCA’s business units, the new anti-trust e-learning tool will refresher course on the Code in which 76% of all employees participated. complement these face-to-face meetings. All new employees are introduced to the Code, which in 2012 included new employees from the Georgia-Pacific acquisition and other acquisitions. Training on data security Another area of specialized training for employees is information manageFocus on anti-corruption ment and data security. The training, provided through an e-learning tool, In 2013, additional training will be conducted on anti-corruption and anticovers requirements in management in relation to customer-related and trust. While zero tolerance for unlawful or unethical behavior such as corpricing information, including the financial and reputational risks of misuse ruption is stated clearly in the Code of Conduct, SCA has decided more inof intellectual capital. At year-end, 20,000 (18,000) had completed the depth training on anti-corruption is needed in view of the importance of training, including staff from each of the Group’s business areas. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 49 Value for people | Supply chain Securing a responsible supply chain With a large and increasingly complex global supply chain, the ability to monitor TARGET risks and manage social and environmental impacts among suppliers is of Supplier standard Our SCA supplier standard has ­paramount importance. been developed with suppliers to drive shared values and priorities through our supply chain. Securing that the supply chain meets high the company’s general auditing process covers We will use it in all supply chain contracts by standards of social and environmental responsihuman rights and environment-related issues. 2015. bility and product safety is the primary aim of the No contracts with suppliers were cancelled or Group target for responsible sourcing. The tarterminated due to violations during 2012, which Outcome 2012 get includes raw material and merchandise supis considered a last-resort alternative. • A total of 73% of SCA’s global hygiene suppliers and there are plans to include contractors. Group-wide alignment on responsible sourcplier base has committed to adhere to the In 2012, SCA decided to increase efficiency ing rests on a three-pronged platform, namely: SCA Global Supplier Standard, including its and unify supply chain management by creating • Compliance with the Global Supplier Standreferences to social responsibility, product a new Global Hygiene Supply unit. The company ards for the hygiene and forest products’ safety and environment. also further embedded the global supplier operations. • Of the hygiene operation’s global supplier standard for the hygiene business among sup• Performance disclosure through Sedex (the base, 33% reported performance through pliers. The forest products business created a world’s largest database for sharing ethical Sedex. global standard for its suppliers, aligned with the supply chain data). • A total of 65% of forest products’ global supsame requirements that apply to Global Hygiene • Audits of suppliers critical to SCA’s business plier base has committed to follow the SCA suppliers. While they largely share Group expecor located in high-risk areas. Global Supplier Standard, including its refertations in relation to responsible supply chains, ences to social responsibility, product safety the two standards vary slightly, enabling each The global hygiene business rolled out the and environment. business to take into account different issues standard among its suppliers during 2011. Durrelevant to their value chains. ing 2012 and onward, the focus is on securing supplier compliance with the standard in all Setting expectations future contracts. Essentially all major hygiene supplier contracts include criteria related to social responsibility, Sedex reporting on the rise safety requirements and the environment. To The global hygiene operations are setting a harmonize its supply chain management and to baseline to define what is required to reach the further emphasize the importance of social target of using the SCA supplier standard in all standards in the supply chain, SCA updated its supply chain contracts by 2015. SCA has thouGlobal Supplier Standard and initiated the implesands of suppliers, but the focus has been on mentation process in 2011. Today, about 73% of those suppliers most strategic to SCA operaSCA’s global hygiene supplier base has signed tions which form the global supplier base. the SCA Global Supplier Standard compliance At year-end, the global supplier base comletter. Potential suppliers are screened on perforprised 387 raw material suppliers, correspondmance before approval and are regularly foling to 90% of SCA’s total hygiene raw material lowed up on compliance. Approximately 16% of spend. A total of 127 of these suppliers had 50 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Supply chain | Value for people reported performance through the Supply during the reorganization of SCA. Instead, the employment conditions and the work environ­Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) in 2012. By the focus was on having suppliers registered in ment. Among other stipulations, the agreement end of the year, a total of 238 suppliers had Sedex while also drafting the strategy for how to with SCA clearly states that: reported through Sedex (125). Since 2011 was boost audits in 2013, when SCA’s hygiene oper• The contractor must be a member of an the first year that global suppliers reported perations plans to significantly increase the number employers’ organization or have a local colformance through Sedex, the significant of audits. The goal is to audit all production sites lective agreement in place with GS-facket increase in 2012 was due to a concerted effort to in the global supplier base in countries consid(the Swedish union of forestry, wood and have most major suppliers report in the dataered to pose the highest risk by the end of 2015. graphical workers). base. A number of SCA customers explicitly • The contractor must adhere to the laws and request reporting on supply chain performance Focused approach for Forest Products agreements that regulate the business, through Sedex. Within SCA, raw materials constitute a major meaning the forest worker agreement relatcost item. This is why the business areas has ing to working conditions and pay, and legisMonitoring suppliers emphasized supply chain management efforts lation governing working hours and the work As in its own operations, SCA applies a riskon raw materials. environment. based approach to monitoring our supply chain. Accordingly, the Forest Products business • The contractor must comply with the The risk management procedure annually maps unit worked closely in 2012 with wood and ­guidelines relating to employees’ rights as and evaluates hygiene suppliers from 20 different chemical suppliers, including the largest supstipulated in Swedish FSC and PEFC forest risk points to determine the risk rate. The areas plier of chemicals, to encourage them to sign the standards. covered in the risk mapping include geopolitical, letter of compliance with the SCA Forest Prod• The company must practice a systematic legal, economic, market, environmental, and ucts Supplier Standard. Eight out of 20 suppliers health and safety program and have carried social aspects. If a supplier has a risk rate above have signed the letter, representing approxiout at least one follow up during the past 20, a risk response plan should be established to mately 65% of SCA Forest Products’ purchasing year. reduce the risk. If the risk develops into a reality, spend. Going forward, Forest Products will con• The company must be able to present a risk a contingency plan is prepared. tinue working with its suppliers and encourage assessment and action plan for the work Consequently, SCA has been devoting them to sign the Supplier Standard. After an environment. increased attention in recent years to monitoring evaluation of the supply chain, it will then be countries considered to be of high risk due to determined which suppliers are appropriate to A contractor inspection is also carried out in low compliance with environmental and labor include in the Sedex reporting process. Forest which SCA Skog, together with the contractor, legislation. For this reason, three suppliers in Products have not performed any specific Code fills in relevant information in a checklist conChina were audited in 2011 for the hygiene operof Conduct audits of its suppliers in 2012 but one cerning, for example, the contractor’s employations. Although no major non-compliance was or two suppliers are historically audited annually ees and their work environment. In addition to identified, audit findings uncovered issues as part of quality audits. this activity, field spot checks are performed by regarding working hours, health and safety and SCA Skog uses almost exclusively contracboth GS-facket and SCA personnel. Efforts are freedom of association. The follow-up and cortors to carry out forest management services made to continuously improve the contractor rective actions included change of shift patand harvesting and has a program in place to inspections in collaboration with GS-facket. terns, improved emergency exits and more ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. In late 2012, it was revealed that one of SCA’s active communication with operators by worker SCA Skog signs agreements with contractors in suppliers had not complied with obligations representatives. which they undertake to comply with laws, conrelating to pay and working conditions for forest During 2012, no Code of Conduct supplier ventions, collective agreements and SCA’s rules workers. The relationship with the supplier was audits were conducted due to other priorities and regulations in relation to such aspects as therefore terminated. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 51 Value for people | Health and safety Putting health and safety first SCA has long prioritized health and safety at work. Now, with a target aimed at TARGET zero workplace accidents, safeguarding employees’ health and safety has Employee Health and Safety Our aim is zero workplace gained even more momentum, with a strengthened, global approach. accidents, and we will decrease our accident frequency rate by 25% between 2011–2016. SCA is committed to a safety culture with a zero Spotlight on the industry OHSAS 18001 will be implemented at all main accident vision, starting with a step change over In the pulp and paper industry, there is an awaresites by 2016. the next four years to cut the accident frequency ness of the need to improve health and safety rate by 25%. Eliminating unsafe conditions and and to set ambitious goals. Industry organizaOutcome 2012 fostering safe behaviors at work is the foundations, such as the Swedish Forest Industries • The accident frequency rate, including tion of a proactive safety program that all SCA Federation and the Confederation of European acquired sites, amounted to 8.5% (7.1). sites are expected to follow. While there are Paper Industries (CEPI), have highlighted the • By the end of 2012, 28% of SCA’s main sites many indicators of company performance, importance of health and safety for several were certified according to OHSAS 18001. health and safety is one that affects all employyears. In 2003, the European paper industry ees and can have serious consequences when committed to an aspirational target of “zero unsafe conditions or behaviors lead to accidents accidents”. In September 2012, CEPI and the or even fatalities. For this reason, health and IndustriAllEurope—the European Trade Union safety is a top priority at SCA. Federation—issued a report on best practice in To ensure that this approach is uniformly the industry in terms of health and safety under applied, meets the stipulations of national legisthe auspices of the European Union social lation and reflects the Code of Conduct, SCA dialog for the pulp and paper sector. SCA, a Group Health and Safety policy defines how the has adopted one international standard, OHSAS member of these trade organizations and a parcompany manages health and safety across its 18001, with which all its main production faciliticipant in the sector social dialog, is tracking operations and among all employees. Every ties must comply by 2016. As of 2012, progress emerging developments and stakeholder expecSCA facility has procedures in place to deliver toward the target is regularly reported to the tations to reduce health and safety risks for the on the commitment to creating safe workplaces. CEO and senior management. By the end of industry. These procedures aim to identify, address and 2012, 28% of SCA’s main sites were certified reduce risks, as well as improve safety awareaccording to the occupational health standard Continuous improvement ness and reduce site downtime. OHSAS 18001. All sites acquired in 2012 will be At SCA, the emphasis is on continuous improveAll management systems applied within SCA included in the system. ment on the journey to achieve the target. SCA’s include comprehensive safety awareness trainSharing best practice There are many examples of best practices within health and safety at SCA management systems and a committed effort to challenge unsafe condiand these are shared systematically throughout the organization. Examtions and behaviour. The Svetogorsk mill and Sovetsk mills in Russia ples in 2012 include the following: achieved 1 million hours and 500,000 hours, respectively, without an LTA In March, the personal care manufacturing facility in Bowling Green, during 2012, actively using the BOS program, loss prevention studies and Kentucky, USA marked two years without a Lost Time Accident (LTA). safety tours to achieve this result. Before achieving this two-year mark, the plant had reached a four-year In Asia, SCA’s two manufacturing facilities in Malaysia have been on a period without an LTA. Thus, in six years, the facility has experienced only journey since 2008 to reduce the number of LTAs at both sites, and to susone LTA. At Bowling Green, the Safety Index is an interactive program in tain safety awareness and a safe workplace. The focus in 2011 and 2012 which teams build proactive safety functions into their daily routines. has been to stimulate an “Influencer” way of working, whereby planned Teams participate in audits, perform behavior-based safety observations, safety initiatives and systems aim to leverage the power of peer pressure identify and correct hazards, create work instructions and training proto encourage ‘correct’ safety behavior in teams. For example, initiatives grams and complete other tasks. Points are tallied for each activity; at year such as a Behavior Observation Safety System (BOSS-card) and a manuend, top-performing teams are recognized for their achievements. facturing BUDDY system encourage and empower employees to positively On April 3, 2012, SCA’s tissue mill in Mannheim, Germany achieved influence their peers to act in compliance with expected safety proce1 million hours without an LTA, thanks in part to the “Beware-Of-Safety dures. These initiatives have led to positive results, from six six LTAs in (BOS) program, the introduction of safety KPIs, and designated “Work 2008 dropping to just one LTA in 2011. Safety days.” The Manchester mill in the UK also reached 1 million hours without a LTA on November 1, thanks to continual improvement of safety 52 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Health and safety | Value for people ing, targets, risk identification, continuous perSafety culture about people all facilities will comply with the OHSAS 18001 formance monitoring, and employee representaAlthough management systems are important, a standard. Every incident, even “near-misses”, tion on joint health and safety committees. safety culture is essentially about people – how are important to investigate to gain information Some 95% (94) of the total workforce is reprethey interact with each other, with the equipabout how to avoid problems. Newly acquired sented on such committees.In addition, 63% of ment, and at the workplace. That is why the sites are also aligning to the SCA health and the total workforce is covered by formal trade focus for training at SCA is on behavior-based safety strategy and are sharing their best union agreements in which health and safety are programs, empowering employees to under­practice. standing items. stand the value of safety and accident prevenSince 2009, SCA has a reference team for tion, with consistent messages shared across Tracking key indicators Group-wide health and safety and making the diverse cultures and geographies. All employees Key safety indicators are the basis of the target relevant to all aspects of the business. A receive health and safety training annually, and Group’s approach to risk identification and they critical incident report system was launched in how this is carried out is locally driven. provide data for the process for continuous 2012, in which Group-wide data on each serious Safety is part of the Hygiene Manufacturing improvement. Both dangerous occurrences and incident is disseminated immediately and globExcellence program, which is being rolled out minor accidents that do not result in absence ally, covering preventive actions taken, recomacross the global hygiene business. One examfrom work are tracked. The following key performendations to other SCA sites and contact ple is Beware of Safety (BOS), implemented at mance indicators apply for all operations: details for further information. many facilities to raise awareness of safety on • Number of Lost Time Accidents (LTA): accithe shop floor, with an emphasis on observing dents that cause an employee to miss the behaviors, providing positive feedback on good next regularly scheduled work day/shift. practices and pointing out areas for improve• Days Lost due to Accidents (DLA): number of ment. Machinery safety is vitally important and work shift/ days lost due to an LTA. this has been a priority area in the acquisition of • Accident Severity Rate (ASR): The DLA in Safety statistics new sites. All new employees and contractors relation to LTA. 2012 must undergo a safety induction program and • Incident Rate (IR): LTA in relation to number Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 477 Days Lost (DLA) 8,539 training in fire safety and first aid. of employees. Accident Severity Rate (ASR), % 17.9 While the health and safety strategy at SCA is • Frequency Rate (FR): LTA in relation to hours Incident Rate (IR), % 1.5 set at a corporate level, it is influenced by local worked. Frequency Rate (FR), % 8.5 priorities. The SCA hygiene business units • Fatalities. Fatalities 1 developed a safety roadmap in 2012 to ensure More safety statistics on page 70. Accident Frequency Rate (FR)* Incident Rate (IR)** Accident Severity Rate (ASR)** 15 2.0 30 12 25 1.5 20 9 1.0 15 6 10 0.5 3 5 0 0.0 0 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Frequency Rate (FR) total Acquisitions A comparison of the accident frequency rate in SCA (adjusted for * Comparable history. Historical data from acquisuitions are added and divestments are completely removed. divestments of the packaging business, excluding the two kraftliner ** Unadjusted historical data. 2012 data includes acquisitions (Georgia-Pacific Tissue, Everbeauty, Pro Descart) and excludes disposals mills and Aylesford) and the accident frequency rate in acquired units (Packaging excl. Obbola and Munksund, Aylesford Newsprint). (Georgia-Pacific Tissue, Everbeauty and ProDescart). SCA Sustainability Report 2012 53 Value for people | Health and safety Performance A comprehensive analysis of health and paper reel that fell from a truck. Investigations Several health and safety performance indicasafety issues at the Brazil facility was underhave been conducted by SCA representatives tors deteriorated in 2012 compared with 2011 taken in 2012. The majority of accidents are and civil authorities, the latter of which is still and the accident frequency rate (FR) rose to ­incidents resulting in hand injuries related to how ongoing. As a result of the incident, SCA has 8.5% (7.1). The number of Lost Time Accidents workers interact with machines. This is being introduced changes to procedures at the port to (LTA) was 477 (492), and the Days Lost due to addressed partly by improvements to machine reduce the risk of similar incidents. Accidents (DLA) totaled 8,539 (11,070). Acquisiguarding systems. The greater challenge is In early 2013, Vänersborg district court ruled tions in the preceding year are not included in encouraging a safety culture, a cultural change that SCA had violated the Swedish Work Envidata for 2011, and divestments are not included that will take time to develop fully. ronment Act and was ordered to pay a fine of in 2012, implying that the figures are not compaExtensive training was carried out in 2012 to SEK 1.5m. The reason was a fatal accident that rable. The decline in some performance indicaachieve this goal; a total of 3,000 hours in which took place in 2009 at the Lilla Edet paper mill in tors is largely because the acquired units do not all employees were trained on 53 different health which an employee was fatally injured in a maintain the same high standards as existing and safety topics. Two safety technicians covercrushing accident. The court contended that SCA facilities. Efforts to strengthen health and ing both day and night shifts were also employed negligence led to the death of the employee. safety activities at these units have already comto support safety measures. There is now posiSince the accident, SCA has rebuilt all machines menced. One positive aspect of this year’s tive momentum towards reduced health and of a similar model worldwide and has also ­statistics is the improvement in the Accident safety incidents at the plant, thanks to these informed other companies about the accident Severity Rate (ASR) to 17.9% (22.5), which indiefforts. For 2013, the goal is to achieve the risk. cates a reduction in serious accidents. Group target of 25% reduction in accident freAll fatalities are taken very seriously at SCA At SCA in Brazil, (known as Pro Descart when quency, at a minimum, but the team is commitand it is the company’s ultimate goal within acquired by SCA in September 2011), there has ted to exceeding this goal. health and safety to avoid such tragedies. been a concerted effort in 2012 to address the high rate of accidents. A family-owned business Taking fatalities seriously prior to acquisition, the facility, with about 400 It is with great sadness that SCA reports the employees, has substantially ramped up its occurrence of one fatality during the year. The occupational health and safety practices in accident took place within the logistics company order to work towards achieving Group-wide SCA Transforest at the Port of Rotterdam in Febstandards. This began in 2011 with training of all ruary 2012. A 60-year-old stevedore worker, who employees in the SCA Code of Conduct. was under contract to SCA, was struck by a A healthy ­workplace A healthy workplace is vitally important to for these initiatives. SCA Americas has identitreat alcohol abuse. Most programs include SCA. In 2012, a new Group-wide wellness fied diabetes as a crucial issue and supports support for the families of employees. campaign was launched to further raise employees in the highest risk category. Forest Products includes the company awareness of health issues. SCA’s European hygiene operations have SCA Hälsan – a company within the SCA At SCA, each business unit is responsible revamped menus in their canteens to reflect Group that pursues occupational health serfor designing a wellness program that is most better nutrition. Health & Lifestyle is a central vices for SCA’s units in the Sundsvall region in relevant to its operations. Measures to improve program within the European hygiene operaSweden. SCA Hälsan focuses on such areas health range from improved ergonomics, nontions to improve the health and lifestyle of as preventative healthcare by offering smoking campaigns, work-life balance to employees. The goal of the program is to employees health profile assessments. The training and counselling on how to deal with decrease illness rates, increase productivity purpose of these assessments is to motivate serious diseases, as well as the importance of and provide solutions for an aging workforce. individuals to adopt a healthier lifestyle and nutrition and responsible drinking. Each year, to mark World Health Day, the discover signs of ill-health at an early stage. SCA in North America has conducted an Health & Lifestyle project team organizes a Where necessary, healthcare personnel can employee health program since 2008 includweek full of activities that can help improve provide contact information for behavioral ing voluntary regular health checkups, early employees’ well-being, including free fruit, scientists, physiotherapists or physicians. detection of health risks and promoting a information about healthy food in the canteen The consolidated result can be reported at a healthy life style. In 2012, the business unit and exercise programs. business area level and provide a basis for a was recognized as one of the “healthiest In 19 countries, SCA offers its employees strategic health program. employers” in the greater Philadelphia region the opportunity to participate in a program to 54 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Health and safety | Value for people “SCA is a large and well-established company with a good reputation and a drive to always be at the forefront in terms of the environment, quality and safety. SCA also has a fair personnel policy. Anna-Lena Bruksås, operating engineer at Ortviken paper mill in Sweden SCA Sustainability Report 2012 55 Value for people | Employee relations When engagement is about making a difference People who have passion for what they do are SCA’s greatest asset in a global The aim is to enhance SCA’s position as a preferred employer for graduates and young economy competing for the best talent. In its strategy to engage, motivate, professionals as well as local talents in these attract and retain employees, sustainability plays a leading role. markets, and to ensure its capability to attract and retain a multi-generational workforce. SCA’s ambition to contribute to a more sustainaSCA employees not only share the company ble society is a key element of a corporate culcore values of respect, excellence and responsiAccountable leaders ture in which people can reach their full potential bility but also the ambition to make a difference In 2012, SCA developed a global leadership curand be proud of the company they work for. for people and nature. As many studies have riculum to underscore a consistent approach to Numerous studies support the idea that there is shown, people want to work for a company that leadership development. Strategic business a link between employee satisfaction and cusshares their values. This is particularly true for leadership and financial insights are themes runtomer satisfaction, productivity and financial the younger professionals of the Generation X ning through this global approach that 135 manresults. A Group-wide employee survey in 2011 and Generation Y and “Millennials” and while agers took part in up to 2012. Leadership develfound that SCA employees are highly engaged not all countries are the same, it is generally opment will take on an even bigger focus during and feel a strong affiliation to their employer. important for people to feel a committment to a 2013 when more development activities will be Of the 82% of employees who participated in greater cause in addition to freedom, responsioutlined according to the Leadership Platform. the engagement survey, 83% expressed that bility and work/life balance. they saw a long-term future with SCA, and Involvement in numerous community relaGiving feedback thereby have a vested interest in its progress. tions initiatives is one way in which SCA proEmployees feel a sense of engagement and SCA’s global employee turnover rate of 12% (12) vides employees an opportunity to demonstrate motivation when they have a dialog with their is low for the industry. SCA is building on this their committment to the company’s shared valmanager and receive regular feedback. The engagement to attract and retain the talent that ues. (see p. 58). In 2012, in response to the many employee survey in 2011 highlighted the scope will secure the necessary human capital to meet changes in the organization as well as global for improvement in leadership, performance the challenges ahead. workforce challenges, SCA intensified our management and feedback. To address this, the efforts in strategic workforce planning, employer Global Performance Management System, a tool A multigenerational workforce attractiveness and leadership development, all introduced in 2011, was further developed. The SCA is expanding its presence at the same time of which are key to building the company’s system clarifies expectations, defines new as its global workforce, as in many other compaorganizational capabilities. objectives moving forward, and also encourages nies, is under­going a demographic change and employees to contribute to the development of facing a shortage of specific competencies. Matching market needs their workplace as well as provide feedback in Working-age citizens are in short supply in Finding the right person at the right place, at the relation to SCA’s core values. Every employee countries facing a rapidly aging population while right time and at the right cost continues to drive should receive at least two performance reviews in other countries, the challenge is to ensure the the recruitment strategy. However, in specific a year. In 2012, 78% (70) of employees particinecessary skills base at the right time and right parts of the world, SCA recognizes that we must pated in performance reviews. number. SCA’s annual demographic survey establish a stronger employer presence to meet At SCA, employees are given the opportunity shows multiple generations are working side by future needs. Therefore, after extensive for personal and professional development, a side, which expands opportunities to meet this research, SCA launched our employer attrackey source of continued engagement. There are potential challenges, enhances diversity and tiveness program in 2012. As part of this, SCA a number of centrally and locally run developalso increases the dynamics of the workforce. will create partnerships with specific educament programs available for various employee SCA recognizes that diversity – spanning age, tional institutions in four countries – the US, Gercategories throughout the company, as well as gender, nationality, experience, knowledge and many, France and Russia – to ensure the opportunities for employees to attend speciala variety of other characteristics – is essential to Group’s future human capital needs in markets ized courses as the need arises. The average future growth of the company, enabling it to that are key to future sales and production number of training hours for all employees in ­better respond to the needs of diverse markets needs. 2012 was 17 (19). and to fuel innovation. Diversity key to strategy Diversity is a central element in meeting consumer and market needs globally and, therefore, a key strategic issue for SCA. The Group’s Code of Conduct states that all employees are to be “People want to work for a company treated fairly and with respect – regardless of that shares their values. 56 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Employee relations | Value for people age, gender, ethnicity, religious belief or any Progress towards better representation is In dialog with unions other personal characteristic. SCA conducts an measured in diversity reports and is monitored Since 2004, SCA has a Global Framework annual survey of its top managers to measure in the talent review process. Encouraging Agreement with the International Federation of progress in relation to diversity. greater diversity is also part of the Leadership Chemical, Energy, Mine and General Workers’ SCA’s approach is to select the best candiPlatform and is built into all managers’ job Union (ICEM) representing more than 20 million date for a position, taking into account many descriptions. members worldwide, the Swedish Paper Workfactors, of which gender is only one. However, ers’ Union (which in this context represents all since 80% of consumers of SCA’s products are Freedom of association and collective the Swedish trade unions) and SCA’s European women, SCA benefits from a balance in male/ bargaining Works Council. female managers and the company strives to SCA has a long tradition of healthy union relations The Global Framework Agreement, commits create an attractive workplace for women. SCA and recognizes the right of all employees to join SCA to report on how we manage social responhas identified a number of women in the organiunions. The level of engagement and the existsibility within our operations. Based on the Code zation as potential leaders; an initiative that is ence of formal collective bargaining arrangeof ­Conduct, the areas covered by the agreement showing results. During 2012, the share of ments vary from country to country, but on averare reviewed bi-annually in a joint meeting females among the 100 most senior executives age, 65% (68) of employees at SCA sites are covbetween signatories. In 2012, areas of discusincreased from 17% to 20% and, among the top ered by collective bargaining agreements. sion covered labor practices, collective bargain300 managers it increased from 17% to 25%. SCA conducts formal employee consultation ing and key findings from Code of Conduct Among the top 1,000 managers the percentage processes in many markets. One of the largest audits and training. of women increased to 29% (21). The divestment representative groups is the SCA European of the packaging business and the acquisition of Works Council (EWC), which represents about Georgia-Pacific’s European tissue business 22,000 SCA employees. contributed to the increased share of female The relationship is built on a collaborative managers and the total share of women approach, with regular scheduled meetings. amounted to 29% (27). SCA updates representatives on the Group’s In 2012, 30 (31) nationalities were repredevelopment, earnings, Code of Conduct, occusented among the 300 most senior executives. pational health and organizational issues, involvAmong the 1,000 most senior executives, 39 (44) ing them and allowing employees to prepare for nationalities were represented. change. SCA’s top management diversity SCA’s top management diversity Employees survey, top 300 managers 2012 survey, top 1,000 managers 2012 Total Swedish, 34% Swedish, 32% Number of employees 33,775 German, 16% German, 15% Part-time employees 1,327 American, 13% American, 12% Employees leaving the company 3,993 British, 6% British, 7% Employee turnover 12% Dutch, 5% Dutch, 5% Austrian, 3% French, 4% Mexican, 3% Mexican, 3% French, 3% Austrian, 3% Belgian, 2% Italian, 2% Other, 15% Other, 17% In total 30 nationalities In total 39 nationalities SCA’s top 300 managers by gender 2012 SCA’s top 1,000 managers by gender 2012 Employee age distribution SCA Group 2012 Men, 75% Men, 71% –20 years, 2% Women, 25% Women, 29% 21–30 years, 17% 31–40 years, 28% 41–50 years, 30% 51–60 years, 21% 61– years, 2% SCA Sustainability Report 2012 57 Value for people | Community involvement Reaching out to make a difference Around the world, SCA is actively engaged to benefit the social, environmental puberty and menstruation. In several Latin American countries, more than 1,500,000 girls and economic well-being of communities. have completed the programs, which are run by SCA’s feminine care brands, Nosotras and DonSCA invests significantly in the communities and consumers and ensure access to affordable, nasept. SCA’s Libresse brand has also sponsociety in which we operate, recognizing that we sustainable hygiene solutions to help them lead sored programs in Malaysia and similar activities have both a responsibility and an opportunity to a healthy and dignified life.” This includes proare regularly organized in several other markets. make a positive difference in people’s lives. In a viding information on hygiene matters concering mutually beneficial relationship, sustained over SCA products and services; implementing eduImproving hygiene conditions in Africa time, local communities receive support from cation programs for girls, women and caregivDue to poor sanitary and hygiene conditions, illSCA in a wide range of areas, enhancing loyalty ers, and offering the best value for consumers to ness and death are common aspects of everyand goodwill. Good community relations are make hygiene solutions affordable for everyone. day life in Sudan and Niger. In partnership with also a source of pride for employees, help the NGO Oxfam Novib, SCA worked to improve attract and retain talent, inspire trust, position Hygiene focus for children hygiene conditions in South Sudan and Niger. SCA favorably among customers and offer a Working to improve school hygiene is a key area SCA and Oxfam are building latrines, installing competitive advantage. of activity across many countries and communisanitary facilities, such as hand-washing sinks, In 2012, SCA established a new community ties for SCA. In Russia, the Tork hygiene proand providing soap in schools, as well as organrelations and sponsorship policy that prioritizes gram “Pat-a-Cake” for pre-schoolers received izing lessons in hygiene, providing free sanitary initiatives with a clear link to the business, such the Russian “Best for Children” quality certificatowels and awarding scholarships to girls to as those related to hygiene, health, education, tion, which is supported by the government. By increase their chances of attending and comwomen and children. Initiatives take the form of the end of 2012, 5,000 children had been intropleting school. In Niger, SCA supports young education, partnerships, sponsorships or donaduced to hand hygiene through the program. women suffering from incontinence caused by tions; some effect the lives of thousands of peoGermany, Latin America, Austria, Sweden fistula due to childbirth at a very young age. ple, while others are small-scale projects with a and Switzerland are also among the markets In 2012, SCA donated 1 million feminine towlocal focus. Community investments linked to where SCA arranges school programs to raise els to UNHCR (the UN refugee agency) to be disthe business are most sustain­able in the long children’s awareness of the importance of tributed in refugee camps in South Sudan. Since term. hygiene. Programs include hygiene information, April, the number of Sudanese refugees seeking In 2012, SCA invested about SEK 45m (24) in distribution of product samples, or developing safety in South Sudan has swelled from 99,000 community relations, corresponding to 0.5% of pre-school guidelines for good hygiene practo 175,000. The UN refugee agency (UNHCR) is the company’s operating profit. Some 200 protices. In one example, SCA’s Tork brand sponconcerned by the alarming health and nutrition jects were registered in the company’s websored a school art competition in Germany, situation of the refugees in South Sudan. Access based system. Most of the initiatives are related “Show forth your hands” to mark Global Handto sanitary materials is central to women’s digto health and hygiene, although the total amount washing Day on October 15, an international nity and self esteem. The lack of sanitary supspent on environment was higher. campaign to raise children’s awareness of hand plies can affect women’s health, but also their Many initiatives support improved health and washing. The winning school received a voucher general mobility. hygiene conditions. As a leading, global, hygiene for SEK 43,000 as well as a complete set of SCA’s TENA brand provided incontinence company, SCA has a responsibility to raise washroom products from Tork. products to the Huband Cradle of Hope orphanawareness of the importance of hygiene. Such age in Nairobi, Kenya. The products are intended activities also contribute to the SCA Hygiene Educating young women for children, many of whom are affected by Solutions sustainability target (see p. 24), which Several school programs are directed at teenHIV/AIDS. states: “We will make our knowledge about age girls to educate them about the physiologihygiene solutions available to customers and cal and emotional changes associated with Community relations by region Community relations by focus areas Europe/Africa, 67% Environment, 28% Americas, 28% Health and Hygiene, 25% Asia, 5% Emergency relief, 19% Sports/Culture, 12% Donations, 5% Education, 5% Other, 6% 58 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Community involvement | Value for people Key partnership with the Red Cross hygiene kits to homeless people. Hygiene is a meeting ecological challenges. In Russia, the In partnering with local Red Cross organizations key factor for health, self-respect and social Sovetsk mill held an ecological education proworldwide, SCA is able to leverage the positive integration for homeless populations. Based on gram at schools in Sovetsk to involve students in impact it can have on the social and economic the positive results of a satisfaction survey the work to improve the local environment. The well-being of communities. SCA entered a longamong both Red Cross workers and the homemill also sponsored the installation of a portable term partnership with the Red Cross in France in less, the initiative will extend across France in water purifying system in two schools. SCA and 2011 to support the country’s homeless and 2013 with the distribution of some 100,000 its UK and Ireland consumer tissue brand Velvet encourages employee involvement. The first hygiene kits. There are plans to make this an are leading a pioneering tree-planting project in joint activity was the distribution of 40,000 annual activity. The partnership in 2013 will also Brazil (see p. 35). include sponsorship of an educational road In Inner Mongolia, SCA is taking an active show for teenagers, information programs for part in the fight against desertification, donating the elderly and the involvement of SCA employand planting trees as a part of the “Million Tree ees, which will include fundraising, first-aid Project”, which is a local non-governmental inititraining, and volunteer work. ative. So far, SCA has donated 2,000 trees. The project started in 2007 and to date 950,000 trees Environment in focus have been planted. The land has been reforested Community relations includes caring for the with poplars, pines and yellowhorn, which have environment. The Tree Pool program supports proved to be suitable in fighting desertification. employees in planting trees where they live, providing their communities with a piece of nature. In the US, SCA supports environmental education grants that encourage teachers and students to become involved in understanding and “Access to sanitary materials is central to women’s dignity and self esteem. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 59 Control and assurance | Sustainable governance Sustainable governance The main purpose of all governance at SCA is to guarantee the Group’s business units to guarantee a consistent approach. Responsibility for the management ­commitments to all of its stakeholders – shareholders, customers, suppliers, of specific issues rests within the relevant lenders, the community and employees – commitments that are expressed ­business unit. in the company’s business objectives and strategies. SCA Group networks Water management network: The network Sustainability governance The Environ­mental Committee and the Social ­analyses the impact of the EU’s Water FrameSCA’s Corporate Senior Management Team Responsibility Committee draft proposals for work Directive on SCA’s operations. It also bears the overall responsibility for the control policies and principles for governing the sustainestablishes the Group’s future aspiration level of SCA’s business in the environmental and ability work, in addition to objectives and action for reductions in emissions and water usage. social area. programs at Group level. They also coordinate SCA has a corporate staff unit in charge of and follow up the Group’s initiatives and objecFSC network: The network’s responsibility is to sustainability, led by the Senior Vice President tives in the environmental and social area. The disseminate information on the subject throughSustainability, who reports to the CEO and is a committees include members of all business out the organisation, and to coordinate the member of the Corporate Senior ­Management units and representatives of Corporate SustainGroup’s position and activities in relation to FSC. Team. Apart from the environmental and social ability, Human Resources, Corporate Communiaspects, the staff is also responsible for SCA’s cations and Public Affairs. The Ethics CommitRMS network: Responsible for compiling inforPublic affairs. In close collaboration with the tee oversees the implementation and alignment mation and making calculations and presentabusiness unit presidents, the approved strategy of SCA’s Code of Conduct. tions relating to the use of resources and enviand objectives are broken down into specific tarResponsibility for implementation rests with ronmental data. gets and activities to ensure compliance with the the operational organisation. A number of netGroup’s objectives and business plans. works work horizontally across SCA’s different Corporate Governance at SCA Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditors Committee Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Chairman of the Board Internal audit President and CEO Executive Vice President Global Business Corporate Staffs Services (GBS) SCA SCA SCA AFH SCA SCA SCA SCA Incontinence Care Consumer Goods Professional Forest MEIA Americas Asia Pacific Europe Europe Hygiene Europe Products Global Hygiene ­Category (GHC) Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations Global Hygiene Supply (GHS) Global Responsibility across geographics in the hygiene operations 60 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable governance | Control and assurance ESAVE network: Coordinates the Group’s proControlling and monitoring Risk and risk management jects that aim to reduce SCA’s energy consumpIn addition to the company’s auditors, the comSCA is exposed to a number of risks with the tion and environmental impact. pany’s operations are subject to external potential to exert a greater or lesser material reviews and monitoring by, among others, the impact on the Group. The responsibility for longEnergy network: Based on the Group’s Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the term and overall management of strategic risks strength, size and extensive energy consumpNasdaq OMX Stockholm. follows the company’s delegation scheme, from tion, the network focuses on identifying costSCA’s own control systems include segregathe Board to the President, and from the Presiefficient solutions and synergies in connection tion of duties in critical processes and defined dent to the business unit Presidents. with energy sourcing. Emissions ­trading is management responsibilities with regard to A description of the most significant risks another important area. internal control. There is also a separate Internal that impact SCA’s ability to achieve established audit function at SCA that works to continuously targets is presented on pages 56–61 in the 2012 Public Affairs network: Leads and coordinates evaluate and improve the effectiveness of SCA’s Annual Report, together with an account of how the work aimed at influencing legislation and ­governance processes, risk management and these risks are managed. stakeholders in prioritized areas that can posiinternal control. SCA’s Internal Audit organizatively or negatively impact the operation. tion contributes to the maintenance of high Corporate Governance Report standards of business practice and is involved in The complete Corporate Governance Report is Health and safety network: Proposes goals the monitoring of Code of Conduct compliance available on SCA’s website www.sca.com and in and activities, follows up initiatives and highthrough such activities as Business Practice the 2012 Annual Report. lights health and safety best practices. Reviews. As support in its work, the Internal Audit unit has a number of steering documents GRI network: Responsible for ensuring that the and policies. For example, competition legislaGroup reports in line with Global Reporting Initition guidelines are updated every third year and, ative guidelines. in 2011, anti-corruption guidelines were ­developed. SCA’s sustainability governance CEO and Board of Directors SVP, Corporate Sustainability Ethics Council Social Responsibility Committee Environmental Committee SCA Group Networks SCA Group Networks SCA Sustainability Report 2012 61 Control and assurance | Environmental data The Resource Management System, RMS SCA operates an extensive system of gathering and presenting data for electricity. The energy data figures stated therefore include both a fuel component and an elec­individual production facilities and entire business units. The Resource tricity component. ­Management System (RMS) allows SCA to analyze data, describing how the Any excess electricity produced at an SCA company uses energy, water, transport and raw materials, and to monitor facility that is not used internally is supplied to the national grid. In 2012, SCA delivered 56 GWh waste and emissions levels. of electricity to the national grid. SCA supplies secondary heat derived from The RMS data is used for internal control and ­ arbonate) are used as filler and coating pigc ­effluent hot water to district heating systems, monitoring, external benchmarking and as a tool ment in certain types of paper in order to satisfy mainly in Sweden, which is an effective way of for evaluating acquisitions and major investcustomer quality requirements. Synthetic matesaving energy. In 2012, SCA delivered heat to ments. This year’s RMS data includes eight new rials are used in highly absorbent hygiene prod­district heating systems equivalent to 26,826 m3 tissue mills and one new personal care plant. ucts to improve quality and function. The diaof fuel oil. Two publication paper mills, four containerboard gram to the right shows the raw material distrimills, 52 corrugated board plants and 12 EPS bution of SCA’s products. Transport plants were divested and have been excluded Raw materials are transported to SCA’s producfrom the RMS data. Water tion plants and finished products are delivered SCA’s water supply is presented in the chart to SCA’s customers. SCA uses external suppliResources “Raw materials, energy and discharges”. The ers for most of its transportation needs. SCA’s This section describes SCA’s use of raw materifigures stated are totals for surface water, use of transportation is equivalent to 31.1 billion als, water, energy and transport in 2012. groundwater and municipal water systems. ton-kilometers. Sea freight accounts for the SCA’s total water intake is 210 Mm3. greatest portion of SCA’s transport and the Raw materials remainder consists of road and rail. TransportaA typical SCA product is made from various Energy tion of SCA’s raw materials and products uses types of wood fiber. It also contains small Energy use includes purchased energy (heating, the equivalent of 11,000 TJ of fuel and electricity. amounts of inorganic and fossil organic electricity and fuel) supplied to production units, ­materials. energy generated from wood, liquor, bark, Emissions Renewable raw materials (fresh fiber and sludge and waste paper, and electricity generThe company’s total emissions are determined re­cycled fiber) account for the largest share of ated on site. A large portion of the energy used by fuel consumption, which in turn is determined the material used in an average SCA product. by SCA comes from the incineration of wood by the level of production. Changes in production Inorganic materials (kaolin clay and calcium residuals and from on-site co-generation of volumes over the past few years, measured in Distribution of water supply Distribution of transport usage Emissions from transport, CO2* ktons Surface water, 90% Ship, 71.9% 1,000 Ground water, 6% Truck, 21.5% Community water, 4% Rail, 6.6% 800 600 400 200 0 2010 2011 2012 Acquisitions 2012 Distribution of electricity supply Distribution of fuel supply Emissions from transport, NOX and SO2* tons Co-generation, 16% Biofuel, 52.5% 12,000 Grid supply, 84% Oil, 2.8% 10,000 Electric boiler, 0.6% N-gas+LPG, 42.9% 8,000 Coal, 1.2% 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 NOX SO2 Acquisitions 2012 * To enable comparison between the years, the units sold in 2012 have also been removed from RMS data for 2010 and 2011. 62 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental data | Control and assurance tons and m3, are shown in the tables that present Sulfur (SO2) emissions were significantly cut Solid waste Group emissions in 2010, 2011 and 2012. during the year. The major reduction is primarily The solid waste reported by SCA is waste that is the result of the switch from fossil fuel to biofuel sent to landfill, recycled waste and hazardous Emissions to air at Östrand pulp mill in Sweden, and improved waste. Recycled waste refers to materials that Air emissions comprise emissions from all comseparation of sulfur at the CHP plant at Mann­ can be used as raw materials in other industries, bustion units at SCA’s production sites, includheim paper mill in Germany. such as the cement, brick-making and construcing fossil fuel and biofuel emissions and emistion industries. The main types of recycled waste sions from purchased thermal energy. When Air emissions from transport are ash, sludge, organic waste and plastics. energy (primarily thermal energy and/or electricA large portion of SCA’s air emissions is gener­Hazardous waste is primarily waste oil as well as ity) is supplied to an external facility, air emisated by transport, rather than the company’s organic solvents, batteries and strip lights. sions are reduced in relation to the energy production activities. Transport emissions are amount delivered and the reduction is distribnot included in the tables “Raw materials, uted among SCA’s main products. energy, and emissions” on page 64, but are preThree chemical compounds are measured sented in the diagrams below. and reported in relation to air emissions: NOX, SO2 and fossil CO2. Emissions to water Distribution of raw materials The stated CO2 figures may differ somewhat SCA’s effluent water is divided into cooling water % from those reported to local authorities under and process water. Cooling water has simply the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS). This is been heated and is not contaminated in any way. 100 because the countries participating in ETS use The total volume of discharged process water is 80 different limits and definitions for their calcula115 Mm3. This water is treated using methods 60 tions, while SCA calculates and presents RMS similar to those employed at municipal waste­ 40 data according to a separate set of rules. A water treatment facilities. The figures for 2012 global company such as SCA, with operations refer to process water emissions. 20 on several continents, needs a single set of rules The emissions to water stated in the tables 0 r be lp r ar ue ff) for calculating data to enable uniform reporting comprise COD, BOD, suspended solids, AOX, Pu pe d ss (flu Ti m pa bo Ti n er re and monitoring of emissions levels. P and N. Methods of measuring differ in some tio ain Ca ica nt al bl Co on Carbon dioxide emissions from SCA’s use of respects. All SCA production of bleached chemPu Pe rs fossil fuels corresponded to 1,588 ktons and ical pulp employs Totally Chlorine Free (TCF) purchased electricity to 1,617 ktons during the processes. The stated AOX data refers to treatFresh wood fibre Inorganic material Recycled fibres Organic fossil year. ment of incoming raw water. Sågade trävaror Massa Tryckpapper Wellpappråvara Personliga hygienprodukter Mjukpapper (fluff) Air emissions, NOX* Air emissions, SO2* Air emissions, CO2 fossil* tons tons ktons 4,000 1,500 2,000 1,200 3,000 1,500 900 2,000 1,000 600 1,000 500 300 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Acquisitions 2012 Acquisitions 2012 Acquisitions 2012 Water effluents P, N* Water effluents COD, BOD and suspended solids* Distribution of solid waste* tons tons ktons 700 40,000 1,200 600 1,000 500 30,000 800 400 20,000 600 300 400 200 10,000 100 200 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 10 11 12 10 11 12 10 11 12 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 P N COD BOD Susp solids Landfill Recovery Acquisitions 2012 Acquisitions 2012 Acquisitions 2012 * To enable comparison between the years, the units sold in 2012 have also been removed from RMS data for 2010 and 2011. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 63 Control and assurance | Environmental data Environmental data Raw materials, energy and emissions Forest Products Tissue Products Personal Care SCA Group Total 2012 2011 2012* 2011 2012 2011 2012* 2011 Production Paper and pulp ktons 2,289 2,262 2,871 2,483 5,160 4,746 Personal Care products ktons 595 545 595 545 Timber and solid wood products 1,000 m3 2,071 2,006 2,071 2,006 1. Raw materials Wood/saw mill chips** ktons 4,189 4,467 407 432 0 0 4,596 4,899 Purchased pulp* ktons 62 61 1,249 1,033 346 342 1,658 1,436 Purchased paper ktons 0 0 47 62 0 0 47 62 Recovered paper ktons 340 299 1,944 1,662 0 0 2,284 1,961 Inorganic material ktons 207 213 0 0 0 0 207 213 Organic fossil material ktons 12 13 0 3 302 271 314 286 Water Mm3 112 118 96 90 1 0 210 208 2. Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 750 777 514 504 0 0 1,264 1,281 Grid supply GWhe 2,527 2,597 3,558 3,102 431 411 6,516 6,110 TOTAL GWhe 3,276 3,374 4,072 3,606 431 411 7,780 7,391 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 26,125 25,917 4,467 4,392 0 0 30,592 30,309 Fossil fuel TJfuel 1,590 2,223 25,273 23,367 274 204 27,138 25,794 Electric boiler/hood TJfuel 202 107 176 156 0 0 378 263 TOTAL TJfuel 27,918 28,248 29,916 27,915 274 204 58,108 56,367 of which co-gen. TJfuel 3,170 3,283 2,432 3,263 0 0 5,602 6,546 3. Emissions To air NOX as NO2 tons 1,614 1,625 1,927 1,695 24 20 3,564 3,340 SO2 tons 323 576 479 457 0 0 802 1,033 Dust tons 203 156 166 138 0 0 368 294 CO2 fossil ktons 122 171 1,450 1,341 15 12 1,588 1,524 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 112 114 1,345 1,246 160 151 1,617 1,511 CO2 biogenic ktons 2,657 2,649 568 550 0 0 3,225 3,199 To water COD tons 19,135 18,516 10,127 8,965 15 0 29,277 27,480 BOD tons 3,190 3,256 1,729 1,517 1 0 4,920 4,773 Suspended solids tons 2,729 2,888 1,933 1,584 1 0 4,663 4,472 AOX tons 13 11 3 2 0 0 16 12 P tons 47 43 46 32 0 0 93 75 N tons 334 299 220 220 1 0 555 519 Effluent water Mm3 44 45 71 64 0 0 115 109 Solid waste Landfill tons 8,606 8,631 345,890 337,284 3,123 2,069 357,619 347,984 Recovery tons 160,499 142,272 909,630 688,577 57,187 55,607 1,127,317 886,456 Hazardous tons 1,764 1,158 2,246 1,230 48 32 4,058 2,420 * Including companies acquired in 2012. ** Partly internal deliveries. 64 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Personal Care Total Gennep Hoogezand Gemerskà Hôrka Drummondville Personal Care Bowling Green Te Rapa Falkenberg Hondouville* Guadalajara Mölnlycke Selangor Springvale Ecatepec Calia Rionegro The Netherlands The Netherlands Slovakia Canada US 17 plants Olawa Veniov Sweden Sweden Poland France Russia Malaysia Australia New Zealand Mexico Mexico Colombia Colombia 2012 Grades Production ktons 4 83 85 88 75 29 2 9 33 27 58 6 1 33 18 24 22 595 Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Grid supply GWhe 5 47 36 77 49 30 9 9 27 27 43 9 1 22 8 17 15 431 Total GWhe 5 47 36 77 49 30 9 9 27 27 43 9 1 22 8 17 15 431 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fossil fuel TJfuel 12 0 29 79 22 28 56 28 4 8 1 0.0 0 0 0 3 2 274 Electric boiler TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 12 0 29 79 22 28 56 28 4 8 1 0.0 0 0 0 3 2 274 of which co-gen. TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Emissions To air NOx as NO2 tons 1.2 0 2.9 7.9 2.2 2.8 2.2 2.8 0.4 0.8 0.1 0 0 0 0 0.2 0.1 24 SO2 tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dust tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CO2 fossil ktons 0.8 0 1.6 4.4 1.2 1.6 3.2 1.5 0.2 0.5 0.1 0 0 0 0 0.2 0.1 15 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 0.2 2.0 13.4 28.7 31.3 6.8 0.8 3.0 4.5 13.8 28.0 7.8 0.2 10.1 3.6 3.0 2.7 160 CO2 biogenic ktons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 To water COD tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 BOD tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Suspended solids tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 AOX tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 P tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N tons 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Effluent water Mm3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Solid waste Landfill tons 0 0 0 0 469 130 258 101 151 0 2 484 N/A 1,095 246 0 188 3,123 Recovery tons 156 6,955 5,453 9,046 7,323 6,959 1,416 1,042 3,421 3,507 2,172 478 475 2,612 1,183 1,963 3,026 57,187 Hazardous tons 0 0 0 0 0.0 3 36 0 3 4 0 0 N/A 0 0 1 1 48 * Data relates to the July–December 2012 period. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 65 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Tissue Mannheim tissue Mannheim pulp Mannheim Total Witzenhausen Jönköping Chesterfield Oakenholt Manchester Drammen Prudhoe Stubbins* Stembert Kostheim Neuss Germany Edet Germany Germany Nokia* Sweden Sweden Norway Finland UK UK UK UK UK Belgium Germany Germany ­Germany 2012 Grades ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti, gp ti mp ti ti ti ti, nw Production ktons 95 15 15 34 138 44 24 62 46 69 304 212 324 85 108 30 Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 53 207 260 21 0 0 Grid supply GWhe 131 19 22 53 143 57 31 52 101 78 296 0 296 93 139 27 Total GWhe 140 19 22 53 143 57 31 52 101 78 384 161 556 113 139 27 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 564 65 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 61 3,759 3,820 0 0 0 Fossil fuel TJfuel 170 54 14 339 1043 433 242 501 561 503 1733 2,229 3,962 806 673 176 Electric boiler TJfuel 64 0 112 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total TJfuel 798 119 126 339 1,043 433 242 501 561 503 1,794 5,988 7,782 806 673 176 of which co-gen. TJfuel 38 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 207 53 260 0 0 0 Emissions To air NOx as NO2 tons 48 9 1 21 24 43 5 67 12 40 65 575 641 9 29 0.1 SO2 tons 2 1 0 0 6 0 3 5 0 0 13 277 289 0.3 0.1 0.1 Dust tons 0.1 0.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0.2 0.4 59 59 0 2 0 CO2 fossil ktons 10 4 1 19 58 24 14 28 31 28 133 90 223 45 38 10 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 6 0.8 0.9 11 64 24 14 23 45 17 127 0 127 40 60 12 CO2 biogenic ktons 71 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 140 350 490 0 0 0 To water COD tons 321 93 123 141 137 E/T E/T 48 E/T 84 206 3,888 4,094 112 89 E/T BOD tons 58 33 N/A 17 4 E/T E/T 6 E/T 33 63 229 291 7 5 E/T Suspended solids tons 67 17 25 17 19 E/T E/T 9 E/T 35 52 189 240 2 5 E/T AOX tons 0 0.3 0 0.4 0 E/T E/T 0 E/T 0.2 0.3 0 0.3 0 0.2 E/T P tons 0.8 0.1 0.4 0.4 0 E/T E/T 0 E/T 0.7 2 8 10 0.7 0.3 E/T N tons 14 3 6 4 0.3 E/T E/T 0 E/T 2 16 58 74 5 8 E/T Effluent water Mm3 3 0.3 0.8 2 2 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.8 0.8 3 13 16 1 0.9 0.03 Solid waste Landfill tons 17 0 25,057 2,233 6,635 2,692 131 0 264 122 280 274 210 0 0 0 Recovery tons 35,686 13,793 1,152 35,509 73,764 55,274 37,755 4,358 5,669 4,541 40,239 30,289 70,688 75,983 3,834 394 Hazardous tons 12 6 1 6 72 8 0 21 20 45 0 42 196 56 28 19 * Data relates to the July–December 2012 period. ti = tissue paper reels and/or bsi = bleached sulphite pulp ­tissue consumer products mp = market pulp nw = non-woven E/T = external treatment gp = grease-proof paper N/A = data not available pp = packaging paper 66 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental data | Control and assurance Cuijk* Friesland Hondouville* Svetogorsk Kunheim* Ortmann Mediona Altopascio The Netherlands The Netherlands Gien* Le Theil Orleans Patras* Sovetsk Lucca 1 Collodi France Russia Allo* Valls France France France France Austria Spain Spain Spain Greece Russia Italy Italy Italy ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti 26 6 66 34 23 62 28 129 58 149 36 7 31 48 126 37 25 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 81 0 0 0 0 0 0 62 0 29 36 11 123 60 37 61 81 63 73 158 39 8 44 58 55 34 7 36 11 123 60 37 61 81 144 73 158 39 8 44 58 117 34 37 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 180 41 721 249 228 354 443 1,311 348 758 249 46 295 391 1,310 256 390 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 182 41 721 249 228 354 443 1,326 348 758 249 46 295 391 1,310 256 390 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 438 0 0 0 0 0 0 748 0 269 2 1 42 9 1 19 44 44 35 76 25 7 16 34 132 18 28 0.2 0 57 0.2 0.1 0.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0.2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.1 1 5 0 0 0 10 2 45 14 13 20 25 73 19 42 14 3 17 22 73 14 22 13 4 10 5 3 5 7 10 21 47 12 5 14 19 21 13 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 E/T 94 77 54 26 390 217 43 30 0 E/T 58 E/T E/T E/T E/T 3 E/T 12 4 9 6 29 11 10 N/A 0 E/T 9 E/T E/T E/T E/T 12 E/T 6 7 13 1 121 26 9 2 0 E/T 11 E/T E/T E/T E/T 0 E/T 1 0.1 0.3 0 0 0.2 0 0.1 0 E/T 0 E/T E/T E/T E/T 0.2 E/T 0.1 0.4 0.1 0 0 2.0 0 0.3 0 E/T 1 E/T E/T E/T E/T 1 E/T 6 4 1 1 0 8.0 3 1.2 0 E/T 4 E/T E/T E/T E/T 0.4 0.2 0.9 1.0 0.5 0.3 0.7 3.7 0.8 0.3 0 0.08 0.7 1.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 7 0 438 4,316 87 0 0 0 1,886 228 187 39 7,376 54,041 183 1,064 18 18,910 2,437 4,360 54,133 844 3,343 868 105,930 719 9,252 3,104 424 38,475 3,036 1,391 243 589 18 2 71 88 242.42 30 0 38 83 57 33 0.2 7 4 52 9 30 Cont. > > > SCA Sustainability Report 2012 67 Control and assurance | Environmental data Facts about the plants – Tissue, cont. Total South Glens Falls US Kawerau Flagstaff Menasha Monterrey Sahagun Uruapan Lasso Cajicá Medellin Box Hill Barton Tissue Mexico New Zealand Pisa US US US Mexico Mexico Ecuador Chile Colombia Colombia Australia 44 mills 2012 Grades ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti ti Production ktons 159 56 190 75 60 57 35 25 48 37 39 59 52 2871 Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 0 0 0 0 0 0 52 0 0 0 0 0 0 514 Grid supply GWhe 267 66 323 103 73 88 11 37 79 73 54 127 67 3,558 Total GWhe 267 66 323 103 73 88 63 37 79 73 54 127 67 4,072 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4,467 Fossil fuel TJfuel 1,309 463 1,650 677 474 510 792 204 475 287 404 833 147 25,273 Electric boiler TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 176 Total TJfuel 1,309 463 1,650 677 474 510 792 204 475 287 404 833 147 29,916 of which co-gen. TJfuel 0 0 0 0 0 0 679 0 0 0 0 0 0 2432 Emissions To air NOx as NO2 tons 36 10 65 16 47 22 79 9 59 2 38 47 16 1,927 SO2 tons 0.3 0.1 0.5 0.2 0 0.1 0 18 0 1 94 0.5 0 479 Dust tons 4 1 38 0 0 2 0 8 2 0.3 37 3 0 166 CO2 fossil ktons 73 26 92 38 27 29 44 16 36 16 32 47 12 1,450 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 136 33 164 53 33 40 5 0 30 13 9 155 14 1,345 CO2 biogenic ktons 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 568 To water COD tons 610 528 N/A N/A 754 482 31 456 123 279 611 E/T E/T 10,127 BOD tons 78 17 87 262 115 118 21 228 31 20 190 E/T 15 1,729 Suspended solids tons 145 74 118 152 23 30 14 57 21 439 217 E/T E/T 1,933 AOX tons N/A 0 0 N/A 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 E/T E/T 3 P tons 12 2 4 N/A 4 4 0.1 0 0 2 0.7 E/T E/T 46 N tons 23 2 N/A N/A 33 8 1.0 0 0 8 0 E/T E/T 220 Effluent water Mm3 8 0.3 8 3 1 1 0.8 0.7 1.9 1.0 0.7 0.8 1.4 71 Solid waste Landfill tons 140,650 4,196 26,792 1,093 2,083 19,141 2,837 0 41,869 0 0 0 0 345,890 Recovery tons 764 34,417 6 86,450 38,737 40,713 40,764 0 371 0 0 368 585 909,630 Hazardous tons 75 6 17 2 12 43 14 0 0 0 0 165 659 2,246 ti = tissue paper reels and/or bsi = bleached sulphite pulp ­tissue consumer products mp = market pulp nw = non-woven E/T = external treatment gp = grease-proof paper N/A = data not available pp = packaging paper 68 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental data | Control and assurance Facts about the plants – Forest Products Total Forest operations Forest Products Pulp and paper Munksund Laakirchen* 4 mills 8 mills Ortviken Östrand Obbola Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden Austria 2012 solid-wood Grades np, lwc bk, ctmp wtl, kl tl, kl sc products Production ktons 845 510 337 435 534 2,127 162 2,289 1,000 m3 2,071 2,071 Energy Electricity Co-generation GWhe 57 437 167 89 415 750 0 750 Grid supply GWhe 1,912 68 145 235 190 2,361 166 2,527 Total GWhe 1,969 506 312 324 623 3,110 166 3,276 Fuels Biofuel TJfuel 2,479 12,162 5,290 4,504 0 24,435 1,690 26,125 Fossil fuel TJfuel 495 251 349 355 4,461 1,450 140 1,590 Electric boiler TJfuel 155 0 39 0 0 194 8 202 Total TJfuel 3,129 12,414 5,678 4,859 4,461 26,080 1,838 27,918 of which co-gen. TJfuel 253 1,841 702 374 2,162 3,170 0 3,170 Emissions To air NOx as NO2 tons 197 706 360 267 118 1,530 83 1,614 SO2 tons 61 167 69 20 0 316 7 323 Dust tons 32 39 39 30 0 139 63 203 CO2 fossil ktons 36 20 28 28 250 111 11 122 CO2 fossil, grid electricity ktons 84 3 8 10 99 105 7 112 CO2 biogenic ktons 248 1222 558 476 0 2,504 152 2,657 To water COD tons 5,326 6,622 5,026 2,067 1,029 19,041 94 19,135 BOD tons 392 603 1,862 226 45 3,083 107 3,190 Suspended solids tons 603 196 1,000 929 72 2,728 1 2,729 AOX tons 2 5 3 2 0 12 0 13 P tons 5 15 11 13 3 45 1 47 N tons 91 147 41 56 2 334 3 334 Effluent water Mm3 13 16 9.9 5.9 7 44 0.1 44 Solid waste Landfill tons 458 9 2,620 318 0 3,404 5,202 8,606 Recovery tons 39,232 67,629 14,828 38,018 167,925 159,707 792 160,499 Hazardous tons 435 505 124 63 108 1,126 637 1,764 * Divestment decision was taken in 2012. Not included in “Total”. np = newsprint sc = SC paper lwc = LWC paper ctmp = chemical thermomechanical pulp bk = bleached kraft pulp wtl = white-top liner kl = kraftliner tl = testliner N/A = data not available SCA Sustainability Report 2012 69 Control and assurance | Social data Social data 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Average number of employees 33,7751) 43,697 45,3412) 49,531 51,999 of whom female, % 29 27 26 27 29 Employees leaving the company 3,993 5,207 4,269 5,768 7,511 Employees joining the company 6,344 4,809 4,262 3,832 6,255 Age distribution, % –20 years 2 2 2 2 3 21–30 years 17 18 18 20 20 31–40 years 28 27 28 29 29 41–50 years 30 30 30 29 29 51–60 years 21 20 19 18 17 60– years 3 3 3 2 2 Employee turnover, % 12 12 9 12 14 Academic degree or similar 18 14 16 15 13 Competence development, hours per employee 17 19 18 14 93) Diversity: Nationalities, top 300 managers 30 31 24 27 28 Nationalities, top 1,000 managers 39 44 42 41 39 Female managers of top 300 managers , % 25 16 16 13 12 Female managers of top 1,000 managers, % 29 21 20 20 19 Women, of total number of Board members and senior executives, % 21 16 14 18 14 Health and safety Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 477 492 569 564 685 Days Lost (DLA) 8,539 11,070 13,810 15,947 16,181 Accident Severity Rate (ASR), % 17.9 22.5 24.3 28.3 23.7 Incident Rate, % 1.5 1.3 1.5 1.4 1.6 Frequency Rate (FR), % 8.5 7.1 8.3 7.3 8.5 Fatalities 1 1 1 2 0 Code of Conduct Business Practice Reviews Hungary, Central America, Italy, Russia 3 reviews, Malaysia Greece Mexico Eastern Europe Code of Conduct audits Russia, US, Malaysia, Mexico – – Sweden, Poland Russia 1) The personnel reduction is mainly due to divestment of the packagning operations, excluding two Swedish liner mills. 2) The personnel reduction of 4,200 persons is attributable to the divestment of the Asian packaging operations. 3) Training hours for 2008 and 2009 are reported in accordance with different systems. 70 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 About this report | Control and assurance About this Report This Report describes SCA’s sustainability initibelow). When adjustments have been made The data is reported both internally and exteratives from an environmental, social and ecocompared with earlier reports, a note is nally at the mill level, business group level and nomic perspective. SCA publishes a Sustainaappended directly beside the text or table. for the Group as a whole. bility Report each year. ­Environmental data includes data from manuThe Sustainability Report and the Annual facturing operations and office locations, but Major changes in 2012 Report should be viewed as a single unit in not from corporate staffs, offices or employees As mentioned above, SCA implemented a numwhich information may be provided in either in joint ventures. ber of acquisitions and divestments at the end of report or, where appropriate, in both. Corporate 2011 and during 2012. The divested units (the governance is an example of a subject that is Data collection packaging operations, excluding the kraftliner referred to briefly in the Sustainability Report but Data provided in the Report is compiled through mills in Munksund and Piteå, and Aylesford a more detailed description is provided in the various systems, primarily the Group’s ABS Newsprint) were excluded from the environmenAnnual Report’s corporate governance section. accounting system, Resource Management tal and resource data for 2012 and from comparFor the fifth consecutive year, SCA has preSystem (RMS) and GRI reporting system. Cerative years. The paper mill in Laakirchen, Auspared its Report in accordance with Global tain social data such as details about salaries, tria, is included in the environmental data for the Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, version 3, pensions, level of education, costs for skills mill, but excluded from the carbon dioxide target level A+. Accordingly, the Report has been development and other data pertaining to outcome. The units acquired from Georgiastructured in accordance with GRI principles, employees is reported either quarterly or annuPacific’s tissue operations were included in the meaning that the content is determined by the ally through ABS. Other GRI data is reported environmental and resource data for half of issues that are most relevant to SCA and its annually through the GRI system. 2012. These divestments were also excluded stakeholders, and that the content provides a Certain data is presented for comparison, from health and safety results and other social complete view of the operations. SCA reports, meaning adjustments are made for acquisitions data (page 70) and acquisitions were added for with a few exceptions, in accordance with all and divestments. half of 2012. However, comparative figures for Global Reporting Initiative recommended key The results of the Group’s CO2 target and previous years remain unchanged. The acquisiperformance indicators (KPIs) and a number of water target are adjusted each year in relation to tions were wholly or partially included in the supplementary indicators. The GRI indicators production levels. Other environmental data is social GRI reporting. encompass the material parts of the operations. reported in absolute figures. The entire Sustainability Report has been The RMS covers more than 73 production reviewed by PwC. More detailed information sites, covering virtually the entire company’s about SCA’s work on environmental and social environmental impact and resource utilization issues is available at www.sca.com. from production. Each unit reports the following The environmental and social data reported data to the system: pertains to the 2012 calendar year. The figures • raw material consumption cover the SCA Group, wholly owned subsidiar• incoming and outgoing shipments ies and subsidiaries in which SCA owns at least • production volumes 50% of the company. If SCA’s ownership of a • energy consumption broken down by hydroplant or mill is 50% or more, the entire facility is electric power, co-generation and power included. Newly acquired businesses are intefrom the grid grated when they have been part of the Group • fuel consumption broken down by biofuels, for one calendar year. Exceptions to this rule are fossil fuels and electric boilers made when an acquisition is of a significant size. • air emissions, including data on fossil and This was the case, for example, with last year’s biogenic carbon dioxide acquisition of Georgia-Pacific Tissue, which is • water emissions why data is included for half of the year (see • solid waste SCA Sustainability Report 2012 71 Control and assurance | Assurance report Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report To the readers of the Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) Sustainability Report 2012 We have been engaged by the management of Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable We consider the evidence collected during our Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) to to the Sustainability Report, as well as the examination to be sufficient and appropriate in perform an examination of the SCA Sustainabilaccounting and calculation principles that the order to support our conclusions listed below. ity Report for the year 2012. The Board of Direccompany has developed and disclosed. We tors and Executive Management team are consider these criteria suitable for the preparaConclusions responsible for the company’s activities regardtion of the Sustainability Report. Our conclusion based on our review ing environment, health & safety, social responBased on our procedures performed, nothing sibility, and sustainable development, and for Review procedures has come to our attention that causes us to the preparation and presentation of the SustainThe main procedures of our review have believe that the information in the SCA Sustainaability Report in accordance with applicable criincluded the following: bility Report which has been subject to our teria. Our responsibility is to express a conclua. update of our knowledge and understanding review has not, in all material respects, been sion on the Sustainability Report based on our of SCA’s organization and activities, prepared in accordance with the above stated examination. b. assessment of the outcome of the compacriteria. ny’s stakeholder dialogue, The scope of the examination c. interviews with management at group level Our conclusion based on our audit We have performed the assurance engagement and at selected business units in order to In our opinion, the information in the SCA Susin accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Susassess if the qualitative and quantitative tainability Report which has been subject to our tainability Reports issued by Far. The objective information stated in the Sustainability audit has, in all material respects, been preof an audit is to obtain reasonable assurance Report is complete, accurate and sufficient, pared in accordance with the above stated critethat the information in the Sustainability Report d. examination of internal and external docuria. is free of material misstatements. An audit ments in order to assess if the information includes examining, on a test basis, evidence stated in the Sustainability Report is comStockholm, 28 February 2013 supporting the quantitative and qualitative inforplete, accurate and sufficient, mation in the Sustainability Report. A review is e. evaluation of the design of systems and proPricewaterhouseCoopers AB mainly limited to making inquiries of personnel cesses used to obtain, manage and validate responsible for sustainability issues, and applysustainability information, ing analytical and other review procedures. f. analytical procedures of the information Hence, the conclusion based on our review prostated in the Sustainability Report, cedures does not comprise the same level of g. assessment of the company’s declared assurance as the conclusion of our audit. Since application level according to the GRI guidethis assurance engagement is combined, our lines, conclusions regarding the audit and the review h. assessment of the overall impression of the Anders Lundin will be presented in separate sections. Sustainability Report, and its format, taking Authorised Public Accountant Our assurance engagement includes examiinto consideration the consistency of the nation of the following areas, with the purpose of stated information with applicable criteria, either providing reasonable assurance (hereafi. reconciliation of the reviewed information ter referred to as audit) or limited assurance with the sustainability information in the (hereafter referred to as review): company’s Annual Report for the financial 1. Our review has included all pages in the Susyear 2012. tainability Report. 2. Our audit is limited to the following informaAudit procedures Fredrik Ljungdahl tion: Our audit has included the following procedures: Expert Member of Far a. environmental data regarding wood/sawa. evaluation of design and functionality of relemill chips, fossil fuels, and COD (chemical vant internal controls within the systems and oxygen demand) on page 64. processes used to collect, manage and validate information on the selected indicators Our assurance, reasonable or limited, does not during the reporting period. comprise the assumptions used by the company b. reconciliation of reported information with or whether or not it is possible for the company internal and external source documents, and to reach certain future targets described in the performing detailed tests of the selected report (e.g. goals, expectations and ambitions). indicators regarding wood/sawmill chips, The criteria on which our examination is fossil fuels, and COD (chemical oxygen based are the parts of the Sustainability Reportdemand) on page 64 in the Sustainability ing Guidelines G3, published by the Global Report. 72 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Global Compact Report | Control and assurance Global Compact Report SCA became a member of the United Nations UNGC and GRI cross reference table corporate citizenship initiative, Global Compact, The following table shows how performance in in July 2008, joining a network of more than relation to each UN Global Compact principle 10,000 businesses and other participants from can be reported via a number of Global Reportmore than 130 countries in promoting ten core ing Initiative (GRI) standard performance indicaprinciples in the areas of human rights, labour, tors. This is based on guidance documents pubenvironment and anti-corruption. lished by the UN Global Compact. As a part of this commitment, SCA will report on the company’s corporate responsibility activities and performance in an annual Communication on Progress (COP), using the Sustainability Report as a vehicle for this communication. The Sustainability Report provides a number of examples of ongoing activities, as well as key UNGC principles GRI indicators performance indicators clearly showing that Human Rights SCA supports the ten Global Compact princi1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of ples in its everyday business. ­internationally proclaimed human rights HR1–9, EC5, LA6–9, 13–14, SO5, PR1–2, 8 The SCA Code of Conduct is an important 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses HR1–9, SO5 internal document, guiding and aligning Labour employee behaviour with the Global Compact 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the principles. Regular reviews of business praceffective recognition of the right to collective bargaining LA4–5, HR1–3, 5, SO5 tices are conducted throughout the organisation 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced to ensure compliance with the Code of Conduct. and compulsory labour HR1–3, 7, SO5 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour HR1–3, 6, SO5 Measurements of performance related to the 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Global Compact principles are given throughout respect of employment and occupation LA2, 13–14, HR1–4, EC7, SO5 the report using indicators suggested by the Environment Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever pos7. B  usinesses should support a precautionary approach to sible. In particular, GRI performance indicators ­environmental challenges EC2, EN18, 26, 30, SO5 relating to human rights, labour and anti-corrup8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 tion principles are presented in the Social 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Responsibility section, and environmental perof environmentally friendly technologies EN2, 5–7, 10, 18, 26–27, 30, SO5 formance indicators reported through the RMS Anti-corruption system are presented in the Control and Assur10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ance section. A complete GRI index is available including extortion and bribery SO2–6 at www.sca.com SCA Sustainability Report 2012 73 Control and assurance | GRI Index GRI Index SCA’s Sustainability Report for 2012 follows Global Reporting Initiative guidelines Commitments to external initiatives (version G3). The following index shows where information can be found: this 4.11 E xplanations of if and how the precautionary principle is ­Sustainability Report (SR), Annual Report (AR), or SCA’s Group website (sca.com), applied sca.com which contains the corresponding GRI index with direct links. The table includes all 4.12 Association to external voluntary codes, principles or other core indicators and the supplementary indicators that are applicable to SCA’s initiatives sca.com ­operations. 4.13 M embership in organisations SR 11 The GRI Guidelines are the most widely accepted and used standard for sustainStakeholder engagement ability reporting. This is the fifth report in which SCA applies GRI guidelines. SCA is 4.14 L ist of stakeholder groups SR 8–11 reporting on the A+ level as defined by GRI, which has been confirmed by PwC. 4.15 B asis for identification and selection of important stakeholders SR 8–11 4.16 A pproach to stakeholder relations SR 8–11 PROFILE 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 1. Strategy & analysis dialogues with stakeholders SR 8–11 1.1 CEO’s comments SR 2–3 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 56–61 5. Economic performance indicators Disclosure on management approach AR 8–9, SR 14–15 2. Organisational profile Economic performance 2.1 Name of the organisation AR 111 EC1 Direct economic value and distribution SR inside cover, 22 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services AR 10–11, 26, 34, 40 EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate SR 7, 10–11, 32–35 2.3 Operational structure of the org. SR 60–61, AR 20 changes AR 57 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SR back cover EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan SR 22, AR 101 (note 26) 2.5 Countries where the organisation is active AR 84 obligations 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 12–13 EC4 Financial assistance received from government AR 78 2.7 Markets AR 27, 35, 43 Market presence 2.8 Size of the organisation SR inside cover, AR EC5 Range of ratios for standard entry level wage compared to inside cover local minimum wage SR 22, sca.com 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 21 EC6 Purchases from local suppliers SR 22 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period SR inside cover EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community SR56, sca.com 3. Report parameters Indirect economic impact Report profile EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes SR58–59, sca.com 3.1 Reporting period SR 71, AR 74 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 3.2 Date of most recent previous report SR 71 impacts SR 22, SR 58–59 3.3 Reporting cycle (12 months, 24 months, etc.) SR 71 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report SR back cover 6. Environmental performance indicators Report scope & boundaries Disclosure on management approach SR 15, SR 60–61 3.5 Process for defining report content SR 12–13, 71 Materials 3.6 Boundary of the report SR 71 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR 62–64 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SR 71 EN2 Recycled input materials SR 62–64 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc SR 62, 71 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles SR 71 Energy 3.10 Comparability with previous reports SR 71 EN3 Direct energy consumption SR 62–64 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods EN4 Indirect energy consumption SR 62–64 regarding scope, boundaries, etc. SR 71 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency GRI content index improvement SR 32–35 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in Water the report SR 74–75 EN8 Total water withdrawal SR 39, 64 3.13 Policy and current practice in regard to external verification of the report SR 72 Biodiversity EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas 4. Governance, commitments & engagement of biodiversity value SR 38 EN12 Factors that affect biodiversity SR 38, sca.com Governance 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation AR 46–47, SR 60–61 Emissions, effluents & waste 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation AR 46–47, SR 60–61 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 62–64 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive Board members AR 48 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions SR 62–63 4.4 Methods for shareholders and employees to propose EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions SR 17, 32–33 recommendations, etc. to the Board AR 46–47, SR 60–61 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting compounds sca.com 4.5 Remuneration to senior executives AR 85 (note 6), sca.com EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions SR 62–64 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the Board sca.com EN21 Emissions to water SR 63–64 4.7 Processes for determining the competence of Board EN22 Waste SR 63–64 members sca.com EN23 Significant spills sca.com 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. SR 46 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work SR 60–61, sca.com 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance SR 60–61, sca.com 74 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Index | Control and assurance Products & services Child labour EN26 Actions to reduce environmental impacts of products and HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour sca.com services SR 30–41 and actions taken EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reused SR 63, sca.com Forced & compulsory labour Compliance HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of sca.com EN28 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with forced or compulsory labour and actions taken applicable laws sca.com Indigenous rights Transport HR9 T  otal number of incidents of violations involving rights of EN29 Environmental impact from transport SR 62–63 indigenous people and actions taken sca.com Society 7. Social performance indicators Community Disclosure of management approach SR 4–5, 10–15 SO1 Programmes for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities SR 46, sca.com Employment Corruption Employees SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption SR 47 LA1 Total workforce by function, employment type and region SR inside cover SR 57, 70 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 49 LA2 Rate of employee turnover SR 57, 70 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SR 49 Labour/management relations Public policy LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees sca.com SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying sca.com LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 57 SO6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, etc. sca.com LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes SR 44 Anti-competitive behaviour Health & safety SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour sca.com LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health and Compliance safety ­committees SR 53 SO8 M  onetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work related laws sca.com ­fatalities SR 53–54, 70 LA8 Programs to assist workforce regarding serious diseases SR 54, sca.com Product responsibility LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Customer health & safety trade unions SR 53 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Training & education products and services are assessed SR 41 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee SR 57 Product & service labelling LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning sca.com PR3 Product labelling and information sca.com LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews SR 57 Marketing communications Diversity & equal opportunity PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce SR inside cover, 56, 70, codes for marketing communications sca.com AR 52–55, 85 Compliance LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women sca.com PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations ­concerning the use of products and services sca.com Human rights Investment & procurement practices HR1 Consideration of human rights in regard to investments SR 46 HR2 Human rights in the supplier chain SR 50 HR3 Training and education in human rights SR 49 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SR 49 Freedom of association & collective bargaining HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken sca.com SCA Sustainability Report 2012 75 Control and assurance | Glossary Glossary Anaerobic treatment Anaerobic wastewater treatment Climate Change Also defined as global warming. Human ESAVE Structured energy-saving programme introduced uses biological agents in an oxygen-free environment to activity contributes to the warming of the global by SCA in its energy intensive manufacturing units in 2003. remove impurities from wastewater. environment and its resulting effects, which range from Its aim is to substantially reduce the consumption of energy higher temperatures to eccentric weather patterns and in production units. AOX, Absorbable organic halogens Expresses the melting of the ice caps. amount of chlorine-bound organic substances. Some of ETS, Emission Trading Scheme (or System) these substances accumulate in fish and fish-eating b AOX. CO2 biogenic The carbon dioxide derived from combusGreenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme for the tion of biofuel. It is calculated from the carbon content cost-effective reduction of such emissions in the European ASR (Accident Severity Rate) The severity of accidents of wood. union, made in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. defined as the number of days lost due to accidents (DLA) Installations operating in the paper and board industry, in in relation to the number of lost time accidents (LTA). Refer CO2, Carbon dioxide A gaseous compound emitted the energy sector, iron and steel production and the mineral also to FR, IR and Lost Time Accidents (LTA). naturally through geological activity during the industry apply ETS as of 1 January 2005 in two initial decomposition process and through human activity. BAT, Best Available Technology Officially used phases; from 2005 to 2007 and from 2008 to 2012. CO2 Industry and transport and heating/cooling are currently the terminology to describe the state-of-the-art technology that emissions are subject to permits and fines (if emissions are largest emitters of CO2. industry should use in the field of activity concerned (see above the cap set for the operation). The “allowance” IPPC directive and BREF). CO2 fossil The carbon dioxide derived from combustion of means the entitlement to emit 1 tonne of carbon fossil fuels. It is calculated from the carbon content of each dioxide. ETS, European Tissue Symposium Organisation Biodiversity A term describing the multitude of life-forms fuel. based in Brussels made up of European Tissue producers, and species (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. An ecosystem is a biological community living in a particular COD, Chemical oxygen demand Water emission factor engaged in a dialogue with the European Commission, the physical environment. which describes the amount of oxygen consumed when Council of Europe and other international organisations. dissolved matter in effluent water oxidises. High COD ETS has been involved in the development of the recently Biofuel Renewable fuel from wood and process residues. values can indicate a risk of depletion of the normal oxygen published Council of Europe Guidelines For Tissue Paper BOD, Biochemical oxygen demand Water emission content in the water environment. Kitchen Towels and Napkins. factor which describes the amount of oxygen consumed The Code of Conduct Is a formal statement of the values Forced Labour This includes indentured, debt bondage during biodegradation of dissolved organic matter in and business practices of a company. A code is a stateor involuntary labour of any kind. effluent water, without describing the specific substances ment of minimum standards, together with a pledge by the Fossil fuel Coal, fuel oil and natural gas supplied to the present. High BOD values indicate depletion of the normal company to observe them and to require its contractors, site, exclusive of fuel for transport. oxygen content of the water environment. It is measured subcontractors and suppliers, to observe them. over seven days in SCA’s Swedish mills and five days in the Freedom of Association Refers to the right of employees rest of Europe, in accordance with national legislative Co-generation Combined production of electricity and to lawfully join associations of their own choosing, systems. thermal energy. Co-generation has a high total efficiency. peacefully associate, organise or bargain collectively. BREF Best Available Technology Reference Document. Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power, FR, Frequency Rate The number of accidents/incidents This document identifies BAT (Best Available Technology) CHP Combined production of electricity and thermal per million hours worked. It is an indicator of Safety for the 32 sectors selected by the EU, including the pulp energy. C­ o-generation has a high total efficiency. statistics in industry (also see LTA and Incidence Rate). and paper industry. All pulp and paper mills with a capacity Containerboard Paper specially manufactured for the Fresh wood fibre Also referred to as virgin fibre. First exceeding 20 tonnes per day should follow the IPPC production of corrugated board. (See liner and fluting). generation use of raw material derived from wood. directive (see IPPC). Dow Jones Sustainability Index The share index of FSC, Forest Stewardship Council An international Bribery Is the giving or receiving of any undue reward by or companies that are considered leaders in the area of organisation promoting responsible forest management. to any person to influence their behaviour in a manner sustainable development and that conduct their businesses FSC has developed principles for forest management used contrary to the principles of honesty and integrity. accordingly. for certifying the management of forest holdings, and a Carbon sink As they grow, forests transform gaseous system of tracing, verifying and labelling timber and wood Dust Particles in the flue gas created during com­bustion. carbon into solid form, thereby absorbing CO2 whilst products based on FSC-certified forests. SCA is an active simultaneously producing oxygen. Forests, agricultural land EDANA International association serving the nonwovens supporter of FSC. and the world’s oceans are considered to be “carbon sinks” and related hygiene industries. EDANA exists to create the foundation for sustainable growth of the nonwovens and Green energy In the case of SCA, energy produced by by current science. associated hygiene industries through active promotion, burning recovered waste products, such as bark, sawdust, Carbon trading The trading of carbon emissions credits plastic rejects, production sludge or other materials. education and dialogue. Website: www.edana.org and by companies or, at a different level, by countries, within a www.hapco.edana.org Grid supply The electricity supplied from the national grid. global limitation scheme, (designed to achieve global emissions reductions using market mechanisms. Effluent water Water discharged to water courses after GWh Gigawatt hours, Unit of energy measurement treatment. (electricity and heat). 1GWh=1 million kWh. Chain-of-Custody The traceability of the origins of a product through all its transformations from raw material to Electric boiler Electricity supplied for thermal heat (proHAPCO Hygiene Absorbent Products Manufacturers finished product. In the SCA context, Chain-of-Custody duction), for boilers and heat pumps, measured at the site Committee; a group member of EDANA, of which SCA is certification links SCA’s products with its FSC-certified and converted into GJ. an active member; Website: www.hapco.edana.org. forests. EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme created by Hazardous waste Material disposed of by authorised Chemical pulp Pulp from wood fibres processed European Council Regulation. contractors, as defined by national laws. Human Rights Are chemically, normally by cooking. Environmental Management System The part of the based on the recognition of the inherent dignity and the overall management system which includes the structure, equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human Chemical Thermo Mechanical Pulp, CTMP A high yield practices, procedures and resources for the systematic family, and are the foundation of freedom, justice, and pulp (about 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained implementation of the organisation’s own environmental peace in the world. They are defined in the Universal by heating and then grinding chemically pre-treated spruce policy. Declaration of Human Rights (1948). chips in refining machinery. EPD, Environmental Product Declaration Quantified Incidence Rate, IR Number of incidents per 100 Child Labour Refers to the employment of workers who environmental data for a product with pre-set categories of employees. Also see LTAs and Frequency Rate. do not meet the applicable national minimum legal age requirement. parameters based on the ISO 14040 series of standards Inorganic material Covers inorganic fillers and coating but not excluding additional environmental information. materials supplied to a site calculated at 100% dry subCHP See Co-generation or Combined Heat and Power. stances (ds). 76 SCA Sustainability Report 2012 Glossary | Control and assurance International Labour Organization, ILO The Mechanical pulp Debarked wood that is ground or SO2 Total sulphur calculated as SO2 from processes and International Labour Organization is a United Nations chipped for mechanical refining to separate the fibres that combustion at the site. Where SO2 is not measured, the Agency, which establishes Conventions on Labour form pulp. input sulphur in the fuel is calculated. standards that are binding for member states when ratified. Monitoring Is the process of regularly collecting SRI, Socially-responsible investment A method of There are over 150 ILO Conventions, eight of which are information to check performance against certain criteria. selecting stocks for investment using criteria related to a “Core Conventions” since they embody fundamental company’s environmental, social and ethical performance. human rights and set minimum labour standards. MSW, Municipal Solid Waste An important fraction (15%) of the total solid waste. Disposable diapers and Sludge Residue from the production of paper; consists of IPP, Integrated Product Policy In a communication incontinence products are part of the MSW. inert materials, mainly small fibre debris, filler and other inert published in June 2003, the EC states that “its primary aim materials. It used to be sent to landfill. Nowadays used as is to reduce the environmental impacts of products N, Nitrogen A chemical element, also present in wood, ‘new’ raw material and incinerated with energy recovery. through-out their life cycle, harnessing where possible a that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess N in water market driven approach within which competitive concerns can cause major increases in the amount of algae, which Solid-wood products Wood sawn into various are integrated”. The IPP encourages “green” products, can lead to oxygen deficiency when the algae decompose. dimensions and sizes for furniture, joinery and construction “green” public procurement and ecolabelling. use. Newsprint Paper for newspapers produced from IPPC The European Union’s Integrated Pollution and mechanical pulp based on fresh fibre or recovered fibre. Stakeholders Groups of people with whom an Prevention Control directive (96/61/EC). organisation has active relationships, and with whom Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) Are effective dialogue is necessary to the functioning of the ISO 14001 The standard published by the International national, international, and community-based groups that business. Shareholders, authorities, customers, employees Standards Organization, specifying the requirements of an raise awareness about social, environmental, community and NGOs are all stakeholders in SCA’s business activities. environmental management system. All SCA European mills and human rights issues. are certified ISO 14001. Suspended solids Particles that are not dissolved in the NOX as NO2 The nitrogen oxides NO and NO2, calculated effluent water. Kraftliner Packaging paper made of fresh wood. as NO2 derived from combustion. Where NOX is not measured, a standard value of 100 mg/MJ fuel is used. TCF, Totally Chlorine Free Paper pulp which is bleached Kyoto Protocol United Nations framework convention without using chlorine in any form. on climate change. Voluntary agreement between Of which co-gen That part of the total fuel supply alloindustrialised nations, ratified by Europe and the object of cated to the electricity produced by the CHP schemes. TMP, Thermo Mechanical Pulp A high-yield pulp (about European directive 2003/87/EC, to reduce by 2012 the 90–95% yield from the wood) which is obtained by heating Opacity Degree to which something is opaque. levels of man-made CO2 below the level reached in 1990. spruce chips and then grinding them in refiners. Organic fossil material Covers crude-oil-based materiLandfill Solid waste material sent to a landfill. TJ, Terajoule A unit used to measure energy (fuel). als, such as super-absorbents and adhesives calculated at Leach/Leachate The percolation of liquids through the 100% dry substances. Tissue Creped soft paper which is the basis for hygiene earth. The leaching natural process can pollute products such as napkins, toilet paper and towels, and P, Phosphorus A chemical element, also present in wood, underground water or surface water, which is situated towelling products for institutions, hotels, etc. that is necessary for plant and animal life. Excess P in water below a retention basin of wastewater, or a landfill, which is can cause nutrient enrichment. TWh, TeraWatt hour Unit of energy measurement. biologically active, for example. 1 TWh=10 Million KWh PSR, Product Specific Requirement (also see EPD, Life Cycle Assessment, LCA A method of assessing the ­Environmental Product Declaration) List of requirements Water Represents the sum of surface water, ground water environmental impact of a product, taking account of its enabling SCA to label its products in an accurate and and tap water for processes and cooling pur­poses. Where entire lifespan from raw material extraction to waste informative way, avoiding unverifiable labelling. input water is not measured, it has been calculated as disposal. The process is described in the ISO14040 series. equalling the effluent water. Purchased pulp The sum of pulp supplied to a site. SPINE is the common database enabling comparison Waste To SCA, waste comprises only materials leaving our between product elements. RAP, Regulatory Affairs Platform The network keeps production units that cannot be used for any further useful and updates the list of SCA representatives in organisations Liner The surface layer of corrugated board. Available in purpose. Recovered paper and fibre are excluded, since at EU and national levels. It is in charge of communicating various grades, such as kraftliner (based on fresh wood they form part of SCA’s main raw materials. and defending SCA positions to lawmakers directly and fibre) and testliner or fluting (based on recycled fibre). through industry organisations. Wood/sawmill chips The sum of wood delivered to each Liquor Substance(s) Used in or resulting from chemical site. REACH, Regulation, Evaluation, Authorization and pulp production. White liquor is the cooking liquor (sodium Restriction of Chemicals European regulation hydroxide and sodium sulphide). Black liquor is the waste (1,907/2,000/EC) which address the production and (safe) liquor from the completed production cycle. Most of it is use of chemical substances and their potential impact on re-used as fuel and burnt in the recovery boiler. Green liquor both human health and the environment. Some 30,000 is an aqueous solution, the residue of burning the black chemicals will have to be registered after testing with the liquor. central European Chemical Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki. LTA, Lost Time Accidents Accidents that cause the Companies will have to obtain authorisation to use absence of an employee from work for X number of days. hazardous chemicals. One of the main safety indicators in industry. See also FR Recovery Solid waste material recovered in an external (Frequency rate) and Incidence Rate (IR). process. LWC paper, Light Weight Coated Paper is a coated RMS SCA’s Resource Management System: a means of paper with a high mechanical pulp content. Used for highcollecting and collating all environmental data and resource quality magazines and advertising materials with utilisation within the SCA Group. demanding colour-printing requirements. Recovered fibre Paper-making fibre derived from a MBT, Mechanical-biological treatment Hybrid secondary source, such as used paper and board, used for technology combining mechanical sorting of waste and recycling. biological treatment to produce biogas. A further processing stage can convert the residual material into Renewable All materials which can be re-grown or refuse-derived fuel. produced without depletion of natural resources. SCA Sustainability Report 2012 77 Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA (publ) PO Box 200, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 63 Tel +46 8 788 51 00, fax +46 8 788 53 80 Corp. Reg. No.: 556012-6293 www.sca.com Business units SCA INCONTINENCE CARE SCA consumer goods SCA AFH Professional SCA MEIA EUROPE europe HYGIENE EUROPE 34820 AVCILAR ISTANBUL SE-405 03 GÖTEBORG Postfach 1208 Postfach 1208 Turkey Sweden DE-85730 ISMANING DE-85730 ISMANING Visiting address: Universite Mah. Visiting address: Germany Germany Baglarici Cad. No:29 Kat:6 Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Tel + 90 212 509 38 22 Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Fax + 90 212 676 01 06 Fax +46 31 746 19 00 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 SCA Americas SCA Asia Pacific SCA Forest Products Cira Centre 5th Floor, Building 1 SE-851 88 SUNDSVALL Suite 2600 No.3 Fenyang Road Sweden 2929 Arch Street Xuhui District Visiting address: Skepparplatsen 1 Philadelphia, PA 19104 SHANGHAI 200031 Tel +46 60 19 30 00, 19 40 00 US China Fax +46 60 19 34 97 Tel +1 610 499 3700 Fax +1 610 499 3402 GHC GHS GBS (gLOBAL HYGIENE CATEGORY) (Global HYGIENE SUPPLY) (GLOBAL BUSINESS ­SERVICEs) SE-405 03 GÖTEBORG Postfach 1208 Box 200 Sweden DE-85730 ISMANING SE-101 23 Stockholm Visiting address: Germany Sweden Bäckstensgatan 5, Mölndal Visiting address: Adalperostrasse 31 Visiting address: Tel +46 31 746 00 00 Tel +49 89 970 06 0 Klarabergsviadukten 63 Fax +46 31 746 19 00 Fax +49 89 970 06 644 Tel +46 8 788 51 00 Fax +46 8 788 53 80 Contact persons Kersti Strandqvist Patrik Isaksson Lulu Li Senior Vice President, Corporate Vice President, Environmental Affairs Manager, Corporate Social Sustainability E-mail: patrik.isaksson@sca.com Responsibility E-mail: kersti.strandqvist@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 51 04 E-mail: lulu.li@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 52 24 Tel: +46 8 788 52 94 Per Brattberg Director, Sustainability Reporting Marita Sander E-mail: per.brattberg@sca.com Communications Director, Tel: +46 8 788 52 58 Sustainability E-mail: marita.sander@sca.com Tel: +46 8 788 52 46 This report is produced by SCA in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson and One Stone. Photo: Juliana Fälldin, Peter Hoelstad, Håkan Lindgren och SCA. Print: Elanders in Falköping 2013. Greenhouse gases emitted though the production of this printed matter, including paper, other materials and transport, were offset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation project in Uganda.
