COP Report Table Of Contents Message From The Chairman 3 Company Proﬁle 4 New Projects In 2013 9 Environment 9 La Strada 2 Extension Other Selected Top Notch Projects Labor 10 Employees’ Development & Training Health Care Human Rights 11 Fighting Child Labor Anti-Corruption 11 Supply Chain 12 Ensuring Stakeholders’ Commitment To GC Principles Moving CSR Concept To The Mother Company CSR Marketing Local Community 13 Workshops For Flood’s Victims In South Sinai Reaching 2013 with the surrounding unstable political and economic situation in Egypt affected many organizations in both private and public sectors in accomplishing their roles toward society. Oriental Resorts’ deep sense of responsibility is continuing though to be the driving force behind its achievements in sustainable development and improvements in CSR. From building workshops for victims of Sinai ﬂoods to applying solar energy for all projects landscape and outdoors to other competitive challenges, we see constant opportunities to practice responsible business. It’s my hope that we can set a good example for other companies. Hussein Sabbour Chairman MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 COMPANY PROFILE Oriental Resorts was founded in 1996 by some of Egypt’s most respected and biggest companies in the ﬁelds of real estate, ﬁnance and industry. From the very inception, Oriental Resorts has had a clear vision and determined goal, as written in its Mission Statement: To play a major role in the evolution of Egyptian tourism and create diverse and unique projects that cater to every need and offer a wide variety of experiences making the visit to Egypt unforgettable. The successes Oriental Resorts has enjoyed to date can be directly linked to the combined expertise of the founders, who between them share a wealth of experience, industry knowledge and impeccable track records in development and delivery: AL-AHLY Real Estate Development Company, a leader in the Egyptian real estate sector that has become one of the biggest companies in Egypt. Projects developed by the company include the Arkadia Mall, Saridar ofﬁces and clinics and a number of residential compounds. The National Bank of Egypt, the largest bank in Egypt. Oriental Weavers, one of the biggest industrial groups in Egypt. Hussein Sabbour, who holds more than 40 years of experience as a consultant engineer and is renowned for lending his skills and experience to projects like Sadat City, The Underground and the Semiramis Intercontinental. 4 Touristic Real Estate: Oriental Resort Hotel A Feel of Natural Beauty Oriental Resort is an elegant 5-star hotel situated in Nabq Bay, 6 kilometers north of Sharm El Sheikh international airport and 18 kilometers from Naama Bay. Embraced by the spectacular desert and the endless blue of the Red Sea, Oriental Resort offers a unique location where visitors can enjoy exploring the coral reefs, aquatic life and protected parks. Sports lovers will revel in the rich variety of activities including diving, snorkeling and water sports. Nabq Bay was declared a protected area in 1992 and Nabq ranks among the ﬁnest destinations for its great biological and natural diversity. Feel at Home Our 380 spacious & luxurious rooms, presidential and royal suites are beautifully decorated, each with a private balcony and the latest modern amenities for your ultimate comfort. Sensational Dining International gourmet specialties are served all around the hotel in the amazing mélange of restaurants & entertainment outlets. Corporate Division Fully equipped meeting & conference facilities that offer comprehensive functions for business or corporate gatherings ensuring achievement of optimum results. 5 Sun, Sea & Sand... Unlimited leisure & recreational pursuits are available to meet every guest’s desire. The grounds of Oriental Commercial Real Estate: La Strada Resort sport a fully equipped health The Vibrant Heart of Nabq Bay club, a private sandy beach including a variety of water sports as well as a La Strada is the entertainment centre of Nabq. large pool, a water slide, 2 squash courts, 2 ﬂoodlight tennis courts, an Nabq has developed into a diverse resort town, quickly becoming the ﬁrst choice of amphitheater, a children’s pool & tourists coming to Sharm El Sheikh. With its luxurious resorts and vast sandy beaches playground and a kid’s club. overlooking Tiran Island, Nabq has 20,000+ hotel rooms, making it the fastest growing resort town on the Red Sea. Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development has created La Strada to cater to people of all ages. An open-air affair with spacious walkways featuring shops, restaurants and a sizzling night life; not only the place to shop, but also to mix, mingle, dine, hear music and enjoy the attractive outdoor areas. La Strada is located in the centre of Nabq and a short walk from all the major resorts of the area. With its unique architecture emphasizing convenience and entertainment, its large variety of shops, restaurants and coffee shops, La Strada has become the favorite of residents and visitors alike. Residential Real Estate: Sharm Residence Sharm Residence is a residential complex consisting of separate villas, semi attached villas and studios. The development of the project started in 2005 and soon became one of the most sought after residential complexes in Sharm El Sheikh. The complex consists of 197 units, divided over 61 separate villas, 22 semi-attached villas and 114 studios. Sharm Residence has developed in a community of local and international residents that enjoy the sports and beach and pool facilities of the nearby Oriental Resort Hotel. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility As the role of business in society is becoming more important and businesses nowadays are giving much more attention to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the concept of “giving back to our community”, in early 2010, Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development joined the United Nations Global Compact Network in Egypt driven by its concern to introduce CSR to its business and integrate it more into the concept. Since then, the company focused mainly on tailoring its policies and work strategies to meet the Global Compact 10 principles which are included in four main areas of Human Right, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption guaranteeing the ascending coverage of all principles from huge undertaken projects to daily work tasks and procedures. Zero Carbon Rooms Oriental Resorts is proud to be the ﬁrst hotel owning company in Egypt to provide zero carbon emission rooms in our ORIENTAL RESORT by contracting a specialized company to measure the carbon emissions of the hotel and calculate the share of each hotel room. According to these calculations, we purchased carbon credits to offset the emissions of ten rooms. This initiative proved to be proﬁt making as these rooms were sold at a premium to environmentally conscious hotel guests. 7 Shops for Sinai Flood’s Victims Oriental Resorts was very concerned about taking one of the most important initiatives taken towards the local community by building a number of 30 shops to be donated at no cost to victims of Sinai ﬂoods that occurred in 2010 in order to help serving and putting back to normal life a numerous number of income generators who lost their homes and/or work due to the destruction caused by the ﬂoods. Highlights of other projects and initiatives covering GC principles: • Swimming pools heating systems using solar energy. • Lighting system using LED lamps in all future projects. • Improvement of employees’ medical health care service. • Improvement of new policies and strategies covering labor rights and anti-corruption. 8 New Projects In 2013 ENVIRONMENT La Strada 2 Extension A new project has been launched in early 2013 after getting the approval of the Board of Directors on expanding La Strada Mall by adding more rooms in addition to the stores. Oriental Resorts is planning to start applying all already applied systems that consider environment safety in current operating projects into the new project. The planned systems will be: • Lighting system using LED lamps for more energy saving. • Heating swimming pools using solar energy. • Installing all water tabs that use advanced sensor technology system for reduced water consumption. • All landscape and street lighting powered by solar energy. Other Selected Top Notch Projects The top notch projects implemented by Oriental Resorts considering environment safety and energy saving are still working successfully till date: Zero Carbon Rooms Oriental Resort was proud to be the ﬁrst hotel operating Zero Carbon Rooms after contracting Soil & Moore for buying credits for marking a number of ten rooms as free of carbon emissions. Waste Separation Process Still working very successfully helping waste collectors and recyclers reproduce selected different types of waste in several different industries saving more materials. Solar Energy for Heating Swimming Pools Continuing very successfully to save numerous amounts of energy by heating the swimming pools using natural solar energy instead of the used electrical and mechanical machines, and as mentioned above, the same technology will be implemented to the whole new project of 2013 “La Strada Mall Extension”. 9 LABOR Employees’ Development and Training Orientals Resorts is still implementing its long-term continuous plan of developing and improving its employees’ skills and qualiﬁcations to ﬁt each employee’s job ﬁeld and area of specialization. Among the provided training programs and courses are: Training Course Destination Group Board Secretary Ofﬁce Manager/CSR Ofﬁcer Primavera Program Senior Project Engineer Property and Facility Management Training Property Manager and assistants Health Care Medical insurance for all company’s employees and their family members is still applied and future plans are being included in 2013 plan for improving the provided health care by checking other service providers and comparing the provided proposals in order to select the best offers to ensure employee satisfaction. The previously implemented activities that are still in progress include: • Oriental Resort Hotel committee of trustees. • Literacy classes for illiterate workers. • Freedom for workers to volunteer at any voluntary local community services. • Decision of No Layoffs for hotel workers with full paid vacation in spite of the severe hit to tourism during 2011 and 2012 after the revolution. 10 LABOR Human Rights Fighting Child Labor A very good and clear example of active actions taken towards the concept of protecting human rights in Oriental Resorts is the cancellation of a contractor’s contract that was hiring workers below allowed working age, which was violating the principle of human rights of no allowance of children work.environmentally conscious hotel guests. Anti-Corruption During the past year we attended regularly the events and conferences organized by the Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB) in collaboration with the UN Global Compact as part of the Siemens Integrity Initiative in which multiple top notched different speakers are invited to enhance the conference with their experience regarding the role of the private sector in ﬁghting corruption. Additionally, Oriental Resorts is planning to be a member of the Integrity Network that is going to be formed by EJB. 11 LABOR Supply Chain Ensuring Stakeholders’ Commitment to GC Principles In 2010, Oriental Resorts has updated an annex to be attached to its contracts signed with sub-contractors and other stakeholder ensuring the necessity of their commitment to all Global Compact 10 principles. With the internal and periodical follow up of the company regarding this, we discovered that one sub-contractor dealing with the company was hiring workers below the allowed working age violating by this principal no. 5 of labor section which obligates businesses on the abolition of effective child labor. Thus, Oriental Resorts had taken an immediate action towards this and sent formal warning letter to the above-mentioned sub-contractor warning him of the necessity of the immediate termination of hiring below aged workers unless termination of its contract will be conducted. Preservative warning letters were sent as well to all other sub-contractors informing them of the highly importance of their commitment to all Global Compact principles as in case of discovering any violation to any principle Oriental Resorts will take immediate response towards this. Moving CSR Concept to the Founders One of the most important achievements of Oriental Resorts this year is its impact on one of the founding companies, Al Ahly for Real Estate Development, to start implementing CSR concept into its businesses and projects with the help and assistance of Oriental Resorts executives engaged in CSR. CSR Marketing After many communications with Global Compact Ofﬁce, Oriental Resorts succeeded in getting the approval on using the “We Support Global Compact” logo on company’s printed materials, including hotel and company brochures, engaged responsible employees’ business cards…etc as an additional means of marketing CSR concept to other stakeholders and other organizations for more spreading and expanding of the concept. 12 Local Community Workshops For Flood’s Victims In South Sinai As this huge project is continuous throughout two years up till present as stated previously in our COPs, now Oriental Resorts is proud to announce the ﬁnishing of the construction of the donated workshops to victims of the ﬂoods that occurred in South Sinai. After approving South Sinai Governorate request of expanding the construction of the donated 10 workshops to be divided into a number of 30, in order to be able to serve more numbers of beneﬁciaries and families that were harmed by the ﬂoods by losing either their jobs or homes. With the additional cost, Oriental Resorts’ Board of Directors did not hesitate to approve the new request immediately and urged the completion of this project, which was ﬁnished early 2013 to be delivered to the governorate for appropriate operating which will be followed up continuously by the company until all workshops are fully operated by the appropriate beneﬁciaries. 13
