OM RAPPORTEN KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR Report Published May 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 1 FOREWORD OM RAPPORTEN FOREWORD BY CONTENTS OUR MANAGING PARTNER DEAR READER And I am, of course, immensely proud that Kromann Reumert 5 About the Report Welcome to Kromann Reumert’s fourth CSR Report and fourth has managed for the second year in a row to attain a CO2 tarreport to the UN Global Compact. We joined the Global Comget ahead of schedule. Last year, we set a goal to reduce our 5 Kromann Reumert in Brief pact in 2008 and I want to take this opportunity now to emphaCO2 consumption by 10% by 2015, but we have reached that sise that our commitment to this most important UN initiative goal already. A new, ambitious goal is now to reduce our CO2 7 Stakeholder Dialogue remains undiminished. consumption by a total of 15% from 2011 to the end of 2015. These goals have been reached only because we have employ8 Our Ambitions The business climate in Denmark is still marked by financial crisis ees with creative minds and a desire to think up new ways to and Kromann Reumert wishes to support growth in the busibring down our CO2 consumption. 11 The CSR Organisation ness sector. In January this year we performed an analysis of 70 large and medium-sized Danish exporting enterprises, asking We also thank our employees for their continued commitment 12 The 10 Global Compact Principles them about their experience in exporting to non-EU countries. to our pro bono work. Among the features in this Report, I We also interviewed eight of Denmark’s most competent export especially recommend the article on how eight of our lawyers 14 Human Rights companies who shared their knowledge about how to avoid arranged a full day of activities here at our Copenhagen officpitfalls in future export campaigns. We are convinced that “exes for 60 9th-grade pupils from the Sortedam School, a local 16 Labour port” is a key to strengthening the Danish business sector. school. The purpose was to instil a motivation for education – and according to pupils and teachers alike, it was mission ac20 Environment and Climate Often, however, exports will be to foreign markets outside the complished. The Education Day was part of the City of CopenEU where customs and traditions challenge the Global Compact hagen’s attempt to get older school pupils to be more focused 26 Anti-Corruption and Corporate Governance principles in a way we do not see in our domestic market. When on post-secondary education. we in Kromann Reumert help our customers go out into the 32 Partnerships and Pro Bono world we take with us our knowledge of the Global Compact Enjoy. principles and our advice on Corporate Governance. You can 42 THANK YOU read more about this under “Anti-Corruption and Corporate Governance”. Danish enterprises value our advice and knowledge. Every time we and our customers have a chance to enlighten foreign-market players on corporate social responsibility and growth, it is a step in the right direction towards extending the embrace of the UN Global Compact. But we can make a difference domestically too. That is why we supported the campaign “The World’s Best News” again this year, working in cooperation with the UN, DANIDA and Danish aid organisations to promote the UN’s 2015 Millennium DevelClaus Juel Hansen, opment Goals. Managing Partner All comments are welcome We would be happy to receive your comments on this CSR Report and on our CSR efforts generally. Write to Kirsten Hejlskov Jensen, Communications Manager, on kje@kromannreumert.com. 2 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 3 ABOUT THE REPORT KROMANN REUMERT IN BRIEF ABOUT This is Kromann Reumert’s fourth CSR Report – and our fourth annual COP The reporting year is spring 2012 to spring 2013. The exact reporting periods within THE (Communication on Progress) to be reeach theme are described in the individuported to the UN Global Compact. al sections on the following pages. REpORT The Report is modelled around the 10 Global Compact principles, divided into With this Report we hope to give our customers, employfour themes: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. The Report ees and other stakeholders an also focuses on our pro-bono partnerships understanding of Kromann as a considerable amount of our CSR efReumert and the way we work forts stems from our employees’ wish to with CSR. do pro-bono work by doing what a law firm does best – providing legal advice. KROMANN REUMERT IN BRIEF Kromann Reumert is Denmark’s leading law firm with offices and AIJA, and several of our partners currently hold or have prein Copenhagen, Aarhus, London and Brussels. We employ apviously held executive-level positions in the international legal proximately 550 people, working attentively and enthusiastically community. For our clients, the benefits of our unique internawith our customers and with each other. Our approximately 300 tional position include high-quality multi-jurisdictional advice lawyers cover a host of specialist areas and we are constantly and unique access to a range of specialists in almost every part looking to develop new areas to meet our customers’ needs. of the world. At the same time, we are well placed to help our clients stay abreast of the latest international trends and develWE SEt tHE StAnDARD opments, including those that may extend to Denmark. Our Our vision is that we set the standard among law firms. Good is services include assisting Danish enterprises with the overcomnot good enough we want to be the best. That is why we deing the legal challenges they face as they venture out into the viSion mand of ourselves that we stay up to date on the latest news – international markets. domestically and internationally. We want to stay a step ahead. We set the standard RAtingS ouR intERnAtionAl poSition Kromann Reumert was awarded several international awards Kromann Reumert is a business with a distinct international outin 2012. For example, we were given the “Chambers Europe miSSion look, serving Danish and foreign customers alike. We are the Awards for Excellence 2012 Denmark”, and Who’s Who named Value-adding solutions and advice with dedication and focus only Danish law firm to be a member of the international Lex us “Danish law firm of the year”. We were also named “M&A Mundi organisation, consisting of more than 21,000 lawyers in awards 2012 overall law firm of the year” by Acquisition Inter160 of the world’s leading law firms. We are also active in most national. In 2012 Økonomisk Ugebrev again awarded Kromann vAluES of the international lawyers’ organisations – including IBA, ABA Reumert the title of best Danish law firm. Spirited teamwork – Quality – Business knowledge – Credibility KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 5 OUR ORGANISATION STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE OUR STAKEHOLDER ORGANISATION DIALOGUE Kromann Reumert is a partner-owned firm comprised of 67 to achieve the optimum solution. The chart below reflects our EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT IN DIALOGUE WITH FUTURE partners. Our partnership is built on a principle of equal sharing, organisational structure. Read more about Kromann Reumert at CUSTOMER VALUE PROPOSITIONS EMPLOYEES: TALENT NETWORK meaning that all partners have an interest in working together www.kromannreumert.com. Kromann Reumert adopts an active dialogue with different Kromann Reumert’s most important regroups of stakeholders. In various customer surveys, we have regsource is our employees – that is the way it ularly asked our customers what they think about working with is and that is the way it will stay. That is why us, and of course we do employee satisfaction surveys as well. in September of 2012 we launched a brandPARTNERS new network for 15 talented law students from We bring our employees actively into our strategic planning. We the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University, did this most recently in connection with defining our CustomAalborg University, and the University of Southern Denmark. the board er Value Propositions or CVPs. On our annual Company Day, This gives us a unique window through which to communithe Management took the stage to introduce the de-centralised cate with some of our future employees and allows us to get Chairman: Marianne Philip work and our employees then went to work on defining what it to know changed needs and requirements early and to act on is we do that will create value for our customers. them in time to make a difference. Kromann Reumert identified the following The network is structured around six network meetings and MANAGING PARTNER Customer Value Propositions: offers students a chance to work on their communication and Claus Juel Hansen • We are an active partner in the customer’s business. personal power skills. They are also invited to spar individually • We are a step ahead of the challenges facing our customer. with an attorney and an assistant attorney and are given ac• We ensure efficient processes. cess to our library and a study seat in Aarhus or Copenhagen • We help our customers go out in the world. for the 8-month duration of the Talent Network. HR / KNOWLEDGE Corporate • We create innovative solutions. FINANCE / IT / SERVICES MANAGEMENT Strategy & Branding The objective of the network is to provide law students with a Tina Larsen Vacant Sille Stener COMMUNITY – PRO BONO practical angle on the field of law so that they will get a chance Through our pro bono partnerships we reach a variety of differto see what it takes to become a good corporate lawyer – and ent groups in our surrounding community and we appreciate not least to strengthen the competencies required in order to and enjoy the experience. You can read more about this in the master the craft of practising law. practice areas Partnerships and Pro Bono section. COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES – SHARING THEIR KNOWLEDGE Many businesses and commercial organisations frequently invite our specialists to speak on different topics as diverse as Corporate Governance, Whistleblowing and other areas they would like to learn more about. We want to help enterprises grow. That is why – as mentioned also in the foreword to this report – we performed, in January this year, an analysis of 70 large and medium-sized Danish exporting enterprises, asking them about their experiBanking and finance / Capital markets / China / Commercial and company law / Competition law / Compliance, CSR and corporate governance / Corporate criminal law / Data protection law ence in exporting to non-EU countries. We also interviewed eight of Denmark’s / Employment and labour law / Energy law / Environmental law and public law / Financial regulation and asset management / German desk / Greenlandic law / Insolvency and restructuring most competent export companies who shared their knowledge about how to / Insurance and tort law / International trade / IP / IT and outsourcing / Life Science, Pharmaceuticals and Biotech / Litigation and arbitration / Maritime and transportation law / Mergers and acquisitions / Mergers and Acquisitions technology and media / Outbound services / Private clients / Procurement / Purchase and sale of SME / Real estate and construction law / Shipping avoid pitfalls in future export campaigns. The interviews spawned a treasure trove / Sports, media and entertainment / Succession planning / Tax law / Telecommunications of good advice all available now on www.kromannreumert.com/overblik. 6 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 7 OUR AMBITIONS OUR AMBITIONS OUR ambitions Our CSR report for 2011 outlined two overarching goals or ambitions for our CSR work leading up to year-end 2013: AMBITION 1 AMBITION 2 We will strive to integrate CSR into our own business and We will strive to be part of the driving force behind the organisational processes so that it becomes a completely evolution of CSR within business. natural part of good business. FRAMEWORK GLOBAL COMPACT AS THE FRAME FOR CSR STRATEGY AND INITIATIVES AMBITION 1 EMPLOYEE-RUN PRO BONO WORK + CO2 EMISSIONS TARGETS AMBITION 2 RAISE AWARENESS OF CSR AND GLOBAL COMPACT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 These ambitions also form the basis for the CSR activities described focus on the transition into post-secondary education and to We also actively promote diversity on boards of directors. The scheduled for April all with the aim of presenting the plans for in this report and will remain the basis until the end of 2013. Even motivate pupils to choose a higher education. Chairman of our Board and Partner, Marianne Philip, and our WCD in Denmark. though our overall ambitions remain the same, we continually Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, Sille Stener, have strive to expand our goals and objectives within the four themes AMBITION 2 collaborated with Heidrick & Struggles’ Copenhagen office to In 2012, we continued our participation in the Danish camof human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. With respect to Ambition 2, our goal is to increase awareness of introduce the Women Corporate Directors (WCD) network into paign Verdens Bedste Nyhed (“The World’s Best News”), the the Global Compact and CSR in business. We have achieved this Denmark. The first network event, held on 29 August 2012, object of which is to raise awareness of the UN 2015 goals. We AMBITION 1 through several initiatives. Among other things, we have incorfeatured professional matchmaking where female board canexpect that we will continue in 2013 to support the UN 2015 With respect to Ambition 1 and as described in the section on porated information about our involvement in Global Compact didates were able to meet personally with highly experienced goals to fight poverty throughout the world. Environment and Climate, we have already reached one CO2 tarand CSR into our corporate presentation last year, Kromann chairmen of various boards of directors. Kromann Reumert’s get and have set a new and more ambitious goal. The section on Reumert’s lawyers spent well over 1,500 hours speaking at busiCopenhagen office hosted this WCD event. The event was Our other initiatives to fulfil Ambition 2 are described in Partnerships and Pro Bono describes how our pro bono work has ness conferences and seminars. hugely successful, potential directors and current chairmen more detail under each theme of this report, particularly the been further integrated into our legal business. For example, as alike having expressed their desire to repeat it. Since the event, “Anti-Corruption and Corporate Governance” section. part of the City of Copenhagen’s lower-secondary-education inWe also provide meeting facilities to and conduct various brunch a board consisting of 10 executive-level women in major Danitiative, we held an education day for sixty 9th grade pupils from meetings for SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages), all to ish businesses has been created. Four board meetings hosted You can also read about the other initiatives in our previous the Sortedam School in Østerbro. The objective was to increase increase awareness of CSR. by Kromann Reumert have already been held and another is reports available for download at www.kromannreumert.com. 8 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 9 OUR AMBITIONS CSR ORGANISATION THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS The World’s Best News is a call to take CSR the last decisive steps towards fulﬁlling ORGANISATION the 2015 goals. We helped spread that call The CSR Steering Committee meets four to five times a year to discuss strategic goals and practical initiatives. Our HR DirecOur Facilities Manager is responsible for Kromann Reumert’s work with climate and the environment and for supplier manin 2012 through a number of different tor and our Partner responsible for pro bono work together to agement. Our Director of Corporate Strategy & Branding, oversee pro bono projects and maintain contact with the emtogether with our Communications Manager, have overall ployee-run pro bono groups. The pro bono groups themselves responsibility for our Global Compact and other SCR-related channels. are responsible for the work they undertake through their selected pro bono partnerships. initiatives. Overall responsibility for Global Compact is placed with our Corporate Strategy & Branding department so as to exploit its full potential in relation to our strategy and business. KRomAnn REumERt AnD tHE WoRlD’S bESt nEWS • Homepage banner and homepage news Kromann Reumert continued its work as a partner in the Danish • News on our intranet and in the personal column of our campaign Verdens Bedste Nyheder (“The World’s Best News”). Managing Partner We did so primarily as a result of our involvement in UN Global • Facebook Compact. The campaign resonates very specifically with the UN • Twitter 2015 goals, often applied as a benchmark of the world’s devel• LinkedIn opment. The purpose of the campaign is to provide Danes with better information on the concrete results achieved through de• Label on our water bottles offered to guests in velopment aid and the work to end global poverty. The World’s our meeting rooms Best News is a call to take the last decisive steps towards fulfill• Internal roll-ups ing the 2015 goals. We helped spread that call in 2012 through • African, South American and Eastern food served a number of different channels, for example: in our canteen THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS 2015 goals: Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Goal 3: Promote gender equity and empower women Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability Goal 4: Reduce child mortality Goal 8: Develop a Global Partnership for development 10 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 11 GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 PRINCIPLES THE pRINCIpLES 10 1-2 HumAn RigHtS 3-6 lAbouR 1. Businesses should support and respect 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of the protection of internationally association and the effective recognition proclaimed human rights. of the right to collective bargaining. 2. Business should make sure that they are 4. Business should uphold the elimination of not complicit in human rights abuses. all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 7-9 6. Business should uphold the elimination EnviRonmEnt AnD ClimAtE of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 10 8. Business should undertake initiatives to Anti-CoRRuption promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Business should encourage the develop10. Businesses should work against ment and diffusion of environmentally corruption in all its forms, including friendly technologies. extortion and bribery. globAl CompACt’S 10 principles Global Compact’s 10 Principles are divided into four themes: human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 12 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 13 OM RAPPORTEN PRINCIPLES 1-2 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS CommitmEnt The first two Global Compact principles concern human rights. Kromann Reumert helps protect human rights through several partnerships. Among the organisations we work with are OMBOLD, Børnehjælpsdagen (“Children’s Help Day”), Reden (“The Nest”) and Reden International (“The Nest International”). We mainly provide legal assistance to these organisations. More information about this can be found in the “Partnerships and Pro Bono” section. RESultS: mARCH 2012 – mARCH 2013 In addition to various pro bono initiatives described later in this report, we set a goal last year that we would strive to maintain a responsible supply chain by facilitating and implementing our Code of Conduct. goal Result We will demand certain standards of our suppliers. We have commenced the process of making demands on the biggest of our primary suppliers. Our goal for 2012 has not yet been fully achieved so the work continues into 2013. goAl: mARCH 2013 mARCH 2014 In the coming period we will work towards the following goals and activities: goals Activities We will demand certain standards of our suppliers. We have commenced the process of making demands on the biggest of our primary suppliers. Our goal for 2012 has not yet been fully achieved so the work continues into 2013. We will implement our Code of Conduct as a set Going forward, our Code of Conduct will be a mandatory part of all supply of standard terms and conditions. agreements. pRinCiplES 1-2 Human rights 14 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 15 OM RAPPORTEN PRINCIPLES 3-6 LABOUR LABOUR CommitmEnt Kromann Reumert’s most important resource is our employees. They are fundamental to our business and they are the source of the results achieved every day and the key to helping us maintain Kromann Reumert’s position as the leading law firm in Denmark. It is therefore absolutely essential that we do our very best to ensure that our employees can continue to deliver high-level results. That means they must be nurtured and carefully managed within an environment that is both inspiring and conducive to spirited teamwork. RESultS: mARCH 2012 – mARCH 2013 In our last CSR report we listed a series of goals and activities, i.a. in relation to employee satisfaction surveys, secondment, and more leadership responsibilities for lawyers. The following sets out the status on those goals. EmploYEE SAtiSfACtion SuRvEY 2012 want to encourage an international perspective because much We work continually to create the best possible workplace withof our advice is cross-border. in the framework of our values of quality, credibility, commercial insight, and spirited teamwork. The employee satisfaction Also, many of our employees regularly take legal and commersurvey is an important tool in our efforts to collect information cial courses abroad. We have also launched a Summer School about how we feel about our work and each other. Its results ofprogramme where each year three employees go to reputable fer a systematic insight into what we are doing right as a workuniversities abroad for studying over the summer. During the place and point to potential focus areas and action plans. 2012 period reported on we have had employees in Hong Kong, saw our fourth employee satisfaction survey boasting a 90% Paris and Geneva. response rate. foCuS on HEAltH initiAtivES On the basis of the 2012 survey we have identified four focus Our canteens focus continuously on offering healthy food to our areas to be given special attention until the next employee satisemployees. Last year there was a special initiative to promote faction survey in 2014. These are increased knowledge sharing, the Danish Heart Foundation’s (Hjerteforeningen) campaign by greater flow of information to our departments, more involveadvertising healthy food, distributing flyers with recipes, and ofment of lawyers in commercial sales and customer work, and an fering our employees healthy and tasty food. even better use of resources. In addition, all employees have been offered the help of an ocfoCuS on SEConDmEnt cupational therapist to check their individual work station. The We have continued to focus on the secondment of employees. therapist helped employees to arrange their workstations in the During the period reported on we have had more than 20 embest possible way and, in some cases, recommended specific ployees on secondment for longer or shorter periods of time. aids. We are also members of BST, an advisory firm helping busiThese employees have been sent to Danish businesses and, nesses achieve a better working environment. BST has offered pRinCiplES 3-6 to a smaller degree, foreign law firms. We believe it to be an regular advice to employees who have experienced specific Labour important part of our employee’s career development that they problems brought about by circumstances such as less-than-apare able to obtain insight and experience from other areas. We propriate working positions. 16 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 17 PRINCIPLES 3-6 PRINCIPLES 3-6 LABOUR LABOUR Kromann Reumert’s most important Work life balance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Women working reduced hours 37 42 34 32 39 27 resource is our employees. They are funMen working reduced hours Number of employees with mobile workplace 0 250 1 320 1 380 1 410 2 400 0 380 damental to our business and they are the Employee satisfaction survey – work life balance (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) 60 67 -* 67 -* 68 source of the results achieved every day. Education Total number of days that employees spent attending courses 2400 2600 2600 2700 2500 Alongside these initiatives, we encourage all our employees to Focus on increased diversity and the Number of course days per employee 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.4 take the stairs rather than the elevator, to have walk-and-talk appointment of more women to board positions meetings, to go by bicycle to and from work, and to generally Last year we set a goal that we would use the Women CorpoNumber of internal courses 70 80 82 80 70 look after themselves at work and at home. rate Directors (WCD) network to highlight the need for more women in board positions. Our Chairman of the Board and Employee satisfaction More leadership responsibilities for lawyers Partner, Marianne Philip, and our Director of Corporate StrateWe remain focused on increasing leadership responsibilities for gy & Branding, Sille Stener, have collaborated with Heidrick & Combined result – employee satisfaction 73 81 -* 80 -* 80 our lawyers. One way we will achieve this is offering by leadership Struggles’ Copenhagen office to introduce the WCD network (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) training designed to equip our lawyers for the leadership role. into Denmark. The first event was held on 29 August 2012. Management (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) 70 74 -* 77 -* 76 Also, in our employee satisfaction survey, we focus specifically on The theme of the event was board diversity and a number of *Employee satisfaction surveys are carried out every 18 months and there were no surveys in 2009 and 2011. the role of managers so that our managers can obtain insight into female board candidates were given the opportunity to meet their performance as leaders. Lawyers may express their interest personally with influential chairmen of various boards of direcin leadership responsibilities through our annual personal developtors. The event attracted many participants, both board canment reviews and as part of our career development system. In didates and current directors, and was hugely successful with GOALS: MARCH 2013 – MARCH 2014 2012 our lawyers began to handle, through systematic feedback, many participants approaching us afterwards to express their In the coming period we will work towards the following goals and activities: the personal and professional training of the law students we eminterest in follow up events. ploy (typically for 1-year periods) to do assistant attorney-type tasks. Goals Activities We will introduce new and We will develop a new leadership training programme for our lawyers in line with our continimproved leadership training. ued focus on increasing leadership responsibilities among our lawyers. The goal is to achieve a constant focus on leadership throughout the lawyer’s career. EMPLOYEE DATA The table below shows employee data for the annual periods 1 January – 31 December. We will develop our dialogue We will continue our work with talented law students that we initiated in 2012. We will do this with talented law students by continuing and developing our network for especially gifted law students at universities across Employees in numbers 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 further. Denmark. And we will invite a group of top law students to attend a custom-made process focusNumber of employees 483 547 596 585 588 557 ing on law, career, and development. Number of partners 57 54 59 67 70 65 We will develop our personal We will focus on creating increased outcomes and greater effectiveness of our personal developTotal percentage of women 54.9 53.2 53.2 53.2 54.9 54.2 development review further. ment reviews by re-developing our existing review format. Working together with our managers, we will build in to our personal review process additional foundations to encourage strategic Total percentage of female partners 12.25 12.96 13.56 22 20 19.7 thinking in the development of competencies and to ensure optimum use of resources. Average age 35.9 36.2 36.1 35.3 34.6 35 We will achieve increased We have invested heavily in our IT, performing a series of standard upgrades and developing cuslearning through IT. tom-made IT systems of our own. We want to make sure our employees reap the benefits of those Health investments through an increased focus on IT training and education. The goal is to facilitate the Percentage of absence due to illness, per employee 5 5 5 5 3.4 3.5 work of our employees by allowing them to work smarter, using the new IT possibilities. 18 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 19 OM RAPPORTEN PRINCIPLES 7-9 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CommitmEnt Kromann Reumert’s work within the areas of environment and climate originates from our vision on climate: We will set the standard within our industry for environmental and climate issues. RESultS mARCH 2012 – mARCH 2013 DEDiCAtED EmploYEES CREAtE vAluAblE ACtivitiES needed changing and that the return water temperature was Our staff in the Facilities Services department continue to be hightoo high. Working with the owner of the building, we upgraded ly involved in efforts to minimise CO2 consumption. We work conour heating system so that it now functions more appropriately. tinuously to identify new ways of doing a little extra to save on CO2 and we are very active in seeking more efficient methods. tRAnSpoRt We remain dedicated to reducing Kromann Reumert’s travel During an inspection in our Aarhus office, we found that a numactivities and are planning to install video conference equipment ber of pumps and valves in the heating system in the basement in more meeting rooms in 2013. Last year we set the following goals and completed the following activities: goals Activities We will further reduce our CO2 emissions. We have replaced the existing cooling system with free cooling in our Copenhagen office server room. We plan on fine tuning the cooling system in Copenhagen for the summer of 2013, especially if the weather is warm. We will further reduce our We have installed more motion sensors so that automatic on/off activation will electricity consumption. occur from shorter distances in our hallways. We will further increase our savings We have reviewed the central heating system and replaced old pumps that use too on heating. much power with new ones. At our Aarhus office, we are now able to adjust the temperature of water running into the radiators. We have investigated the return on investment to be achieved by installing motorised control valves on all radiators within the leased premises, and it has been decided to include this in a subsequent reconstruction (if any) of the premises. We have not yet fully reached our goal to keep heating below 120 kWh per square pRinCiplES 7-9 metre, which is the average consumption level for 75% of all office buildings. There Environment and climate are a number of reasons for this, i.a. the replacing of pumps and the renovating of heating loops were done in late 2012 and the results are not showing yet. 20 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 21 PRINCIPLES 7-9 PRINCIPLES 7-9 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE DATA The activities we have undertaken result in the following data: Total waste in tonnes Electricity consumption per m2 2010 2011 2012 Bemærkning 180 90 Waste (tonnes) 142 105 172 The reason for the increase is that we have 160 shredded more archived files than in previous 80 140 70 years. 120 60 Waste sent to be recycled (tonnes) 67 43 62 100 50 80 40 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1,776,946 1,746,576 1,516,163 60 30 Electricity consumption per m2 68 66 57 40 20 20 10 District heating (mWh) 2,777 2,304 2,241 0 0 District heating/mWh per m 2 0,11 0,09 0,08 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Water usage (m3) 5,485 6,164 5,733 Water usage figures are corrected here because The reason for the increase is that we have shredded more Our reduced electricity consumption for 2012 compared to archived filed in 2011 than in the previous years and have sent 2011 is a result of our Facilities Services department’s continued data for the Aarhus office included in our CSR a substantial amount of letter files to be recycled. efforts to save on electricity and thereby CO2. report for 2011 was incorrect. This means the total water usage on the two locations decreased from 6,757 m3 to 6,164 m3 in 2011. It also means the water usage increase from 2010 Heating in MVh per m2 Water usage m3 per m2 to 2011 was lower than originally calculated. 0,12 0,30 Water usage (m3 per m2) 0.21 0.23 0.22 0,10 0,25 0,08 0,20 Measuring CO2 0,06 0,15 Our goal to reduce our CO2 emissions does not include district heating. Our CO2 targets are based on CO2 reduction per square metre and the following parameters are relevant to the calculations: 0,04 0,10 0,02 0,05 2010 2011 2012 0 0 M2 25,999 26,561 26,430 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 CO2 emissions – electricity consumption We owe the reduced district heating consumption to the Our reduced water usage is attributable to i.a. the replacement 2010 2011 2012 intensive efforts to identify errors and to replace defective of defective valves and pumps and considerable awareness of water pumps, primarily in our Aarhus office. consumption habits. CO2 emissions in total (kg) 810,352 795,470 690,860 CO2 emissions (mwh per m2) 31 30 26 When in 2011 we attained our original goal to reduce our CO2 The challenges will be greater going forward as it becomes consumption by 20% from 2008 to 2012, we set a new goal increasingly difficult to find ways of realising new savings. to reduce our CO2 consumption by another 10% leading up However, we are still ambitious and have set the goal of reto 2015. We are proud that we had already achieved a 13% ducing our CO2 consumption by an additional 2% within the additional savings in 2012 thus surpassing our original goal for next three years. In other words, our goal is to achieve CO2 the period leading up to 2015. reductions of a total of 15% from 2011 to the end of 2015. 22 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 23 PRINCIPLES 7-9 PRINCIPLES 7-9 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE GOALS MARCH 2013 – MARCH 2014 We have identified the following goals to work towards achieving before our next Global Compact report: In 2011 we set a new target to reduce our Goals Activities CO2 emissions by a further 10% by 2015. We are proud to have surpassed this goal We will further reduce our electricity We will continue to install more sensors so that automatic on/off activation consumption. will take place from shorter distances in our hallways. We will continue to replace lighting fixtures by LED fixtures. We will stay updated on new products and energy-saving methods and will by the end of 2012, where we have saved implement them regularly. more than 13%. We will reduce our CO2 consumption by a total of 15% between 2011 and the end of 2015. We will make our heating more efficient. Our heating usage must not exceed 129 kWh per m2, which is the average usage for 75% of all office buildings. In our Aarhus office we will replace old windows with new energy-saving ones. We still plan a finetuning of the cooling system in Copenhagen in the summer of 2013, especially if the weather is warm. We will work to optimise operations of our ventilation system in Copenhagen. We will increase our efforts in sorting waste. We will continue our efforts to ensure a high recycling percentage by maintaining focus on i.a. waste sorting. This will remain a focus area for 2013. We will minimise our water usage. We will continue the efforts to minimise water usage and have already initiated work to install water-saving aerators for our taps. CLIMATE PARTNERSHIP Kromann Reumert’s climate partnership with DONG energy Our partnership with DONG Energy and their professional advice has helped us realise energy consumption savings in excess of our original goals. We intend to continue this partnership in 2013. 24 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 25 OM RAPPORTEN PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANTI-CORRUpTION AND CORpORATE GOVERNANCE CommitmEnt Transparency International Danmark is the Danish branch of the global organisation Transparency International (TI), which aims to combat corruption and bribery on a global scale. In the most recent Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), according to Transparency International, Denmark took 1st place, alongside Finland and New Zealand. Thus, Denmark is one of the least corrupt countries in the world. Consistent with our efforts in the last reporting years we have sought to adapt Global Compact’s 10th principle to Danish conditions, adding “Corporate Governance” to the title. Kromann Reumert is a partnership which means that it is not subject to the same regulation as listed companies on the Copenhagen stock exchange (NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen A/S) who are required to explain how they meet the good corporate governance recommendations that Denmark’s Committee on Corporate Governance has produced. Nevertheless, we support the Committee’s work to promote the development of corporate governance in listed companies. We also seek to live up to a number of the Committee’s recommendations – albeit adapted to reflect our own partnership structure – and the ethical guidelines that we must observe as a law firm. Our internal procedures are described in our reports for previous years, available at www.kromannreumert.com. RESultS: mARCH 2012 – mARCH 2013 Below is the goal that we set out in our last report, together with the results we have achieved in the period April 2012 to March 2013: goals Results We will help raise awareness of CSR and We have continued our active cooperation with Business Kolding/INSEAD, where corporate governance at the highest levels of a number of Kromann Reumert’s partners teach corporate governance. management within businesses. We have given a number of lectures on corporate governance for large enterprises. We have incorporated information about our involvement in Global Compact and CSR into our company presentation. Last year alone, Kromann Reumert’s lawyers spent well above 1,500 hours speaking at external conferences etc. pRinCiplE 10 Anti-corruption and Corporate Governance 26 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 27 PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2012, we introduced KR Global Forum Goals Results We will help raise awareness of CSR and In collaboration with Heidrick & Struggles, we have set up the Women Corpocorporate governance at the highest levels of management within businesses (continued). rate Directors (WCD) network thereby raising awareness of the issue of board diversity. We hosted a matchmaking event offering talented female potential which seeks to help Danish businesses go international and to contribute to a heightcandidates for directorships a chance to introduce themselves to the chairmen of the boards of top-tier Danish businesses. You can read more about this under “Our ambitions”. Kromann Reumert has established the HR Network Forum which joins together ening of standards when businesses are a number of HR directors and managers of large Danish enterprises. The latest meeting, themed “The new rules on women in management”, saw Danish Minfaced with foreign-market challenges. ister for Equal Treatment, Manu Sareen, elaborating on the background, ideas and objectives of the new legislation. Kromann Reumert hosts the SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages) CSR network meetings between businesses and SOS Børnebyerne. Mads Øvlisen spoke at the latest meeting, focusing on “Responsible growth through partnerships”. We commissioned an analysis among 70 large and medium-sized exporting businesses, asking them about their experience in trading outside of the EU area. The input was collected to form a report which has been distributed to Danish top executives and others. Among the information contained in it is input on how to steer clear of corruption in countries where this may pose a special challenge. The report is available free of charge at www.kromannreumert.com. NEW PRACTICE AREA Corporate criminal law Danish businesses are facing stricter rules on money laundering, insider trading and market manipulation. And even businesses with a spotless record feel the pressure. Kromann Reumert notices this trend in terms of a higher demand for corporate criminal law expertise. We have therefore set up corporate criminal law as a new practice area. Kromann Reumert has introduced corporate criminal law as a new practice area and is the first Danish law firm to do so. With the biggest legal team in Denmark and boasting a number of the foremost experts in the country, we advise on all areas of corporate criminal law. We advise i.a. on: • Competition law (cartels, etc.) • Tax and VAT law • Environmental law • Corporate-law prohibitions (self-financing etc.) • Corruption cases • Insolvency law matters (fraud, etc.) • Money laundering cases • Capital market law (the rules in the Danish Securities Trading • International trade (export bans, etc.) Act on market abuse, insider trading, market manipulation, etc.) 28 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 29 PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOALS: MARCH 2013 – MARCH 2014 In the coming period we will work towards the following goal and activities: A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES Goal Activities Analysis of 70 large and medium-sized Danish exporting enterprises We will help raise awareness of CSR In 2012, we introduced KR Global Forum which seeks to help Danish businesses and corporate governance. go international and to contribute to a heightening of standards when businesses Kromann Reumert wants to help enterprises grow. And The distinction between lawful “facilitation payare faced with foreign-market challenges such as corruption, violations of human the Danish business sector is focusing now more than ments” and unlawful bribery may be subtle, and it rights and labour rights, etc. We will commence roll-out of this strategy in the ever on export markets outside the EU. In January this is important to know the rules in both the country coming period. year we conducted an analysis of 70 large and mediof destination and Denmark thoroughly because the We will perform activities and organise events to help us achieve this goal. um-sized Danish exporting enterprises, asking them enterprise may, at worst, be guilty of an offence in about their experience in trading with non-EU countries. both jurisdictions. We also interviewed eight of Denmark’s most expert businesses who shared their knowledge about how to If the enterprise uses “facilitation payments”, it is imavoid pitfalls in future export campaigns. Corruption was portant to remember that if the money is transferred also mentioned – here is a short excerpt from the report: through a bank located in a third country, the rules of that third country will also apply to the transaction. In Facilitation payments practice, this means that the enterprise may, at worst, A number of companies in the analysis mention that violate the law in three countries at the same time. trade with countries where corruption is widespread constitutes a special challenge, ethically and legally. You can download the full report at NEW CORPORATE Bribery is illegal, but in some instances it will be lawful www.kromannreumert.com/overview, where we have GOVERNANCE RECOMMENDATIONS to pay so-called “facilitation payments” to local players. also presented sound advice for export businesses. The Committee on Corporate Governance in Denmark Kromann Reumert’s Chairman of the Board and Partner, Marianne Philip, is Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Corporate Governance in Denmark. In January of 2013, the Committee published its proposed recommendations for corporate governance. Marianne and the eight other members of the Committee are currently reviewing the comments received in the consultation period from 7 January 2013 to 8 March 2013. “Corporate governance is an ever-developing field, both nationally and internationally, and it is in this light that the revised recommendations should be viewed,” says Marianne, continuing: “We have found it appropriate to simplify the recommendations, wishing to draw on the experience gained on the current recommendations from 2010. Also, with the new recommendations we wish to be up to speed on international “best practice” developments. The new corporate governance recommendations are expected to be final and published some time in May 2013. Read more about the Commitee and the new recommendations at www.corporategovernance.dk. Claus Juel Hansen, Managing Partner, fortæller om analysens resultater på en konference i Kromann Reumert 30 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 31 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO ouR pRo pARTNERSHIpS bono pARtnERSHipS We are proud of our AND pRO BONO partnerships with these organisations: bØRnEHJÆlpSDAgEn Børnehjælpsdagen (or ‘Children’s Help ASHoKA Ashoka is a global organization for the Day’) works for the 15,000 foster childworld’s leading social entrepreneurs and ren and young people in Denmark, partseeks to find innovative solutions to some nering with volunteer child and youth of the most urgent social problems on the Kromann Reumert has created partnerships with a range of organiassociations and sports clubs. Read more planet. Read more at www.ashoka.org. at www.bhd.dk (in Danish). sations that our employees assist by providing legal services for free or at a significantly reduced price. The work is done pro bono, which means for the public good. The work is done pro bono, CommitmEnt which means for the Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work is carried out in accordance with CopEnHAgEn pRiDE REDEn intERnAtionAl ombolD public good. our pro bono policy comprised of the following principles: Copenhagen Pride’s mission is to help Reden International (The Nest International) OMBOLD is the driving force behind an promote equality for homosexuals, bisexis an organization dedicat of women. It proinitiative aimed to put sport for the homeuals and transsexuals in Denmark. Read vides practical support for foreign women less and socially marginalised on the somore at www.copenhagenpride.dk. involved in prostitution in Denmark. Read cial-political agenda. Read more at www. principle 1 more at www.redeninternational.dk. ombold.dk (in Danish). Kromann Reumert’s pro bono projects include work that the firm’s employees perform for free or at a significantly reduced price, without such work being predominantly for Kromann Reumert’s own benefit. principle 2 Kromann Reumert carries out relevant pro bono work that is not religious or political in character (although there are some grey areas). REDEn HJERnESKADEfoREningEn HovEDHuSEt Reden (or ‘The Nest’) provides female prosHjerneskadeforeningen (or ‘The Brain Injury HovedHuset (‘The Head House’) opened in titutes with an escape from the harsh reality Association’) in Denmark is a nationwide, 2006 as a project initiated by the Danish principle 3 of working on the street; they can get a hot independent organisation that works with Brain Injur Association. As at 1 November shower, a meal, a bed for the night, and asfamilies affected by brain injury. Read more 2011, HovedHuset was a private institution. The scope of our pro bono work is proportionate to our firm’s size and character. sistance and advice to help them create a about the as-sociation (in Danish) at www. They offer specialized services for people life outside of prostitution and drug abuse. hjerneskadeforeningen.dk. of working age who have sustained a brain Read more (in Danish) at www.reden.dk. injury. Read more at www.hovedhuset.dk. principle 4 The individual departments within the firm have the autonomy to take on pro bono projects in the same way that they can take on other cases but, in order to coordinate the firm’s collective pro bono efforts, we have put in place a Pro Bono Committee that assumes responsibility for Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work. LANGSIGTET HJÆLP TIL NØDLIDENDE BØRN principle 5 inStitut foR mEnnESKEREttigHEDER ØnSKEfonDEn SoS-bØRnEbYERnE Work undertaken by Institut for Make A Wish Ønskefonden aims to fulfill SOS-Børnebyerne (or ‘SOS Children’s VillagWe apply the same rules in handling pro bono cases as for all of our other work. HowMenneskerettigheder (The Danish Institute the wishes of children (3-18 years) who live es’) is part of SOS Children’s Villages (Interever, when we consider whether or not to engage in pro bono projects, we undertake for Human Rights) includes research, inforin Denmark and suffer from a lifethreat ennational), the world’s largest private humanmation, education and documentation on ing illness. They strive to meet each child’s itarian organisation that seeks to provide a more extensive assessment to ascertain whether a case might involve a conflict of human rights in Denmark and abroad in ultimate and innermost desire – to make help to children in need. Read more about interest or otherwise adversely affect Kromann Reumert. coopera authorities in Denmark, the Nordic each sick child the centre of attention and the Danish branch at www.sos-borneby.dk Council, the Council of Europe, OSCE, the foster hope, strength and joy during a pe(in Danish), or see www.sos-childrensvillagEU and the UN. Read more at riod when illness threatens that child’s life. es.org for the umbrella association. www.menneskeret.dk. Read more at www.onskefonden.dk. 32 l KROMANN REUMERT CSR-RAPPORT 2012 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 33 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO RESULTS: MARCH 2012 – MARCH 2013 In the period from March 2012 to March 2013 we provided 1,018 hours of pro bono legal advice to our pro bono partner organisations. In addition, our administrative employees spent an unknown number of unrecorded hours on pro bono work. Kromann Reumert has created partnerOur administrative employees typically assist our pro bono partner organisations by printing material for them and by providing ships with a range of organisations that service at events held at Kromann Reumert. Furthermore, our administrative employees organise the collecting of clothes for e.g. Reden (drop-in centre for prostitutes), and SOS Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages) received feedbags and mineral water for our employees assist by providing their annual Family Day held in connection with the UN International Family Day. legal services. Results for each individual pro bono business partner in the period from 1 March 2012 to 1 March 2013. The objective for the period was to provide regular legal advice and to continue the existing cooperation with all our pro bono partner organisations. The results are described below. Organisation/initiative Activities in the period from 1 March 2012 to 1 March 2013 OMBOLD In connection with OMBOLD’s wish to be an establishsed organisation, we assisted them in their (football for homeless conversion from a self-governing institution to an association. and socially vulnerable individuals) We provided advice on various employment law issues. Our printing services staff performed various copying/printing assignments for OMBOLD. Our conference room staff assisted OMBOLD in their annual workshops. We provided ad hoc assistance as required and have generally been in charge of handling OMBOLD’s legal issues. SOS Børnebyerne We provided advice on issues relating to estates leaving an inheritance to SOS Børnebyerne. (SOS Children’s Villages) We provided advice to members of SOS Børnebyerne and other individuals wishing to amend existing wills or create new wills leaving money to SOS Børnebyerne. We assisted SOS Børnebyerne in connection with inquiries from individuals wishing to make donations, including of real estate, to SOS Børnebyerne. We provided regular advice on various legal issues, including in relation to supplier contracts, articles of association, fundraising campaigns, etc. We made our premises available in connection with their “Breakfast with Meaning” seminar and we generally maintained a close dialogue with SOS Børnebyerne. 34 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 35 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO Organisation/initiative Activities in the period from 1 March 2012 to 1 March 2013 Organisation/initiative Activities in the period from 1 March 2012 to 1 March 2013 Børnehjælpsdagen We assisted Børnehjælpsdagen in reviewing and commenting on their business lease agreement. Reden International We assisted Reden International in defending employee claims in connection with resignations. (Child Welfare Day) (continued) We provided advice on the drafting of a declaration of consent. We attended a board meeting at Reden International to identify the risks related to court proceedings initiated by a trade union on behalf of former employees. We answered questions concerning reimbursement of maternity benefits. Copenhagen Pride No activities in 2012. We provided advice in connection with transfers of rights. The Danish Institute for We provided advice to a minor extent according to requirements. Human Rights We drafted a contract for volunteers. Ashoka We assisted Specialisterne (the Specialist People Foundation), which is an Ashoka Fellow, in the draftWe reviewed the terms of webshop trade and the use of cookies on the website. ing of a contract on their cooperation with Polish business partners wishing to carry on the concept of the Foundation in Poland. The object of the Specialist People Foundation is to change the world’s We drafted terms and conditions of trade and prepared a list of foundations and trusts where Børneviews on persons with autism and to use the special qualifications of such persons, e.g. by creating hjælpsdagen may apply. more jobs for autistic persons for their own benefit and for the benefit of society as a whole. Hjerneskadeforeningen We assisted the Association in reviewing certain contracts and provided advice in connection with We provided advice to the Specialist People Foundation on corporate restructuring and in this (Brain Injury Association) various employment contracts. connection assisted them with drafting various documents. We provided advice on issues relating to estates leaving an inheritance to the Brain Injury Association. Education work As part of the City of Copenhagen’s lower-secondary-education dynamo we held an education day for 60 9th grade pupils at the Sortedam School. The objective was to increase focus on the We provided advice on specific tax-law issues, including deduction rules in relation to donations, etc. transition into post-secondary education and to motivate pupils to choose a continuing education. Before the visit, the pupils had been given social science lessons in democracy and the DanWe provided advice on connection with the finalisation of previous projects. ish Constitutional Act and on the education day they were given a chance to put this knowledge into practice in a fictive role-play trial. Furthermore, they were given an insight into which other Hovedhuset We provided advice on specific issues relating to their startup as a self-governing institution. job functions are required in a law firm like Kromann Reumert. (The Head House) We assisted the organisation in reviewing and drafting certain contracts and provided advice in connection with the employment of staff. We hosted several secondary school pupil trainees. We assisted the organisation in amending their articles of association. We made an arrangement with the Sortedam School that allows pupils in special need of practical experience to work as trainees at Kromann Reumert as a supplement to the school’s work Reden We assisted Reden in drawing up standard employment contracts for the main part of their emexperience scheme. (drop-in centre for ployee groups. prostitutes) Ønskefonden Danmark We assisted the Foundation in drafting a hosting and development agreement concerning a new We assisted Reden in reviewing certain contracts and provided advice in connection with the (Make a Wish Foundation) website for the Foundation. employment of staff. We assisted the Foundation in drafting and translating a data policy. We assisted Reden in interpreting the terms of the collective agreements applicable to part-time employees. We provided employment law advice. Reden International We assisted Reden International in drawing up standard employment contracts for the main part (an organisation fighting of their employee groups. We assisted the Foundation in the regulation of public fundraising. against women trafficking) We assisted Reden International in reviewing certain contracts and provided advice in connection We provided advice in connection with the annual general meeting and drafted the notice conwith the employment of staff within particular areas or for particular projects. vening the meeting. We assisted Reden International in interpreting the terms of the collective agreements applicable to part-time employees. We provided regular advice on various legal issues. 36 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 37 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO CASE The teachers were thrilled. The AN EDUCATIONAL AND pupils had been enthusiastic TRUE-TO-REALITY DAY as rarely before when sixty 9th-graders from the SorA Joint EffoRt tedam School in Copenhagen Assistant attorney Martha Horten von Scholten is responsible for the pro bono group visited Kromann Reumert on 6 working with education. She was one of the forces behind an education day for sixty 9th-graders but refuses to take all the credit. Instead, she points to the outstanding December 2012 – and it was teamwork in the pro bono group as the reason why the event was such a success. not because it was December and Christmas was drawing Together with selected teachers from the Sortedam School, the group had worked out what the day should offer. near. No, the reason was that one of Kromann Reumert’s pro “The teachers believed there were some among the sixty pupils who could use some bono groups had arranged an inspiration in thinking about what continuing education they could take and help realising that they ought to take one. Obviously, we introduced them to the lawyer’s education day that proved to profession but we also wanted to show them that we are not all lawyers here and that be a success. there is much more to Kromann Reumert than just lawyers. They therefore also visited our IT, HR, Corporate Finance and Service departments.” RolE plAY foR DEDiCAtion Rather than Martha and the other attorneys just explaining about a lawyer’s job, they opted for a game of role play to give the pupils a more realistic view of what lawyers do. The pupils were divided into groups comprised of three defendants, counsel for the prosecution, counsel for the defence, witnesses, and judges. Those playing counsel were given capes to wear when they took the floor. The role play was about two boys beating up another boy while a girl filmed the assault, a case of “happy slapping”. The groups could shape the roles themselves. For example, in Martha’s group, the defendants decided that one of the assailants had a diagnosis of ADHD and that this was the cause of his actions. This gave rise to discussion and reflection when the judges chose not to attach importance to this diagnosis in their judgment. “They thought it was great and they really gave it their all. There was a journalist from the Berlingske newspaper following the group I was in. I overheard her asking the pupils how they had liked the day and they said they now had a much better understanding of what it was to be a lawyer and thought it had been exciting to learn from someone with real experience rather than from their teachers who could just tell them about it,” says Martha, who also explains that she was approached afterwards by pupils asking her how one became a lawyer. The social studies teacher was excited too and said they brought a lot home with them Sortedamskolen visited to work on. And the last thing another teacher said was that “Kromann Reumert has CASE Kromann Reumert in connection with quite simply made a difference for the youth of Denmark”. its appointment as a so-called lowerLower-secondary-education dynamos – secondary-education dynamo school. an education day that proved to be a success Berlingske subsequently ran a two-page feature on the education day. KROMANN REUMERTS CSR-RAPPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERTS CSR-RAPPORT 2013 l 39 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO CASE PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO THE CAREER GUIDANCE COUNSELLOR: FUTURE AND COMMUNITY Moe Jensen is a career guidance counsellor who, as part of the defendant. The Education Day made them discuss, among other dynamo project rooted in the Children and Youth Administrathings, the extent of your responsibility as judge, witness and tion of the City of Copenhagen, works at the Sortedam School counsel – you have to be very well prepared. The fact that you one day per week. will be responsible – and will be convicted – if you are a “hangeron” and just watch without doing anything also gave the pupils “Pupils and teachers were absolutely thrilled about the Edfood for thought: You will be jointly responsible, for example in ucation Day at Kromann Reumert. They had a different and the case of “happy slapping”. inspiring school day and received ideas for their future career opportunities. My experience was that the pupils learned two Actually we have just been discussing it in connection with the essential things. One was that they talked to employees in difuse of social media like Facebook, where it is possible to draw ferent job functions thereby discovering a variety of jobs in a law many parallels to this joint responsibility for the community”, firm – and not “just” lawyers. The pupils talked to employees Moe concludes. from Finance, IT, Canteen, etc. ranging from young students to experienced professionals. The employees had various job functions but they were all part of the community and performed ”Pupils and teachers were a joint task in the company, which is an efficient eye-opener absolutely thrilled about to many young people who are about to choose their future The team behind the success. From left to right: Rebecca Overgaard Andersen, Martha Horten von Scholten, Andreas Bjørn Jensen, Marie Borgnakke Randow, Kristine Sachmann, career”, Moe explains, continuing: the Education Day at Kristine Laursen, Christoffer Kjærgaard Danielsen and Lars Møller Salling. Kromann Reumert. They “The other thing was that they had a chance to put into prachad a different and inspiring Learning is a two-way street “Here at the Sortedam School we wish to thank you very tice both democracy and the constitutional act. Prior to Eduschool day and received Martha says it was fantastic to be able to use the knowledge we much for the event, which was well-organized, interesting and cation Day, they had been studying democracy and the constihave as a business in this way. Asked if she had learned anything absolutely inspiring, instructive and realistic. As you may have tutional act as part of their Social Science studies, but it was a ideas for their future that she can use in her own work, she says: noticed, the pupils were extremely involved in the discussions quite different thing to put it into practice in a realistic role play career opportunities”. after the role play. It is not very often you see that in 9th grade! about “happy slapping” where they had to play judge, witness, “It strengthens our presentation skills in front of a big audience. Everyone was very thrilled. We know the extent of the preparacounsel for the defence and counsel for the prosecution, and With the pupils, the teachers and our pro bono group, there tory work required for such event, and we sincerely hope that were a total of 70 people in the audience to address. And of in connection with the evaluation in January we can agree on a course, we had to know our audience and speak a language form in which our cooperation can continue for the 9th grade GOALS: MARCH 2013 – MARCH 2014 they would understand, cutting away all the fancy words, and I in the next school year.” In the coming period we will work towards the following goals and activities: guess that will be useful also when drafting documents targeting customers who do not know legal jargon,” Martha reflects, The pro bono group has subsequently made an arrangement Goals Activities and she continues: with the Sortedam School to the effect that pupils in special need of practical experience are given an opportunity to We will evaluate the pro bono concept Doing pro bono work was a wish expressed by our employees back in 2008 “And it was an audience that we had to do our best to keep work as trainees at Kromann Reumert as a supplement to the among our employees. when our CSR strategy was defined. The success of our pro bono partnerships listening. We really had to make the subject digestable and inschool’s work experience scheme. The education day will be is due to our employees. To ensure the continued success of our pro bono teresting, and that, too, is something I can use going forward. I repeated in 2013. work, one of our goals is to evaluate the pro bono concept among Kromann found it very fun to teach what I know”. Reumert’s employees. The team would like to extend a special thankyou to Christian Greetings from the school Lundgren, Kicki Bosselmann, Charlotte Bagge, Kristian Dan and We will continue our co-operation with In the coming period we will continue our regular legal advice to our pro bono The next day Martha received an e-mail from the Sortedam all the other participants in the project – without whom the day our pro bono business partners. business partners. School saying, among other things: would not have been such a success. 40 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 l 41 OM RAPPORTEN Thank you, dear EMPLOYEES Thank you for your eagerness and interest in helping to make a difference. Even though CSR has gradually become part of our everyday life, we keep being impressed by the way you continue to bring suggestions and practical actions to new heights, both in terms of pro bono work and your commitment to assist our pro bono partners, and in terms of the fact that we have once again succeeded in reaching a new CO2 target. Furthermore, we wish to thank you for your active efforts to make Kromann Reumert an even better place of work than it is today – and your commitment to assist our clients in and outside Denmark. Sincerely Kromann Reumert management 42 l KROMANN REUMERT’S CSR REPORT 2013 www . kromannreumert . com
