Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainable approaches to digital security How to use this report Use the buttons top right to: Go home Go to the start Go back Go forward Search Email Print Information This button will take Takes you to the Takes you back to Takes you forward Opens up the search Allows you to email a Opens up a print Brings you back to you to the main beginning of the the previous page. to the next page. functionality within PDF of this document. dialogue box. this information page. contents page. section you’re in. Acrobat. Links within this report: Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses for additional information. These links are underlined in orange. Gemalto 01 Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Overview Corporate Governance Employees Focus articles and Economic Factors Message from the CEO 02 Governance14 Demographics and diversity 23 Gender diversity 16 Our approach to sustainability 03 Ethics: code 14 Developing our people 24 All star recognition program 25 Fraud: preventing 15 Managing sustainability 03 Bribery and corruption 17 Training24 Sustainable Development Day 26 Materiality03 Gemalto Performance Review 28 Communicating our CSR activities 04 Internal audit 17 Encouraging mobility 28 HR 8 Pillars 29 Dialoguing with our stakeholders 04 Risk management 18 Balancing career opportunities 30 Freight transportation 42 Engaging with employees 05 Crisis management 19 Listening to employees 30 Green offer 43 About Gemalto 06 Culture of security 19 Safety at work 32 CSR supplier audits 48 What we do 06 Financial responsibility 20 Reducing injuries/lost time 32 Our markets and solutions 07 Economic performance 20 Reducing risk/hazardous substances 33  bjectives and O 09 performance highlights Environment Business Behaviors Other Information and Social Factors Our approach 35 Human rights 45 Performance indicators 58 Identifying risk and impacts 35 Customers45 Index A-Z 61 Certified management systems 35 Carbon footprint program 36 Customer survey45 Glossary of digital 62 Quality and reliability46 security terms Legal framework 36 Innovation47 Meeting customer demands 36 Suppliers47 Eco-design and green products 36 “With many thanks CSR Purchasing Charter49 Green product strategy 38 Consumers49 to our employees REACH and WEEE 38 Supporting our end-users 50 Reducing impacts 39 Responsible solutions 50 Energy consumption Water consumption 40 40 Community involvement 54 who appear throughWaste valorization 41 Employee involvement 54 out this report.” Gemalto 02 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Message from the CEO Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information “As the world becomes evermore connected, Gemalto enables society to offer trusted and convenient digital services to billions of individuals.” In recent years sustainability has come to occupy Throughout this report you will find accounts of the rich and international organization. Our company comprises over 10,000 an increasingly important position in Gemalto’s varied activities we carried out in 2012. For example, as part people of over 100 different nationalities based on every continent. culture and operations. The positive attitude, of our on-going efforts to incorporate sustainability into the We serve clients in 190 countries and reach billions of consumers. awareness and intent which always existed in solutions we develop for our customers, we launched the So, being able to ‘speak their language’ and understand their the company have evolved into a focused approach world’s first bio-sourced payment card. We also created a diverse needs is crucial. We hence focused our annual to defining and delivering on commitments to product capable of detecting and tracing unauthorized logging Sustainable Development Day on cultural diversity and generated society and the environment. in the rainforest; sustained the roll-out of micro-banking a considerable buzz of interest, motivation and enthusiasm from it. services; and, as part of our commitment to improve the way Sustainability is part of our on-going conversation with our we procure goods and services, carried out specific rigorous As we move forward, we will first continue to demonstrate stakeholders, and we know that our contributions and efforts in supplier sustainability audits in China and Russia. our commitment to our clients. Our relationship with them is this area are appreciated. Our clients take an increasing interest paramount to our own evolution. Each year we research their in Gemalto’s sustainability agenda, and I personally receive a lot You’ll read as well how, as we grow and develop, we share the needs and expectations, and focus our efforts on meeting them. of positive feedback from those I meet regarding our social and company’s success with our people. 2012 was another good By helping our clients to succeed we create a positive circle, built environmental initiatives. Along with the financial health and year for employee engagement at Gemalto: we achieved 78% on loyalty and trust, in which we are given opportunities to apply long-term development objectives of our company, these are participation and 80% satisfaction rates in our annual ‘People our expertise and innovation in pursuit of sustainable solutions. the matters people increasingly want to hear about. Quest’ survey; and launched a new action to enhance employees’ understanding of how Human Resources (HR) We will also be taking a newly structured approach to In many ways, sustainability is second nature to Gemalto: with our serves their needs and supports our business objectives. And, sustainability in 2013, reinforcing the Gemalto Sustainability leadership role in digital security, our solutions touch and improve in recognition of everyone’s work and dedication in recent years, Board. This commitment from me and my Executive-Vice billions of people’s lives. From providing identity and privacy we deployed the ‘All Stars’ reward program, which offers free President colleagues is designed to bring our sustainability and management through to enabling disadvantaged people to performance-based shares to everyone, at every level of the business objectives into even closer alignment within Gemalto. access basic financial services with their mobile phones, the very company, using the same company-related performance criteria nature of our work – our purpose – means we fulfill what I have as usually applied to senior management. This is a clear I hope you will enjoy this report. And I sincerely appreciate your frequently referred to as a ‘noble social role’. Indeed, it is our demonstration of our commitment to our people’s future. interest in this aspect of Gemalto’s work and contribution to ability to provide trust and convenience to this new digital lifestyle our world. that is unfolding in front of us, and to ‘flatten the world’ by Diversity was another key focus in 2012. The scale at which promoting equality of access to new, secure online and mobile Gemalto operates involves diversity in many respects. It is Olivier Piou services, that adds extra motivation to our day-to-day work. thoroughly linked to our development and success as an Chief Executive Officer Gemalto 03 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Our approach to sustainability Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information We’ve been working towards business excellence for many years. During this time we’ve formalized our sustainability approach, integrating it into our management systems and structures to improve our performance as a responsible company. Managing sustainability Materiality Our Values Gemalto has a strong background in sustainability. We are In line with best practice, we communicate about our CSR The way we manage sustainability closely reflects our continually working to improve our performance and meet policies and activities according to the issues that matter values. These are combined in a robust ethical framework our stakeholders’ expectations of corporate citizenship. most to our company – their ‘materiality’. which underpins all sustainability activities by focusing on: As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) In previous years we defined our main CSR projects empirically, • Customers since 2009, we have been regularly benchmarking our policies based on our experience, the requests of our stakeholders and We put their needs at the center of all we do, develop and results against world-class companies. We also review Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) regulations. In 2011, in partnerships and exceed their expectations. them annually against the Compact’s ten principles on order to get a more broadly-based vision of the materiality of our human and labor rights, anti-corruption and the environment. CSR issues, we decided to perform a complete CSR Risks and • People In September 2012 we sent our latest Communication of Opportunities analysis, with the help of external specialists, so We value their diversity, encourage teamwork and Progress (COP) to the UNGC. that we could: conduct ourselves with integrity. • Identify and prioritize risks according to the current strategy Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policies and and objectives of our company; • Innovation activities are guided by a multidisciplinary Steering Committee. • Assign resources and develop action plans on the CSR risks We continually develop valuable new ideas and creative It is supervised by our three Executive Vice-Presidents of that matter. approaches to business and technology challenges. Human Resources, North America and General Counsel, and also comprises representatives from key related support Gemalto already carries out such risk assessments at various functions and Business Units. The Committee met six times management levels (group, site, activity, projects, domain etc) in 2012. It met regularly to monitor progress before reviewing and it was therefore a natural progression to do the same in the results and achievements at the end of the year. relation to CSR. The assessment involved conducting interviews of internal functions interfacing with our main stakeholders, benchmarking against other organizations, analyzing internal and external documents, and taking account of issues raised by clients, rating agencies and other stakeholders. Gemalto 04 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Our approach to sustainability continued Other Information Our key stakes Our customers Compliance From our 2011 analysis, 23 key stakes have been identified Our wide-ranging annual Customer survey called ‘Tell Me’ To ensure best practice in key areas, of which eight were qualified as ‘priority’: enables us to assess customer satisfaction. It also allows we comply with: • Responsible purchasing us to answer queries from customers who want to improve • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • Governance and ethics corporate responsibility standards in their own supply chains • International Labor Organization (ILO) • Stakeholder dialogue and engagement (for more information on the Tell Me process and 2012 results, Standards. • Consumer data protection and privacy see pages 45-46). Another key opportunity for customer • Gemalto sustainability image dialogue on sustainability comes at the point of tender. This is We have also signed the United Nations • Products social impact when we can describe in detail our main management systems Global Compact charter. • Climate change impact and practices, and answer their questions on how we can meet • Products eco-conception. their expectations for sustainable products and services. We undergo yearly external assessments/ certifications of our management systems for: Thus the assessment study generally confirmed our Our employees • Quality (ISO 9001) empirical approach and validated our current policies, Our internal annual employee survey – PeopleQuest – helps • Environment (ISO 14001) programs and actions. management and HR to track employee satisfaction across • Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001) our global operations (for more about 2012’s results see pages • Security (ISO 27001). Communicating our CSR activities 30-31). Detailed analysis of feedback according to sites, regions/ countries and divisions allows us to identify and implement This is our fourth stand alone Sustainability Report. It presents As a Dutch company with shares listed on either generic or specific actions aimed at improving their our programs and policies around governance, the environment NYSE Euronext Amsterdam and Paris, we perception and satisfaction. and social issues for 2012. It also details the main achievements comply with: and progress we made in 2012 on the key projects and actions • Dutch corporate law Our suppliers defined by the Steering Committee. • The Dutch Act on Financial supervision For our biggest suppliers, we hold Quarterly Business Review • Dutch corporate governance rules meetings during which we discuss commercial and technical In addition, it includes an up-graded set of performance indicators • French AMF regulations where applicable. matters relating to the supply chain, product quality and our resulting from our CSR Risks and Opportunities analysis. customer relationship. In 2012 we shared our CSR vision and The Dutch AFM is the supervising authority values through our CSR Purchasing charter which was signed Dialoguing with our stakeholders of the Company. by most of them (see Responsible purchasing section pages We communicate regularly with our main stakeholders and 47-49). In addition, we have conducted specific supplier CSR invite their views on our performance. Whether they’re investors, audits which allow us to share concerns and have direct customers, suppliers, employees or local communities, their discussions on CSR issues. It is also an ideal moment for opinions are of great importance to us. training those suppliers who are not familiar with CSR concepts. Gemalto 05 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Our approach to sustainability continued Other Information Our investors Engaging with employees Maintaining positive relations with our investors is key to We believe it’s essential to embed sustainability at the heart Gemalto’s growth. of our company. We expect our employees to understand, embody and uphold our commitments and beliefs. We have therefore implemented a wide variety of communication tools to keep investors informed on a regular basis. These include Our Code of Ethics provides guidelines for the conduct of all General Meetings, Annual Reports, Sustainability Reports, employees relating to internal controls, financial disclosures, announcements, press releases and financial statements. accountability, business practices and legal principles (see more details page 14). At the publication of interim and annual financial statements, Gemalto holds conference calls and investor meetings. In We communicate regularly with employees about Gemalto’s addition, Gemalto regularly performs road shows and participates CSR initiatives through established internal channels. Every in conferences for institutional investors. These activities further year we share with all our 10,000+ employees our HSE and Gemalto’s understanding of investor and analyst observations Sustainable Development Strategic Agenda. We also inform and opinions. Relevant information for potential and current them of the release of our Sustainability Report and invite them shareholders may be found on Gemalto’s web site at Our to give us their feedback. company/Investors: www.gemalto.com/investors. Each year we organize staff awareness and training sessions on Communities specific key subjects such as integrity and fraud. We also issue a We regularly engage with people in the areas where we operate, bi-monthly newsletter on internal control and risk management. addressing pertinent issues on a site-by-site basis. For the fourth year running, we held an annual Gemalto For instance we are involved in many of the local business Sustainable Development Day (GSDD) to update and engage communities, to develop alternative ways of commuting to our staff about our sustainability policies and activities. Previously work (carpooling, cycleways, etc) and to promote sustainable each GSDD has focused on environmental issues, but in 2012 development among local organizations and residents we decided to pursue a more people-oriented theme in order (via awards, conferences, etc). to address the social aspect of sustainability. The chosen theme for the year was Cultural Diversity (see more details page 26). In addition, through our Your World program, we support local Our dedicated CSR web site features articles and information associations in which our employees are already involved. on CSR related topics and enables employees’ awareness. Gemalto 06 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment About Gemalto Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Gemalto is the trusted partner of many of the world’s best-known organizations and governments – who place their confidence in us to help provide secure and convenient services for their users. “Gemalto enables What we do Once they’re out in the field, our secure servers can connect with these devices and activate, update or de-activate them. As the world becomes ever more connected, Gemalto helps organizations to offer For mobile phones or M2M devices this is done via Over-the-Air people make the most of their digital lives in whatever way they (OTA) platforms. ID badges, banking cards and USB tokens can choose. Our expertise spans the entire process of creating trusted and convenient be updated when connected to an ATM or a computer. As a digital security solutions that inspire the trust of our clients and result they continue to evolve as long as they’re operational, their customers. And as a result, we enable billions of individuals digital services to retaining their value for issuers and offering the latest services to lead a secure, convenient and enjoyable digital lifestyle. to end-users. billions of people.” Whether they’re communicating, banking, doing business online, using eGovernment or eHealth services, transferring Our clients can conduct these operations themselves or we can do it for them, enabling them to benefit from our expertise while money, accessing cloud services, verifying identities and reducing capital expenditure. We also provide a range of other protecting privacy, or looking to the future with machine-toservices which enable our clients to benefit from our expertise machine (M2M) communications, people all over the world in many different ways. rely on Gemalto every day. Ultimately, what we do only works because we’ve earned What we offer the trust of our clients whose critical data we manage, and We develop secure software and operating systems which we the confidence of consumers who enjoy the reliability of our embed in billions of trusted devices of many kinds, like SIM solutions every day – which is how we fulfill our role of bringing cards, banking cards, electronic passports and ID cards, trust and convenience to the digital world. dongles with one-time passwords and so on. We assemble these devices at our production sites worldwide, and then Who we serve individually personalize millions of them every single day Our clients come from over 190 countries, and comprise many under various security certification schemes. of the world’s best-known mobile operators, banks and financial institutions, governments, enterprises, transport operators as well as a vast number of other industries who are looking for gains in efficiency, security, simplicity and trust. Gemalto 07 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Our markets and solutions Other Information Gemalto develops secure software that runs on trusted devices which we design and personalize. We manage these devices, the confidential data they contain and the services they make possible, throughout their life cycle. Markets Clients Solutions Platforms and services Embedded software and products Financial Services • Financial institutions • Secure operating systems and Dexxis™ Clarista™ and Retail • Banks applications for a wide range of Personalization and issuance solutions Entry-level payment cards • Retailers contact and contactless payment Allynis™ Optelio™ • Payment and loyalty card issuers. • Mobile financial solutions Payment and outsourcing services Advanced payment cards and services Ezio™ Desineo™ • Strong authentication and Secure eBanking software Custom payment cards transaction signing solutions and and services. Ezio™ Devices associated services for online Secure eBanking devices. banking and eCommerce. Government • Governments • Software and applications Coesys™ Sealys™ • Healthcare and Health insurance enhancing the security, efficiency ID management solutions Secure ID documents including providers and convenience of a wide range Allynis™ ePassports eID, eHealth, eDriving • Government service providers. of electronic ID documents Secure ID management services licenses, etc. • End-to-end – for eVoting and and outsourcing. other eGovernment initiatives • Secure operated services including issuance personalization and delivery. Gemalto 08 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Our markets and solutions continued Other Information Markets Clients Solutions Platforms and services Embedded software and products Identity and • Enterprises (Executives) • Identity and Access Management Protiva™ Protiva™ Devices Access Security • Governments (IAM) solutions, using secure Authentication & ID management Cards and tokens for authentication. • Defense and Police organizations software embedded in various software and services. • Healthcare providers forms of connected and • Trading floors unconnected electronic ID • Cloud Service providers. badges and portable devices • Strong online authentication solutions, offering secure access and control of digital and physical resources. Machine-to-Machine • Equipment manufacturers • A wide range of products and Cinterion™ Cinterion™ • Integrators services including wireless M2M Secure machine software Wireless modules and Machine • Mobile Network Operators modules and Machine Identification and services. Identification Modules (MIM).™ supplying diverse markets including Modules (MIM) automotive, tracking and tracing, • M2M service enablement and industrial mobile computing, delivery as well as subscription metering and smart grid, payment and device management platforms systems, healthcare, security and services, for applications systems and so on. and devices. Telecommunications • Mobile Network Operators • Secure operating systems and LinqUs™ UpTeq™ • Financial institutions applications embedded in a range Software for operators Advanced devices and new • Consumer brands of SIM and UICC cards Allynis™ form factors. • Retailers • Client-server software for remote Telecom services and outsourcing. • Content and service providers. management of mobile devices • Services, including Near-Field Communication (NFC), roaming optimization, mobile money, mobile payment, mobile marketing and personal data management. Transport • Mass transit authorities • Contactless electronic ticketing Celego™ • Transport operators. solutions for public transport Travel passes. • Payment and ticketing on mobile handsets using NFC. Gemalto 09 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Objectives and performance highlights Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Every year, Gemalto’s CSR committee agrees on the key objectives and targets to be attained in the following twelve months. Global Key Gemalto Compact CSR stake principle Key objective Targets Due date 2012 Performance/progress summary Governance AntiContinuously improve • Perform specific risk assessments 2012 • Performed a fraud risk mapping exercise and a full & ethics corruption risk management, e.g. a Fraud-focused Risk Analysis (FRA) assessment of the key fraud risks towards ‘best-in-class’ • Increase global anti-fraud awareness by deploying 2012 • Design completed, deployment postponed to 2013 an eLearning tool • Increase global awareness of competition rules by 2012 • Deployed: completed by 70% of the 1,800 deploying an eLearning tool targeted employees • Formalize our risk management manual and policy 2013 New targets: • Prepare and launch the new Enterprise Risk Assessment 2013-2014 in line with the new Long Range Plan • Deploy Gemalto CSR culture in acquired companies 2013-2014 • Define and deploy FRA action plan 2013-2014 Responsible All Deploy responsible • CSR audits of selected key suppliers 2012 • Five partial and five full supplier audits carried purchasing purchasing out in 2012 ‘best practices’ New target: • Perform additional CSR audits 2013 • Deploy responsible purchasing skills and processes in Gemalto sites Gemalto 10 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Objectives and performance highlights continued Other Information Global Key Gemalto Compact CSR stake principle Key objective Targets Due date 2012 Performance/progress summary Consumer Human rights Continuously improve • Extend internal levels of security to companies recently 2012 • Updated our strategic security agenda data protection our products and acquired by Gemalto and privacy services • Security audit of the recently acquired companies and action plans set up where necessary Labor Develop people safety • Continue roll-out of OHSAS 18001 certification to other 2012 • Two new sites certified in Mexico card production sites • Develop and deploy ‘Traveler Safety’ initiative 2012 • eLearning updated • Deploy defensive driving program in acquired companies 2012 • Postponed (2013-2015) New target: • Upgrade travel validation process and support to travelers 2013 in high-risk countries Stakeholder Labor Develop employee • Encourage the promotion of women to senior 2012 • Two new women Board members appointed dialogue and skills and satisfaction management positions engagement and employee CSR • We strengthened the practice whereby a awareness and representative number of women has to be engagement proposed, considered and integrated into the company’s key career processes • Create a CSR training internal offer 2013 • Created a catalog of 15 CSR trainings to be deployed in 2013 • Increase anti-fraud awareness by deploying 2012-2013 • Completed and tested the tool for deployment an eLearning tool in 2013 • Increase awareness of competition rules by deploying 2012 • Deployed: completed by 70% of the 1,800 an eLearning tool targeted employees 2012 • Organized our internal Sustainable Development day on the theme of Cultural Diversity New target: • Create an internal women’s professional network within 2013 the company Gemalto 11 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Objectives and performance highlights continued Other Information Global Key Gemalto Compact CSR stake principle Key objective Targets Due date 2012 Performance/progress summary Climate Environment Develop greener • Extend the carbon neutral card scheme to more plants 2012 • Offset 1,000 tons of CO2 eq through ‘CO2 solidaire’ change impact and safer products French NGO • Fine-tuned offset offer for customers • Reduce by 10% over three years the environmental impacts 2013 • Deployed measurement to 14 Gemalto sites across of material procurement and product delivery Europe, Asia and Latin America • Increased sea freight by 1% and road freight by 5%; reduced air freight by 6% • Reduced CO2 emission by 6% (kilo/1 ton x 1,000 km) New targets: • Improve and deploy green offer for our customers 2012-2013 • Green banking offer and Telecom Carbon offset offer formalized and promoted • Improve and deploy Gemalto eco-design skills 2012-2014 • 30 employees trained on eco-conception and practices basics, 15 on use of Life-Cycle Analysis software for new developments • Develop a PLA card including dual interface version 2013 • On-going Implement ‘best-in• Conduct a company-wide carbon footprint analysis 2012 • Two new sites performed carbon footprint class’ practices for measurements in 2012 (now up to 23 sites). environmental care Remaining small sites extrapolated to have a global footprint for the whole company • Reduce GHG (Greenhouse gas) emissions by 10% in 2013 • Scope 1 & 2* were disclosed for French sites three years according to new French law Grenelle 2. Energy audits have been performed in several sites, leading to actions plans to reduce consumption (*) company energy consumption Gemalto 12 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Objectives and performance highlights continued Other Information Global Key Gemalto Compact CSR stake principle Key objective Targets Due date 2012 Performance/progress summary Social Increase our • Implement a ‘volunteering opportunities’ stream in the 2012 • 13 ‘volunteering activities’ organized in different benefits involvement in society Your World program sites worldwide of Gemalto’s New targets: solutions • Define a ‘cause’ to focus our Community efforts worldwide 2014 • Increase awareness of social benefits of our solutions 2014 • eGovernment white paper published in 2012 Stakeholder Develop company • Measure efficiency of Gemalto’s communication 2012 • Usage survey with key Gemalto users dialogue and reporting and regarding its CSR performance engagement communication • Develop a direct dialogue about Gemalto CSR with 2013-2014 & about sustainability its main stakeholders Gemalto sustainability New target: image • Improve Sustainabilty Report and website 2012-2013 • Readability of the report improved (chapters, index) Gemalto 13 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Conducting our business with integrity Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Governance14 Ethics: code 14 Fraud: preventing 15 Bribery and corruption 17 Internal audit 17 Risk management 18 Crisis management 19 Culture of security 19 Financial responsibility 20 Economic performance 20 Gemalto 14 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Gemalto conducts its business with honesty and integrity: this is the basis of our reputation and a core company asset. Our principles are shaped by codes and charters which form the ethical backbone of our management practices. “Responsibility for Gemalto’s Governance accordingly. (For more details on Gemalto’s Governance structure Gemalto is committed to high standards of corporate governance, see pages 46-50 of Gemalto’s 2012 Annual Report). sustainability structure is as the Board considers that this contributes to the Company’s long-term success and supports sound decision making. The Code of Ethics for all employees incorporated into the Board Board is accountable to the shareholders for Gemalto’s corporate governance structure and for compliance with the Dutch corporate Gemalto aims to apply the highest ethical and professional standards, whether or not they are imposed by law. Our charter, and our sustainability governance code, which sets out principles and best practices for Dutch listed companies. The Board agrees with the code’s general employment practices prohibit discrimination and harassment against applicants or employees in all their forms, for example management is organized approach and the vast majority of its principles and best practice provisions. In accordance with the code’s ‘apply or explain’ on the grounds of race, color, nationality, gender, age, religion, sexual orientation, and physical and mental disabilities. accordingly.” principle, the departures from these provisions are listed in Gemalto’s 2012 Annual Report (page 46). We last updated and published our Code of Ethics in 2009. At the time, we asked all our existing employees to sign and As a Dutch company with shares listed on NYSE Euronext endorse the Code. Today, we not only ask all new recruits Amsterdam and Paris, Gemalto complies with Dutch corporate to sign the Code, but include this as part of the integration law, the Dutch Act on Financial supervision and Dutch corporate process for employees brought into the company through governance rules. It follows the regulations of the French Autorité our acquisitions. des Marchés Financiers (AMF: French Financial Markets Authority) where applicable, and which are complemented by several internal At the end of 2012, the Gemalto Board validated a new Code of procedures. The Dutch Autoriteit Financiële Markten (AFM: Ethics. This document includes additional chapters covering the Netherlands’ Authority for Financial Markets) is Gemalto’s UN Global Compact, and from now on will be the Code we use supervising authority. and refer to. The Board is responsible for Gemalto’s sustainability structure We have also complemented our Code of Ethics with coverage and related activities, with an enhanced focus on Corporate Social of specific departments. These include a Purchasing Code of Responsibility (CSR). This responsibility is incorporated into the Ethics, and an Internal Audit Code of Ethics introduced in 2010 Board charter, and our sustainability management is organized and revised in 2012. Gemalto 15 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information Employee training on business practices Preventing and detecting fraud Case study We are fully committed to exposing and disciplining any acts of Number of employees trained fraud. These might include any intentional breach of the law, or of Improving work ethics: 873 1126 Gemalto’s internal policies, carried out by an employee to benefit himself/herself, third parties or the Company. Asia 508 In 2007, with the help of an external consultant, Gemalto launched a Group Fraud Risk Assessment in a post-merger background 2010 2011 2012 and as part of a global ‘Internal control’ project. This led to a new In Asia, the Training & Development “We believe the principle of ‘work senior management structure – the ‘anti-fraud commission’. Its team launched a new program in ethics’ should underpin all our From 2011, Trade compliance training sessions are included. charter was approved by management on August 18, 2008, and 2012 called the ‘10 Must Steps for activities at Gemalto,” says Ramya amended on June 22, 2009. It meets formally each quarter, as Work Ethics’ (WE). Targeting all Ganesh, Training & Development employees in Asia, the ‘10 Must Manager, Asia. “It is something all well as on an ‘ad hoc’ basis. Steps for WE’ re-emphasizes the employees should be aware of and company’s belief in the moral benefits engaged with. Good work ethics help The commission comprises the Group General Counsel, the of work and its potential to enhance to boost the morale and reputation employees’ character. of our workforce and organization, EVP Human Resources, the Chief Information Officer, the Quality, and through this program we hope HSE Security and World-Class Enterprise (WCE) Director and the The ten steps are: respect; to create a more productive work Internal Audit Director. Its first objective was to coordinate the organization; communication; environment, maintain staff trust, and teamwork; attendance; productivity; provide ethical guidance to employees various programs already in place within the Company. Later appearance; co-operation; attitude; faced with difficult decisions.” priorities have included continuous fraud risk assessment, our and character. By following these anti-fraud policy and procedures and determining Company simple steps, employees can participate in creating a culture of response in the event of fraud. Key elements of the commission’s open and honest communication, work include: continued learning, personal • The publication of Gemalto’s anti-fraud policy in 2009, which development and harmony. was complemented in 2011 with the release of the Investigation Throughout the year, the ‘10 Must Protocol, providing guidance on how to run and manage the Steps for WE’ program was included as one of the key topics in all Gemalto investigation work in the case of suspicion and/or fraud, and Orientation Sessions (GOS) for We believe the principle of ‘work in 2012 with the release of the fraud reporting process; • A series of training sessions on fraud related matters. In 2012 newcomers. Around 250 new employees were inducted in the ten ethics’ should underpin all our we organized 66 awareness and training sessions for 945 steps process and ethos, while there activities at Gemalto – it is were three separate sessions for people. These covered subjects such as internal control, existing staff. Participants worked something all employees should anti-fraud, and the segregation of duties and business practices in groups to share simple tips for practicing positive work ethics at be aware of and engaged with.” (for example with reference to ethics and competition). New Gemalto. There were also role plays eLearning programs around fraud matters were launched in and videos designed to reinforce Ramya Ganesh 2012 (details in section below). the program’s key messages. Training & Development • The engagement in 2010 of two specialized forensic firms, Manager, Asia also contracted in 2011 and 2012, to handle forensics surveys when needed. Gemalto 16 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information Focus Article Gender diversity We believe that our workforce should reflect identified the appointment of new female Board of the Singapore Infocomm Technology both the global span of our operations and members as a key objective for 2012. Federation between 2009 and 2011, and Deputy our customers’ diversity. When looking to Chairperson of the Singapore Government’s fill Gemalto positions, we actively encourage In line with this goal, Yen Yen Tan from Internet and Advisory Committee. With many applicants of every race, gender, religion, Singapore and Drina Yue from Hong Kong were years in senior sales and marketing positions nationality, sexual orientation and age, nominated to the Gemalto Board in May 2012. in the Asia Pacific region, she currently fulfills compatible with the needs of the post numerous advisory roles for academic in question. Yen Yen Tan has considerable experience in the institutions and organizations. technology sector, having been Vice President As part of our commitment to gender and Managing Director for Hewlett-Packard Drina Yue brings a wealth of telecommunications diversity, in 2011 we set ourselves the target (HP) Singapore between 2005 and 2010, and experience to the Gemalto Board. She was of encouraging ‘the promotion of women General Manager for HP’s ASEAN and India head of Motorola’s Asia Pacific Broadband to senior management positions’. We also Global Software Division. She was Chairperson Communications, Home & Network Mobility business between 2004 and 2010, and Chief of Staff to the President of Motorola’s wireless infrastructure business in China. She also As a progressive, sustainable achieved five patents in telecommunications company, we are strongly focused services in various roles with the American on broadening gender diversity. In company BellSouth. these two Board appointments we The appointments of Yen Yen Tan and Drina have met a key target for 2012, Yue are key milestones in the company’s and put in place an important corporate responsibility journey. Their presence process of expanding the global on the Board is a clear sign of Gemalto’s scope of the Board to echo and commitment to improving gender diversity, while their Asian backgrounds help broaden enhance the international dimension the Board’s perspective. of our business.” Philippe Cabanettes, EVP Human Resources Gemalto 17 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information As our risk landscape had been evolving over the past five years, In 2012 we initiated the exercise to revise in-depth the ‘Agents’ it was decided in 2012 to redo a fraud risk map and subsequently selection and relationship management’ policy. It specifies redo a full up-to-date assessment of the key fraud risks, with standards for how employees should manage agent relationships specific attention to the risks which could have an impact on including selection, commitment, follow-up and payment. the objectives and/or the reputation of the Group. This exercise involved 88 managers, and the results were presented to The Agent’s policy reinforces two key principles. Firstly, it states management and then to the Board at the end of 2012. that corruption is a serious criminal offence in all jurisdictions and can involve sanctions for individuals, as well as legal entities. It Of all the internal audits we conducted during the year, 25 in also makes clear that Gemalto does not deal with any agents 2012 (vs. 22 in 2011) were either focused specifically on fraud who use corrupt practices either to gain or retain business. risk or partially motivated by fraud concerns. In addition from 2010, Internal Audit introduced data mining exercises in order In 2012 we launched two eLearning programs, one on to improve sampling and detect errors and irregularities. competition laws and another one on expense reports. Another program, this time on fraud (which includes corruption We also communicate widely to our employees about fraud and bribery) was launched in January 2013. prevention and detection. For example, the newsletter ‘Your Internal Control Network’ – issued fortnightly – covers Dedicated internal audit team anti-fraud issues on a regular basis. So that we can assess our internal risk management systems as well as perform reviews and evaluations where deemed Tackling bribery and corruption necessary, the Company has a dedicated Internal Audit As part of its commitment to tackling fraud, bribery and department. Since mid-2007 it has comprised eight permanent corruption, the Board has also established a ‘whistle blower’ auditors, including the Internal Audit Director and Internal Audit tool and procedure. It encourages the prompt reporting Manager. Its methods and activities conform to a charter and handling of any employee complaints about financial approved by the Audit committee (updated in 2012) and to the irregularities, or suspicions of improper conduct relating International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal to the Gemalto Group. Auditing issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA), the worldwide recognized professional body for internal audit. In 2010, we published the Gemalto Purchasing CSR charter, which applies to both Gemalto and our suppliers. The Charter The team has direct and unlimited access to Group operations, clearly states our obligation to fight corruption in all its forms. documents and employees. The Internal Audit Director reports As a minimum, Gemalto also encourages its suppliers to join directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has an open the United Nations Global Compact. In 2011 we developed independent line of communication with the Audit committee a supplier CSR self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) which Chairman and since 2012 with the CEO. He also holds regular we improve continuously. The aim of the SAQ is to establish private sessions with the Audit committee. whether suppliers have CSR policies and procedures in place, and to elicit information necessary to assess their performance against targets. Furthermore, some CSR audits were performed on suppliers in 2012. Gemalto 18 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information On November 2, 2010, Gemalto’s internal audit department To promote effective implementation we organize regular was certified by the ‘Institut Français de l’Audit et du Contrôle training and awareness sessions throughout the Company Internes’ (IFACI) – the French representative of the IIA, on the on topics such as security, internal control, ethics, anti-fraud, basis of the IIA Standards (for more details on Internal Audit, authority limits, contract management, trade compliance see page 29 of Gemalto’s 2012 Annual Report). This certification and competition rules. was confirmed in November 2011 and in November 2012. Our internal organization is set up in such a way as to Risk management optimize our ability to manage risk Company-wide through dedicated processes: A distinctive feature of our business is that risk management is • Risk assessment; an intrinsic part of our offer. As some potential risks to our activities • Crisis and business continuity management. could impact our operational security, integrity and continuity, we see effective risk management as part of our responsibility Risk management process to customers, as well as to investors, employees and other Our risk management process involves: stakeholders. Our customers trust us to make it integral to our • Mapping and anticipating the main identifiable risks; service and our culture. • Prioritizing them against the Group’s strategy and risk appetite; The aim of our risk management and internal control is to expand • Allocating risk ownership; our ability to achieve our objectives by: • Developing and implementing mitigation plans that are • Safeguarding assets, cash flows and reputation; proportionate to the risks involved, including transfer to • Effectively constraining threats to acceptable levels; insurance market; • Making informed decisions; • Communicating key control objectives to employees; • Enhancing our capacity to exploit opportunities while • Regularly checking the effectiveness of the process. trying to protect the interests of our stakeholders and our shareholders’ investments. Identifying and assessing our major risks enables us to focus on those that matter and to align our action plans We regard risk management as a responsibility that is shared and resources accordingly. Risk assessment is carried out by everyone in the Company, from senior management to the at all management levels: most junior employee. External stakeholders are also associated when required. Corporate level: major new investments, like major assets, acquisitions and developments, are analyzed from a risk We have implemented a range of policies and processes with both perspective, and reviewed with the Segments. Risks are internal and independent controls. These are intended to provide identified and considered for decision making with action reasonable assurance that: plans developed and subsequently monitored. • Risks are mitigated; • Financial reporting is reliable; Business level: risk assessments are performed on major bids • Relevant laws and regulations are complied with; and contracts as well as on new activities. Management reviews • The Board’s objectives are achievable (for full details, business performance quarterly. see our 2012 Annual Report). Gemalto 19 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information Risk category and function levels: following the group risk Culture of security mapping exercise specific risk assessments have since been Security is Gemalto’s core proposition. It is also critical for us performed, for instance on fraud. as a source of trust. We aim for excellence in the integrity and confidentiality of all assets and data that belong to our company Site level: sites perform crisis risk assessment in line with and customers. We achieve this through programs that help the Gemalto crisis management framework. Production and our employees maintain the highest levels of digital and physical personalization sites assess their security and industrial risks. security. One example is the way we include operational security This contributes to some certification requirements like managers in all our software development teams. ISO 27001. Our security strategy has four main strands: Crisis and business continuity management • Business units and Research & Development; In today’s climate, no business is immune to crisis. Gemalto has • Sites and production; deployed a Crisis Management Framework which encompasses • IT; basic escalation and communication rules, guidelines for • Solutions. anticipation and action, and clarified roles and responsibilities. Around the globe, about one hundred crisis management Within each of these areas, we: leaders have been appointed and trained through simulation • Harmonize security policies and processes – building exercises. Gemalto also provides crisis management training common security governance at all Gemalto sites; with simulations for local crisis management teams. • Target protection based on asset value – using risk assessment to protect sensitive data and validate Gemalto has developed business continuity responses to avoid or solutions proposed by the business; minimize disruption to customers and our business through greater • Insist on widespread accountability – making security standardization of production tools and processes, multi-sourcing everyone’s business and using internal audits to plan strategies, IT availability and redundancy infrastructure. We have for improvement; strengthened our business continuity capability by improving the • Conduct security awareness training for end-users and centralization of pertinent data and implementing architecture for managers – developing security rules for specific teams; distributing this data seamlessly to back-up sites. • Develop incident prevention and management practices. This proactive approach to crisis management and business Regular review continuity has enabled us to respond effectively to unforeseen At a corporate level, we maintain a full risk register that we events, minimizing their impact on our stakeholders and reputation. constantly update. In 2012, we updated our strategic security agenda. This took our risk register into account and also integrated In 2012, Gemalto continued to update and refine its crisis and risks identified in our new businesses. The main aim was to assess business continuity management plans. major risks and to develop resilience. This is especially important in areas such as the internet and wireless connectivity, where security is paramount. Gemalto 20 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information Gemalto’s main financial indicators 2012: Through regular assessments we also ensure that our internal account, we have developed an appropriate financial structure security standards and policies meet or exceed regulatory for the Company. We have also secured a good return on our €2.2bn requirements. Each year we use external tools to audit our investments and devised effective risk management tools and quality and security systems against ISO and market-specific procedures. We continue benefiting from a strong financial standards. At all R&D, production and personalization sites we position with the flexibility this offers if necessary. revenue, maintain external certification through companies such as Visa up 11% vs. 2011 and MasterCard as well as ISO 27001 for some of our sites. For more information see our Annual Report 2012. In 2012, we audited the security of the companies we have recently acquired and set up action plans where necessary. Economic performance €306m In 2012, revenue of the Company for all its operations reached Financial responsibility €2.25 billion. The largest part of the growth was provided by the As a Dutch-registered company with shares listed on NYSE Mobile Communication and Security segments which generated profit from operations, Euronext in Paris, Gemalto is subject to robust financial control additional revenue of €204 million. Secure Transactions and up 20% vs. 2011 systems which are strictly enforced. These include examination Machine-to-Machine also contributed positively to revenue growth. by our external, independent auditors, as well as review by Gemalto’s Board of Directors, in particular its Audit committee. Across all segments, Platforms & Services activities grew by €353m +26%, to account for €392 million in 2012, generating 40% The Audit committee advises the Board on many matters. of the total Company growth and further increasing their share These include the quality and integrity of Gemalto’s financial of the Company’s revenue. In the mobile payment and the net cash, statements; compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; government sectors substantial long-term contracts were up 14% vs. 2011 risk management review, the external auditor’s performance, signed and their deployments initiated. qualifications and independence; and internal audit performance. Gross profit for the Company was up +15%, or €113 million, to €3.14 The Audit committee is chaired by an independent member €864 million. This represents a gross margin of 38.5%, higher by who is a long time specialist in audit activities. Its methods +1.2 percentage point on 2011. This gross profit improvement was conform to a charter approved by the Board, updated in 2007 driven by gross margin increases in the Mobile Communication adjusted basic earnings per share1, and reviewed annually since then. and Secure Transactions segments as well as by revenue growth up 15% vs. 2011 in Security. Globally, additional revenue came in at higher gross Responsible supervision margin due to the greater proportion of Platforms & Services These robust controls mean that Gemalto follows a deeprevenue and to an improved product mix, particularly in the rooted policy of responsible financial management. This is one Mobile Communication segment. of our most important business principles, and is vital for our long-term sustainability. Operating expenses increased by 8% to €558 million, You can find full details of these results, as well as representing an essentially stable ratio to revenue of 25%. Gemalto’s financial management and control systems, Ever since its inception, Gemalto has been financially prudent. Expenses in operating resources grew in all segments, in the Company’s 2012 Annual Report. The Company has a conservative risk profile enabling it to weather especially in research and development, to support project global economic fluctuations. Taking cash flow volatility fully into deployments and future growth opportunities. This resulted 1 Adjusted financial information. Gemalto 21 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Corporate Governance and Economic Factors continued Other Information in a sequential increase in operating expenses, with €298 million Adjusted financial information for all operations for the second semester when excluding Other income. Full year 2012 Full year 2011 Year-on-year Full year profit from all operations came in at €306 million, up variation at a remarkable +20% on the previous year’s performance that historical benefited from the one-time positive contribution from a gain € in As a % of € in As a % of exchange millions revenue millions revenue rates on the re-measurement to fair value of Gemalto’s investment Revenue 2,245.5 2,015.4 +11% in a Chinese JV. Driven by the positive developments in all main Gross profit 864.4 38.5% 751.5 37.3% +1.2 ppt segments, the year-on-year positive variation in profit from Operating expenses1 (558.1) (24.9%) (515.1) (25.6%) +0.7 ppt ongoing operations reached +26%, settling at €305 million JV deconsolidation gain 0.0 19.2 1.0% despite a €9 million decrease in profit from operations recorded EBITDA 2 381.3 17.0% 319.8 15.9% +19% in the Patents segment, related to ongoing litigation the Company initiated in the United States. Continuing deployments of fourth Profit from operations 306.3 13.6% 255.6 12.7% +20% generation mobile networks, acceleration in the deployment of ongoing operations 305.0 241.4 infrastructures enabling mobile payment services and increasing other operations 1.2 14.3 adoption of electronic identity programs supported the Net profit 261.6 11.7% 227.7 11.3% +15% improvement. Platforms & Services activities contributed Earnings per share (€) 3 markedly to the profit increase through strong revenue growth Basic 3.14 2.73 +15% and better absorption of operating costs, which had increased Diluted 3.00 2.65 +13% substantially in these activities since the beginning of the current 1 In the adjusted income statement, Operating Expenses are defined as long-term strategic plan in preparation for the strong involvement the sum of Research and Engineering, Sales and Marketing, General of Gemalto in mobile payment service deployments. and Administrative expenses, and Other income (expense) net. 2 EBITDA is defined as Profit from Operations (PFO) plus depreciation and Adjusted profit before income tax was €297 million, +19% higher amortization expenses, excluding the amortization and depreciation of intangibles resulting from acquisitions. than the €249 million recorded in 2011. 3 The full year 2012 adjusted basic earnings per share is determined on the basis of the weighted average number of Gemalto shares outstanding As a result, adjusted net profit of the Company for all operations during the 12-month period ended December 31, 2012, i.e. 83,310,429 was €262 million in 2012, a +15% increase when compared to shares taking into account the effect of the share buy-back program. The full year 2012 adjusted diluted earnings per share is determined by using €228 million in 2011, and adjusted net profit margin increased 87,129,977 shares corresponding to the IFRS treasury stock method, to 11.7%. Basic adjusted earnings per share for all operations i.e. on the basis of the same weighted average number of Gemalto shares came in at €3.14, up 15%, and fully diluted adjusted earnings outstanding and considering that all outstanding share-based instruments were exercised (5,382,234 instruments) and the proceeds received from per share for all operations settled at €3.00, up 13%. the instruments exercised (€89,036,102) were used to buy back shares at the average share price of the full year 2012 (1,562,686 shares at €56.98). A full report on Gemalto’s financial performance in 2012 can be found on pages 12-15 of our Annual Report 2012. Gemalto 22 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Nurturing our workforce Employees Demographics and diversity 23 Developing our people 24 Training24 Gemalto Performance Review 28 Encouraging mobility 28 Balancing career opportunities 30 Listening to employees 30 Safety at work 32 Reducing injuries/lost time 32 Reducing risk/hazardous substances 33 Gemalto 23 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Employees Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information The health, safety and development of our employees are paramount for Gemalto. By looking after our people in the best way we can, we maintain a happy and effective workforce. We also help meet the future needs of our business. “We believe that our Demographics and diversity Our global turnover rate for ‘exempt employees’(*) stands at We believe that our workforce should reflect both the global 6.1% (broken down by region in the table below), while the workforce should reflect span of our operations and our customers’ diversity. So, wherever possible, we try to recruit employees with diverse turnover rate for ‘exempt employees’(*) under the age of 30 is 11.6%, with the same regional variations. both the global span of cultural and educational backgrounds. When looking to fill Gemalto positions, we actively encourage applicants of every By promoting diversity, we aim to create cross-functional our operations and our race, gender, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, age and ability. Above all we aim to be fair and inclusive, and we value and cross-national networks of people. We’re also keen to expand the diversity of ‘Gemalto University’, our leadership customers’ diversity.” diversity as a distinct competitive advantage. development program, and in 2012 we welcomed more people of different nationalities onto this scheme, with In 2012 we continued to recruit from around the world. 30% of an impressive 35% female intake. our new employees, came from Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 46% from Asia and 24% from North, South and We’re also working hard to encourage the promotion of female Central America. Of the 69 nationalities recruited in 2012, the staff to more senior management positions. In 2012, women top five (in terms of numbers) were, in descending order, China, represented 44% of newly recruited staff, and 30% of new Brazil, Mexico, France and the Czech Republic. We were also ‘exempt employees’(*) (same as 2011). pleased to welcome 214 graduates hired directly from schools and universities, 39% of whom were women. Turnover rate of ‘exempt employees’(*) in 2012 Attrition % per area (*) Exempt employees Our geographical headcount therefore broadly matches our ‘Exempt’ employees are those who, because of their responsibilities EMEA (Europe, CIS, Middle East and Africa) 3.2 geographical revenue distribution. And by the end of 2012, 22% and level of authority, are exempt from overtime provisions. As in other of our ‘exempt employees’(*) were working at a site not in their ASIA (Asia Pacific) 9.6 organizations, they are expected to work the time needed to accomplish their goals. They are most often found in managerial, supervisory, country of origin. This includes 278 expatriated people of 43 NORAM (North America) 7.1 professional, administrative and other leadership roles. different nationalities. Non-exempt employees LATAM (Latin America) 9.8 ‘Non-exempt’ employees are those who, because of the type of duties they Worldwide 6.1 perform, their level of authority and method of payment, are subject to overtime provisions. They are therefore paid for all overtime hours worked. Gemalto 24 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Recruitment by region (**) in 2012 Developing our people Through our global leadership development program, ‘Gemalto % University’, we have created a worldwide community that Gemalto is built on the ingenuity of its people. So we place shares common values and experiences and helps us remain strong emphasis on developing our teams to meet future needs 20 well-organized and competitive. In 2012, we deployed for the EMEA 30 and ensure our long-term survival and success. Our HR policies third time our Discovery Leadership Program (DLP), bringing ASIA are therefore critical to the sustainability of the company. 4 together 140 newcomers from around the world, along with NORAM our entire Senior Management team, for a series of workshops, LATAM Investing through training presentations and innovative creativity exercises in Austin Texas, The digital world is evolving rapidly. One of our most important US. The aim was to increase understanding of our business HR objectives is therefore to invest in our people to support 46 objectives while building a valuable network for the future. their skills development in this ever-changing environment. Organized around the theme ‘Keep Gemalto Inspired’, the Our employees need to be able to respond to the needs of Recruitment by gender and by position in 2012 DLP 2012 allowed participants to pitch new business ideas our customers and markets, and to adapt to new technologies Quantity to our management team, stimulating innovative thinking and challenges. So each year we invest 2% of our salary costs 987 1359 2346 and providing valuable fresh perspectives. in training, offering a wide range of employee courses and 1313 schemes. In 2012, we delivered a total of 256,800 hours of Our ‘Emerging Leadership Program’, which targets 30 training worldwide, and 7,701 people received training across 626 high-potential managers from all businesses and all regions, 687 our regions. Our overall training satisfaction rate of 78% was 1033 continued to operate successfully in 2012, with sessions in 733 consistent with our results in 2011. Through this investment France and Dubai focusing on our business in the Middle East. 300 of time and money in workforce training, we provide our Exempt Non-exempt Total In addition, through the ‘Gemalto Technical Ladder’, we enable employees with ongoing development opportunities and our technical experts to develop their international career Men keep them motivated and engaged. paths across different business units. During the year, 1,683 Women evaluations were carried out within 18 organizations from 27 Training and promotion countries. This was a significant increase from 2011, with 434 Internal training and promotion form the backbone of Gemalto’s new employees joining our technical community through Employment status HR philosophy. At the end of 2012, of the top 400 people in the company acquisitions, new hires and internal moves. company, 92.5% had been promoted from within. This reflects 95% the quality of our training programs and efforts to support the Innovation cafés were set up during 2012. The idea behind career advancement of our people over the mid-to-long term. the cafés is to enable advisors to present their technical work in other Gemalto sites, and to promote the importance of the of our employees had a permanent Training programs Technical Community to the company as a whole. We also contract in December 2012 The key aim of our training is to develop competencies, skills improved the process of identifying our Technical Ladder and knowledge so that our employees can better fulfill their members. Senior promotions were directly defined in a prerole and achieve the company’s strategic objectives. In 2012 Board meeting: 34 people were promoted to Senior level with we continued to harmonize our training processes and policies, (**) Area definitions: another six entering this level directly; 122 people progressed EMEA: Europe, CIS, Middle East and Africa including many of the new acquisitions in our corporate from Member to Certified; and another 82 employees joined ASIA: Asia Pacific programs, with a view to achieving better integration of NORAM: North America the program as Certified. people and skills. LATAM: Latin America Gemalto 25 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Focus article All Star recognition program In 2009, the Gemalto Board of Directors employees more closely in the company’s to which Gemalto looks after its people. set an ambitious, company-wide Profit from ambition and success, the All Stars scheme Speaking in December 2012, Philippe Operations (PFO) target of €300 million by entitles Gemalto employees globally to receive Cabanettes, Gemalto HR EVP, described 2013. Following strong financial performance free Gemalto shares which become available the scheme as “a declaration of love” from in 2010 and 2011, our CEO Olivier Piou for sale in 2017. the Board to Gemalto employees. “Indeed, declared in March 2012 – halfway through not only are we giving free shares to staff, the 2010-2013 development plan – that Within the program, a Gemalto employee on we are also encouraging them to stay the company was on track to reach its an annual base salary of €24,000 will receive with us. In the present economic climate, PFO goals. 25 Gemalto shares (equivalent today to €1,750). when many companies are implementing An employee on €72,000 will receive 100 widespread redundancies, the All Star To mark this achievement, the Gemalto shares. Eligibility extends to all Gemalto scheme demonstrates our commitment Board announced a new universal reward employees who had a company contract on to our employees’ future.” scheme called the All Star recognition March 8, 2012 (but not to those who joined program. Designed to involve Gemalto the company on March 9 or after). In order to Internally, the program has been well received, benefit from the scheme participants must still with 98% of staff opting in. Of the 2% that have be employed by Gemalto on December 31, decided not to participate, the majority are All Star Gemalto share allocation linked 2014, and the company must reach its PFO based in Singapore where local tax laws make to annual base salary as of March 8, 2012: target in year 2013. On top of these ‘presence the payment terms less beneficial, especially Annual base salary and performance’ conditions, all employees for employees transferring back to China The All Star recognition scheme is will have to pay their local taxes which vary before 2017. Externally, the scheme was < 24,000 euros 25 Gemalto shares special because it is for all of our depending on where in the world they work. recognized at the annual French HR&M industry awards, where it won the prize worldwide employees, not just senior < 36,000 euros 40 Gemalto shares The All Stars scheme recognizes the hard work for ‘best international sharing of company management. It is a sign of our < 48,000 euros 55 Gemalto shares and dedication of Gemalto employees in recent success’ in 2012. confidence in the company’s strength < 60,000 euros 70 Gemalto shares years. It offers genuine financial benefits and and performance and an evidence of will have an impact on employee retention – < 72,000 euros 85 Gemalto shares particularly in the BRIC countries, Africa and how we share and reward success.” ≥ 72,000 euros 100 Gemalto shares the Middle East where staff turnover is high. The program also demonstrates the extent Arnaud Soulié, VP HR Shared Resources Gemalto 26 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Focus article Sustainable Development Day Every year since 2008, Gemalto has held a Our workforce comprises 106 different such a global organization. At corporate level, Global Sustainable Development Day (GSDD) nationalities, and around 20% of our the company produced a short animation to to help raise employees’ awareness of CSR ‘exempt’ employees work in a country that introduce the concept of Cultural Diversity and provide opportunities for action and is not their country of origin. We view our at Gemalto. We also created an online quiz engagement. Previously each GSDD has Cultural Diversity as a major strength and designed to help employees find out about focused on environmental issues, but in competitive advantage, and in 2012 we certain unique traditions, professional practices 2012 we decided to pursue a more peopledecided to celebrate this core aspect of and tips for international success. To encourage oriented theme in order to address the social our work and culture. further engagement, employees were invited to aspect of sustainability. The chosen theme post short videos onto a dynamic ‘cultural wall’. for the year was Cultural Diversity. Under the slogan “Let’s make the most of it”, In total, over 1,000 people took part in the GSDD 2012 aimed to help Gemalto employees online quiz, there were over 1,300 views of the As a company that has sites in 43 countries, understand and engage with the different animation, and HR reported strong employee Cultural Diversity is central to Gemalto. behaviors and traditions that are inherent in involvement and positive feedback. In LATAM people shared their Locally, 34 Gemalto sites around the world organized workshops and events to celebrate ‘stories’ by postcard or photo and GSDD. In Asia, activities were held to raise really got ‘a sense of each other’. awareness of cultural, gender and generational Cultural diversity is everywhere in diversity, with ‘global villages’ showcasing Gemalto, but it is such an abstract different foods, languages, clothing, festivals and sports. In the US there was a ‘potluck’ concept. GSDD 2012 helped make buffet lunch, with a contest for best traditional it real and showed us all what it dish and costume. In Latin America, a photo means to have a mixed and global competition and ‘send a postcard’ initiative workforce. It also showed that generated widespread involvement, with employees from different countries exchanging cultural diversity is an opportunity cultural messages. And in Europe, quizzes, – something to celebrate.” lunches, recipe books, presentations and posters were used to bring people together to Citlali Tellez, explore their culturally diverse backgrounds. Internal Communications, São Paulo, Brazil Gemalto 27 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Training satisfaction In order to better prepare this technical community for the Case study % fast-moving technology challenges of the future, we have aligned our CITO training offer around our four new technology International Women’s Day 78 77 78 78 domains: Cloud Security, Smart Cities, Digital Money and Seamless Personal Transaction. This is to ensure that our R&D skills are up-to-speed and fully synchronized with our strategy. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Since 2011, our marketing employees have benefited from The success of our company Diversity Programs. For instance, professional development programs: depends on the talents of its entire Beijing and Singapore sites held • The Marketing Leadership Council (MLC) is an advisory workforce, both men and women. special celebrations to mark women’s Average hours of training We are committed to promoting and achievements and contributions in group of 39 of Gemalto’s marketing managers from various Per person trained in 2012 guaranteeing gender equality and to the international arena. Activities business lines and marketing functions. The Council designs encouraging the promotion of women included a contest to choose women and implements best practices and methodologies for our to senior management positions. As ambassadors for Gemalto Asia, the marketers to leverage in their day-to-day business. It also an expression of our commitment in sharing of stories and experiences, 42 this area, and in recognition women’s and fundraising for the Singapore designs and develops innovation around marketing training, contribution to Gemalto’s success Breast Cancer Foundation. 26 28 26 and consults with business units on marketing plans and over the years, on March 8, 2012, 11 business opportunities. Gemalto employees in France, Asia Events also took place at Meudon, and the US celebrated International La Ciotat and Gemenos in France. EMEA( ˇ ) ASIA( ˇ ) NORAM( ˇ ) LATAM( ˇ ) Total • In 2012, the marketing community, comprising 500+ marketers, Women’s Day. At all three sites, conference lunches was invited to online conference sessions on new marketing were held featuring specialist guest practices addressing key opportunities for Gemalto: Competitive In Texas, US, we held a lunch in speakers; the first, a researcher on recognition of the 40 women who Gender and Careers, spoke about Positioning, Market Assessment, Planning, New Product work at the Austin site. During the the strategic importance and impact Development and Customer Understanding. meal, the women around the table of gender diversity on company • As a part of executive-level marketing training, in June discussed a range of gender-related performance. The second, a woman issues, including how to make pilot from the French Air Force, 2012 Gemalto sent 35 marketing managers on a one-week Gemalto an employer of choice discussed her career achievements immersive program on high technology strategies hosted for working women. As part of this in a male-dominated field. by the Berkeley Haas School of Business at the University debate, they considered whether the key to improving gender diversity lies Over 100 people in Gemalto France of California. in better work-life balance, or whether attended the day’s events, and many something more fundamental needs said how inspired they were to meet In 2012 we have created a dedicated catalog of CSR trainings to shift within corporate culture. By such extraordinary women and hear the end of the year, an additional about their achievements. In this way, at corporate levels, including 15 different trainings such as 12 women were hired at Gemalto the conferences succeeded in raising eco-design, cultural diversity and crisis management. Austin – up 50% from 2011. awareness of gender diversity and its relevance to Gemalto’s culture In Asia, employees took part in and business. International Women’s Day for the first time ever as part of broader Gemalto (ˇ) See page 24 for area definitions. Gemalto 28 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Gemalto Performance Review Case Study Each year, all Gemalto employees meet with their managers to assess progress against objectives. The Gemalto Performance Asia Human Capital Award Review is an opportunity for open dialogue about performance and career advancement. It’s also a chance for employees to ask questions, receive feedback and get a sense of where they’re going in the company. By the end of February 2013, 98% of Gemalto’s ‘exempt employees’(*) had completed their 2012 performance reviews (same level as last year). This rate In September 2012, Gemalto received is homogeneous through our regions (more than 97%) with an the top prize at the prestigious Asian historical higher rate in Asia (100%). We feed all performance Human Capital Awards. The award review information into a database. This enables us to monitor recognizes innovative and successful employee practices adopted by training needs and provide staff with information about available companies operating in Asia, where courses in good time. Gemalto has developed 17 human resources programs that specifically address the region’s uniqueness Encouraging mobility and culture. The option for staff to move with Gemalto internationally is another key pillar of our HR policy – one that is regularly The first European company to win exploited, as evidenced by the high number of expatriates in the award, Gemalto was honored Being recognized by the Asian for its human capital strategy of Gemalto (close to 5% of our exempt workforce), and the high Sustainable Innovation Leadership, Human Capital Award is most number of employees working in a country which is not their which encourages promotion from within, career mobility and employee encouraging. On top of Gemalto’s country of origin (22% of our exempt employees in 2012). We development, and fosters a culture global programs, our 17 Asian also encourage mobility across all our businesses. We do this of humanistic management and through a range of communications tools and strategies, such innovation. The award also programs for leadership as publishing internal positions and opportunities. Inter-business acknowledged Gemalto’s ‘3 Axis Mobility Program’, which enables development, recognition and mobility is important for Gemalto, as our solutions often straddle employees to move across innovation enable employees to geographical locations, functions and two business areas. For example, our mobile payments business units within the company. develop local and global careers. solutions (making payments via a mobile device) require close collaboration between our Telecoms Business Unit and our The awards ceremony took place We are building a strong workforce Secure Transaction Business Unit. Employees who move on September 19, 2012, at Resorts and are pleased to be able to World Sentosa in Singapore. The between these units can provide the dual insight and expertise event was attended by Singapore’s attract the top talent in necessary to help deliver successful solutions. Deputy Prime Minister, Tharman Shanmugaratnam, while the award the region.” itself was presented by Acting Minister for Manpower, Tan Tan Teck Lee Chuan-Jin. Chief Innovation & Technology Officer and Asia President of Gemalto (*) See page 23 for ‘exempt’ definitions. Gemalto 29 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Focus article HR 8 Pillars For the last five years, one of Gemalto’s Promotion from Within Compensation & Benefits main focus areas in Human Resources Promotion from Within is a fundamental strategy for Gemalto’s compensation and benefits strategy is developing our people to meet our long-term strategies very precise and uses rational methods to determine (HR) has been the integration of newly of growth and innovation. It is about ensuring we have how we reward our employees. It is competitive and is acquired companies. This means we a sustainable leadership model and the core skills to benchmarked internally as well as externally, ensuring have had little opportunity to articulate carry us forward into the future. Our aim is to expand fairness, transparency, consistency and competitiveness the Company using our internal resources, providing in local markets. and share with employees our overall career and development opportunities that challenge HR strategy and approach. In 2012 we our employees and help them grow. Training decided it was time to address this issue, Gemalto’s training offer aims to respond to what people Mobility need to accomplish their job today and evolve their and in October we launched a new Mobility is fundamental to a global company like careers for tomorrow. It is about developing our people program called the ‘HR 8 Pillars’. Gemalto. It is essential that our people are mobile – to deliver our vision, helping them to succeed on a both mentally and physically – and have an in-depth personal level while harnessing the motivation and drive understanding of the different business areas, functions this brings to further our success. Designed to enhance employees’ and cultures in which we operate. Mobility supports our understanding of how we manage HR, long-term corporate strategy of developing experienced Diversity In Prague we held our HR & Me management teams and technical experts in key Our customers, their markets and the solutions they the ‘HR 8 Pillars’ demonstrates how international markets. need, are diverse. Understanding these needs requires event in November. There were HR serves the needs of our people and supports our business objectives. Management by Objectives an open-minded and diverse workforce. Our diversity strategy ensures we are behaving ethically, gives us a about 60 people in total and a In his internal announcement of the Management by Objectives is part of the Gemalto clear competitive advantage, and provides us with manager from France flew in to Performance Review. It is an essential tool that provides legitimate criteria from which to implement fair and program, HR EVP Phillippe Cabanettes an important benchmark to guide people through their equal employment practices. speak about the global approach described the company’s overall approach careers. It also ensures we keep an eye on the larger deliverables that are critical to our business success. Ethics & Community to HR. We talked about things like to HR as “visible, clear and fair”, and explained that “the paramount principle… Management by Objectives is a living agenda which Gemalto’s Code of Ethics sets out the standards defining diversity at the Prague site and we continually refer to and review to ensure our targets how we operate. It is the foundation of our HR strategy is to put [our] people at the center of and goals remain relevant. and governs our relationships with clients, suppliers, accommodating employees with young every opportunity that arises at Gemalto.” Recruitment stakeholders and each other. families. The discussions were really Our recruitment strategy is based on key criteria that To help explain the ‘HR 8 Pillars’ internally, we devised interesting, and people put forward The ‘HR 8 Pillars’ divides our HR strategy help us to ensure a fair and ethical approach, while a range of communications tools. These included a into eight clear strands. These are: identifying the best available talent for the company. dedicated HR portal on the Gemalto intranet and a ideas about how we should continue We recruit every year in more than 35 countries to feed our talent pipeline and bring in new people who, video providing a comprehensive program overview. We also held an ‘HR & Me’ event at every Gemalto site the engagement process.” thanks to our philosophy and practices, will become to give employees an opportunity to find out more about the Gemalto leaders of tomorrow. the ‘HR 8 Pillars’, engage with our HR strategy, and ask Hana Ponsan, questions about how the program relates to them. HR Manager, Prague Gemalto 30 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information PeopleQuest: employees’ satisfaction Balancing career opportunities Case Study survey results The success of our company depends on the talents of our % workforce. We are committed to promoting gender equality, Improving workplace 80 77 78 80 and to encouraging the promotion of women to senior management positions. In France, we launched a program accessibility: aimed at leveraging training to help encourage women’s Cuernavaca, Mexico 78 career development. It also examines ways to promote more 72 76 76 women so that the number of female managers reflects the 2009 2010 2011 2012 percentage of ‘exempt’(*) women within the company. The HR team in Cuernavaca, Mexico, settled into their new roles and integrated made steps in 2012 to develop its positively with the Gemalto workforce. Satisfaction rate Listening to employees inclusiveness policy and assess the Answer rate working conditions and processes In 2013-2014, the plan is to run a full ‘PeopleQuest’ is our annual employee survey. It tracks at its manufacturing site. With a view to site assessment in partnership with a satisfaction across our global operations and is available online creating work opportunities for people company called All Accessible, which PeopleQuest: employees’ satisfaction with disabilities, the team made contact will enable Cuernavaca to meet new rate per region in 2012 to all employees. In order to ensure the survey reflects the most with various governmental institutions, labor law requirements. On-going pertinent concerns of our employees, in 2012 we added six associations and NGOs that work evaluation and monitoring will also % to promote inclusiveness within be essential to ensure that adequate additional questions to our traditional survey, giving a total the labor market. conditions are maintained. of 42 questions divided into eight categories. The survey is 86 81 85 80 73 translated into nine languages to encourage as much take-up Following in-depth consultations and feedback as possible. with these organizations, Gemalto 91 Cuernavaca began to review its The changes in our workforce 86 86 78 68 working environment, making Each year, we use PeopleQuest results to create plans for EMEA( ˇ ) ASIA( ˇ ) NORAM( ˇ ) LATAM( ˇ ) Total the year ahead. We build these around initiatives designed to necessary changes designed to better accommodate employees with mental policies and practices mean we are Satisfaction rate meet employees’ expectations, aiming for specific improvement or physical disabilities. In support of better positioned to recruit people these changes, the team held Answer rate in areas where survey scores are lower. We then issue regular awareness-raising workshops and with mental or physical disabilities. updates via our ‘HR dashboard’ on the Gemalto website. devised a communications campaign to update and engage all employees. It is important we are an In 2012, over one hundred PeopleQuest-inspired actions were carried out, ranging from community activities and Training programs were also provided, accessible site, and that we can including two sessions on ‘inclusiveness site anniversary celebrations to musical events, wellbeing and equity in gender’, focus groups to offer employment opportunities to days and sports competitions. elicit employee feedback, and general information on the scope and all people equally. We look forward to boundaries of people with mental developing these processes further disabilities in the workplace. and making the company as diverse Following these developments, in September 2012 two employees with and inclusive as possible.” mental disabilities were hired at Gemalto Cuernavaca to help in the facilities and services department. Their performance Raymundo Juarez Cespedes, has been well evaluated and they have HR Manager, Cuernavaca (ˇ) See page 24 for area definitions. (*) See page 23 for ‘exempt’ definitions. Gemalto 31 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information PeopleQuest: employees’ satisfaction rate At 80% overall satisfaction, our 2012 PeopleQuest results Case Study by position in 2012 showed a positive response, increasing two points from 2011. % As part of the improvement in gender diversity measures, we Breast Cancer Awareness compared the satisfaction results by gender and found no 80 80 disparity; the global satisfaction result for men was 79% (+1pt) and for women 82% (+3pts). Respect for Gemalto’s three 79 values, People, Innovation and Customers, was again the 77 highest-ranking criteria of satisfaction at 95%, constant with Non-exempt employees(*) Exempt employees(*) 2011. Trust in Gemalto’s Future also scored highly among our During October 2012, Gemalto At Iztapalapa and Cuernavaca, exempt population at 92% (+3pts). employees in the UK and Mexico employees attended talks by the Satisfaction rate took part in separate initiatives to CIMAB Foundation and a local Answer rate Through PeopleQuest 2012, employees selected charities to raise awareness and funds in the physician respectively, exploring fight against breast cancer. the myths and realities of breast which they could each contribute one euro. These included cancer. At both sites, women UNICEF, Red Cross/Crescent and the World Wildlife Fund. In the UK, the PeopleQuest received special discounts for Committee coordinated a ‘Wear-itmammograms and ultrasounds at Pink’ day as part of the international local clinics, while in the Polanco High participation levels in the survey suggest that employees Breast Cancer Campaign. Across all Sales Office conferences were held understand the correlation between PeopleQuest and improved UK sites, around 400 employees for employees and family members. outcomes in their working lives. It also reaffirms the value of the came to work dressed fully or partially in pink, with participants making a In addition to the money raised in survey as a key mechanism for listening and responding to small financial donation. Campaign Mexico through employee activities our people. In order to continue improving the analysis of our posters were also put up to help and participation, Gemalto donated results, and to better align actions to the needs of all employees, inform and engage employees. €2,000 through the Your World Program to Cruz Rosa, an we also compared the satisfaction levels of ‘exempt’(*) and At Iztapalapa, Cuernavaca and organization that supports women ‘non-exempt’(*) employees. In 2012, at corporate level we Polanco in Mexico, employees diagnosed with breast cancer. achieved total equality between these two populations at 80% showed their support for International Breast Cancer Awareness Day. exempt, 80% non-exempt. This shows that the actions put in Pink ribbons were worn and events place for our non-exempt employees allowed us to reverse the were held to raise awareness of slight discrepancy observed in 2011 and achieve the same high the disease, its cause, diagnosis, prevention and treatment. Activities levels of satisfaction among both groups. ranged from internal communication campaigns, competitions and quizzes, to a fundraising ‘race for the cure’. (*) See page 23 for exempt definitions. Gemalto 32 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Sites with OHSAS 18001 certification Safety at work Case Study compared with ISO 9001 sites % At Gemalto we always aim to provide safe working environments for our employees, as well as for others working at or visiting Health Week: Bogotá Company current target: 65% our facilities. We ensure continuous improvement through our 58 62 Human Resources and Health & Safety Management systems. 48 52 And we use the OHSAS 18001 standard to enhance these systems and gain assurance. Although our operations pose few serious safety risks, we ensure they take into account ever tougher legal requirements. We also challenge our practices Between 23 July and August 1, 2012, As a result of the health tests through external benchmarking and independent assessments. Gemalto employees in Bogotá took carried out during the week, several part in a week of health tests, activities employees in Bogotá were diagnosed 2009 2010 2011 2012 and events. The aim of the week was with carpal tunnel syndrome caused In 2012, our two manufacturing sites in Mexico were certified to raise awareness of health issues by bad posture. These employees were Sites targeted by OHSAS 18001: all production sites and the OHSAS 18001. Overall, however, we had one site less than in and motivate employees to take referred to health and social security two big non-manfacturing French ones in Meudon and La Ciotat. control of their personal health and institutions for further diagnosis and 2011 as a result of our withdrawal from a joint-venture in China. nutrition, improve their quality of life, treatment. A course of action has Hence the total number of OHSAS 18001 certified sites is now and achieve a better work-life balance. been determined to alleviate their 16 (15 in 2011). condition, including the purchase Accident occurence During the week, 58 employees of ergonomic equipment by Gemalto. participated in on-site medical tests. Number of injuries with lost time (LTI) Our 16 certified sites represent: All participants received blood tests, 77 81 64 63 37 were eligible for optometry and • 61% of the 26 main sites in the company and; audiometry assessments, and two 6 • 86% of their employees. had electrocardiograms. Medical 7 examinations and vaccinations 12 7 16 3 The 26 main sites comprise all manufacturing sites and the mandated by Colombian labor 6 8 55 13 16 two big non-manufacturing sites at Meudon and La Ciotat in legislation were also carried out. Our week of tests and 48 5 39 44 France. At company level, 65% of all employees are covered by As part of the program, employees workshops really opened people’s took part in discussions and OHSAS 18001 certification. Moreover, with our two new sites workshops run by specialists in eyes to certain health issues certified, we have reached our company target for OHSAS 18001 certifications. key health areas. There were talks on nutrition, with a live sushi and showed them the simple 2009 2010 2011 2012 demonstration to reinforce messages steps they can take to improve around healthy eating. There was ASIA(*) Reducing injuries and associated lost time also a lecture on the importance of their health and nutrition. It LATAM(*) Recorded accidents and injuries are a key indicator of safety ergonomics followed by massage sessions for all participants. also demonstrated how much NORAM(*) system efficiency. In 2012, the number of accidents resulting in at least one lost working day stood at 63 across the company. the company values its people EMEA(*) and their wellbeing.” The total number of lost working days (LWD) decreased significantly from 1,295 in 2011 to 858 in 2012, representing Martha Vela, a 34% reduction. It should also be noted that two accidents Quality Assurance Officer, Bogotá alone accounted for 20% of all LWD throughout the year. (*) See page 24 for area definitions. Gemalto 33 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Employees continued Other Information Accident severity In total, commuting accidents represent 36% of LWD. These Case Study Number of lost working days (LWD) are either accidents that occur between an employee’s home 1096 977 1295 858 and a Gemalto site car park; accidents in and around a site Raising diabetes awareness: 116 car park; or actual traffic accidents. The high incidence of these accidents underlines the importance of the Company’s Mexico 138 132 20 82 Defensive Driving training program, which is an initiative to 153 96 965 134 reduce the number of employees injured on the road. The 64 195 741 103 program targets business drivers1 and consists of a half-day 666 621 training class and driving test supervised by a certified trainer. In November 2012, the HSE team at By the end of 2012, about 51% of Gemalto business drivers Iztapalapa, Mexico, organised a day had attended a training renewal session. of action to help raise awareness of diabetes among staff. 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, as in 2011, 40% of LWD were related to ‘light’ injuries Diabetes is a chronic disease which ASIA(*) resulting in an absence of five days or less. Injuries resulting arises when the pancreas does not LATAM(*) in less than 20 days absence (‘light’ and ‘serious’ injuries produce enough insulin, or when the body cannot effectively use the NORAM(*) combined) accounted for 91% of LWD. These injuries related insulin it produces. This is associated EMEA(*) mainly to handling and moving activities, with more than 66% with long-term damage to the body involving hands or feet. and the failure of various organs and tissues. It is estimated that between Hazardous substances 10 and 17 million people suffer from Reducing risk from hazardous substances diabetes worldwide. Evolution of the number of substances The monitoring and management of hazardous substances form concerned by REACH regulation To engage staff with the major causes part of our Health & Safety strategy. We continue to eliminate or and consequences of diabetes, the minimize risks for both employees and consumers by carefully HSE team devised a range of activities 138 managing all hazardous substances, and we comply fully with to coincide with World Diabetes Day. RoHS regulations. These included blood tests for all Diabetes is a major disease and employees, healthy menus for staff to 46 73 take home, and a ‘One Day without people don’t always know if they 15 In 2012 we responded to changes in the REACH regulations, Sugar’ challenge, aided by a 24-hour ban on all snacks and sweet drinks from will be affected. We wanted to 2008 2010 2011 2012 working in partnership with numerous suppliers to monitor on-site vending machines. A number raise awareness among staff hazardous substances covered by REACH (up from 73 in of informative brochures were also 2011 to 138 in 2012). We also monitored a wider internal list produced explaining diabetes in depth. and show them how to engage of hazardous substances – close to 250 chemical substances On the day, 95 blood tests were with healthy, preventive or related compounds based on international regulations and carried out. Eighteen employees were activities, and above all to identified as falling outside the healthy customer or market requirements. range, and the team will be monitoring find out if they are at risk.” (*) See page 24 for area definitions. those with high glucose levels on an 1 A ‘business driver’ is any employee who: has access In addition to the usual Health & Safety training courses, we on-going basis. to a Gemalto vehicle; is reimbursed for mileage/ Yadira Montiel, encourage local initiatives throughout the Company. These address kilometers driven while using a private vehicle; or who HSE & Facilities Manager may be required to drive a Gemalto vehicle as part of specific work safety issues and promote good health practices their duty. – for more details, see the case study on pages 31, 32 and 33. Gemalto 34 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Caring for the world around us Environment Our approach 35 Identifying risk and impacts 35 Certified management systems 35 Carbon footprint program 36 Legal framework 36 Meeting customer demands 36 Eco-design and green products 36 Green product strategy 38 REACH and WEEE 38 Reducing impacts 39 Energy consumption 40 Water consumption 40 Waste valorization 41 Gemalto 35 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Environmental sustainability is an important topic for Gemalto. Since 2000 we’ve been developing ways to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. And we’ve been working with our stakeholders on other impacts linked to our markets. “In 2012, Gemalto finished Our approach non-manufacturing facilities at Meudon and La Ciotat in France, which today accommodate some 1,000 and 800 Identifying risk, impacts and opportunities its worldwide carbon people respectively. Three factors are especially important for our work supporting environmental sustainability: footprint measurement.” In 2012, the number of certified Gemalto sites remained • ISO 14001 international certification – which requires a yearly unchanged at 20, with one new site certified and one site closed. review of identified environmental risks and actual impacts in order to validate or update them; The 20 certified sites represent 77% of our 26 main sites (which • National and international regulations – which clearly identify comprise all manufacturing sites – production and personalization priority areas and timelines for compliance. These directives centers – and the two French headquarters) and 95% of our often come from the European Union and address hazardous employees. At company level, 71% of all employees are covered substances management in particular; by ISO 14001 certification. The certified sites – which include • Increasingly specific customer enquiries – not only about four in Asia and four in Latin America – are audited once or the eco-friendliness of our manufacturing processes or twice a year by ISO 14001-accredited companies. They assess the content of the products we make, but also about other the effectiveness of implemented Environmental Management aspects such as the overall impact of our supply chain on Systems by reviewing their risk and impact analyses, the global warming. For Instance, in 2012, 21% of the tenders relevance of related improvement plans and their efficiency we answered in the telecoms field included CSR inquiries. versus objectives. External auditors also evaluate our monitoring of legal requirements and our response to changes in regulation. Certified management systems Several of our sites are also certified through national schemes, Certifying Gemalto’s Environmental Management System for example Montgomeryville, US (‘KEMA’), and our plant at (EMS) was our first step towards ensuring best practice and Cuernavaca, Mexico (‘Clean Industry’). continuous improvement. The principal environmental risks and impacts of our operations For over a decade, we progressively worked through an ISO are managed through site action plans. These previously focused 14001 roadmap. This first targeted main production sites. It then on consumption (of energy, water, paper and manufacturing addressed main personalization centers including our biggest materials), waste management and pollution, in particular Gemalto 36 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Sites with ISO 14001 certification compared regarding the laminated products, solvents and Volatile Organic Sometimes this requires completing detailed checklists relating with ISO 9001 sites Compound (VOC) emissions associated with printing technology. to undesirable substances. They also ask for evidence of % Today, as a result of the global carbon footprint initiative, site compliance with regulations such as RoHS and REACH. Company current target: 77% action plans also frequently include additional elements aimed 81 at reducing our GHG emissions (especially in view of our freight More and more customers have now defined a clear strategy 77 77 77 and people transportation impacts). for climate change management, with reduction targets for their greenhouse gas emissions. And in addition to their own Carbon footprint program company footprint, they are also interested in the CO2 footprint The Gemalto Carbon footprint program, launched in 2009, helps of their specific products. Based on the product footprint 2009 2010 2011 2012 us to monitor and reduce the carbon emissions arising from our modeling tool developed in 2011, we can now determine CO2 Sites targeted by 14001 certification: production sites and main operations and limit our own contribution to global warming. emissions for a given order, taking into account the materials R&D and personalisation sites. used, the location of fabrication sites and customer delivery In the first half of 2012 we completed the measurement of our global address. In addition, in order to meet certain customer carbon footprint. In total, our 23 ‘largest’ sites were assessed and expectations, Gemalto is answering questionnaires from the an extrapolation was made for smaller sites. We identified our main Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In 2012 more than 10 million impacts and started to tackle the main sources of emissions and carbon compensated cards were produced. These offsets were compensate part of the rest (carbon offset). In 2012 we offset achieved through investment in eco-schemes supported by 1,000 tons of CO2 eq through CO2 Solidaire French ONG. offset companies such as Carbon Neutral and CO2 solidaire. Legal framework Eco-design and green products We commit to comply fully with national and international Gemalto is involved in ecological initiatives with the French regulations. Although some of the most significant directives Card Manufacturer Association (AFPC), as well as other groups come from the European Union (EU), their increase worldwide including Eurosmart and the GSM SIMAlliance in Europe, is an established trend. This mainly refers to Restriction of and ICMA in the United States. Our customers encourage this Hazardous Substances (RoHS), Registration, Evaluation, involvement as they are increasingly incorporating sustainable Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), Waste solutions into the products they deliver to end-users. We’ve Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), battery and responded by developing materials and processes to ensure packaging waste management. greener and safer end-products. We believe this helps our customers’ positioning and reputation. In 2012, we also carried out country-specific measurements following the implementation of the Grenelle II regulations in France. Historically, we’ve developed eco-friendly products for banking, telecoms and government customers worldwide. We’ve also Meeting customer demands invested in research and looked for new ways of balancing Of all our stakeholders, our customers are the most demanding the marketability and sustainability of our products. when it comes to product and process ‘eco-friendliness’. They regularly ask for information about the content of deliveries. Our expanded portfolio means we’re further developing our environmental impact strategy, following basic eco-design principles, such as: Gemalto 37 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information • Reducing the materials needed with smaller products for: Case Study ––Modules – GSM cards ––Cards readers and token – Packaging Employees and • Developing and using alternative eco-friendly materials: –– Using chlorine-free materials – e.g. polyethylene terephthalate the Environment: glycol-based (PETG) products that deliver less air pollution when Meudon France incinerated, and ABS-molded products, that moreover reduce manufacturing waste compared to laminated technologies; ––Developing biosourced card bodies based on polylactic At Gemalto’s Meudon site in France, ecological issues and give employees acid (PLA); the HSE team introduced two new a unique opportunity to engage with ––For packaging, developing full cardboard models, and programs in 2012 designed to nature. A beekeeper visits regularly to challenging the cost and quality of recycled raw materials; enhance employee engagement inspect the hives, and employees can with environmental issues. visit in groups to learn more about ––Working on end-of-life issues for cards. the bees and taste their honey. The first, the Gemalto Meudon Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA), is a method of quantifying the Cycling Club, was launched in April Between June and December, around to encourage employees to cycle to 630 pots of honey were offered to environmental impact of products. Underpinned by ISO 14040-44 work. Our carbon footprint analysis people within the company. certification, LCA can be used to inform decision making, identify shows that people transportation is and develop low-impact procedures, and enhance the design the major source of CO2 emissions at our Meudon site, representing almost and environmental profile of future products and packaging. 70% of its total emissions. By giving people incentives to commute by In 2012, we continued our eco-design project, training R&D bike, the program aims to reduce These initiatives provided and marketing staff working on readers, cards and packaging. these emissions while also improving employee health and wellbeing. wonderful opportunities for We also focused on measuring the LCA of existing products. Those who join the Cycling Club our employees to address two During 2012, 40 of our products were analyzed, 30 employees sign a charter committing themselves essential environmental issues. were trained on eco-conception basics, and 15 were trained to basic security rules and cycling behaviors. In return, they receive free The Cycling Club helps make on our LCA software usage for new developments. We have cycling kit and access to local repair and maintenance facilities. Members people aware of our transport now identified the main areas of improvement for our products, are also encouraged to participate emissions; the beehives offer and a set of actions plans has been defined and validated for new product versions with reduced environmental impact. in inter-company bike events. Fifty people signed the Cycling Club protection to an endangered For instance: charter in 2012, and in September 32 employees took part in the Green species and provide valuable • Carrying out technical/cost analysis of new eco-design Bike Challenge as part of European lessons about their importance packaging proposals; Mobility week. to our ecosystems.” • Including the Eco-design request in development process The second program, launched in documentation; June, saw four beehives installed on the Meudon Campus rooftops. HSE Team, • Using Eco-design tools for all new developments; The aim is to raise awareness of Meudon, France • Carrying out alternative material use study. Gemalto 38 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Progress on green product strategy Case Study In 2012, we continued to implement our green product strategy. This included: PET bottle exchange: • The sale of around 250 million smaller SIM cards, mostly as ‘plug only’ but also as ‘half cards’ which reduce the amount Iztapalapa, Mexico of plastic required; • The certification of our PLA banking card by VISA and MasterCard; additionally, we launched a new dual interface PLA card; • The production of around 10 million carbon compensated In October 2012, Gemalto Iztapalapa In total, 10,224 PET bottles were banking cards. manufacturing site introduced a handed in and sold to a third party, new recycling campaign focused who in turn will sell them on to other We also continued to promote dematerialized e-solutions. on Polyethylene terephthalate (PET), industries for reuse as raw materials. which is commonly used in beverage 165 each of T-shirts, bags and For example, we carried out an evaluation of the environmental bottles. The aim of the campaign plants were given out in exchange benefits of Gemalto’s offers – particularly those for the was to increase awareness of for the bottles. Government Business Unit. environmental issues and motivate employees to play an active role in the company’s sustainable development. For the banking market, our ‘PIN by SMS’ application will allow us to fully eliminate the paper usage usually associated with this service. During the campaign, employees were encouraged to exchange bottles made from PET for ecoWhen it comes to legal compliance, we continue to focus on friendly goods bought specially improving processes to ensure that our products meet regulations. by the company, such as recycled supermarket bags, plants and As for RoHS regulations, in past years we have gathered chemical T-shirts made from recycled cotton. The aim of the campaign was analysis from accredited third-party laboratories for our many card The campaign coordinators used various communications channels to get employees engaged and reader products. When a small number of customers asked about the safety of certain card products, we also verified that to reinforce the message of ‘reduce, with an important environmental reuse, recycle’, and reminded they complied with EN71-4 ‘Safety of Toys’ legislation. participants that even after being issue, and we were surprised disposed of the PET bottles could still have another valuable use. and delighted with the results. REACH and WEEE Far more people took part than In 2012, we continued to focus our efforts on two main areas: Employees at Iztapalapa responded • REACH compliance – optimizing our processes and tools to enthusiastically to the challenge, and we expected and we hope this improve the monitoring of compliance concerning substances within three days more eco-friendly products had to be purchased. process will help to change identified by the European Chemical Agency (ECHA). attitudes and behaviors All purchasers and HSE managers worldwide now enjoy throughout the company.” user-friendly access to our central database; • Strengthening the WEEE compliance process – by Antonio Bonilla Ceballos, subcontracting the declaration of sold quantities and HSE Engineer, Mexico eco-tax payments to an external expert, the European Recycling Platform (ERP) company. Gemalto 39 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Finally, we continued to reduce waste, as well as consumption Case Study of energy and water. We also improved the management of our supply chain processes. Developing Bio-Sourced Reducing impacts payment options: The operation of our sites – particularly those involving Austria manufacturing – is one aspect where Gemalto can make a difference both up and down the supply chain. While we invest significantly to develop greener products, our largest As part of our commitment to deliver environmental gains in the last ten years have been in environmentally-friendly products and services, in October 2012 operational processes. Gemalto launched the world’s first bio-sourced payment card. Made Reducing our environmental impact by lowering resource from renewable material derived from corn, the card was developed consumption remains a key objective. We closely monitor in partnership with Raiffeisen, energy (including electricity, gas and fuel) and water usage Austria’s leading banking group, for in line with our corporate plans. its Austrian cardholders. The card is part of Gemalto’s Clarista range of payment solutions and will be offered Waste reduction and management is another key focus for to users under the Raiffeisen Climate manufacturing sites where waste screening has been established Protection Initiative. for many years. The card material is easily recyclable and compostable and is designed to Freight transportation also represents a significant factor in our reduce the global ecological footprint of the production process. During global carbon footprint and in 2011 we set ourselves a target of the first phase of the project, the card reducing the environmental impact of our product delivery (see will come with a prepaid balance Focus article page 42). and will use Gemalto’s customized EcoPack packaging, which is also made from recycled material. Gemalto’s Bio-Source card… offers The launch of the Bio-Sourced card is another sustainability milestone us a solution with all security in a long-standing innovation and functionality requirements partnership between Gemalto and Raiffeisen; one that will help to further which fits perfectly with our both companies’ commitment to developing products and services company values.” which generate an ecological added value. Johannes Schuster, Member of the Managing Board of Raiffeisen Zentralbank Gemalto 40 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Energy consumption Energy consumption Based on our 20 ISO 14001 certified sites (GWh) In 2012, we continued to make significant progress in reducing our energy consumption: 148.4 148.5 • We reduced worldwide consumption of energy (electricity, 136.7 128.9 fuel and gas measured in GWh) by 6% and by 3% on a constant basis. This was achieved through programs based on the results of specific energy audits in the majority of our manufacturing sites. 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Out of 18 sites, seven exceeded the 5% reduction objective, with the most positive impacts seen in Barcelona (Spain), Tczew (Poland), Fildersatdt (Germany), Shanghai (China), Cuernavaca (Mexico), and La Ciotat and Meudon (France). Water consumption • Some banking card production sites have increased their Based on our 20 ISO 14001 certified sites consumption as they significantly increased their production (thousand m3) in 2012 compared to 2011 (for example Curitiba and Barueri 182.9 in Brazil, and Singapore). 169.8 173.6 132.9 Water consumption • Global water consumption in 2012 decreased globally by 30%, and by 13% on a constant basis. The main reason is the closure of one of our sites in China. 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Out of 18 sites, 10 exceeded the 5% reduction objective, with the most positive impacts seen in Tczew (Poland), Filderstadt (Germany), Shanghai (China), Singapore, Curitiba (Brazil) and Water consumption per employee Gémenos, La Ciotat and Meudon sites (France). Based on our 20 ISO 14001 certified sites • There were negative impacts associated with a leak in (m3/person) Barcelona (Spain) and to an increase in wafer sawing in Pont-Audemer (France). 21.1 18.1 18.8 16.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gemalto 41 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Waste quantity Waste valorization Case Study In our 20 ISO 14001 certified sites (tons) Valorization of waste from our production processes is often 4644 4484 4402 4207 above 85%. This is because manufacturing yields are quite high, Energy saving initiatives 1676 988 825 566 and both plastic and lead-frame skeleton waste is separated for recycling. Waste indicators for 2012 show positive results in France and Spain 3496 3577 3641 compared to 2011: 2968 • The quantity of waste decreased by 5% globally, and by 2% on a constant basis; • Out of 18 sites, six exceeded the 5% reduction target. 2009 2010 2011 2012 Most sites reduced their impacts through miscellaneous As part of Gemalto’s leadership consumption in 2009, which continuous improvement actions; commitment to sustainability, it is corresponds to €410,000 in Non-valorized waste crucial that our individual sites are cumulative savings in Gémenos. In Valorized waste • The global percentage of waste valorization shows able to monitor and reduce the 2013, new schemes will be trialled a significant increase at 87% versus 81% in 2011; carbon emissions arising from their and, if successful, deployed. For • In parallel, we continue our efforts to reduce our waste operations. In 2012, teams in France example, the teams are currently and Spain expanded energy savings working on an electrical power Valorized waste production and this year we achieved a 5% reduction of schemes designed to limit their reduction program aimed at making In our 20 ISO 14001 certified sites our non hazardous waste. carbon footprints and contributions savings during periods of peak (in % of weight) to global warming. energy usage. They are also shifting to ‘Green IT’ by optimizing the power In France, the Gémenos and La used in the sites’ computer rooms. 87 Ciotat sites have been running energy 78 81 savings programs since 2003. These In Spain, meanwhile, the HSE 64 programs are based on regular committee at our Barcelona site set energy audits which generate reports out to achieve ISO 50001 certification and suggestions for improvement. as part of its commitment to energy They also lead to the creation of savings and sustainability. ISO 50001 dedicated taskforces to address specifies requirements for establishing, 2009 2010 2011 2012 key areas of energy reduction. implementing, maintaining and Assessments of the sites’ building improving an energy management structures, for example, have led to system. The aim of the certification leaks being identified and repaired process is to develop a systematic Hazardous waste to minimise energy wastage. The approach to continual improvement in teams have also adopted monitoring energy performance, including energy technology which allows them to efficiency, use and consumption. follow energy consumption in real 211 190 193 time at both sites. As a result, In the second quarter of 2012, the 4273 4212 4014 corrective actions have been tested team began implementing ISO 50001 and implemented – such as presence in all areas of the plant, and by detectors to activate lights and shut December Barcelona became the down air conditioning at night. first Gemalto site to achieve full ISO 50001 certification. To accompany the 2010 2011 2012 Between 2010 and the end of 2012, implementation process, employees these and other measures saved also participated in an energy Quantity of Hazardous waste per year 5.773 KWh compared with efficiency awareness-raising initiative. (ISO 14001 certified sites) Quantity of non hazardous waste per year (ISO 14001 certified sites) Gemalto 42 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Focus article Freight transportation Transport has been identified as one of suppliers responsible for delivering Gemalto • The use of ‘consolidated’ trucks (containing the main sources of Gemalto’s carbon products to customers. Reporting coverage freight from different companies) as opposed emissions, representing on average 20% of now extends to 14 Gemalto sites across to ‘dedicated’ trucks (containing only the company’s global carbon footprint. To Europe, Asia and Latin America. Gemalto freight); address this issue, in 2011 we set ourselves • Round trips (using the same truck to carry the target of reducing the environmental Using a consistent reporting method, Gemalto out multiple deliveries and returning to the impact of our products delivery. We also has also launched quarterly reviews of key original destination); started to calculate the freight CO2 emissions performance indicators (KPIs) to follow up • ‘Milk runs’ (using the same truck for of our principal logistics suppliers, using performances and launch relevant action plans. distribution and collection); ADEME (French Environment and Energy Our policy is to promote transport modes and • The regrouping of orders at time of shipment. Management Agency) methodology. methods with the lowest associated CO2 emissions. To this end we encourage: As the pie chart illustrates, we changed the Our carbon measurement tool for freight • Sea-based freight transportation; distribution of our transport modes during the is used to track the main transportation • Road over air when appropriate; year, increasing the use of sea and road by 1% and 5% respectively, and reducing air by 6%. With the transport of freight, our Transport mode repartition by weight Transport mode repartition by weight Despite our ‘just-in-time’ production strategy principal aims are to reduce our H1 2011 H1 2012 which favors quick transportation modes, the overall environmental impact, ensure 8 9 number of manufacturing sites shipping by sea, we report on this reduction clearly, and the number of destinations covered by sea routes, increased in 2012: four sites in total (out and use the data we capture to 55 of a possible 14), and close to 30 destinations. deliver improvements internally. 37 49 Through robust measurement and 42 With our CO2 reporting method now established, reporting, Gemalto is able to acquire in 2013 we will focus on extending our measuring and reporting activities to minor, mainly local detailed information that is unique transport suppliers. One of the main objectives for a major export company.” Air Air Road Road for the year will be to deploy consolidated Sea Sea trucks as the standard mode of road freight Isabelle Pannelier, transportation. Corporate Transport Coordinator Gemalto 43 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Environment continued Other Information Focus article Green offer For many years we have incorporated delivers more green benefits to clients and chemically recycled back to its initial resin sustainable solutions into our products. end-users than conventional formats. over and over again without loss of quality. It is As part of this, we have devised a Life non-petroleum based, biodegradable, industrially Cycle Assessment (LCA) program to help Under the SEED offer, customers can either compostable and non-toxic if incinerated. us quantify the environmental impact of select the plug-in-only, non-ISO card option, or our manufacturing and apply eco-design they can retain full ISO card functionality. If they Aware of the pressure on natural resources, principles to new product development. choose this option, they can offset the CO2 we are now applying our PLA research to We have also pioneered tools like our carbon emissions associated with the card’s production. long-term projects, such as deriving PLA from We’re taking a real green approach footprint modeling scheme which helps agricultural waste or using recycled PLA. to card production and packaging. It customers calculate the CO2 emissions – Green offer for Banks associated with a product, identify where In 2012 we launched our Green offer for Green Factory will take time, but we are starting improvements can be made and establish Banks, built around four key pillars: As part of our global environmental policy, to see a shift in customer demand.” plans for impact reduction. we embrace green manufacturing practices. Dematerialization All our major sites are ISO 14001 certified, and Florent Abat In 2012, we created a new Bio-Sourced Our range of services helps reduce the paper we promote eco-design through training and Cardbody and Packaging Field banking card using polylactic acid (PLA) consumption associated with delivering and the use of LCA to evaluate the environmental Marketing Manager which has been validated and endorsed by activating cards, informing cardholders and impacts of our products. We also measure our VISA and MasterCard (see below). And in providing issuers with electronic reporting sites’ carbon footprints and offer a scheme order to meet increasing customer demands, solutions. These include a card carrier compiler enabling customers to offset unavoidable CO2 our marketing team restructured its green tool which enables customers to frequently emissions by supporting programs in countries offer, focusing on two key areas: update online content, and a PIN-by-SMS particularly affected by climate change. service. Our Allynis Card Companion also links Using PLA we’ve created the first – Eco-friendly solutions for Telecoms payment cards with smartphones to make it End-of-Life truly Bio-Sourced banking card, For mobile network operators we have easy for banks to contact cardholders without With the introduction of PLA, Gemalto also which really lets us enhance our developed a range of eco-friendly card-body using paper. seeks end-of-life alternatives for our banking forms. Our new SEED product, for example, customers. By acting as an intermediary between clients’ sustainability performance is a plug-in-only SIM card which combines Alternative materials them and recycling companies, we can facilitate and credentials.” smarter and smaller card bodies and Gemalto’s MasterCard and Visa-approved their end-of-life product management. packaging. Employing new manufacturing Bio-Sourced bank card is made from PLA using David Noel-Lardin technology, it is the first of its kind and renewable sources such as corn and can be Banking Card Product Marketing Manager Gemalto 44 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Developing valuable, responsible relationships Business Behaviors and Social Factors Human rights 45 Customers45 Customer survey 45 Quality and reliability 46 Innovation47 Suppliers47 CSR Purchasing Charter 49 Consumers49 Supporting our end-users 50 Responsible solutions 50 Community involvement 54 Employee involvement 54 Gemalto 45 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact we benchmark our policies and results against world-class companies, reviewing them annually against the Compact’s ten principles. “We value our customers Human Rights A relationship based on trust We base our relationships with customers on trust. This is vital Gemalto supports and complies with The Universal Declaration very highly, and we do in every sector they work in – telecoms, public service, finance, of Human Rights and International Labor Organization (ILSO) enterprise and so on. With decades of experience in the field, Standards. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact everything we can to our clients know they can trust us to manage their own sensitive (UNGC) we also benchmark our policies and results against digital data; and that their end-users – their subscribers, citizens, world-class companies, reviewing them annually against foster constructive, durable banking card holders, employees and so on – can be confident the Compact’s ten principles including those on human of our capacity to handle their personal information. They also and labor rights. relationships with them.” need to trust us to deliver high-quality products and services to their end-users – and provide support for any problems. Through our Code of Ethics we aim to apply the highest ethical and professional standards, whether or not they are imposed by At Gemalto we work hard to earn and merit this trust. So we law. Thus in relation to human rights, our employment practices design our strategy and everyday operations around customer prohibit discrimination and harassment against applicants or needs. We also interact with customers in an open and employees in all their forms. This includes any such behavior on transparent way. And we create solutions with dedication the grounds of race, color, nationality, gender, age, religion, sexual and an eye for excellence. orientation, and physical and mental disabilities. Hence when recruiting new employees, we actively encourage applicants of Customer survey every race, gender, religion, nationality, sexual orientation, age Every year we commission a customer listening program – and ability. Above all we aim to be fair and inclusive, and we the ‘Tell Me’ survey. This includes interviews with customers value diversity as a distinct competitive advantage. who rate their satisfaction with various aspects of our business. It enables us to take account of their views on sustainability, Customers amongst many other topics, and hence affect our approach to We value our customers very highly. And we do everything CSR. It also provides a wealth of data, helping us to measure we can to foster constructive, durable relationships with our performance and improvements, and influencing our them – focusing on their needs, living up to our promises strategic direction. and encouraging their feedback. Gemalto 46 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Customers survey results* In 2012, we held 250 Tell Me interviews. Our average score of In 2012, we continued to develop our ‘Lean Six Sigma’ culture. Satisfaction index over 1000 718 out of 1,000 rated us ‘world class’ against our global peer Our ‘World Class Enterprise Group’, a worldwide, 60-staff unit, group for customer confidence. We also ranked ‘best in class’ aims to protect stakeholders and continuously improve quality. 723 736 against companies in other industry sectors. The unit, whose members have undergone comprehensive 719 718 training, also anticipates new regulations and standards to Another key result from Tell Me is the high satisfaction level ensure Gemalto complies with best practice. We also ran the of our customers – 85% in 2012. third edition of our ‘Operations Excellence Award’, another important quality program to identify the best contributions to 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012’s Tell Me results also confirmed our main strengths: customer satisfaction, quality, service and cost improvements. • Quality and security of products delivered (especially * Historical data are restated each year to match the panel variations. in Secure Transactions and Security products); We gave two gold awards this year. The first went to our • Managed services for classical solutions in Mobile manufacturing center in Barcelona for a revolutionary new Communications; method for reducing the setup time of our printing machines. Sites with ISO 9001 compared with those targeted • Our customers: The second went to a supply chain transport optimization ––recognize our strong service-oriented culture and see us program aimed at reducing both the environmental impact % as dedicated and available to them; and cost of transportation. Alongside positive Tell Me results, Company current target: 100% ––view us as the industry leader compared to the competition; over the last two years we have seen a 16% reduction in the 96 100 96 100 ––appreciate our technical skills and knowledge. overall number of significant customer claims. By the end of 2012, we had completed 70% of the customerQuality is central to our working methods. We operate on a focused initiatives generated by Tell Me. In fact, all company areas ‘make-to-order’ rather than a ‘make-to-stock’ basis. This means are involved in developing and implementing action plans for our we source raw materials according to customer requests. We 2009 2010 2011 2012 customers. These include software development, support and make components based on functional specifications. And we Sites targeted by ISO 9001 certification: production sites, maintenance, and time to market, to name but a few. create bespoke products tailored entirely to customer needs. main R&D and personalization sites and headquarters. Throughout 2012 we improved our Service Level Agreement Quality and reliability (SLA) for the personalization of our banking products, focusing Reduction in significant claims by customers Given the importance of digital security in the modern world, on punctuality and quality in the delivery of our products. Our Tell % it’s vital that we perform to the highest quality levels. Me survey showed clearly that this parameter is now the most important to our customers, as indicated in our previous -6.0 -10.25 For several years Gemalto has operated a proven and stable sustainability report. -5.6 quality management system. We now have 26 sites with ISO 9001 quality certification. This represents 100% of our main sites and 76% of our employees worldwide. In 2012, ISO 9001 certification was awarded to two more sites in Jakarta 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Indonesia) and Shanghai (China). Gemalto 47 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information €177m Innovation Suppliers Innovation is one of Gemalto’s three core values. We’re constantly Our objective is to influence our suppliers so that any negative innovating to serve our customers with technologies that both impacts they may have are kept to a minimum, and at the same enhance digital security and have a positive impact on society invested in R&D in 2012 time to attain a viable supply chain that supports our business and the environment. objectives. By achieving both of these goals we maintain a truly sustainable situation for everyone involved. Indeed, our commitment to innovation is such that in 2012, we 1,700+ invested over €177 million in R&D activities. The daily search for new ideas starts with our international team of over 1,700 digital scientists based in our worldwide network of 13 Research and Our approach Our responsible purchasing model aims to influence our suppliers’ business practices so that we minimize the social and environmental Development centers. Their expert work is enhanced by the digital scientists risks that could arise from their operations. The model, which creativity of Gemalto’s entire workforce who are encouraged is based on electronics industry best practices, includes: to submit suggestions through our Business Innovation Garage • The revision of our purchasing policy which now includes (BIG) think-tank. 4,300 key environmental and ethical elements; • The Gemalto Purchasing CSR Charter, which sets up our The BIG has been in place since 2007. Its success is such purchasing principles and our expectations towards our suppliers; that in 2012 alone it received some 350 propositions. Of these, • A CSR risk analysis of our main suppliers, which assesses, 15 projects were selected for further investigation. And after a patents and patent ranks and monitors suppliers’ social, environmental and process of analysis against a number of criteria, five ‘incubation applications in 2012 business performances; cells’ were activated in order to develop prototypes which can • The creation of a supplier CSR self-assessment questionnaire subsequently be presented to our customers. to help complete the risk analysis. 110 new inventions first filed in 2012 Gemalto 48 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Focus article CSR supplier audits need for further enquiry or qualification. If, after Based on SAQ results from 2011, we carried we have received additional documentation, we out five partial audits in 2012, and five full are still concerned about a supplier’s CSR risk supplier audits – two in China and three potential, we carry out a rigorous company audit. in Russia. As part of our site visits and consultations, we conducted 12 questionnaires Each audit comprises site visits and interviews throughout the year. We also provided on-site carried out by representatives of three training to enable our suppliers to understand separate Gemalto departments – Internal the issues they face and how best to deal with Audit, Purchasing and Quality, Health, Safety them. For all of those suppliers audited in 2012, and Environment (QHSE) – as well as relevant we will be following up with self-assessment managers from local Gemalto sites. During progress-checks after six months and the interviews, suppliers are taken through additional site visits after a year if necessary. an additional questionnaire covering areas As part of our efforts to improve the way such as CSR management, ethics, working The auditing process helps our suppliers we procure goods and services, in 2010 we conditions, environment and health and safety. to understand what is expected of them and introduced a Responsible Purchasing Model Detailed on-site checks and assessments are how they can align with our commitments. and conducted a procurement risk analysis. also carried out. Specifically, it reinforces the non-binding Thank you very much for your… CSR These measures are designed to influence pledges set out in the Gemalto Purchasing audit in our factory. We appreciate our suppliers’ business practices and Following each site visit, the Gemalto team CSR Charter (which all suppliers were your suggestions which are very minimize the social and environmental compiles an audit report which highlights requested to sign in 2011) to improve the lives risks arising from their operations. issues ranked ‘minor’, ‘important’ or ‘critical’, of workers, to contribute to environmental helpful for us in the… improvement and identifies where a supplier is performing protection, and to ensure healthy, fair and of the company. We will act Within this program, in 2011 we developed a satisfactorily, where there are control transparent business relationships. While CSR according to the promises we made supplier CSR self-assessment questionnaire deficiencies, and where there are actual is a relatively new concept for many of our and spare no efforts to develop an (SAQ). The aim of the SAQ is to establish breaches of CSR standards. We also develop suppliers, feedback from 2012 shows that whether suppliers have CSR policies and detailed action plans and recommendations. the auditing process is proving a valuable excellent enterprise. You are warmly procedures in place, and to elicit information Where issues are seen to be critical we insist and positive experience, enabling companies welcome to come back to us for necessary to assess their performance against that immediate actions are taken. to save time and money, improve site security further inspection and audit.” targets. It is sent to suppliers that show up and develop more robust ethical practices. ‘orange’ or ‘red’ in risk analysis, highlighting the Chinese supplier Gemalto 49 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Gemalto’s awards 2011-2012 CSR Purchasing Charter Comprising 49 questions, the SAQ reinforces the non-binding During 2012, we focused our efforts on communicating with our pledges set out in the Gemalto Purchasing CSR Charter. It covers Stock market performance: suppliers regarding the implementation and deployment of our a range of topics including commitments to international CSR BFM France 2012 CSR purchasing policy. initiatives (UNGC, Global e-Sustainability Initiative), labor policies and practices (relating to child labor, freedom of association, Secure printing innovation: The first step was to get our CSR Purchasing Charter agreed wages and benefits), compliance with environmental legislation Cartes 2012 and signed by our main corporate panel of suppliers covering (REACH, RoHS), raw materials usage, actions to mitigate Best contribution to R&D: 65% of our spending. environmental impacts, and CSR key performance indicators LTE Summit 2012 (KPIs). Each SAQ is also tailored to local corporate cultures and Excellent products: The Gemalto Purchasing CSR Charter is a key part of our climates – for example, including a strong focus on business PayNews, China 2012 Responsible Purchasing Model and underpins our commitment ethics in regions where corruption is known to be a problem – and to the UN Global Compact (UNGC). The signature of this supported by all relevant public information that can be obtained. Financial industry solution: document represents a mutual pledge to improve the lives and China 2012 protect the health of workers contributing to Gemalto products The SAQ is sent to suppliers that show up ‘orange’ or ‘red’ Safety and Security in IT: and services within our global supply chain, to contribute to during the CSR risk analysis, highlighting the need for further Computerworld 2012 environmental protection and ensure a fair and transparent enquiry or qualification. Once suppliers have completed and business relationship. returned the survey, we organize conference calls to verify Mobile Commerce: answers and request further evidence to corroborate claims. Juniper Research 2012 We are proud to see that 92% of our corporate suppliers have If, after we have received additional documentation, we are M-Commerce: already signed this proposed CSR Purchasing Charter. still concerned about a supplier’s CSR risk potential, we carry Future Mobile Awards 2012 out a rigorous company audit (see page 48 for more information). Security innovation: The second step was to insert an ethical clause in any new Cloud Awards 2012 Gemalto contract, which represents a legal commitment to our Consumers CSR policy (now included in 82% of our corporate contracts Smart Grid excellence: As a Business-to-Business company, our prime objective is to with our main suppliers). TMC 2011 satisfy our customers. But we can’t do that unless we provide solutions that delight their end-users. So we make it an Innovation efficiency: We also finalized our CSR risk analysis of our main suppliers important part of our mission to reach out to consumers, find BearingPoint 2011 and implemented the Gemalto SAQ (self-assessment out about their concerns and come up with ideas they’ll want questionnaire). The SAQ is designed to establish whether Secure cloud computing: to adopt. suppliers have CSR policies and procedures in place, and to Cartes 2011 elicit information necessary to assess suppliers’ performance We are also conscious of the wider role we play in the emerging Best enabling technology: against targets. digital world. By its nature it is already having a positive and LTE Summit 2011 flattening effect on society – making information and services Best innovator: available to vast numbers of people who, through a variety of A.T. Kearney 2011 personal, economic and social circumstances, were previously excluded from these benefits. Gemalto 50 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Our role is to accelerate and optimize that effect. Working There are four editions of JustAskGemalto; a generic global eGovernment: benefiting society and the environment behind the scenes, we build in the security that adds the vital site and localized versions for three of our key markets: the Over the last decade, Gemalto has contributed to the quality of confidence to people’s daily interactions. We provide USA, France and Brazil. modernization of state infrastructure, technology and processes our services not just to the most advanced countries, but many in countries around the world. The main aim of our work in this less developed nations too, helping to bring democracy and JustAskGemalto is important to our evolution as an industry area is to help transform the relationship between citizens and social justice to their citizens. And we ensure that many of leader. It enables us to fulfill our responsibilities to end-users governments and support the transition to more sustainable our applications work not only on the smartest of devices but around the world. And it also keeps customers informed about societies. It is part of a long-term program of innovation and also on the most basic of handsets, so that consumers with key trends and concerns in people’s everyday digital lives. change included under the broad heading of ‘e-Government’. low budgets and little infrastructure can still – for example – transfer money and access social networks, even in the Site statistics Through the development of sophisticated online tools and remotest of regions. JustAskGemalto attracts tens of thousands of visitors a month smart card devices, Gemalto has pioneered electronic ID and has had nearly three million visits since its launch. Every initiatives which enable a more secure and transparent flow of Supporting our end-users year we receive a large number of questions via the website on information between people and public administrations. This The smartphone and social network boom shows that many all areas of online and mobile security and services. 2012 was has brought about major improvements and successes in people enjoy the convenience of online and mobile services. no exception, and in fact visitor numbers rose by more than health, security and social services, helping to deliver costOthers, though, find them complicated to use and feel 50% to over 700,000. Visitors tended to find answers to their savings, reduce inefficiencies and simplify people’s lives. vulnerable when interacting digitally. Several studies have questions from the existing information on the site, although we also shown that many people have security concerns about did receive 821 new questions. These questions, although down What’s more, the shift to paperless procedures and smart card the privacy of personal data or when money is involved – from the previous year (there were 1,066 in 2011) seemed to be technology has a positive effect on the environment; each card for example, when transferring funds via online banking. more relevant, leading to the publication of an extra 157 digital lasts from five to ten years, has a relatively low carbon footprint security tips on the site. and cuts back the bureaucracy and material waste associated As a leader in digital security we feel we have a role to engage with administrative processes. directly with end-users and extend our mission to help people On-line support for consumers to better understand the digital world. We also believe that JusAskGemalto website For example, certain Green IT schemes have enabled Gemalto experts can help reassure people needing quick 2009 2010 2011 2012 administrations to improve administrative efficiency, and reduce advice and practical guidance in all areas of digital security. Questions asked from visitors 793 959 1066 821 social security red tape through the transition to paperless By addressing end-user concerns and demystifying technology, New tips created and posted 117 139 77 157 procedures. In addition, a country’s tax payers can receive more people will get the most from our customers’ advanced text warnings for payment deadlines, reducing late payments digital services. by 30%; smart card technology can modernize relationships Responsible solutions between patients and healthcare professionals; and online Practical, convenient advice Many of our solutions have a demonstrably positive benefit tools can transform the public sector and deliver collaborative, Our response is a consumer advice website – JustAskGemalto. for society and for end-users. inclusive and high-quality services for citizens and companies. com. Containing articles, FAQs, news and tutorials on everyday digital security issues, it offers “practical answers for your For further information see Gemalto’s white paper ‘E-Gov 2.0 digital life”, responding to basic consumer questions on mobile – Towards a sustainable society’, published in 2011. telephony, biometrics and the internet. It also answers specific questions posted by users. Gemalto 51 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information M2M: supporting safety Case Study Gemalto is the world leader in machine-to-machine (M2M) technology, which is capable of reducing costs and improving Gemalto M2M technology efficiencies by connecting machines across a wide range of industries. It plays a key role in remote maintenance and control, helps preserve Amazon tracking and tracing, industrial mobile computing, metering and rainforest in Brazil smart grids, payment systems, healthcare, security systems and more. In 2012 Gemalto provided wireless This enables law enforcement agents The automotive and road transport sectors also benefit from connectivity for an innovative device and the Brazilian environmental M2M, for example in tracking stolen vehicles and enabling used in a pilot program to thwart protection agency, IBAMA, to respond intelligent traffic systems. illegal deforestation in Brazil’s in real time, trace the loggers to Amazon rainforest. Developed by sawmills and prevent the sale and Cargo Tracck™, a technology leader profit from illegally harvested lumber. In addition, recent European legislation has promoted the use in Brazil, the device uses Gemalto’s With the rugged durability and of M2M in automotive emergency call (eCall) systems which Cinterion M2M technology, together sophisticated power management with local cellular networks, to send system of Gemalto’s Cinterion M2M help to save lives and increase road safety. Designed to reduce location updates from sensors in solution, the device can operate reliably emergency response time, the ‘112’ eCall service is a pantrees to a central server. This allows in the field for over a year without European, interoperable M2M system that allows vehicles (and officials to remotely track trees needing to recharge its batteries. removed from protected areas. passengers) to automatically call for help in the case of a road incident. As air bags or other in-vehicle sensors are triggered, The solution was deployed to detect Gemalto technology establishes a secure network connection unauthorized logging activities missed by traditional satellite surveillance and and initiates a standardized ‘112’ voice call with the nearest radio monitoring. Smaller than a deck emergency call center. The system automatically sends key of cards, the discreet device combines situation data, including exact incident location, time stamp, Gemalto’s tiny module with cuttingedge localization algorithms and new Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) and more, to emergency Radiation Exchange Data (RED) operators who dispatch appropriate services in real time. technology that extends the range of The solution can be activated manually by passengers when wireless communications in low-signal areas. The solution is covertly installed needed. Helping global automakers meet EU standards for in trees located in active harvesting eCall, Gemalto recently announced that it had collaborated areas and sends alarm notifications in the launch of Japan’s first eCall testing facility. It is the first and exact location information to officials as soon as trees pass within such facility outside Europe, allowing Japanese automakers 20 miles of a cellular network. to locally test solutions destined for the European Union. Gemalto 52 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information M2M and the environment Digital solutions: enhancing lives in developing regions M2M applications can have a wide range of positive impacts Digital technology is having a positive effect on people’s lives on the environment, for example through: in many developing countries around the world. In Africa, for • Remote metering, which reduces the need for manual meter example, Gemalto’s products are improving lives in countless reading, cutting down associated travel and CO2 emissions. ways which include: • Home energy monitoring, which is anticipated to become part • Storm warnings by SMS, protecting fishermen on Lake of our daily lives in the next ten years. This allows people to Victoria in East Africa; monitor their energy use, for example through smart feedback • SMS messaging, reminding patients about their visits to about their consumption of electricity, gas and water. It also HIV clinics and delivering test results; helps them to understand the potential environmental impact • ePassports in Nigeria, South Africa, Senegal and the Ivory of the goods they buy, and to make purchases based on Coast, protecting people from identity theft and making it accurate information about energy efficiency. easier to complete transactions; • Managing vehicle fleets more economically and ecologically. • eHealth cards in Gabon, improving access to healthcare Using M2M technology, businesses can monitor their fleets and health insurance systems. remotely and carry out more efficient logistical planning based With the development of sustainable solar-powered cellphones, on vehicle freight and destination. This can help to increase fuel digital technology looks set to bring even more benefits to efficiency and save time, reducing costs and CO2 emissions. African economies and communities in the future. • Eco-drive applications, which monitor the style of commercial vehicle drivers and, by providing remote advice, help to reduce Mobile Financial Services: promoting digital democracy fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Our solutions help make digital interactions secure and easy • Demand response management applications, which help for billions of people all over the world, including those living reduce the use of oil, gas and coal in the generation of in poverty, in remote areas and in other disadvantaged electricity by balancing its production (especially from circumstances. We estimate that our Mobile Money solutions fluctuating renewable sources like wind and sun) with its are available to a total of 67 million people. This is particularly domestic and industrial consumption. true for our Mobile Financial Services (MFS). Because our solutions work on all devices, there is no limit to the consumers In addition, Gemalto’s M2M track-and-trace technology, more who can use them. This is particularly important in emerging commonly used in parcel logistics, has recently been used for economies, where most handsets are basic models. What’s the long-term management of trees in the Amazon rainforest. more, opening up financial services to anyone with a handset By providing wireless connectivity for sensors hidden in trees, extends important life choices – which is especially significant updates about their location can be sent to a central server. for the five billion people worldwide without a bank account. This allows officials to remotely track those removed from protected areas and hence thwart illegal deforestation. Gemalto 53 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Our Mobile Financial Services include: Case Study • Mobile Banking: allowing people in developed and developing markets to gain secure access to banking services with any A driving force mobile device; and helping banks to deliver those services at lower cost, even without branches or internet coverage. in sustainability: • Mobile Money: providing secure banking and payment Fareham, UK services for unbanked people with any handset in developing and semi-developed markets – and offering small businesses access to the global village. For many years, the Gemalto site in Through SBF, Gemalto Fareham ––In Bangladesh, we are helping to accelerate the deployment Fareham, UK, has put sustainability has been working to improve health of micro-banking across the country. Our solution aims to at the heart of its operations. Its and safety and promote sustainable provide access to secure banking services for unbanked environmental credentials are development among local businesses particularly well established. The site and residents. In 2012, SBF schemes people who live in both rural and urban areas and represent is ISO 14001 certified, has a C rating included a local schools environmental 76% of Bangladesh’s 150 million population. Their in its energy performance certificate, award and the improvement of transactions are validated with biometric data, which offer and in 2012 achieved a 50% reduction pavements and cycle-ways. Gemalto in energy consumption compared to employees filled 80 shoeboxes of gifts the most convenient means of verifying identity and provide 2011. And as a participant in the UK’s for children in Bosnia as part of Operation one of the highest degrees of digital security available today. carbon reduction commitment (CRC) Christmas Child, and donated four crates ––NetOne, a leading network operator in Zimbabwe, Africa, tax scheme, Fareham has reduced of food to the local Food Bank. is deploying our solution so that its subscribers can make its CRC payments from £80,000 to £35,000 a year and will soon be As a driving force within SBF, Gemalto SBF represents the interests secure and easy peer-to-peer money transfers, pay utility under the CRC limit. has helped to introduce a local CCTV and concerns of 180 companies network which has resulted in a 50% bills and top-up prepaid mobile accounts. In 2007, Fareham became the first reduction in crime on the estate. employing around 6,500 people. ––In Latin America, Citibank and America Movil have teamed up to offer our mobile money solution to millions of people Gemalto site to initiate carbon neutral card production through an offsetting In addition, the company has taken a leadership role in developing an By chairing SBF and taking throughout the region, starting with Mexico, Guatemala investment scheme. It has developed apprenticeship scheme to link local an active role in its activities, the use of biodegradable PLA cards people to training opportunities. and Colombia. This allows customers – including the and low-energy PET cards and Gemalto Fareham is helping to unbanked – to use basic mobile phones to set up bank devised a number of programs to enable customers to reduce their The Fareham team has also set up an HR Forum and HSE Club to support improve our trading environment, accounts, transfer money, withdraw cash from ATM, make purchases in store, receive payments and pay bills. In a carbon emissions. smaller companies, providing access enhance competitiveness for all to expertise, knowledge, networking second phase, the platform will be used by governments Recently, Fareham has also become and guidance in key business areas. companies on the estate, and to distribute billions of dollars in subsidies to poorer people active in the local community and engaged with a number of social make strong and positive links and for civil service payrolls. issues. The site’s core activities in this with the local community.” ––In India, the Department of Posts (DoP) and BSNL have area are linked to its prominent role launched our Mobile Money Transfer Service, enabling within the Segensworth Business Forum (SBF) – a consortium which Mark Sutton, people to use Post Offices to transfer money securely and represents the interests of companies Gemalto UK Operations Director quickly from one city to another, especially when they don’t on the Segensworth Industrial Estate where Gemalto Fareham is located. and Segensworth Business have a bank account. Forum Chairman Gemalto 54 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Community involvement Case Study Gemalto aims to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate. We help our employees to support local Supporting programs they feel strongly about. As a company we also make underprivileged youth: financial donations to specific causes and relief efforts. France By recruiting and training individuals in the countries where we do business, as well as organizing volunteering, we encourage local economies and support social development. Since 2007 Gemalto has played individual students, offered valuable an active role in Passeport Avenir, career guidance and generally helped a major tutoring program which to build participants’ confidence and Support for employee involvement engages underprivileged young people self-belief. Interview techniques, CV Many of our employees have long been involved in activities in partnership with companies from writing and career contacts were just designed to support their local communities. In 2008 we the Information and Communication some of the areas covered. At least Technologies (ICT) sector. 45 students received support from decided to encourage their efforts in a more focused way by Gemalto in 2012. launching a company-wide program, Your World. Its aim is Passeport Avenir was created in two-fold – to support local communities worldwide and to 2005 by SFR, one of France’s leading Gemalto also took part in collective mobile telecoms operators, and has activities alongside other Passeport harness our employees’ passion and commitment through subsequently received the backing Avenir Association members. These opportunities to champion causes they care about. of the French state. Enabling included training days for new tutors participants to enter one of France’s hosted at Gemalto Meudon and La prestigious grandes écoles or Ciotat, and visits to schools to deliver We support employees’ involvement in local non-profit universities specializing in engineering career-oriented workshops and talks. organizations which focus on the environment or humanitarian and business, the program provides activities. We invite those interested in Your World funding skills, training, and business-style mentoring to young people from to apply as individuals or as a team by sending a project depressed areas who might otherwise description to a Jury composed of a regional panel of local have limited opportunities. managers and employees. Today, a total of 14 companies are Passeport Avenir embraces the The Jury selects projects carefully, excluding any political or involved in Passeport Avenir, including Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, Orange, SFR, concept of inclusion and diversity. trade union body. For individual projects, the main criterion Accenture, Qualcomm, Atos Origin, It challenges the idea of social is the strong personal involvement of the employee in the Capgemini, SNCF, Crédit Mutuel and F1 Hotels. In 2012, a total of 776 pre-determinism and shows that organization. For group projects, the program should also students were tutored as part of the program, with 70% receiving full young people from disadvantaged provide opportunities for team building. Funds allocated to each project vary from 100 to 2,000 euros. scholarship support. backgrounds can access higher During the year, between 40 and levels of education and training.” 45 Gemalto employees volunteered as Passeport Avenir mentors. They provided support and advice to Valérie Godefroy, Human Resources Manager, Meudon Gemalto 55 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information 2012 Social investment In the five years since we first launched Your World, we have Case Study 2011 2012 supported 304 projects worldwide. In 2012 we funded 57 Your World (supporting 49,000 58,573 projects (up from 49 in 2011) involving 436 Gemalto employees. Foster care and employee volunteering) The increased number of projects is the result of a newlycreated strand within the Your World program called One-off Family Picnics: Other donations (*) 4,631 597 Volunteer Initiatives (see details below). Additional funded team US People Quest donation 8,575 8,976 activities have also enabled more and more employees to Total 62,206 68,146 get involved. (*) Company part only. In the US, Gemalto employees were Twelve Gemalto employees Your World initiatives 2012 involved in two separate picnic events volunteered at this year’s picnic, Projects funded by Your World program Employee-led initiatives during the year included: to help disadvantaged members of cooking food, painting faces, running • Participating in the Shanghai United Foundation walkathon, the community. activities and helping to clean up 2011 2012 afterwards. The day was a great with the ultimate goal of delivering eggs to children in poor In Austin, Texas, the company held its success and provided further EMEA ( ˇ) 15 23 areas (China); third Annual Backyard Family Picnic. opportunity for Gemalto and local • Supporting a solar energy project at Bounounko sewing The aim of this initiative is to bring community members to get to NORAM ( ˇ) 8 9 Gemalto staff and their families know one another. school, Mali (Africa); together, build team spirit and LATAM (ˇ ) 23 19 • Supporting Associació Amics d’El Xiprer, an organization provide food for local people in need. ASIA ( ˇ) 3 6 which distributes hot meals to the needy in homeless hostels Organized in partnership with the Capital Area Food Bank, the picnic Total 49 57 in Barcelona, Spain; was held outside the Austin offices on • Planting trees and grass to improve the facilities of El taller del October 26. Each family was asked to (ˇ) See page 24 for area definitions. maestro Prochavos, an institution that helps street children bring five non-perishable food items as a donation to the Food Bank. While there were no quantifiable and children in risk; targets for the picnic in • Providing basic computing and internet lessons for students Food donations in 2012 exceeded from the Fundación Alianza en Favor de la Mujer, Mexico; previous years’ efforts, totalling 517 Montgomeryville, all the young • Increasing organ and tissue donor awareness through a lbs of canned and packaged goods. According to the Capital Area Food people who attended – most of 5K/10K Run and 3K Walk, Montgomeryville, US. Bank, this was enough to provide whom have led difficult lives – roughly 550 meals for hungry people in Austin. seemed to have a great time. It The second picnic took place in was also a chance for us to get Montgomery, Pennsylvania, where out into the community and show Gemalto participated in the Annual Foster Parent Association Picnic. that Gemalto is a company that The idea behind the event is to create a fun day for disadvantaged young cares, a company that gives back.” people, with food, games, entertainment and prizes provided Prakesh Patel, for the adopted and foster children served by the Montgomery County Senior Human Resources Generalist, Office of Children and Youth. Montgomeryville Gemalto 56 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Local volunteering Case Study We believe that at every Gemalto site, it’s our employees who best understand the needs of local communities. This is why Hurricane Sandy each site offers employees the opportunity to organize local community activities, separate from the Your World program, relief effort either through volunteer-led community relations committees or HR managers. These committees and individuals devise volunteer events and help to target those issues that most affect local communities. Gemalto employees can then donate Gemalto employees and families time, money, food and other items to local people in need. were among the millions of people affected by Hurricane Sandy, a Local donations highlights 2012: Category 2 storm which hit the north-east coast of America in Throughout the year, employees in the UK raised a total October 2012. The initial danger of £11,945 for various charities, including: was severe, forcing the Gemalto ––Children in Need Operations plant in Pennsylvania to close for a day, while floods and To help raise money for this worthy cause, employees electrical failures continued for organised a charity cake bake and fundraising fancy some time afterwards. dress events. In keeping with the company’s policy ––Movember of making financial donations to Male employees grew moustaches during November specific causes and disaster relief in to generate funds for charity and raise awareness of countries where we operate, Gemalto offered to match any funds donated prostate and testicular cancer. by employees to help victims of the The hurricane caused widespread ––Operation Christmas Child hurricane. In the US, the amount Employees filled 80 shoeboxes with gifts for children raised by staff was matched and damage and affected the lives in Bosnia. contributed to relief efforts along the Eastern Seaboard. of so many people in the US. We wanted to do what we could In France, employees collected three truckloads of Christmas to help and our employees toys for underprivileged children. This is a project we undertake each year at our Gémenos, La Ciotat and Meudon sites in responded immediately. Hopefully partnership with Le Secours Populaire, a French organization the money we raised made a dedicated to fighting poverty and exclusion. difference and went some way to aiding the relief work.” Angeline Musser, Human Resources Generalist, Montgomeryville Gemalto 57 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Business Behaviors and Social Factors continued Other Information Additionally, in 2012 we decided to offer one-off volunteering PeopleQuest donations 2012 opportunities to employees throughout the company. These are (Euros) intended for those members of staff who are not involved with Organization Donation any particular charity or program, but who would still like to UNICEF 4,106 make a difference every now and then. Throughout the year we organized 13 such events, the majority of which were in sites WWF 2,591 which don’t yet have an established tradition of volunteering. As Red Cross and Red Crescent 2,279 part of this scheme, in Germany employees took part in a national Total 8,976 food collection initiative; in Finland, staff donated equipment and carried out repairs to an old people’s home; and in Singapore a Christmas Day event was organized for local orphans. PeopleQuest donation 2012 Each year we conduct an employee opinion survey (see page 30 for more information). We offer an incentive of one euro for each completed questionnaire, donated to organizations supported at Gemalto sites. Disaster relief Gemalto has a disaster relief policy as part of our commitment to society. This sets out how the company responds to sudden natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, tsunamis and floods. Our policy states that Gemalto will respond to disasters that occur in countries where we operate. We support local employees who coordinate their own response to events and request support from the company. We do this on a case-by-case basis by matching employees’ donations and providing technical help and guidance. We only ever make donations to reputable not-for-profit, non-governmental organizations. Gemalto 58 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Performance indicators Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Area Performance Page Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employee training • Number of employees trained on business practices 15 • Number of employees trained on fraud-related matters 15 Employees Demographic and diversity • Recruitment by region (%) 24 • Recruitment by gender and by position (%) 24 • Recruitment by nationality (number of nationalities and list of top five nationalities) 24 • % of employees with a permanent contract 24 • Exempt employees working elsewhere than in their mother country (%) 28 • % of expatriates within exempt population 28 • % of graduate women hired directly from schools and universities 23 Developing human resources • Training satisfaction (%) 27 • Average hours of training per person trained (worldwide and by region) 27 • Training budget (% of total salaries) 24 • % of exempt employees with an annual interview (appraisal) 28 Listening to employees • Employee satisfaction survey: ––Answer rate (worldwide/by region/by position) 30 ––Satisfaction rate (worldwide/by region/by position) 30 Employee turnover • ‘Exempt’ turnover rate (worldwide/by region) 23 Talent attraction • Number of graduates hired directly from schools and universities 23 Gemalto 59 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Performance indicators continued Other Information Area Performance Page Employees Health and safety • OHSAS certification ––Number of certified sites 32 ––% of sites covered 32 ––% of covered employees 32 • Employees accidents/injuries ––Number of injuries with lost time (by region) 32 ––Number of lost working days (by region) 33 • Evolution of the number of substances concerned by REACH regulation 33 Environment Carbon footprint • Number of sites having calculated their CO2 footprint 36 • Number of carbon compensated cards produced 36 Water consumption • Total* consumption of water in m3 40 • Consumption per employee 40 Energy consumption • Total* consumption of electricity, gas and fuel in GWh 40 Waste management • Total* waste generated in tons 41 • % of valorized waste (reused/recycled, including energy recovery) 41 • % of hazardous and non hazardous waste 41 Environmental certifications • ISO 14001 certifications ––Number of certified sites 35 ––% of sites coverage 36 ––% of covered employees 35 * In ISO 14001 certified sites Gemalto 60 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Performance indicators continued Other Information Area Performance Page Business Behaviors & Social Factors Customers Customer satisfaction • Customer survey results ––Index evolution 46 ––% of satisfied customers 46 Quality • ISO 9001 certification ––Number of certified sites 46 ––% of sites covered 46 ––% of covered employees 46 • Evolution of the number of significant claims by customers 46 Suppliers Responsible purchasing • % of suppliers who have signed the Purchasing Charter (among ‘key suppliers’) 49 • Number of supplier audits on CSR topics 48 Consumers On-line support to end-users/ • Number of questions received 50 consumers (www.justaskgemalto.com) • Number of new tips created and posted 50 Social benefits of our products • Number of people for whom our solutions make financial access possible 52 Community Social investment • Total amount of social investment in euros 55 ‘Your World’, corporate • Number of ‘employee-community’ projects funded (worldwide/by region) 55 funding program • Number of employees involved 55 Gemalto 61 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Index A-Z Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information Page Page Page Page Bribery  17 Energy consumption  40 ISO 9001 46 Safety at work 32-33 Carbon footprint/offset35-36 Environment 34-43 ISO 14001 36, 40-41 Security 19-20 Certification  04, 32 Ethics  14 ISO 14040-44  37 Stakeholder dialogue 04-05 Community  05, 54-57 Financial responsibility 20 Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) 37 Suppliers 04, 49 Compliance  04 Financial results  20-21 Materiality 03 Training (employees) 24-27 Consumers/end-users 49-50 Fraud  15 Mobility (employees) 28 Values 03 Corruption  17 Governance  14-18 OHSAS 18001 32 Volunteering (employees) 56-57 Customers 04, 45-47 Green products  36-39 Performance review (employees) 28 Waste valorization 41 Demographics (employees) 23 Hazardous substances 33 Purchasing 49 Water consumption 40 Disaster relief  57 Human rights  45 Quality 46 WEEE compliance  38-39 Diversity (employees) 23, 26 Indicators  58-60 REACH compliance 38 Whistle blower tool 17 Donations  55-57 Innovation  47 Responsible solutions 50-53 Eco-design  36 Internal audit  17-18 Risk management 18-19 Employees  22-33 Investor dialogue  05 RoHS  36 Gemalto 62 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Glossary of digital security terms Business Behaviors and Social Factors Other Information 3FF (Third Form Factor): a very small SIM card, also known DDA (Dynamic Data Authentication): an authentication ePurse: a small portable device that contains electronic money as a ‘micro-SIM’, for use in small mobile devices. technology that allows banks to approve transactions at and is generally used for low-value transactions. the terminal in a highly secure way. 3G (Third Generation): the broadband telecommunications eTicketing: electronic systems for issuing, checking and paying systems that combine high-speed voice, data and multimedia. DI (Dual-Interface): a device that is both contact for tickets, mainly for public transport. and contactless. 3GPP (Third Generation Partnership Project): a group FIPS 201 (Federal Information Processing Standard): a US that aims to produce specifications for a 3G system based Digital signature: an electronic signature created with a federal government standard that specifies personal identity on GSM networks. public-key algorithm that can be used by the recipient to verification requirements for employees and contractors. authenticate the identity of the sender. 4G: the 4th generation of wireless standards offering a GSM (Global System for Mobile communications): a European comprehensive, secure all-IP based mobile broadband Dongle: any small piece of hardware that plugs into a computer. standard for digital cellphones that has now been widely adopted solution to smartphones, laptop computer wireless throughout the world. modems and other mobile devices. EAC (Extended Access Control): a mechanism enhancing the security of ePassports whereby only authorized inspection GSMA (GSM Association): the global association for mobile Big data: a collection of data sets so large and complex that systems can read biometric data. phone operators. they are difficult to process with traditional applications. eBanking: accessing banking services via the internet. HSPD-12 (Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12): Bluetooth: a short-range wireless technology that simplifies orders all US federal agencies to issue secure and reliable communication and synchronization between the internet, eCommerce: buying and selling goods and services via forms of identification to employees and contractors, with devices and other computers. the internet. a recommendation in favor of smart card technology. CAC (Common Access Card): a US Department of Defense eGovernment: the use of digital technologies (often via the IAM: Identity and Access Management. smart card issued as standard physical and network internet) to provide government services. Second generation identification for military and other personnel. eGov 2.0 programs aim to increase efficiency, lower costs ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization): the UN and reduce bureaucracy. agency which standardizes machine-readable and biometric Cloud computing: computing by using servers, storage and passports worldwide. applications that are accessed via the internet. eID: personal identification using a variety of devices secured by microprocessors, biometrics and other means. IM (instant messaging): using text on a mobile handset to Contactless: a card that communicates by means of a radio communicate in real time. frequency signal, eliminating the need for physical contact with EMV: the industry standard for international debit/credit cards a reader. established by Europay, MasterCard and Visa. IP (Internet Protocol): a protocol for communicating data across a network; hence an IP address is a unique computer CRM: Customer Relationship Management. ePassport: an electronic passport with high security printing, address using the IP standard. an inlay including an antenna and a microprocessor, and other security features. Gemalto 63 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Corporate Governance and Economic Factors Employees Environment Business Behaviors and Social Factors Glossary of digital security terms continued Other Information Java: a network oriented programming language invented by Module: the unit formed of a chip and a contact plate. Thin client: a computer (client) that depends primarily on a Sun Microsystems and specifically designed so that programs central server for processing activities. By contrast, a fat client can be safely downloaded to remote devices. mPayment: using a mobile handset to pay for goods and services. does as much local processing as possible. LTE (Long Term Evolution): the standard in advanced mobile NFC (Near-Field Communication): a wireless technology TSM (Trusted Service Manager): a third-party enabling mobile network technology, often referred to as 4G (see above). that enables communication over short distances (e.g. 4cm), operators, mass transit operators, banks and businesses to offer typically between a mobile device and a reader. combined services seamlessly and securely. M2M (Machine-to-Machine): technology enabling communication between machines for applications OMA (Open Mobile Alliance): a body that develops open UICC (Universal Integrated Circuit Card): a high-capacity such as smart meters, mobile health solutions, etc. standards for the mobile phone industry. smart card used in mobile terminals for GSM and UMTS/ 3G networks. mCommerce: buying and selling goods and services using OS (Operating System): software that runs on computers and a mobile device connected to the internet. other smart devices and that manages the way they function. UMTS (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System): one of the 3G mobile telecommunications technologies which is also MFS (Mobile Financial Services): banking services such OTA (Over-The-Air): a method of distributing new software being developed into a 4G technology. as transfer and payment available via a mobile device. updates to cellphones which are already in use. USB (Universal Serial Bus): a standard input/output bus that Microprocessor: a ‘smart’ card comprising a module OTP (One-Time Password): a password that is valid for only supports very high transmission rates. embedded with a chip, a computer with its own processor, one login session or transaction. memory, operating system and application software. USIM (Universal Subscriber Identity Module): a SIM with PIN (Personal Identification Number): a secret code required advanced software that ensures continuity when migrating MIM (Machine Identification Module): the equivalent of a SIM to confirm a user’s identity. to 3G services. with specific features such that it can be used in machines to enable authentication. PKI (Public Key Infrastructure): the software and/or hardware VPN (Virtual Private Network): a private network often used components necessary to enable the effective use of public key within a company or group of companies to communicate MMS (Multimedia Messaging Service): a standard way encryption technology. Public Key is a system that uses two confidentially over a public network. of sending messages that include multimedia content (e.g. different keys (public and private) for encrypting and signing data. photographs) to and from mobile phones. SIM (Subscriber Identity Module): a smart card for MNO (Mobile Network Operator): a company that provides GSM systems. services for mobile phone subscribers. SMS (Short Message Service): a GSM service that sends Mobile money: banking and payment services for and receives messages to and from a mobile phone. unbanked users. Design and production Addison www.addison.co.uk Photography © Gemalto © Getty © 2013 Gemalto N.V. All rights reserved. Gemalto, Gemalto logos and product and service names are trademarks of Gemalto N.V. or its affiliates.
