City Developments Limited Sustainability Report 2013 CONTENTS About this Report 02 Taking the Initiative People Engagement 38 Managing Director’s 04 Commitment to 21 Product Stewardship 40 Message Our Stakeholders Community Partnership 42 People Engagement 22 Environmental Conservation 47 Setting the Standard Product Stewardship 26 CDL at a Glance 07 Community Partnership 28 Index The Past Year in Review 08 Environmental Conservation 29 GRI Application Level 53 About CDL 10 Check Statement Vision & Strategy 10 Making the Difference Independent Assurance 54 CSR Approach 10 Summary of Financial, 33 Statement Key Principles & Policies 12 Social and Environmental Performance CONSTRUCT conserve create Our long-standing commitment to creating a sustainable future has led City Developments Limited (CDL) to new areas of growth, inspiring us to innovate and improve. Change is our business as well as our purpose. We shape our city’s skyline, along with the hearts and minds of our people. Constructing as we conserve the ecosystems in which we live has opened new avenues for us to create fresh breakthroughs for our industry and the built environment, with increased environmental stewardship. CDL’s goal is not only to build, but to transform. In each reporting cycle, the CDL CSR Committee reviews the content of the report to determine its relevance to our business as well as to ensure that current and emerging material issues of significance pertaining to sustainability and the interests of our stakeholders are addressed. 02 About this report CDL is voluntarily disclosing this information as the Company Reporting boundaries This is CDL’s sixth Sustainability Report. believes in upholding the principles of and standards corporate transparency, disclosure and It replaces CDL’s 2012 Sustainability CDL Sustainability Report 2013 communication with our stakeholders. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report as the company’s latest annual For additional information on CDL’s CSR Reporting Framework including the GRI publication dedicated to providing initiatives and further resources, please Sustainability Reporting Guidelines financial, social and environmental refer to our website www.cdl.com.sg. Version 3.1 and the Construction information and data on Corporate & Real Estate Sector Supplement Social Responsibility (CSR) activities and performance pertinent to CDL’s Report Content have been used to prepare this report. Based on the GRI Application business in 2012. Level Criteria for reporting, the CDL In each reporting cycle, the CDL CSR This report contains a full year’s data Sustainability Report 2013 is a Level Committee reviews the content of the from 1 January to 31 December 2012 A+ report which has been verified by report to determine its relevance to and covers CDL’s Singapore operations. GRI. CDL has also taken the initiative our business as well as to ensure that It focuses on our principle business to integrate ISO 26000 into our CSR current and emerging material issues as a property developer comprising strategies which has been included in of significance pertaining to operational functions such as project this report. sustainability and the interests of our development, property and facilities stakeholders are addressed. Besides CDL continues to support the UN management of both residential as the Board, various Board Committees Global Compact and its 10 principles, well as commercial developments and the CSR Committee that determine and we have addressed the areas of in Singapore. It also includes some material issues of the Company, human rights, labour, environment illustrative case studies and business operationally, the Company also has and anti-corruption and our progress activities from 2012. This report is various other existing management in these areas. More information presented in Singapore dollars, which systems such as ISO 14001 about our sustainability reporting is the Company’s functional currency. Environmental Management System including the GRI Content Index Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc and Singapore Quality Class. Through and UN Global Compact Index is (M&C), of which CDL has a 55% these working groups, relevant targets available online at www.cdl.com.sg/ interest in, has its own Board of and key performance indicators are sustainabilityreport2013. Directors that oversees its policies established, tracked and disclosed within Our carbon footprint is calculated in and operations. M&C reports on their this Sustainability Report. CDL’s report accordance with the World Business CSR activities in their Annual Report continues to integrate ISO 26000:2010 Council for Sustainable Development which is available online at www. Guidance on social responsibility and the and World Resources Institute’s millenniumhotels.com. It comprises Company is pleased to state that it has (WBCSD/WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) CSR issues pertinent to their business included significant information in the Protocol; a Corporate Accounting and including Responsible Hospitality, areas of the environment, human rights, Reporting Standard. This protocol is Responsibility to Employees, labour practices, product responsibility considered current best practice for Responsibility to the Environment and and society. Responsibility to the Community. corporate or organisational emissions reporting, and we measure our Assurance Feedback Channel 03 emissions in three ‘scopes’: For the fifth year, the CDL Sustainability CDL actively seeks and values the • Scope 1 — direct GHG emissions about this report Report 2013 has been externally feedback extended by our stakeholders from sources that are owned such as an important way of improving our assured to validate the accuracy and as company owned vehicles. CSR practices. If you have any views, reliability of the content. The assurance • Scope 2 — GHG emissions engagement was conducted by Ere-S, comments or feedback, please send from the generation of a CSR consulting company, and it them to: purchased electricity. covered all figures and statements Ms Esther An • Scope 3 — indirect emissions such found in the report that are related Head of CSR as our business travel. to sustainability performance. Ere-S reviewed all underlying systems City Developments Limited We use an operational consolidation and processes that support the 9 Raffles Place approach to determine organisational Sustainability Report based on the #36-00 Republic Plaza boundaries. For example, our AA1000 Assurance Standard. The Singapore 048619 carbon and energy data includes audit report, including the findings, Republic of Singapore only the distribution impacts. Data are summarised in the Independent csrenquiries@cdl.com.sg is consolidated from a number of Assurance Statement which can be sources, including our project sites and found on pages 54 to 56. fuel use information, and is analysed centrally. Our baseline year is 2007 CDL continues to and our emissions are independent of Accessibility support the UN any GHG trades. CDL continues to print only limited Global Compact and For this report, there were no copies of our report as part of our its 10 principles, and significant changes to the measuring environmental conservation efforts. methods applied. Increasing the Current and previous editions of the we have addressed scope of data collection and compiling reports are available online at the areas of human more comprehensive data on the www.cdl.com.sg. environmental and social performance rights, labour, of CDL’s business operations in environment and Singapore remains a priority to improve the management of our data and to anti-corruption achieve more consistent reporting and our progress in for accountability. these areas. “We have been committed to performing credibly in our environmental, governance and social aspects while remaining profitable through business excellence and innovation.” – Kwek Leng Joo, Managing Director Dear Stakeholders, According to a report commissioned pertinently, it adds that the Board’s role by the World Bank issued in is to “consider sustainability issues, November 2012, without immediate e.g. environmental and social factors, action, global temperatures could rise as part of its strategic formulation”(1). 04 2012 was marked by by 4°C this century with potentially much unpredictability devastating consequences. Finally, While the regulatory changes are and challenge. As a there is increasing acceptance recent, we have been advocating CDL Sustainability Report 2013 that climate change is not just a the importance of CSR for business global community, the ‘silo’ environmental issue but is sustainability for over a decade with stresses faced have been intricately interwoven into our social many unprecedented and bold moves. manifold on all fronts. and economic fabric. Yes, the global As a business leader and forerunner, As key financial markets financial crisis must be managed but we saw the need for change as early it is also clear that there must be as the mid-1990s. We started to seemed to be on the road a concerted action by businesses, develop and refine strategic business to recovery, new financial governments and communities to models and standards, create best storms emerged. As transform and move towards the practices relevant in the local operating the stock markets rally, development of a green economy. content and set our own benchmarks of excellence. corporations and market On the upside, more corporations watchers remained have started to take climate To reinforce our commitment to cautious with continued change seriously. In the Global 500 maintaining and achieving high fears of headwinds. Climate Change Report for 2012 standards of corporate governance by the Carbon Disclosure Project, it and to continue to build on our found 81% of reporting companies industry leadership on CSR, a CSR and identifying physical risks from Corporate Governance (CG) Committee The past year was also a year of climate change as a serious issue as at the Board Level was established in extreme weather around the world and compared with 71% the year before. late 2012. The Committee will have countries were tested as they were oversight of the Company’s strategies, hit by cold snaps, floods, droughts, In Singapore, we are at the cusp of a policies on various aspects of CSR and typhoons and heat waves – many of transformation as more companies CG which are significant and contribute unprecedented severity or the worst are being encouraged to address to the Company’s performance, seen in decades. Lives have been lost, the importance of sustainability. In business activities, and/or reputation communities destroyed, livelihoods May 2012, the Monetary Authority as a global corporate citizen. put in jeopardy and prices of essential of Singapore issued a revised commodities sent skyrocketing. One Code of Corporate Governance to The title of our Sustainability Report consequence is that the weather promote a high standard of corporate ‘Changing the Landscape’ is apt conditions have helped heighten the governance among listed companies because we have made an important need for many world leaders to urgently in Singapore, with various revisions impact on our landscape, shaping address climate change. that relate to CSR issues. More it with 67 Green Mark Projects to (1) Monetary Authority of Singapore, Code of Corporate Governance, May 2012, Page 2. our name. Each CDL development umbrella body to spearhead efforts in and while I believe it will be some continues to be designed sensitively, planning and implementing national time before a reliable, sound and built sustainably and managed sensibly CSR policies with a more dedicated credible standard is developed, it is while remaining financially viable. While and strategic approach, businesses indeed progress for CSR to see more we have firmly committed to investing will be more encouraged to align stakeholders being keen to be involved in green buildings and sustainable their strategies and practices in this discourse and we will certainly best practices, we are glad to have to national priorities. be monitoring this development closely. maintained good financial performance – CDL posted record revenue of $3.35 Looking forward, 2013 is an exciting What started off for CDL as a green billion for the full year 2012 – the year for CDL as we celebrate our spark close to two decades ago has highest revenue since our inception. milestone 50th Anniversary. It now become embedded as part of our has indeed been an illustrious corporate DNA. While we have achieved Beyond the green hardware, we have transformation from a small firm with many milestones in sustainability, we helped to influence and change the only eight employees operating out of a have barely scratched the surface of mindsets of our employees, suppliers, rented office in Amber Mansions along the matter and are constantly looking customers and community – the Orchard Road in 1963. to improve. Our success and limitation people who live, work and play in invigorates and challenges us to press our developments. Our history, experience and continued ahead in our CSR conviction. commitment well illustrate that CDL Today, we no longer journey alone takes a long-term business view where While we continue to captain CDL’s but have become part of a growing growth must go hand in hand with the transformation into the Golden Age, community of change-makers careful nurturing and development of the success we have enjoyed would 05 advocating sustainability. our stakeholders for the benefit of all. not have been possible without the We have been committed to performing dedication of our Board of Directors, Managing Director’s Message In another pioneering move to credibly in our environmental, management team, valued employees champion sustainability, CDL became governance and social aspects while as well as our external stakeholders, in a founding member of the Business remaining profitable through business particular our investors. Council for Sustainable Development excellence and innovation. Singapore when it was launched by the With steadfast support from all World Business Council for Sustainable Our unwavering commitment to stakeholders and the community, Development on 6 November 2012. business sustainability has placed CDL management aspires to The Council’s role is to work with both CDL and Singapore on the global achieve even greater heights in businesses locally to help foster map of sustainability, being the first sustainability the next 50 years ahead. economic development in harmony Singapore company recognised on with environmental preservation and three global sustainability benchmarks social development. In addition, it – FTSE4Good Index Series since Kwek Leng Joo advocates the implementation of policy 2002, Global 100 Most Sustainable Managing Director frameworks that help sustainable Corporations in the World since 2010 businesses to thrive. and the Dow Jones Sustainability May 2013 Indexes since 2011. Notably, CDL is To further support the cause on a the only Singapore company listed for national level, I am glad to assume four consecutive years on the Global the position of President of Singapore 100 and improved from 62nd position Compact for CSR, of which CDL is a to 52nd position in 2013, making us the founding member. I am thankful for the highest ranking company from trust and confidence placed on me Asia excluding Japan. to contribute to the growth of the CSR movement in Singapore. I hope While this Sustainability Report marks for a cross-discipline national our second to be successfully-checked agency to adopt CSR officially and by GRI at Level A+ using the GRI G3.1 have an oversight of a strategic and guidelines with the Construction consolidated approach across all CSR and Real Estate Sector Supplement, disciplines in Singapore. This will allow we are also actively assessing the greater synergy and help drive the newly released version G4 and its CSR agenda more effectively across applicability. There has also been all businesses and sectors. With an growing interest in Integrated Reporting SETTING THE STANDARD As one of Singapore’s largest private developers and landlords, we recognise our unique opportunity to help shape the practices of the real estate industry and encourage social responsibility. Our roles as an industry steward, environmental champion and responsible citizen directs our concerns beyond short-term gains for the Company and look to the long-term well-being of the entire industry. By being the first to adopt the latest international CSR standards and by pioneering new initiatives in sustainability, CDL forges the way forward and sets new benchmarks for the industry. What started off for CDL as a green spark close to two decades ago has now become embedded as part of our corporate DNA. Our philosophy towards environmental sustainability is simple — to ‘Conserve as we Construct’. As we celebrate our 50th Anniversary in 2013, CDL remains committed to the Triple Bottom Line and performing credibly in all financial, social and environmental aspects. Beyond incorporating green features into our developments, we take a comprehensive life-cycle approach towards sustainability. Our green commitment is applied across our entire operations – from design, construction, procurement, maintenance and community engagement. CDL at a Glance AS AT 31 MAY 2013 07 50 Setting the standard 2012 Frost & Sullivan Listed in Sustainability Asia Pacific Green Yearbook 2013 as Builder of the Year top-scoring Listed on both FTSE4Good & years 15% of in RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones track record Corporate Sustainability Sustainability Assessment Indexes Group revenue in 2012 52nd on 67 BCA $3.35 Green Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations mark billion in the World accorded projects in total to date THE PAST YEAR Q1 (JANUARY – MARCH) Q2 (APRIL – JUNE) IN REVIEW CDL was ranked as one of the Global Close to 400 youths participated in 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the third CDL E-Generation Challenge the World for the third consecutive 2012, an annual national eco-themed year, moving up the list from 100th to race style competition to promote eco62nd position (52nd as at January 2013). consciousness and sustainable lifestyles. Project: Eco-Office, an outreach CDL received the Distinguished Partner initiative by CDL and Singapore Award for our youth development efforts Environment Council to cultivate from the National Youth Achievement eco-consciousness at the workplace, Award (NYAA). marked its 10th Anniversary. The National Library Board and CDL The prestigious Green Luminary Award unveiled plans to develop the World’s by Channel NewsAsia was accorded to 1st Green Library for Kids named CDL for our leadership in employing green ‘My Tree House’. 08 practices in business. CDL emerged as the most awarded CDL Sustainability Report 2013 ‘An Enclosure for a Swing’ by architect private property developer at the Building Mr Kelvin Lim Fun Kit, the winning work and Construction Authority (BCA) Awards of the 4th CDL Singapore Sculpture Award 2012. A total of 25 awards were added in 2009, was unveiled at the official to CDL’s honours roll, bringing our tally to opening of Bishan-Ang Mo Kio Park, over 60 Green Mark awarded properties. which was graced by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong. CDL was accorded Singapore’s BCI Asia Top 10 Developers Award for the second consecutive year, further reaffirming CDL’s efforts in shaping and influencing the built environment. 11 Tampines Concourse emerged victorious in the Sustainable Development category at the international FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Awards. This is the second consecutive year CDL has bagged the Sustainable Development Category as our 7 & 9 Tampines Grande received the award in 2011. CDL successfully obtained Singapore Quality Class recertification in recognition of our commitment to upholding high standards of excellence in our management systems and practices. Q3 (JULY – SEPTEMBER) Q4 (OCTOBER – DECEMBER) CDL’s Sustainability Report 2012 was released. At the Securities Investors Association Singapore CDL was the first Singapore listed company to (SIAS) Investors’ Choice Awards 2012, CDL Executive publish a Level A+ GRI-checked report using the Chairman Mr Kwek Leng Beng and CDL Managing GRI G3.1 guidelines and the Construction and Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo emerged joint winners Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS). as ‘Partners in the Office of the CEO’ in the Brendan Wood International – SIAS TopGun CEO Designation Award. The Award is accorded to CEOs who are best At the invitation of the National Parks Board, CDL in class rated by shareholders. CDL also received participated in the Singapore Garden Festival 2012 the Singapore Corporate Governance Award 2012 for the fourth time, welcoming visitors to ‘Flora – 2nd Runner-Up (Big Cap) and the Singapore Most Exotica’, which featured photographs of rare and Transparent Company Award – Runner-Up (Real unique flowers captured by CDL Managing Director Estate Category). Mr Kwek Leng Joo. CDL Managing Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo was listed The Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award was as one of the 100 Global Sustain Ability Leaders presented to CDL for sustained contributions to the promotion and development of the arts. in 2012. 09 CDL, a first time participant in The British Chamber Setting the standard CDL Managing Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo was of Commerce’s 13th Annual Business Awards, named the American Creativity Association’s emerged victorious in the Exceptional Corporate Lifetime Creative Achievement Award recipient for Social Responsibility Practice category. 2012 and became only the second Asian amongst 14 global recipients to win the award since its launch in 1994. The 8th CDL 5-Star Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Awards were presented to CDL’s exemplary builders. CDL was named the Asia Pacific Green Builder of the Year at the 2012 Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific Green Excellence Awards. CDL Managing Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo was conferred The Singapore Tatler Leadership Award for the Environment. CDL organised the 4th CDL Singapore Young Photographers Award (SYPA), a nationwide photography competition that aims to discover and In another pioneering move to champion nurture young talents. The 4th CDL SYPA 2012 photo sustainability, CDL became a founding member of exhibition ran from 31 July until 2 September 2012 the Business Council for Sustainable Development at the National Museum. Singapore when it was launched by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. CDL won the Best Sustainability Report 2011 from Singapore at The National Center for Sustainability Reporting’s 8th Indonesia Sustainability Reporting Awards. CDL was conferred the highest tier Platinum Award for the Singapore HEALTH (Helping Employees Achieve Life-Time Health) Award 2012 for the second time. ABOUT CDL VISION & STRATEGY CDL has been Singapore’s property Since the 1990s, CSR has been integrated into our corporate vision & mission. pioneer since 1963. We are a Singapore-listed international property Corporate Vision and hotel conglomerate involved in real estate development and investment, To maintain industry leadership in innovation, product quality, service hotel ownership and management, standards, profitability and corporate social responsibility. facilities management and the provision of hospitality solutions. Corporate Mission With an extensive network of more Customers than 350 subsidiaries and associated To offer quality and innovative products, unsurpassed service and companies under our wings, CDL has value for money. five companies listed on notable stock exchanges in New Zealand, Hong Kong, Investors London and Philippines. The Group To maintain profitability and optimum returns for their investment. currently owns and manages a solid Employees portfolio of residential and investment To maximise the potential of staff and care for their personal well-being and properties, in addition to hotels, across career development. 10 Asia, Europe, Middle East, North America and New Zealand/Australia. Suppliers To select based on quality work and their ability to complement our Headquartered in Singapore, CDL has commitment to environment, health and safety. CDL Sustainability Report 2013 established a remarkable track record of having developed over 30,000 Community luxurious and quality homes catering to To serve the community we operate in so as to create a better place for a wide range of market segments. As all, especially caring for the less fortunate, enhancing youth development, one of Singapore’s biggest landlords, promoting the arts and conserving the environment. we own over 7.8 million square CSR Vision feet of floor/lettable area of office, industrial, retail, residential and hotel To be a leader in business and a champion of CSR. space locally and globally. The Group possesses one of the largest land CSR Mission banks amongst private developers, To be a responsible corporate citizen who believes in creating value for with over 3.2 million square feet stakeholders, conducting sustainable business practices, caring for the that has the vast potential of being community and protecting the environment. developed into over 9.3 million square feet of gross floor area. CDL has 379 employees at our headquarters and as of 31 December 2012, CDL reported a revenue of $3.35 billion. CSR APPROACH CDL continues to refine our management approach to adapt to the changing business and CSR landscape. The senior management has, within the scope of CDL’s corporate operations, determined that the Environment, Employee Relations, Corporate Governance and Risk Management, Stakeholder Singapore’s Relations and Community constitute key CSR areas material to the property pioneer business. A company-wide CSR Committee was established in 2008 and later aligned with ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility in 2010. since 1963. The CSR Committee is responsible for mapping out CSR strategies and measuring key performance. It initiates, drives and monitors various aspects of the Company’s CSR practices to ensure these are integrated into our business operations and complements corporate objectives. Above this Committee, at the Board Level, a CSR & CG Committee was established in 2012 to assume an advisory role for the Company’s CSR strategies. The CSR & CG Committee comprises three Directors, the majority of whom are independent, and is chaired by the Managing Director. CSR Committee Structure Board of Directors Managing Director CSR & Corporate Governance Committee Head of CSR Advisory Panel (Senior Management) CSR Committee Across Departments 11 Labour Corporate Stakeholder Community Setting the standard The Practices & Governance Engagement Involvement Environment Human & Fair & Consumer & Rights Operating Issues Development Practices Aligned with the ISO 26000: Guidance on social responsibility CSR Objectives Human Resource Product Responsibility Corporate • Improve employees’ competencies • Focus and reinforce on delivering and maximise their potential for quality and innovative products • Raise awareness of CSR within career development • Focus and reinforce commitment to and outside of the Company • Create a work environment that the development of green buildings • Achieve industry leadership supports a corporate culture of • Create products that are value position in CSR in Singapore work-life harmony for money • Establish a business framework • Improve employees’ health • Provide quality customer service for sustainable management and well-being and innovation Supply Chain • Achieve industry leadership Financial, Corporate Governance and position in Workplace Health and • Proactively engage builders and Risk Management Work-life initiatives in Singapore suppliers on quality of work and • Maintain profitability and optimum commitment to EHS Environmental, returns for investors Community Health and Safety (EHS) • Ensure good corporate governance • Serve and create a better living • Ensure the maintenance of an and sound risk management environment for the community international management system • Create value for investors for the environment • Proactively engage the community through financial and nonthrough synergistic collaborations and • Achieve industry leadership financial performance sustainable CSR programmes position in developing and • Ensure the maintenance of an maintaining green buildings internationally-based management in Singapore system such as Singapore Quality • Achieve ISO 14001 targets at both Class for business excellence corporate and operational levels KEY PRINCIPLES At the SIAS Investors’ Choice Awards 2012 in October 2012, CDL received Principle 11: Audit & Risk Committee (ARC) AND POLICiES the Singapore Corporate Governance Principle 12: Award 2012 – 2nd Runner-Up (Big Cap) Internal Controls CDL has in place a comprehensive and the Singapore Most Transparent structure comprising principles, Company Award –­­­­ Runner-Up (Real Principle 13: policies and guidelines to ensure that Estate Category). Internal Audit (IA) CDL addresses key issues pertinent to CDL adheres closely to the principles Communication with Shareholders our business and performs credibly to and guidelines of the Code of stakeholder expectations. Principle 14: Corporate Governance 2005 (‘2005 Communication with Shareholders CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code’). Whilst the revised Code of Corporate Governance 2012 (‘2012 Principle 15: CDL is committed to maintaining good Code’) will only be applicable to Greater Shareholder Participation corporate governance and business CDL in respect of its financial year integrity in all its business activities. For the full Corporate Governance commencing 1 January 2013, CDL Report, please refer to the Company’s Since 2010, CDL had joined the has commenced compliance with a Annual Report 2012 at www.cdl.com. Securities Investors Association number of the key revised guidelines sg/annualreport2012, pages 32 to 45. Singapore (‘SIAS’) and its partners in under the 2012 Code and will further making the following public Statement review its corporate governance Corporate Values and practices to bring the same in line Conduct of Business of Support, which was reiterated at the 12 3rd Singapore Corporate Governance Week 2012 (organised by the SIAS) in with the recommendations under the 2012 Code. The Board and Senior Management are committed to conducting business October 2012: CDL’s main corporate governance with integrity and consistent with high CDL Sustainability Report 2013 practices with reference to the standards of business ethics, and in following principles of the 2005 Code compliance with all applicable laws and additionally, where applicable, and regulatory requirements. The the 2012 code, are set out in CDL’s Company has adopted an internal As an Organisation, Corporate Governance Report 2012. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics we are committed Board Matters which sets out the Company’s ethical values and business principles to upholding Principle 1: and provides a communicable and high standards The Board’s Conduct of Affairs understandable framework for staff to observe these values and principles of corporate Principle 2: such as honesty, integrity, responsibility Board Composition and Guidance governance and accountability at all levels of the Principle 3: organisation. The code is available on to enhance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the Company’s intranet and is easily shareholder value. Principle 4: accessible by all employees. We believe practising Board Membership The code provides guidance on issues good corporate Principle 5: such as: governance is Board Performance • conflicts of interest and the appropriate disclosures to central to the health Principle 6: be made; Access to Information and stability of our • the Company’s stance against Remuneration Matters financial markets corruption and bribery; Principle 7: • compliance with applicable laws and economy. Procedures for Developing and regulations including those Remuneration Policies relating to the protection of the Principle 8: environment and the conservation Level and Mix of Remuneration of energy and natural resources; • compliance with Company’s Principle 9: policies and procedures, Disclosure of Remuneration including those on internal Accountability and Audit controls and accounting; Principle 10: • safeguarding and proper use of Accountability Company’s assets, confidential information and intellectual property rights, including the the Code of Business Conduct and These guidelines prohibit dealing in the respect of the intellectual property Ethics, without fear of reprisals in any Company’s securities (a) on short-term rights of third parties; and form. The ARC has the responsibility considerations, (b) while in possession • competition and fair dealing in of overseeing this policy which is of unpublished material price-sensitive the conduct of the Company’s administered with the assistance information in relation to such business, in its relationships with of the Head of IA. Under these securities, and (c) during the ‘closed customers, suppliers, competitors procedures, arrangements are in place period’, which is defined as two weeks and towards its employees. for independent investigation of such before the date of announcement of matters raised and for appropriate results for the first, second and third In line with the Board’s commitment to follow-up action to be taken. quarter of the Company’s financial maintain high ethical standards which year and one month before the date of are integral to our corporate identity The Company is committed to announcement of the full-year financial and business, the Board has also maintaining procedures for the results, and ending on the date of the adopted the following three corporate confidential and anonymous announcement of the relevant results. policies in 2012: submission of reports and the The Directors and employees of the anonymity of the whistle-blower (i) Anti-Corruption Policy & Guidelines Company are notified in advance of concerned will be maintained where which sets out the responsibilities the commencement of each ‘closed so requested by the whistle-blower of the Group companies and of period’ relating to dealing in the who lodged the report. Investigations each employee in observing and Company’s securities. The internal of such reports will be handled on upholding CDL’s ‘zero-tolerance’ code on securities trading is available a confidential basis to the extent position against all forms of on the Company’s intranet and is easily corruption, bribery and extortion permissible or deemed appropriate under the circumstances, and involve accessible by all employees. 13 and provides information and persons who need to be involved RISK MANAGEMENT guidance to employees on how Setting the standard in order to properly carry out the to recognise, address, resolve, investigation and will, on a best Risk management continues to play avoid and prevent instances of efforts basis, be carried out in a an important part in the Company’s corruption, bribery and extortion timely manner. business activities and is an essential which may arise in the course of component of its planning process. their work. In order to facilitate and encourage The Board has overall responsibility (ii) Fraud Policy & Guidelines which the reporting of such matters, to ensure that the Company has the provides guidance on actions which dedicated communication channels capability and necessary framework may constitute fraudulent conduct have been established. These include to manage risks in new and existing and highlights the importance of a whistle-blowing email account at businesses and that business plans the implementation, maintenance cdl.ethics.hotline@cdl.com.sg and strategies accord with the risks and compliance with the internal and specific contact numbers appetite that the Company undertakes controls framework of the Group which are secured. to achieve its corporate objectives. To and its policies and procedures. The Whistle-blowing Policy, which is assist the Board in its risk management (iii) Competition Policy & Guidelines reviewed by the ARC from time to time oversight, the ARC has been authorised which states the Company’s policy to ensure that it remains current, is by the Board to provide oversight and to compete fairly and ethically in available on the Company’s website review on matters relating to the risk the conduct of business in all of and intranet and is easily accessible management policies and systems of our markets and provides direction by all employees and other persons. the Company. and guidance to employees in their The ARC has also recently approved The ARC’s risk management function relationships and communications the guidelines set out in the Whistleis assisted by a Risk Management with competitors and customers. blowing Investigation Procedures Committee (RM Committee), which formalises the procedures for These policies are available on the whose members comprise Senior investigating reports received and for Company’s intranet and have also been Management. The RM Committee taking appropriate follow-up action. disseminated to officers and employees is responsible for ensuring the of the Group’s key subsidiaries. Internal Code on Dealings effectiveness of the risk management in Securities framework of the Company, the Whistle-blowing Policy objective of which is to provide an The Company has in place an internal CDL has in place a Whistle-blowing enterprisewide view of the risks code on securities trading which sets Policy where staff of the Company and involved in property investment, out the implications of insider trading other persons can raise in confidence, development and management and provides guidance and internal whether anonymously or otherwise, activities and a systematic process regulation with regard to dealings in the concerns on possible improprieties for identification, assessment, Company’s securities by its Directors relating to accounting, financial management and reporting of such and officers. reporting, internal controls and auditing risks on a consistent and reliable basis. matters as well as any breach of The RM Committee is mandated to The Company’s risk management to achieve continued corporate focus on key strategic risks whilst also framework has categorised its risks profitability and portfolio growth. ensuring that the business units are into the following main risk types: This risk assessment includes responsible for the day-to-day tracking, macro and project specific risks Operational Risks monitoring and control of risks analysis encompassing rigorous within their operations. The risk management framework due diligence, feasibility studies and is integrated into the management sensitivity analysis on key investment The Enterprise Risk Management processes at operational levels, assumptions and variables. Each Department assists by providing the with the respective management at investment proposal is objectively RM Committee with the quarterly divisional and departmental levels evaluated to fit the corporate strategy status of the key strategic risk being responsible for identifying, and investment objective. Potential exposures and the Senior Management assessing, mitigating and managing business synergies including with a timely assessment of key risk the operational risks within each collaboration risks assessments are exposures and any new emerging risks of their functional areas. The identified early to ensure business that may require assessment. The RM implementation and use of a system partnership objectives and visions are Committee reports quarterly to the ARC of internal controls, and operating, well-aligned and collaboration partners on the overall strategic and operational reporting and monitoring processes are like-minded and compatible. risks positions, including mitigating and procedures (including processes measures, treatment plans and the Treasury and Financial Risks involving due diligence and collation occurrence or potential occurrence of of market intelligence and feedback), The Group is exposed to financial significant risk events. supported by information technology risks arising from its operations and 14 The RM Committee had, since 2002, systems and constant development the use of financial instruments. established a formal risk management of human resource skills through The key financial risks include credit framework. Within this framework, recruitment and training, are risks, liquidity risks and market risks, CDL Sustainability Report 2013 significant business risks are identified, important elements of the risk including interest rate risks and foreign assessed, evaluated, monitored, management framework, to mitigate currency risks. managed, and reported on a regular risks relating to product and service The Group has a system of controls in basis. The risk governance structure quality assurance management, place to create an acceptable balance of the Company is regularly reviewed costs control management, between the cost of risks occurring against international standards and design and product innovation, and the cost of managing the risks. best practices in risk management. market intelligence, marketing/ The management continually monitors The Company recognises that the sales and leasing management, the Group’s risk management process risk management process is an financial control management to ensure that an appropriate balance ongoing process and aims under its and regulatory compliances in the between risk and control is achieved. risk governance structure to continue Company’s operations. Risk management policies and systems to look for ways to improve in the The maintenance of adequate are reviewed regularly to reflect following areas: insurance coverage for the Company’s changes in market conditions and • increase monitoring and control assets, and the protection of and the Group’s activities. capabilities in its review continued investment in the security of significant strategic It is, and has been throughout the and integrity of its information business risks; current and previous financial year, technology systems and database the Group’s policy that no derivatives • review the effectiveness of the which are highly integrated with its shall be undertaken for speculative systems of internal controls to limit, business processes, are also part of purposes except for the use as hedging mitigate, manage and monitor the Company’s control processes for instruments where appropriate and identified risks; the protection of its assets. cost efficient. • ensure that the operating systems The Company also maintains close deliver adequate and timely Credit Risk — The Group has a credit working relationships with its business information required for effective policy in place and the exposure to partners and relevant authorities to risk management; and credit risk is monitored on an ongoing keep abreast of political developments basis. Credit evaluations are performed • build on and integrate into and changes in the regulatory on all customers requiring credit over its existing governance and framework and business environment. a certain amount. The Group does not management systems the Investment and Portfolio Risks require collateral in respect of these appropriate tools for effective financial assets. management of strategic business Risk evaluation forms an integral risks which are reflective of aspect of the Company’s investment Transactions involving financial changes in markets, products strategy. Balancing risk and return instruments are entered into only with and emerging best practices. across asset types and geographic counterparties that are of acceptable regions are primary considerations credit quality. Cash and fixed deposits are placed with banks and financial training and development of employees. The management institutions which are regulated. Identification of core competencies is critical in the employee selection also supports Liquidity Risk — The Group monitors its liquidity risk and maintains a level and development processes, and work-life harmony the implementation of performance of cash and cash equivalents, and assessment and management programmes and credit facilities deemed adequate by programmes, coupled with career family-friendly management to finance the Group’s development and training programmes, operations and to mitigate the effects policies as part of are part of the Company’s human of fluctuations in cash flows. resource strategy to improve work its efforts to help Interest Rate Risk — The Group’s performance, maximise competencies, employees achieve exposure to market risk changes in increase staff commitment and retention, interest rates relates primarily to its and develop further an effective a balanced life interest bearing financial assets and succession planning programme within between work and debt obligations. The Group adopts the organisation. a policy of managing its interest family and at the The management also supports workrate exposure by maintaining a debt same time create a life harmony programmes and familyportfolio with both fixed and floating friendly policies as part of its efforts quality workplace. rates of interest. Where appropriate, to help employees achieve a balanced the Group uses interest rate derivatives life between work and family and at the to hedge its interest rate exposure for specific underlying debt obligations. same time create a quality workplace. 15 Crisis Risks Foreign Currency Risk — The Group is Setting the standard exposed to foreign currency risks on Operating in an environment with sales, purchases and borrowings that potential threats of terrorism, epidemic are denominated in a currency other outbreaks and information systems than the respective functional currency failure, the management has put in of the Group’s entities. place a company-wide Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to mitigate The Group manages its foreign the risks of interruption and exchange exposure by a policy of catastrophic loss to its operations matching receipts and payments, and information database arising and asset purchases and borrowings from such potential threats. in each individual currency. Forward foreign exchange contracts are used The RM Committee is responsible for purely as a hedging tool, where overseeing the maintenance of the an active market for the relevant BCP. Procedures and processes of the currencies exists, to minimise the BCP include identification of alternate Group’s exposure to movements in recovery centers, operational procedures exchange rates on firm commitments to enable communication, continuity of and specific transactions. critical business functions and recovery of database in the event of a crisis Wherever necessary, the Group incident. Periodic incident management finances its property, plant and drills are conducted to familiarise equipment purchases by using the employees with the emergency relevant local currency cash resources response and crisis management and arranging for bank facilities plans of the Company. denominated in the same currency. This enables the Group to limit The plans to carry out periodic tests translation exposure to its balance on BCP, results of the tests, as well as sheet arising from consolidation of the recommendations and corrective actions Group’s overseas net assets. are reviewed by the RM Committee annually and reported to the ARC. Human Resource Risks Further enhancement during the year The Company recognises human included the alignment of corporate resource as an important contributing BCP to various operating departments’ factor towards the stable growth of environmental emergency procedures. the Company, and accordingly efforts Action plans have been put in place to are taken to enhance the processes ensure newly established business units for recruitment, compensation, are equipped with the respective BCPs to meet their needs. Environmental, Health and Executive Management Committee, led carbon footprint for all of its owned and Safety (EHS) Risks by its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and managed properties, and the board of is facilitated by the Head of Risk and M&C has set a target for the group’s As a developer with extensive Internal Audit. The CEO and members energy consumption.(2) operations, strategic and concerted of the Executive Management efforts have been put in to mitigate PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT Committee undertake regular reviews the impact of our operations on the of (i) the risk registers, compiled and environment. The Company’s EHS CDL is an advocate of employee updated to map the nature of the Policy (established in 2003) sets the wellness, in terms of both physical and risks relative to their likelihood of strategic direction for all departments, mental health, as well as a harmonious occurrence and severity and associated employees and stakeholders to take relationship between work, family and trends, and (ii) the progress of the risk practical effort to ensure effective EHS personal commitments. With a holistic treatment plans devised to eliminate, management in its operations. and caring corporate culture, the minimise or transfer risks. The board of needs of our employees are well taken To manage its EHS risks, the Company M&C has overall responsibility for the care of, which helps to create a more has since 2003 integrated an EHS risk management process of the M&C engaged and productive workforce. Management System within its group and for ensuring that its risks This then contributes to the growth and operations, certified against the are managed appropriately and, either sustainability of our business. international ISO 14001 Environmental directly or through the audit committee Management System and OHSAS of M&C, reviews the effectiveness of With this belief, CDL is committed 18001 Occupational Health and the M&C group’s risk management to become an employer of choice Safety Management System on an processes and other internal controls. through our three-pronged approach – 16 annual basis. Information on M&C’s principal risks developing, engaging and caring for our can be found in its Annual Report for employees. To achieve this, we have Through this system, the Company FY 2012, pages 24 to 28. incorporated a myriad of strategies with evaluates its key EHS risks, CDL Sustainability Report 2013 a focus on employee engagement and determining the risk level based On the EHS front, M&C’s UK region retention, learning and development, on a risk assessment technique has published and launched new work-life and work-health initiatives consisting of the likelihood of the policies and procedures accredited to promote and build a sustainable occurrence and severity of the impact. to the British Standards Institute for work environment for our employees. Control measures are promptly applied its Occupational Health and Safety To enhance employee engagement, to mitigate all significant EHS risks. This Management System, compliant with we continue to think out of the box is done through setting objectives and OHSAS 18001. The management of to implement creative initiatives targets, establishing programmes and/ M&C’s European region is currently in to augment and reinforce the or putting in place work procedures the process of rolling out the system positive relationship we have and work instructions. across the remaining UK hotels, with our employees. which is designed to ensure robust The guiding principle of the mitigating and comprehensive risk assessment Employers’ Pledge of Fair measures is to follow the hierarchy of and recognition across the business. Employment Practices control, starting with elimination, and These efforts have been supported then moving to substitution, isolation, CDL is a signatory of the Employers’ by new software and management use of engineering control, use of Pledge of Fair Employment Practices systems, specific to health and safety, administrative control and last of all, with the Tripartite Alliance for Fair resulting in tighter control of statutory/ use of personal protective equipment. Employment Practices (TAFEP). TAFEP mandatory inspections and audit trails. works with employer organisations, The Company’s EHS targets and Whilst M&C continually assesses its unions and the Government to create performance are measured and environmental impact and actively awareness and facilitate the adoption regularly tracked by internal seeks ways to reduce it through of fair employment practices. The and external auditors. Gaps improvements in its hotel’s operating alliance is co-chaired by representing and possible risks are identified infrastructure and by modifying work employer unions and National Trades for prompt rectification and practices, the hotel management also Union Congress (NTUC). continual improvement. works with its suppliers to minimise Our recruitment process adheres to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels the environmental impact of their strict guidelines on non-discrimination plc (M&C) activities. Environmental performance and fairness. There is no preference is also being integrated into the The risk management activity of M&C, of gender, ethnicity, religion or age. operational objectives of the hotel the Group’s hotel arm, is directed by its CDL offers fair and competitive staff. The M&C group monitors the (2) Please refer to M&C’s Annual Report 2012, which is available online at www.millenniumhotels.com, pages 29-31 for details on their CSR performance. With a holistic and caring corporate culture, the needs of our employees are well taken care of, which helps to create a more engaged and productive workforce. remuneration packages based on Human Rights which includes working regulations, but are also safe, employees’ competencies, expected with our appointed builders to protect sanitary and dignified. roles and responsibilities. the rights of foreign workers they hire Pledge for Zero — to work at our construction sites. Human Rights A CEO Commitment Charter CDL’s long-term approach to foreign The Singapore Government takes a CDL is a founding signatory of the pragmatic rather than an ideological approach to human rights. It has workers is two-fold. Firstly, CDL remains committed to working with our builders ‘Pledge for Zero — A CEO Commitment Charter’ which was launched at the 17 to improve the living and working ratified 20 International Labour inaugural Construction CEO Summit, Setting the standard conditions of their foreign workers. Organization Conventions to date organised by the Workplace Safety and Secondly, the Company will ensure covering four main aspects of Health Council in November 2008. CDL that our business is aligned with the employment standards such as adopted the pledge and committed broader national policy pertaining to child labour, forced labour, collective to establish a zero injury workplace. foreign workers. We remain committed bargaining and equal remuneration. In 2010, CDL invited our builders and to working with our builders to ensure Singapore is ranked 18th in the world consultants to sign the pledge as well that the foreign workers are provided (out of 187 countries and territories) in and collectively commit to raising living and working conditions that the UN’s Human Development Index.(3) the EHS standards at our worksites are not only in compliance with in Singapore. Fair employment practices are implemented together with regulation guidelines set by the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) through the Corporate Statement on Human Rights Employment Act. All employees CDL’s commitment to corporate social responsibility includes the advocacy regardless of nationality (including of human rights and the Company is conscious of the specific areas in foreign workers(4)) are covered under which it can make a positive contribution. It recognises the need to look the Employment Act. A section of the at the broader Singapore context and keeps in mind the priorities and Employment Act covers regulations challenges of the industry. As such, CDL understands that it can only pertaining to maximum working act within the scope of its core business activities. However, it ensures hours, overtime payments, authorised that direction and outcome of its actions are constantly monitored and salary deductions and frequency of improved. In doing so, CDL: salary payments. Foreign workers are • Embraces diversity and inclusivity at the workplace and informed of their rights under the Act appreciates contributions made by all employees even before arrival in Singapore. • Provides just and favourable work conditions in an In Singapore, foreign labour is a key undiscriminating manner manpower resource in the construction • Supports the right to work and recognises that job creation industry. Although CDL does not and protection are fundamental business responsibilities directly employ foreign workers, they occupy an important position in the • Strives to work with builders in protecting the rights of foreign Company’s value chain. In 2012, CDL workers they hire to work on its sites issued a Corporate Statement on (3) Source: United Nations Development Programme, 2013 Human Development Report. (4) Semi-skilled or unskilled foreign workers. For close to a decade, CDL has been incorporating communityfriendly features and best practices in Universal Design within developments. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP that caters to the needs of all age groups and people with different abilities, allowing them to live independently and enjoy access to facilities. Real estate development in Singapore is highly regulated by the relevant authorities. When developing new properties, CDL goes beyond compliance and sets targets surpassing authorities’ legislation on building standards e.g. BCA CONQUAS(5), Buildability, Quality Mark Scores. These standards are administered by BCA — Singapore’s governing body for the built environment. Managing the Societal 18 Impact of our Products CDL caters to different market segments in Singapore, developing CDL Sustainability Report 2013 properties for the mass market including executive condominiums, mid-market and luxury market. In particular, accessibility in the built environment has become increasingly relevant to Singapore with the need to address the trend of an ageing population and increase in mobility issues in the years ahead. A key enabler for enhancing the level of accessibility in the built environment is Universal Design — which broadly refers to ‘design for all people’. For close to a decade, CDL has been incorporating community-friendly features and best Ethical Marketing Practices practices in Universal Design within CDL is committed to upholding the principles of ethical marketing and fair developments, over and above the competition. We have a set of internal procedures in place to ensure factual accuracy mandatory requirements specified in of all marketing collaterals. The Company’s marketing and leasing procedures are the Code of Barrier-Free Accessibility also guided by an operations manual, which is reviewed on an annual basis. by BCA. All marketing collaterals produced by the Company are compliant with advertising Taking a holistic life-cycle approach, and promotion standards in Singapore, namely the Singapore Code of Advertising CDL applies Universal Design Practice(6) that is administered by the Advertising Standards Authority of Singapore principles from ground zero during the which is an Advisory Council to the Consumers Association of Singapore. This selfarchitectural planning and carry them regulatory code of conduct for advertisers has been endorsed by organisations through the construction, building representing advertisers, advertising agencies and media. operations and maintenance phases. The Universal Design Policy, which is In addition, all advertisements placed with the local dailies published by Singapore endorsed by CDL’s top management, Press Holdings (SPH) are subject to copy vetting by the media owner prior to provides the Company with a publication, with the objective of ensuring compliance with the rules and regulations framework to achieve our objective of stipulated by the various Singapore government bodies, Singapore Code of creating an inclusive built environment Advertising Practice and SPH’s company policies. (5) BCA CONQUAS: Construction Quality Assessment System by BCA. (6) This Code seeks to promote a high standard of ethics in advertising by self-regulation against the background of national law and international law and practice, including the International Code of Advertising Practice published by the International Chamber of Commerce. Appendix O of the Code makes specific reference to Property Advertising. In addition, CDL strictly adheres to the Housing Developers Rules (HDR)(7), Climate Change Commitment implemented by the Urban Redevelopment Authority, and ensures that our CDL is supportive of Singapore’s marketing practices comply. The HDR seeks to enhance transparency in the real national carbon target to reduce its estate industry to enable homebuyers to make better informed decisions when GHG emissions by some 16% below buying a home. Business-As-Usual (BAU) levels by Ethical Management 2020, contingent on a legally binding agreement, in which all countries All staff are provided with training on policies relating to Code of Business Conduct implement their commitments in good and Ethics. These policies are also available on the Company’s intranet and have faith. CDL has set a target to reduce the also been disseminated to officers and employees of the Group’s key subsidiaries. Company’s carbon intensity emissions by 22% from baseline year 2007 and to Communication Channels to THE CDL Ethics Officer achieve a 25% reduction by 2030. Email: cdl.ethics.hotline@cdl.com.sg Mobile: +65-9772-3876 CDL has also set a minimum target Fax: +65-6226-1706 that all new developments are to be Postal address: CDL Ethics Officer certified Singapore’s BCA Green 36 Robinson Road Mark GoldPlus rating by incorporating #19-01 City House, Singapore 068877 innovative green features to support the Singapore Government’s pledge towards sustainable development and ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION carbon target. EHS Policy Green Procurement Policy 19 In 2003, CDL established our corporate EHS Policy, which reflects our commitment In 2008, CDL formalised our Green Setting the standard towards a ‘Safe and Green’ culture. We make it our business to take concerted Procurement Guidelines to influence our efforts towards preventing environmental pollution and striving to apply vendors and suppliers at our Corporate environmentally-friendly practices in our operations. Office to adopt green procurement practices. The guidelines include: • Sharing the corporate EHS Policy with new vendors and suppliers • Indicating preference for use of eco-friendly/recycled materials and products • Indicating preference for ISO 14001 certified vendors • Declaring the use of eco-friendly/ recycled paper in printed materials LOOKING AHEAD We will continue to improve on our business operations and performance through a combination of innovation and responsible business practices. In the year ahead, we are committed to leveraging on our successes to further engage stakeholders, especially in our supply chain by learning and listening. We look forward to the new guidelines to be issued by the GRI to help us in our efforts to align with international best practices. (7) The HDR looks at matters such as mandatory information for home-buyers, provision of track record of developers, option procedures etc. More details on the HDR can be found at www.ura.gov.sg. TAKING THE INITIATIVE CDL’s commitment to sustainability is embodied by our three-pronged approach to develop quality and environmentally sustainable properties, manage properties in a cost-efficient and energy-efficient way and influence stakeholders through our outreach initiatives. Beyond the development and management of our properties with environmental sustainability in mind, we undertake engagement initiatives with stakeholders involved in the life cycle of our properties with the aim of encouraging a shared responsibility, and to ensure that we become a valued partner in the community. COMMITMENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS CDL strives to better understand our stakeholders’ expectations of us and how our actions impact them. We do this by engaging with them to ensure that we can better prioritise and strategise to enhance our business and social performance to meet their expectations. Stakeholder engagement has been an important aspect of how we do business and traditional forms of engagement, such as customer engagement surveys, investor road shows and employee dialogue have long been institutionalised through policies and processes. These approaches help us better understand the effectiveness of our activities and it is through this interaction that we have built trust and credibility. CDL defines our stakeholders as groups whom we impact through our business operations in a significant way and who have a vested interest in our operations. How we engage Builders & Suppliers customers • CDL 5-Star EHS Assessment System and Awards to influence • Universal Design Policy and encourage better EHS performance • Innovative green features in • Green Procurement Guidelines to ensure sustainable design buildings to help reduce water and construction and energy consumption 21 • EHS Seminars­­to engage on issues relevant to the building industry, • ‘Let’s Live Green!’ to encourage taking the initiative including sustainability and the environment homebuyers to embrace a green lifestyle • Monitoring of after-sales government & regulators customer satisfaction and regular surveys • Senior management representation on boards of various industry bodies • Homebuyer ePortal for and sustainability-related public discussions customers to provide feedback • Regulatory readiness to the Singapore Government’s commitment to and obtain on-going updates manage carbon emissions about their homes • Sustained partner of various national programmes the community employees investors • Active citizenship through the Government’s 3P • Employee Assistance Programme (counselling service) & media (People, Private and Public) Partnership Model and a grievance platform • Timely release of quarterly financial results and • Environmental outreach to help • Employment Engagement raise eco-consciousness Surveys regular briefings • Amongst 17 founding signatories • Youth development initiatives to • Dialogue sessions with nurture the new generation of Senior Management of the Anti-Corruption & Compliance Declaration leaders in society • Staff Connect Committee to • Art programmes to promote foster better work-life balance • Voluntary disclosure of ESG performance through greater appreciation of the arts and reinforce team spirit sustainability reporting • Charitable donations and • City Sunshine Club to enable active volunteerism to help employees to actively volunteer • Commitment to maintaining good corporate governance the underserved in the community and business integrity in all • Ongoing advocacy of CSR business activities through sharing sessions PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT Our recruitment process adheres to strict guidelines on non-discrimination with its tripartite partners, Singapore National Employers Federation (SNEF) and fairness and without regard to and NTUC. CDL is committed to become an gender, ethnicity, religion, age or employer of choice. Over the years, CDL supports and shares a similar marital status. CDL offers fair and we have refined our employee philosophy with the Tripartite Guidelines competitive remuneration packages engagement and retention, learning which strongly encourages companies based on employees’ competencies, and development, work-life and workto manage their excess manpower and expected roles and responsibilities. health initiatives work-health initiatives, to consider reorganisation only as a as well as creating new ones in order to Our rewards and compensation last resort. The guidelines also suggest promote and build a sustainable work policies emphasises employees’ company retraining programme for environment for our employees. merit and performance as we value workers, redeployment of workers to their continued contributions towards alternative areas of work, implementing Furthermore, we also encourage achieving success and growth in shorter work weeks, temporary layour employees to be socially our business. offs, flexible work arrangements, and responsible by integrating CSR into managing wage costs through the use of Equal Opportunities our HR policies and operations. a flexible wage system. Through our HR policies, we seek to CDL recruits based on competencies There has been no major reorganisation create opportunities and encourage and appropriate fit within the Company in the past five years. In the event of employees to participate in CSR and equal development opportunities termination or employee resignation, initiatives and activities. are provided to all employees. In terms there is a minimum of one to three 22 Creating The Right of gender diversity, we have more females than males in both managerial months-notice period that needs to be Environment fulfilled, depending on the employee job and non-managerial categories. In grade. Due to operational requirements, 2012, female Heads of Departments CDL Sustainability Report 2013 Fair Employment mid and senior management are represented 46% of the workforce in required to provide a notice period of two As at 31 December 2012, CDL had 379 the same cohort. and three months respectively. employees in Singapore. The Company is a signatory of the Employers’ Pledge The age profile of our workforce is fairly Retirement and Re-employment Policy of Fair Employment Practices with The young with 21% of employees being 30 Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment years old and below. Understanding The Singapore Government has Practices (TAFEP) that works with the dynamics of the GEN Y generation implemented the re-employment(8) employer organisations, unions and is critical to our business growth, legislation in 2012 to enable more the Government to create awareness development and sustainability. GEN Y people to continue working beyond the and facilitate the adoption of fair is the fastest growing segment of our current statutory retirement age of 62, employment practices. workforce and is also emerging as a up to 65 in the first instance and later, up potential customer group. 58% of new to 67. The legislation requires employers recruits in 2012 are born in 1978 to offer re-employment to employees with or later. satisfactory performance and who are medically fit, to continue working beyond 2012 also witnessed 40% of employee the age of 62, till age 65. promotions going to GEN Y employees Our recruitment and 5% of our managers were 30 Since 2005, CDL has a re-employment process adheres to years old and below. This is a good practice of extending employment to representation of GEN Y amidst our employees who have reached retirement strict guidelines on managerial staff, as there will be age. Employees, who are due for non-discrimination injections of new perspectives and retirement but are still able to contribute and fairness and creativity to ensure continual renewal to CDL, can continue to remain employed of people assets to the Company. at full pay. At the age of 62, employees without regard to who meet CDL’s re-employment criteria Job Security gender, ethnicity, (i.e. satisfactory performance and CDL adheres to the Tripartite medically fit, with availability of a suitable religion, age or Guidelines on Managing Excess role), will be offered re-employment in marital status. Manpower issued by MOM together the same job. They will be offered a (8) Re-employment is not the same as raising the retirement age as it requires employers to offer jobs to employees reaching the retirement age, but it need not to be for the same job position or on the same salary and terms. yearly term-contract with no change in existing benefits and salary, and are age group managerial total: 154 also eligible for all bonus pay-outs. In 2012, two employees (at age 62) 5.17% 5.21% Above 62 were re-employed in the same job. 22.92% 30 yrs and 37.93% yrs old 3.45% We have a total of 10 employees, both 51-61 below 51-61 30 yrs and yrs old yrs old below managerial and non-managerial, above the age of 62. CDL also provides a one-off Employment Assistance Payment Female Male (EAP), as stipulated by legislation, 96 58 should any employee reach the age of 62 and does not meet the necessary criteria for re-employment regardless of reasons. There were no EAP cases 32.76% in 2012. 32.29% 39.58% 41-50 20.69% 31-40 yrs old 31-40 41-50 yrs old yrs old yrs old gender profile of heads of department total: 26 age group non-managerial total: 225 23 2.33% 37.79% 5.66% taking the initiative Above 62 30 yrs and Above 62 13.21% yrs old below 28.3% yrs old 30 yrs and 54% 7.56% 51-61 below Male 51-61 yrs old yrs old Female Male 172 53 35.85% 46% 18.6% 33.72% 16.98% 31-40 41-50 yrs old Female 31-40 41-50 yrs old yrs old yrs old education profile total: 379 age group profile total: 379 2.9% 1.9% 6.1% 6.6% 1.49% 5.41% PSLE & Others Above 62 Above 62 8.11% Sec school/ below (Certificate) Master yrs old 26.12% 33.33% yrs old 30 yrs and NTC-3 30 yrs and 51-61 below 0.5% 13.06% below yrs old GCE ‘N’ 51-61 Level yrs old 9.5% GCE ‘O’ Level 1.6% Female Male GCE ‘A’ Level 268 111 20.8% 34.23% Diploma/ 23.51% 31-40 Advance 41-50 35.82% 18.92% yrs old 50.1% yrs old 31-40 Diploma 41-50 Degree yrs old yrs old Employee Relations company updates. Also available to to retaining our talent through all employees is our intranet portal performance management and CDL places high emphasis on employee which houses information such as reward opportunities. engagement and strives towards employments terms, benefits and ensuring that our employees remain Fair Remuneration practices, and corporate policies. committed and motivated to play a CDL offers fair and competitive role in the success of the organisation. Grievances Resolution remuneration packages based on the CDL believes in developing employee CDL has policies to ensure employee capabilities and potential of employees. engagement strategies to drive grievances are dealt with promptly and Remuneration package of an employee the message of connectivity and heard in a fair and impartial manner. is given based on merit and job worth. commitment into the hearts and minds Employees are guided by the Code of Employees are eligible for overtime of employees. Our employees have Conduct and Whistle-blowing Policy. compensation in accordance with the access to various constructive dialogue The latter deals with complaints Employment Act. and feedback mechanisms within the regarding the Company’s accounting, Company to voice their concerns and Our compensation packages are financial reporting, internal controls advance their interests. aligned to internal parity and market and auditing matters and protects benchmarks. This is to ensure our Employee Engagement the confidentiality and anonymity of competitiveness in attracting talent. employees who are reporting legitimate CDL conducts a bi-annual Employee concerns regarding these matters. Talent Management Engagement Survey (EES) to acquire insights into areas of potential Employees who have problems related Innovation and productivity are 24 employee-related concerns in order to proactively address them so as to to work are advised to raise this with their immediate supervisor and HR critical for CDL to stay ahead of the competition. In CDL, 78% of improve employee engagement and facilitates in the investigation of any our employees hold Diplomas and effectiveness. Heads of Departments grievances as well as manages the above. We believe in developing CDL Sustainability Report 2013 are also required to play a proactive consultation process after, where our employees and helping them role in engaging their employees and necessary. We are currently in the achieve their potential, so that they develop concrete post-employee survey midst of reviewing our grievance can contribute to the success of the action plans to address existing gaps procedures and plan to issue a more organisation. and concerns. comprehensive guideline in 2013. CDL has a well-structured performance In order to foster interaction and build Respect for Freedom of Association appraisal system where open camaraderie amongst employees, performance appraisal exercises take CDL respects all employees’ CDL regularly organises social and place on an annual basis. In addition, fundamental rights to freedom volunteering activities through annual staff training needs analysis of association and the right to be employee-managed committees are conducted to determine the types members of trade unions. Although comprising representatives from of training required to address learning CDL is not a unionised company, it various departments, such as City gaps. Aligned to the organisation’s is guided by the Industrial Relations Sunshine Club (CSC), Staff Connect strategic objectives, an organisationAct that allows representation of (SC) and Work-Life Committee. SC wide learning plan is implemented to employees by trade unions for plans activities such as our Annual ensure that employees are adequately collective bargaining thus providing Staff Day to reinforce employees’ team equipped with required foundational them with an avenue to seek redress spirit and bonding whilst the Work-Life and functional competencies. for their disputes. As part of our efforts Committee focuses on work-life related to recognise employees’ participation The Company has policies that provide initiatives including ‘Eat With Your in professional bodies, CDL supports employees with opportunities for Family Day’. employees’ subscription to these professional development and skills Employee Communication professional bodies. enhancements and employees are encouraged to be proactive about their CDL’s management also believes in Rewarding Our Employees own learning. Supervisors are also maintaining regular communication To become an employer of choice, CDL encouraged to promote the attainment channels with employees. Through acts to empower, nurture and value of greater knowledge and skills communication sessions, dialogue our people. CDL has an employee acquisition. Generally, employees are sessions with senior management and engagement and development required to set aside at least four days internal platforms comprising various strategy that focuses on employees’ for training every year. working committees, CDL ensures that potential while sustaining their career employees’ views are always heard. aspirations. We firmly believe that Through the dissemination of City employee engagement is critical to News, City Dynamix and Staff Circular, advancing the organisation’s growth employees are informed of the latest and productivity and we are committed Workplace Health Mental Health We firmly believe And Safety CDL has an Employee Assistance that employee CDL’s approach to workplace health Programme which provides employees and safety is two-fold: hardware and with an avenue to seek help on engagement ‘heartware’. All departments are to issues concerning work, interpersonal is critical to adhere to the principles of the relationships, family issues, etc. advancing the EHS Policy. To ensure confidential assistance, this hotline is manned by a thirdorganisation’s In addition to comprehensive insurance coverage and flexible working hour party psychologist. growth and arrangements, CDL established an EHS Human Rights productivity and Committee that monitors and advises on the Company’s Occupational Health MOM has 14 divisions and three we are committed and Safety Programme. statutory boards, governing to retaining our employment of locals and foreign We also seek to help employees workers in Singapore. For example, talent through achieve work-life harmony and wellness the Foreign Manpower Management performance in physical and mental health. By Division (FMMD) was set up to look into satisfying employees’ needs for workthe well-being of foreign workers during management life harmony, CDL benefits by enjoying their employment in Singapore. In the and reward high retention and staff engagement. areas of enhancement of workplace opportunities. This, in turn, drives productivity. A more effective workforce will not only be standards for foreign workers and enforcement of foreign workforce 25 able to contribute to the organisation’s policies, FMMD works closely with taking the initiative growth, but towards society as well. other departments within the Ministry, CDL has a dedicated committee including the Workplace Policy and comprising employee representatives Strategy Department, Work Pass across departments to plan and Division, Occupational Safety and organise activities to support Health Division and Labour Relations & work-life initiatives. Workplaces Division. Total Wellness Besides these governing bodies, To promote total wellness, an extensive there are also numerous statutory array of activities is planned every legislations that one must abide with year. Employees are provided with when in employment in Singapore. Key free annual basic health screening requirements such as the Singapore during working hours while their family Employment Act, Central Provident members can participate in the Fund (CPF) scheme and Retirement health screening programme at a and Pro-Baby Legislation are discounted price. highlighted below. CDL fully complies with the following legislations focusing In addition to a healthy snack given on welfare and rights of our employees. to employees every month to promote better consumption habits, CDL The Employment Act organises various sports and wellness The Employment Act provides the activities to encourage employees to statutory requirements when hiring lead an active and healthy lifestyle. employees in Singapore. CDL not only The activities organised include complies with the Employment Act, exercise workouts such as yoga, but our benefits typically exceed the zumba and various talks on healthy requirements stipulated within the eating and stress management. Act. In addition, these benefits are Physical Health extended to managerial and executive level employees who are not covered CDL has a Sports Subcommittee that under the Act. One example would be organises various events for employees the provision of annual leave which are to engage in outdoor activities such better than what is stated in the Act. as dragon boating, tennis and futsal. Other benefits include the provision of In addition, we collaborate with comprehensive insurance coverage fitness centres to provide corporate for employees. membership rates for our employees. CPF Scheme and Retirement Pro-Baby Legislation PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP The CPF is a comprehensive social CDL adopted measures in line with the security savings plan which aims Government’s pro-baby legislations. As Backed by 50 years of experience, to provide working Singaporeans/ per the legislation, paid maternity leave CDL has been a cutting-edge pioneer Permanent Residents with a sense stands at 16 weeks for mothers with known for developing iconic quality of security and confidence in their Singapore Citizen births. Employees properties which feature new lifestyle old age. CDL assists employees to with at least one Singapore Citizen concepts and innovative technology. make monthly contributions which are child under the age of seven will be Aligned with the triple bottom line deducted from their monthly gross entitled to six days of paid childcare model, CDL develops properties that salaries, into their CPF accounts, as leave per year. are sustainable, functional and required by law. financially marketable. In 2012, 18 eligible female CDL CPF contribution is a percentage of the employees exercised their maternity Our investment in the development monthly salary and varies according benefits and 14 returned in 2012 of green design and state-of-the-art to the employee’s age. These savings whilst the remaining four came back engineering solutions for our properties earn a minimum risk-free interest of in 2013. In addition to legislated is testament to our conviction for 2.5% guaranteed by the Government Maternity Leave, CDL voluntarily sustainable development. while a portion of the savings will earn extends one day of Paternity Leave to a guaranteed minimum of 4% interest. eligible male employees.(9) Product Quality The overall scope and benefits of the Child and Forced Labour Throughout the entire cycle, all 26 CPF encompass the following: Singapore has legislations in place stakeholders including customers, in-house experts and professional such as the Singapore Employment external consultants are involved Retirement Act, Retirement Act, Workplace Safety at various stages (from design, CDL Sustainability Report 2013 Plan to ensure sufficient & Health Act, Factories Act, etc that construction, procurement, savings to see CPF members imposes legal restrictions to mitigate maintenance to user engagement) through retirement risks and incidents of child labour of developing and managing a and forced labour. For example, the sustainable building. Healthcare Singapore Employment Act imposes restrictions on the employment of CDL invests between 2% and 5% Plan to ensure sufficient savings children who are below 13 years of of the construction cost of a new to meet members’ medical needs age and stipulates a clear set of laws development on green building design in old age for employment of children between and features. We have also set the 13 and 15 years of age, including target to achieve a minimum BCA Home Ownership their working hours and the type of Green Mark GoldPlus rating for all Plan to ensure a property that is fully work that they can be engaged in. The new developments. paid-up when members retire Commissioner for Labour must be notified if they are engaged in industrial Product and Customer undertakings or have obtained Safety Family Protection permission to work on their rest days. Every CDL building is under the charge Several schemes and insurance of a Complex Manager who oversees plans such as Dependents’ Protection In addition to the current Singapore legislations, CDL ensures that the daily operations of the building with Scheme, Home Protection Scheme, a team of full time service providers catastrophic medical insurance all employees are issued clear employment contracts stipulating clear including security firms that provide scheme and even severe disability 24-hour coverage. insurance scheme to protect CPF employment terms and conditions. We members and their families also require our suppliers to adhere For crisis management, CDL has put strictly to such legislations. in place the ISO 14000: Emergency Asset Enhancement CDL strongly believes in creating a Management System comprising work environment that promotes different emergency response plans for CPF members have the choice to known building related emergencies decide for themselves how to invest team spirit, engagement, passion and achievement. We continue to be such as flu epidemic outbreak, fire their CPF savings, and what risks to or even a major electricity outage. As accept, to ensure their financial wellinnovative and seek meaningful ways to bring out the best in our employees, of 2012, we have also put in place a being after retirement flood management response plan for nurture camaraderie and a sense of belonging to the CDL family. commercial buildings. Similar to the (9) Legislated Paternity Leave was announced by the Singapore Government in January 2013. With effect from May 2013, employers are required to provide a week of Paternity Leave to eligible males. conducting of mandatory fire drills, invaluable in our design refinement after the project has obtained TOP(10). CDL now also conducts flood (dry) drills and project planning process. The event provides an opportunity annually to ensure preparedness. for homebuyers to experience and By leveraging on feedback from our view their new home, in addition to More information on the steps taken customers and the marketplace, we are partaking in an educational programme to ensure the safety of product and able to respond more effectively and comprising talks and exhibitions on services is disclosed on pages 29 efficiently to evolving market demands environmental conservation. and 30. and also constantly evaluate and refine our service standards to ensure a To encourage homebuyers to embrace Customer Satisfaction satisfying customer experience. the green lifestyle, they are also given CDL’s Customer Service Department a specially-customised Green Living Kit Feedback from our customers is key has set up processes and which contains a Green Living Guide — to driving continual improvements infrastructure to fulfil the needs of a book featuring green lifestyle tips and across the Company, from product existing and potential customers. an illustrative floor plan of all the ecorefinement to operational process Customers are given the ease of friendly features provided for in their efficiency to service engagement. accessibility to the Company through new home along with instructions for The data collected is analysed and various channels of communication use and maintenance. Green features reviewed for continual improvement of and contact points, mainly the hotline, found in the common areas are also the Company’s service levels. site offices and website. indicated on the plan. Tenants at CDL’s commercial properties Information is shared across different Over the years, this initiative has been are also surveyed annually. rolled out to over 6,000 households channels to render a consistent approach in CDL’s service. CDL Respect for Customers and feedback solicited via surveys has 27 communicates regularly with our been positive. At a recent TOP Welcome CDL protects the privacy and Party held for homeowners of Volari, taking the initiative customers through various platforms, confidentiality of our customers’ over 89% of the homeowners surveyed namely newsletters as well as online information. In addition to internal expressed their satisfaction for the information on progress status of policies and procedures designed to Let’s Live Green! talks and exhibition. projects under construction and safeguard customer information, CDL correspondences. There is also a Our Tenants does not divulge or sell any personal structured approach to resolving information provided by our customers CDL also assists in monitoring the complaints which are monitored to third parties for their own marketing individual electricity bills of our closely and reviewed regularly at interor promotional purposes. tenants. If electricity usage fluctuates departmental meetings. All employees are guided by CDL’s by more than 10%, the Complex The customer satisfaction Manager will duly investigate the Code of Business Conduct and determination process is continually increase together with the tenant to Ethics, and any breach of customer reviewed at CDL through formalised follow-up on the cause. confidentiality will be met with strict regular surveys and tracking of disciplinary action. Since 2007, CDL’s ‘1°C Up Programme’ customers. For homebuyers, an online customer satisfaction survey has been implemented in CDL Influencing Consumer commercial properties to raise ecois administered six months after Behaviour handover to measure the customer’s consciousness amongst the tenants. service experience across the various Our Homebuyers It encourages tenants to make an touch points and to solicit feedback active contribution towards energy CDL’s environmental outreach and suggestions on project design, conservation by raising the airprogramme, ‘Let’s Live Green!’ was features within their apartments, conditioning temperature in their office launched in March 2004 to showcase as well as facilities and amenities by 1°C. The programme has become green features in new residential of the development. a standard BAU practice at 12 CDLdevelopments to homebuyers. managed buildings and puts the indoor Apart from existing homebuyers, CDL The initiative aims to encourage temperature at an average of 24°C. also solicits for feedback from potential homebuyers to make lifestyle choices Since 2009, CDL has achieved a 100% homebuyers who visit our project Show like purchasing energy-saving tenant participation rate. Suites. The respondents’ feedback appliances and practising eco-friendly on the quality and finishes in the habits to reduce their carbon footprint. Show Suite, apartment configuration A special TOP Welcome Party for CDL preference and service standards, are homebuyers is often held shortly (10) In Singapore, the Commissioner of Building Control will issue the Temporary Occupation Permit (TOP) to a building project when it is completed. A building can only be occupied when a Certificate of Statutory Completion or TOP is granted. COMMUNITY E-Generation Challenge 2012 and Project: Eco-Office. Empowering Our Youth PARTNERSHIP In 2012, CDL also unveiled plans New generations hold the hope for a sustainable future, and CDL is to develop the World’s 1st Green a firm supporter of initiatives that As we help to develop Singapore’s built Library for Kids named ‘My Tree actively engage our youths for talent environment, CDL also contributes House’. This synergistic project by development and capacity building. to the building of a vibrant society. the National Library Board and CDL Aside from raising environmental We believe a thriving community is steered by green principles in all awareness, developing thought provides the necessary conditions facets from design, infrastructure, leadership and encouraging active for a healthy economy and conducive use of sustainable materials to book community involvement are also business environment. Our role as an collection and programming. CDL factors for support. Besides CDL’s active citizen means we share in the will provide green expertise from signature programmes, such as the concerns of our society and take on the our experience of developing ecoCDL-Singapore Compact Young CSR responsibility for its betterment. friendly properties and integrate Leaders Award, we also supported To assess the impact of our efforts, we comprehensive sustainable practices various youth-driven initiatives as well embarked on a Community Investment to create a green prototype library for Community Involvement Programmes Scorecard exercise in 2012. Through children. Through this effort, we have (CIP) both in Singapore and abroad this exercise, which is being conducted also brought on board like-minded in 2012. by an independent CSR consultant, suppliers to help make this green a rigorous framework for impact initiative a success. Contributing Towards a Better Society 28 measurement was established based on the London Benchmarking Group Targeted for completion in mid-2013, CDL’s tradition and philosophy of this green library for children will be model(11) for one of our signature community involvement date back to located at the Central Public Library arts initiatives – the CDL Singapore CDL Sustainability Report 2013 and will be home to 70,000 books. the late founder of our parent Hong Sculpture Award. The full study will Leong Group, Mr Kwek Hong Png, who About 30% of these books will focus on be completed mid-2013 and we will strongly adhered to the traditional green topics such as animals, plants, leverage on the framework to measure Chinese belief “取诸社会用诸社会” nature, water resources, environment the impacts of the 5th CDL Singapore which means “return to society what and climate change. Sculpture Award which is being held one has gained from it”. this year. CDL also supported the Inaugural Asian Environmental Journalism City Sunshine Club (CSC) was set up While there are many worthy causes to in 1999 as an employee volunteer (AEJ) Awards 2012. Initiated by the support, we have seen larger and more platform to facilitate and encourage Singapore Environment Council (SEC), effective impact through sustained employees and their families to the AEJ Awards 2012 are Asia’s first support and remain focused on four participate in voluntary work and environmental journalism awards. The major community involvement areas lend a helping hand to the less Awards aim to honour outstanding – conserving and raising awareness privileged through a broad range works of environmental journalism for the environment, enhancing youth of structured programmes. by professionals, citizen journalists development, caring for the less and media organisations. CDL, as For over a decade, CDL has sustained fortunate and promoting the arts. one of the pioneers of corporate our corporate volunteering culture Championing Environmental environmental responsibility in through CSC, as employees have Awareness Singapore as well as a long-time been engaging in various meaningful partner of SEC, lent our support for community involvement initiatives CDL’s ongoing efforts in promoting the CDL Environmental Journalist to help community partners environmental conservation amongst of the Year category, reflecting our and beneficiaries. the community-at-large have seen commitment to spreading awareness an increased interest, support and about environmental concerns to the Promoting Appreciation for participation by public and private wider community. the Arts organisations alike. As the issue of climate change grows increasingly dire, Other organisations CDL has engaged CDL has long been a strong supporter our environmental outreach efforts and supported include China of the local arts scene in Singapore. have been expanded, especially those Exploration & Research Society, We believe that art is an effective and that target the youth. Our initiatives Eco-business.com, the National Parks powerful communication tool to bring include the BCA-CDL Green Sparks Board, Nature Society (Singapore) communities closer. For our sustained Competition 2012/13, the CDL and World Green Building Council. efforts, we have been presented the (11) The LBG model is an internationally-recognised framework that enables corporates to measure their overall contribution to the community, taking account of cash, time and in-kind donations, as well as management costs. Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award We recognise GHG emissions globally builders, CDL has been facilitating since 2011. Aside from signature are at unsustainable levels and there the quarterly CDL 5-Star EHS Review programmes that we manage such as is a need to respond urgently to the Seminar since 2001 to raise our the CDL Singapore Young Photographer issue of climate change. This response builders’ EHS standards. Best practices Award and the CDL Singapore will require both mitigation efforts are shared during the review sessions Sculpture Award, we also support a to minimise the direct and indirect to encourage peer learning. number of national arts initiatives. consequences of climate change, and CDL provides various channels adaptation to address climate change More details of community initiatives of communication to engage impacts that cannot be avoided. and the impact we create can be found our stakeholders and share our in Chapter 3: Making the Difference. In Singapore, where buildings are commitments, best practices and projected to account for nearly 14% EHS performance, as well as to CSR Advocacy of national GHG emissions by 2020, solicit stakeholder feedback and In addition to partnering and supporting CDL is taking a strategic multi-faceted suggestions for continual improvement. various community partners, CDL approach to mitigate the impact of our All CDL employees are encouraged places key representatives in local and operations on the environment. to be forthcoming and to report all international organisations to learn, incidences of EHS-related accidents, EHS Management Systems complaints, incidences of nonshare and contribute meaningfully to benefit the community. In 2003, CDL set a new industry compliances and non-conformities. benchmark as the first private property At CDL worksites, a hotline number is CDL is on the Corporate Advisory Board developer to receive the ISO 14001 also provided for the public and CDL is of the World Green Building Council and a board member of the Singapore Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational committed to work with our builders, to 29 Green Building Council. We are also on prevent potential non-conformances. Health and Safety Management taking the initiative the board of the Singapore Compact System in Property Development and Compliance for CSR and our CDL Managing Project Management. In 2008, CDL Director Kwek Leng Joo was elected as CDL is committed to full compliance was awarded ISO 14001 in Corporate President in 2012. on all applicable EHS legal Management and Operations for all requirements enforced by local In another pioneering move to functions at our headquarters. In governing authorities such as BCA, champion sustainability, CDL became 2012, CDL attained the OHSAS 18001 MOM, National Environment Agency a founding member of the Business in Property Management certification (NEA), Singapore Civil Defence Force Council for Sustainable Development for 15 buildings as well as re-certified (SCDF) and other relevant enforcers Singapore when it was launched by the for ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 Quality where appropriate. CDL actively World Business Council for Sustainable Management System which were first ensures that all our activities and Development in November 2012. awarded in 2007. operations comply with existing legal From what we learn through this active The EHS Management System, which and regulatory requirements through engagement process, we can better is based on a Plan-Do-Check-Act constant monitoring, evaluation and prioritise and strategise to enhance methodology, is integrated into our auditing of our implemented EHS our business and social performance business operations. It provides a management systems. to meet the expectations of our systematic process to manage CDL’s CDL proactively influences and stakeholders. This has also helped operational impact on the environment engages our stakeholders, including us understand the effectiveness and to continuously improve our our architects, builders, designers, of our activities. environmental performance. engineers and quantity surveyors to Training, Awareness And embrace safe and environmentallyENVIRONMENTAL Communication friendly designs and best practices CONSERVATION EHS training and awareness at the planning stage. CDL continues to ensure compliance during the programmes are planned for all construction and operational phase. The threats of climate change in recent CDL employees to raise their EHS This is done through the CDL 5-Star history have been unrelenting, and in awareness and cultivate a ‘Green & EHS Assessment System and the most severe cases, calamitous. Safe’ corporate culture. Employees are regular inspections. Moreover, they have far-reaching also encouraged to attend relevant social and economic consequences external conferences and workshops In 2012, out of 17 construction sites, that directly impact businesses and to strengthen their EHS management our builders received a total of eight communities around the world. skills and knowledge. As for our fines; of which five were for working beyond allowable hours, two for targets, establishing programmes and/ on water sustainability right from vector control and one for silty water or putting in place work procedures and the design stage and construction discharge. One Stop Work Order was work instructions. process to the building’s water also received from MOM for failing efficient features. Responsible water Energy to sufficiently safeguard the safety of management will benefit our tenants workers on-site. This was immediately CDL promotes the use of electricity and homebuyers through cost savings investigated to identify the control directly from the power grid supply and reducing the risk of exposure to lapse and rectified to ensure that through a sub-station at the future potential legislations. safety standards were put in place. construction stage whenever possible. Some examples include, the Silt Water To address this, we have embarked This significantly reduces the use of Treatment cum Water Recycling System on a review exercise to tighten our diesel generators. The use of electricity introduced since 2004 for general control procedures, with a view to work grid power supply generates lower cleaning across all worksites, water with our builders to maintain high emissions of GHG, sulfur oxides, efficient sanitary fixtures and fittings EHS standards. nitrogen oxides and particulates to which have ‘very good’ or ‘excellent’ the environment as compared to using EHS Audits Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme a generator. (WELS) ratings and the use of rainwater The Company is subjected to We also explore adopting green harvesting for irrigation of plants. annual external EHS audits which technologies to reduce energy are conducted by accredited thirdWaste and Resource Management consumption. For example, CDL has party auditors during renewal and been harnessing renewable energy CDL has also undertaken various surveillance visits. CDL has put in 30 place internal audits to ensure the for our developments through the implementation of solar and Building reduction strategies to mitigate our impact on the environment Company’s EHS management Integrated Photovoltaic (BIPV) panels. and our use of natural resources. systems conform to the ISO 14001, Another innovative technology Efficient construction methods, such CDL Sustainability Report 2013 OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9001 incorporated into our private housing as the use of prefabrication and international standards. properties, such as Volari, include precast construction innovations heat recovery from the air-conditioning are used at worksites to improve Environmental Aspects system to generate hot water for on-site management as well as to As part of the ISO 14001 framework, household use. promote environmental conservation CDL identifies environmental aspects and reduce material waste. These CDL has also introduced various for our business operations that construction building components are energy conservation and efficiency can potentially have significant then transported to the worksite to be improvements projects in our environmental impacts. The risk level assembled systematically. For instance, investment properties. For instance, of environmental aspect is determined the use of prefabricated bathroom the 2012 upgrading of the chiller plant, using a risk assessment technique units designed to reduce construction replacement of less efficient lightings consisting of the likelihood of the waste have become a standard green and adopting the use of motion occurrence, severity of the impact and feature in all CDL new developments sensors for Republic Plaza will reap an control measures. wherever possible. estimated energy savings of 3,676,580 CDL actively evaluates the key kWh per year. This is equivalent to Construction waste generated from our significant environmental aspects at the average annual electricity used worksites is also monitored and since our worksites, investment buildings by 830 Singapore households(12). For December 2009, a Construction and and Corporate Office. From our some investment properties, sensors Demolition Waste Policy has been put continuous assessment, we know are installed to monitor carbon dioxide in place for the adoption of sustainable that energy use, water use, waste levels in offices, and carbon monoxide construction practices through the generation and carbon emissions are levels in the basement car park. use of sustainable products and the most significant environmental Since 2007, the Company’s ‘1°C Up implementation of construction waste aspects. CDL also includes other Programme’ has become a standard recycling. Waste generated is nonaspects such as paper use, waste BAU practice at CDL buildings, hazardous in nature and disposed paper recycling, noise, biodiversity and keeping indoor temperatures in accordance with NEA’s waste safety management. at 24°C on average. management system. CDL regularly implements and Water In the developments that we manage, evaluates measures to mitigate all various initiatives to encourage tenants CDL’s new developments are significant environmental impacts. This to manage resource usage have also conceptualised with a strong focus is done through setting objectives and been implemented. Aside from a paper (12) The average annual electricity consumption of households in public housing is 4,428 kWh. Source: Singapore Energy Statistics 2012, www.ema.gov.sg. recycling programme that all CDL audited and appraised approach the instances where there are workers’ buildings have, new tenants are also towards EHS involving all our builders. housing on-site, workers employed are presented with a Project: Eco-Office Kit treated with dignity and respect. Each quarter, all CDL builders undergo to promote the 3Rs — reuse, reduce EHS inspections and audits conducted To further encourage builders to take and recycle. Recycling corners are by an independent EHS audit firm this aspect seriously, CDL expanded strategically located and accessible to recognised by MOM to appraise the our award scope to include this new tenants to promote and cultivate the builders on a scale of one to five stars. category. The CDL Workers’ Welfare practice of recycling. The results are presented to the top Award recognises builders who are Green Procurement management of the builders during the committed and have taken deliberate quarterly CDL 5-Star EHS Seminars. efforts to create and provide a safe, Where it is feasible, CDL has These seminars are a valuable platform hygienic and congenial place for its used recycled materials as an to promote sharing of best practices workers to reside in. The key areas of environmentally-friendly alternative in and peer learning to encourage assessment include general security, the construction of our developments. better EHS performance amongst lodging, housekeeping, toilets and For example, a wide range of the builders. sanitation, recreational benefits, sustainable recyclable building education and communication. materials such as green concrete was The CDL 5-Star EHS Award was used for the entire structure of 11 introduced in 2005 to recognise For its exemplary efforts, Dragages Tampines Concourse. Composite wood, builders who have excelled in the CDL Singapore Pte Ltd was honoured with which has over 30% recycled timber 5-Star EHS Assessment over a one this inaugural Award for two of its CDL content, is commonly used for external year period. The Assessment System projects, Cube 8/368 Thomson and decking in CDL developments. and Award have been instrumental Blossom Residences. As an employer, 31 in influencing and encouraging CDL’s Dragages cares for their workers’ CDL’s marketing communications builders and consultants to monitor welfare and ensures that the workers’ taking the initiative publications use eco-friendly paper, and improve their EHS performance. quarters are clean, well-maintained preference being for paper certified by with more than adequate living the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). The Award comprises the CDL and sanitary facilities and good For example, the CDL Annual Report EHS Excellence Award and the CDL security features. and Sustainability Report are printed Productivity Excellence Award, which on FSC certified paper. was introduced in 2011, in line with With our builders’ support, CDL’s the national productivity drive. In environmental performance CDL has set specific environmental 2012, the inaugural CDL Workers’ at worksites have remained objectives and targets at our Welfare Award was introduced. This fairly consistent while obtaining worksites, investment buildings and new Award is part of our continuous commendable results in other key the Corporate Office. A Management effort to align business practices with aspects. This includes an Accident Review is conducted annually to assess ISO 26000. Frequency Rate (AFR) of 0.14 accidents the environmental performance for per million man-hours worked for the continual improvement. We monitor the Whilst we do not encourage builders year 2012, which is significantly lower usage of resources such as electricity, to have workers housing on-site, than the industry average AFR of about water and paper across our operational we understand that there might be 1.70 over the same period. departments and targets are reviewed circumstances where this is necessary. annually and areas for improvements As such, following the issuance of our CDL’s influence has also inspired are highlighted. corporate statement on human rights our builders and key consultants to in 2012, this area was subsequently establish their own EHS management For more information on the included into the CDL 5-Star EHS systems and more than 50% of them environmental objectives, targets and Assessment (where applicable) after a have obtained the ISO 14001 and/ performance, please see page 52. trial run and refinement of criteria. We or OHSAS 18001 standards. All main CDL 5-Star EHS Assessment recognise that the physical and mental builders of CDL projects are required to System And EHS well-being of workers is important attain both certifications. Excellence Awards because a healthy and well-rested worker is an alert, productive and The CDL 5-Star EHS Assessment vigilant one, which in turn, can help to System is an independent audit tool minimise workplace accidents. to assess, measure and improve our builders’ EHS management and The current assessment criteria takes performance. Pioneered in 2001, the lead from relevant government CDL was the first private developer to agency requirements and goes beyond proactively structure a comprehensive, local compliance(13) to ensure that in (13) Local legislations require that quarters on construction sites have to meet the technical requirements of relevant government agencies, such as SCDF, NEA and BCA to ensure safe and hygienic living conditions. More details can be found at www.mom.gov.sg. MAKING THE DIFFERENCE As one of Singapore’s largest companies by market capitalisation, CDL’s success is measured not merely by financial bottom line, but also by our environmental and social performance. We aspire to make a difference in the way we conduct our business. Our efforts have made CDL the first Singapore company listed on three global sustainability benchmarks — FTSE4Good Index Series since 2002, Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World since 2010 and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes since 2011. Summary of Financial, Social and Environmental Performance Financial Impact 5-Year Financial Highlights Year 2008 2009 2010(3) 2011 2012 Revenue ($million) 2,945 3,273 3,103 3,280 3,354 Profit before tax ($million) 834 832 1,067 1,136 960 Profit for the year attributable to 581 593 784 799 678 owners of the Company ($million) Net gearing ratio 0.48 0.40 0.29 0.21 0.25 Return on equity (%) 10.7 9.9 12.5 11.7 9.3 Net asset value per share ($) 5.97 6.57 6.89 7.51 8.03 Basic earnings per share (cents) 62.5 63.8 84.8 86.4 73.2 Dividends 33 (a) Ordinary Dividend (Gross) Per Share MAKING THE DIFFERENCE • Final (cents) 7.5(1) 8.0(1) 8.0(1) 8.0(1) 8.0(2) • Special Interim (cents) 5.0 (1) • Special Final (cents) 10.0(1) 5.0(1) 5.0(2) (b) Preference Dividend (Net) 3.90(1) 3.90(1) 3.90(1) 3.90(1) 3.90(1) Per Share (cents) Notes: (1) Dividends declared were tax-exempt (one-tier). (2) Final and special final tax-exempt (one-tier) ordinary dividends for the year ended 31 December 2012, which had been approved by the ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 24 April 2013, were paid on 20 May 2013. (3) Certain accounting policies or accounting standards had changed in the financial year 2011. Only the financial information presented above for year immediately preceding 2011 had been restated to reflect the relevant changes in accounting policies or accounting standards. Capital Management Net Gearing 0.5 As at As at 31/12/12 31/12/11 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents Net Gearing (%) 2,162(a) 2,603 ($million) 0.3 Net borrowings ($million) 2,357 1,816 Net gearing ratio(b) 0.25 0.21 0.2 Net gearing ratio if fair value gains on investment 0.18 0.15 0.1 properties are taken in Interest cover ratio (times) 17.4 21.8 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (a) Includes cash and cash equivalents classified as assets held for sale. If fair value gains on investment properties (b) Excludes fair value gains on investment properties as the Group’s accounting policy is to state its investment properties at cost less are taken in. accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. CDL’s financial information is described in more detail in our Annual Report 2012. Current and previous reports are available online at www.cdl.com.sg. Environmental Impact 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy Used CDL Worksites (kWh/m2) 43 46 27 49 38 CDL Worksites (k kWh) 9,860 8,248 4,613 5,150 5,838 CDL Commercial Buildings (kWh/month/m2) 18.84 17.70 16.73 16.39 15.16 CDL Industrial Buildings (kWh/month/m ) 2 9.36 9.75 9.01 8.16 7.28 CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (k kWh) 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 56,213 CDL Corporate Office (kWh/m2) 93 91 86 84 88 CDL Corporate Office (k kWh) 570 558 528 513 596 CDL Total Energy Used (k kWh) 65,422 61,496 71,708 66,230 62,647 Water Used CDL Worksites (m3/m2) 0.68 0.80 1.10 1.20 1.26 34 CDL Worksites (m ) 3 154,273 150,176 182,859 127,426 191,160 CDL Commercial Buildings (m3/month/m2) 0.16 0.19 0.14 0.14 0.15 CDL Sustainability Report 2013 CDL Industrial Buildings (m3/month/m2) 0.09 0.09 0.08 0.08 0.08 CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (m ) 3 478,363 453,382 581,784 552,356 564,324 CDL Corporate Office (m ) 3 (1) NA NA NA 2,737 3,065 CDL Total Water Used (m3)(2) 632,636 603,558 764,643 682,519 758,549 NEWater Used at CDL Commercial Buildings (m ) 3 84,016 101,412 123,344 136,269 125,981 Construction Waste Generated at CDL Worksites (kg/m2) 59.87 61.70 46.50 24.50 43.92 Generated at CDL Worksites (tonnes) 13,587 11,160 8,071 2,552 6,671 Paper Recycling CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings (kg) 384,047 320,233 374,050 361,397 647,789 Tenants Participation Rate at CDL Commercial 88 >90 >90 >90 >90 and Industrial Buildings (%) Paper Use CDL Corporate Office (number of A4 reams) 4,796 4,395 3,774 3,488 3,544 Carbon Emissions(3) CDL Worksites (tonnes CO2) 5,159 4,137 2,196 2,452 3,004 CDL Commercial and Industrial Buildings 28,778 26,429 31,693 28,836 28,927 (tonnes CO2) CDL Corporate Office (tonnes CO2) 298 280 251 244 307 CDL Business Travel (tonnes CO2) 132 78 81 57 65 Total Carbon Emissions (tonnes CO2) 34,367 30,924 34,221 31,589 32,303 Complaints on Construction Noise CDL Worksites (number) 2 3 4 2 3 Notes:Water used at CDL Corporate Office was tracked from 2011. (1) (2) Total Water Used from 2007 to 2010 excludes Corporate Office. (3) Carbon Emissions preceding 2012 have not been restated to reflect changes in Electricity Grid Emission Factors. Social Impact 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Employee Turnover Rate (%) 17.1 10.7 13.7 14.4 17.9 Employee Satisfaction (%)(4) ≥90 ≥90 ≥90 NA NA Employee Effective Index (%)(4) NA NA NA 69 NA Medical Leave Taken Per Employee ≤4 ≤4 ≤4 4.5 3.8 (number of days) Gender Diversification: 57 57 55 50 46 Females as Heads of Department (%) Average Service Per Employee 8.1 8.4 8.8 8.9 8.6 (number of years) Total CSR and Environment-related 1,075 >3,000 3,694 3,287 1,804(5) Training (hours) Employee Volunteerism Participation Rate (%) 66 85 60 71 89 35 Participation Rate (hours) 2,644 5,524 2,894 2,838 3,589 MAKING THE DIFFERENCE Product Quality and Sustainability New Developments to be Well-ranked Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes on CONQUAS New Developments to be Certified Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes BCA Green Mark Gold and Above(6) Health and Safety (a) At the Corporate Office: •Injury rate and occupational 0 0 0 0 0 disease (number) (b) At CDL Worksites: •Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) (number 0.52 0.38 0.23 0.11 0.14 of workplace accidents per million man hours worked) •Injury Rate (number of fatal and nonfatal workplace injuries per 100,000 273 100 63 30 44 persons employed) Notes: (4) From 2011, an Employee Effective Index has been put in place. The Employee Effective Survey takes place once every two years and we are in the midst of conducting our 2013 survey. (5) From 2012, only core subjects identified in ISO 26000 were identified as CSR and Environment-related training. (6) All new developments to be certified BCA Green Mark GoldPlus and above from 2011. SUSTAINABILITY RANKINGS, BENCHMARKS AND COMMITMENTS 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Rankings and Benchmarks Asian Sustainability RatingTM (%) 66 74 84 81 NA# Carbon Disclosure Project Participated since 2007 and disclosure to the public from 2009 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Listed since 2011 (DJSI World and DJSI Asia Pacific) FTSE4Good Index Series Listed since 2002 Global 100 Most Sustainable NA NA 81 100 62 Corporations in the World (ranking) Singapore Quality Class Certified since 2009* Sustainability Commitments and Certifications Anti-Corruption & Signatory since 2009 Compliance Declaration 36 Caring for Climate Statement Signatory since 2008 Securities Investors Association CDL Sustainability Report 2013 (Singapore) SIAS Corporate Signatory since 2010 Governance Statement of Support UN Global Compact Signatory since 2005 ISO 9001 (15 CDL Buildings) Since 2007 ISO 14001 (Property Development Since 2003 and Project Management) ISO 14001 (Corporate Management Since 2008 and Operations) OHSAS 18001 (Property Development and Project Since 2003 Management) OHSAS 18001 (Property Since 2011 Management) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sustainability Reporting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (Application Level Check for B+ B+ B+ A+ A+ CDL’s Sustainability Reports) Perfomance AA1000 Assurance Standard information (AA1000AS 2008 applied to only with Type 2 Type 2 Type 2 Type 2 CDL’s Sustainability Reports) reference to AA1000AS ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Strategic alignment since 2009 social responsibility # The Asian Sustainability RatingTM was not conducted in 2012. * Recertified in 2012. KEY CSR AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS 2012 Asia Pacific Green CDL was conferred this award at the 2012 Frost & Sullivan Asia Pacific Green Excellence Builder of the Year Awards. Presented by Frost & Sullivan, an international research and growth consultancy, the Awards celebrate companies that have excelled in green product and technology innovation, and service achievements across various industries. BCI Asia Top 10 Developers CDL was once again accorded Singapore’s BCI Asia Top 10 Developers Award 2012, further Award (since 2011) reaffirming CDL’s efforts in shaping and influencing the built environment. The BCI Asia Awards, which is now in its 7th year, is a regional event honouring the best in the building and property development in Hong Kong SAR, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. Channel NewsAsia Green This award identifies the Asian company that leads in employing green practices in its main Luminary Award 2012 business practice. CDL received this award as recognition of its conscientious efforts to be environmentally-friendly through its business operations and community programmes. Dow Jones Sustainability Listed as an index component on the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI World and DJSI Indexes (Since 2011) Asia Pacific). DJSI is one of the most creditable reference points in sustainability investing for investors and companies globally. FIABCI Prix d’Excellence CDL’s concerted efforts and investment in green building infrastructure and technology was 37 Awards 2012 recognised once again at the prestigious FIABCI Prix d’Excellence Awards 2012 with 11 Tampines Concourse winning the Sustainable Development Category. MAKING THE DIFFERENCE FTSE4Good Index Series Amongst an elite group of companies worldwide that meets globally recognised corporate (Since 2002) responsibility standards. Global 100 Most Sustainable 2010 (81st), 2011(100th), 2012 (62nd) Corporations in the world CDL was once again included in this prestigious global ranking announced annually at the World Economic Forum, Davos. CDL’s ranking on this stringent global listing also improved from 100th to 62nd position. Indonesia Sustainability CDL emerged winner of the Best Sustainability Report 2011 from Singapore at The National Reporting Award 2012 Center for Sustainability Reporting’s (NCSR) 8th Indonesia Sustainability Reporting Awards. NCSR is a non-profit organisation based in Indonesia which honours organisations that publish and develop Sustainability Reports based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Framework. Global Sustain Ability CDL Managing Director Mr Kwek Leng Joo was included in the 100 Global Sustain Ability Leaders 2012 Leaders 2012 list which is produced by Sustain Ability Showcase Asia and ABC Carbon. The list honours 100 leaders globally who have provided leadership in the field of sustainability. Royal Society for the CDL is the only private property developer in Singapore to be conferred the RoSPA Gold Medal Prevention of Accidents Award for excellence in Occupational Health and Safety management in the workplace. RoSPA (RoSPA): Gold Medal Award is a non-profit organisation based in the United Kingdom which focuses on accident prevention (since 2006) and raising health and safety standards. The Gold Medal Award is presented to organisations which have achieved between five and nine consecutive Gold Awards. Trusted Brands 2012: Launched in 1999, the Reader’s Digest Trusted Brands Survey in Asia is now in its 14th year Property Developer and recognises brands which reflect trustworthiness and credibility, deliver quality, value, Category understanding of customer needs, innovation and corporate social responsibility. A total of 8,000 respondents in Asia, including 1,000 from Singapore, were polled in the Reader’s Digest Annual Consumer Brand Preference Survey 2012 and CDL was voted as a Trusted Brand Gold Winner under the Property Developer Category in Singapore. The Reader’s Digest Trusted Brands are voted solely by consumers and the achievement of this award is testimony of the strong trust and confidence that consumers have in CDL. LOCAL ACHIEVEMENTS Building and Construction CDL emerged as the most accorded private property developer at the BCA Awards 2012. CDL Authority (BCA) Awards 2012 added another 25 awards to the honours roll, including 13 Green Mark awards, amassing a portfolio of 62 Green Mark projects to its name, of which 21 are of the highest-tier Platinum, the most of any private developer on both counts. The British Chamber of Commerce’s 13th Annual CDL, a first time participant, took home the top honour. CDL was judged on its clear Business Awards – explanation of its overall business and CSR initiatives as well as the effectiveness of its CSR Exceptional CSR Practice efforts (demonstrated through measurable results) and future plans. category 2012 Distinguished Patron CDL was conferred the Distinguished Patron of the Arts Award in recognition of continuous and of the Arts Award generous contributions to Singapore’s vibrant arts and culture scene. Singapore HEALTH CDL was conferred a Platinum Award for the Singapore HEALTH Award 2012 for the second (Helping Employees Achieve time. The first Platinum Award was conferred in 2008. The Platinum status is the highest Life-Time Health) Award 2012 – Platinum level attainable. This Award is presented by the Health Promotion Board to organisations with commendable Workplace Health Promotion programmes. Securities Investors Association Singapore CDL received the Singapore Corporate Governance Award 2012 – 2nd Runner Up (Big Cap) and 38 (SIAS) Investors’ Choice Awards 2012 Singapore Most Transparent Company Award – Runner Up (Real Estate Category). Sustainability Report 2012 Titled ‘Ideas, Initiatives, Impacts’, this report is the first Level A+ Sustainability Report checked CDL Sustainability Report 2013 by the GRI using the GRI G3.1 guidelines and the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement published by a Singapore property developer. Workplace Safety and The first private property developer to receive the Workplace Safety and Health Developer Health Awards 2012 Award, CDL is a proud recipient of the distinguished Developer Award for the sixth time. Through CDL’s continued efforts in engaging stakeholders to consistently adopt a conscious EHS culture, three of its project sites were also accorded the Safety and Health Award Recognition for Projects (SHARP) Award. * This list is not exhaustive. For more listings and details of CDL’s CSR milestones, awards and accolades from 1997 to 2013, please refer to www.cdl.com.sg. PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT CDL’s corporate philosophy is to care for employees’ well-being while providing support and resources for employees to achieve their potential. Through satisfying employee needs for work-life harmony, CDL also benefits through high retention and high staff engagement. This, in turn, drives productivity and creates a more effective workforce. Local Job Creation 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Employees (number) 345 359 350 362 379 As at 31 December 2012, out of 379 employees, 100% of senior management employees (comprising Assistant General Manager level and above) are all Singaporeans or Permanent Residents, hired from our local community. Fair Employment and Equal Opportunities CDL monitors and tracks incidences of discrimination since 2008 and there have been no reported cases. We also recognise that there are some employees who need to attend to special family needs. CDL allows employees’ conversion to part time employment and there are currently three employees working on a part time arrangement. Benefits provided to part time employees are similar to full time employees. More than 50% of our employees have been with CDL for more than five years. Employee Retention And Satisfaction CDL’s success in employee engagement is evident from the length of service of our employees. Our employee’s average tenure is about 8.6 years (2011: 8.9 years). This bears testimony to CDL’s efforts in creating an engaged, committed and motivated workforce. CDL’s employee turnover continued to remain significantly lower than the national average. More than 50% of our employees have been with CDL for more than five years. CDL has also been organising Employee Engagement Surveys (EES) to acquire insights into areas of potential employeerelated concerns in order to proactively address them. In 2011, the ESS was conducted by a third party consultant for greater impartiality. CDL achieved a score of 69% which is 6% higher than Singapore’s norm for level of Employee Effectiveness Index in 2011. We are currently conducting our EES and results of this survey will be ready in mid-2013. employee turnover rate 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CDL (%) 17.1 10.7 13.7 14.4 17.9 National Average (%) + 23.7 21.3 24.0 24.0 25.2 39 + This is the national average based on 2012 Labour Market Report issued by Ministry of Manpower in March 2013. MAKING THE DIFFERENCE Employee Training And Development A competent workforce is integral to achieving and sustaining continuous improvement. It is CDL’s on-going commitment to develop our people holistically through multiple avenues. Training needs analysis is conducted annually to determine the types of training interventions necessary to level up individual competencies. In 2012, employees clocked over 13,400 training hours, of which about 1,800 hours was dedicated to CSR and EHS related training. CDL also embarked on a project to identify new competencies which are important for the Company. To encourage employees to upgrade their knowledge and skill sets, CDL sponsored 12 employees in 2012 in their pursuit of upgrading their educational qualifications. CDL also believes in nurturing and investing in talents even before they join the organisation. CDL partners with BCA to offer the BCA-CDL Built Environment Undergraduate Scholarship to young adults who excel in their academic studies and are keen to pursue a career with CDL after graduation. Since this initiative started in 2001, CDL has offered seven local undergraduate scholarships. In addition, CDL partners with local tertiary education institutions in offering meaningful student internship opportunities to students who are interested the property industry. In 2012, CDL offered 16 internship opportunities to promising young talents. Health And Safety At CDL’s corporate office, we had zero occupational diseases in 2012. There were no lost days due to work-related fatalities and the average medical leave taken per employee per year was less than four days. 6% of CDL’s employees at HQ are in involved in workplace health and safety committees. CDL remains committed to achieving the vision of a safe and healthy workplace for everyone and upholding a good safety record. Over the years, CDL’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) and Workplace Injury Rate remained below the construction industry’s average value as a result of the various safety promotions and engagement with our builders and their workers at the worksites. Accident Frequency Rate(14) at Worksites Workplace Injury Rate(15) at Worksites No. of workplace accidents per million manhours worked No. of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons employed 2.90 796 2.70 741 2.20 40 1.60 1.70 273 CDL Sustainability Report 2013 0.52 0.38 100 0.23 0.11 0.14 63 30 44 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CDL Construction Industry Average (Source: MOM) CDL Construction Industry Average (Source: MOM) Human Rights In 2012, no incidents and grievances of discrimination, child labour and forced labour were reported at CDL. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP Product Responsibility and Quality CDL has been a leader of Singapore’s built environment and championing the development of more sustainable buildings even before the introduction of BCA’s Green Mark in 2005. As the developer with the most number of Green Mark Platinum awarded properties, CDL has the honour of being the only developer conferred the BCA Green Mark Platinum Champion Award. Our latest completed cluster of developments, W Singapore – Sentosa Cove, The Residences at W Singapore – Sentosa Cove, Quayside Isle and The Oceanfront @ Sentosa Cove, bear the distinction of being the only Green Mark Platinum developments in Sentosa Cove. Collectively the estimated savings of these four properties amount to almost 11,000,000 kWh per year or over $3 million for energy and over 140,000 m3 or more than $165,000 for water, based on current tariff rates. The energy saved is approximately equivalent to the average annual electricity used by almost 2,500 Singapore households. Annually, BCA publishes the overall CONQUAS scores of projects. In 2012, CDL completed three projects and two of these made it to the ‘Top 3 List’ for their respective categories. (14) AFR refers to the number of workplace accidents per million manhours worked. Figures used are incident based. For details, please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. (15) Workplace Injury rate refers to the number of fatal and non-fatal workplace injuries per 100,000 persons employed. Figures used are victim-based. Construction Industry Average figures since 2010 have not been published by MOM. For details, please refer to www.mom.gov.sg. Description CONQUAS score ranking Volari 95.6 3 (Category: Private Housing) W Singapore – Sentosa Cove 97 1 (Category: Commercial) Quayside Isle + – – + The CONQUAS Score was not yet available at time of print. BCA Green Mark Awards (2005 – 2012) Green Mark Platinum • 368 Thomson • Quayside Isle • The Glyndebourne • City Square Mall (in new and • Redevelopment of Lucky Tower existing building categories)++++ • The Oceanfront @ Sentosa Cove at 57 Grange Road • Cliveden at Grange • The Residences at W Singapore – • Republic Plaza++++ Sentosa Cove • Cube 8 • South Beach Commercial • The Solitaire • Fuji Xerox Towers+++ • South Beach Residential • Tree House • H2O Residences • 7 & 9 Tampines Grande • Volari 41 • HAUS@SERANGOON GARDEN (in new and existing building categories)++++ • W Singapore – Sentosa Singapore-Sentosa Cove Cove MAKING THE DIFFERENCE • Hundred Trees Green Mark GoldPlus • CDL Office — City Square Mall • Pasir Ris Grove (Parcel 3) • 11 Tampines Concourse Management Office • Shelford Suites (in new and existing building (Green Mark for Office Interior) categories)++++ • St. Regis Hotel & Residences, • City Square Residences Singapore • Blossom Residences • King’s Centre • The Arte • Buckley 18* • Leonie Hill Condominium • The Palette • Buckley Classique • Livia • The Rainforest • CDL Office — ­ City House, Levels 2 & 5 • Manulife Centre+++ • UP@Robertson Quay (Green Mark for Office Interior)++++ • NV Residences • Wilkie Studio Green Mark Gold • City House++ • Nouvel 18 • Botannia • City Square Shophouses at • One Shenton • CDL Office — City House, Levels 3, 4 and 22 (Green Mark for Jalan Besar • Palais Renaissance++ Office Interior) • Exchange Tower, Bangkok ++++ • Parc Emily • CDL Office —­ Republic Plaza, • Millennium Residences @ • Residences @ Evelyn Level 36 (Green Mark for Sukhumvit, Bangkok • Savannah CondoPark Office Interior) • Monterey Park Condominium • The Sail @ Marina Bay • Central Mall (Office Tower)++ • New Tech Park+ • Tribeca Green Mark Certified • Butterworth 33 • Pantech 21+ • The Pier at Robertson * Project managed by CDL. + Recertified in 2009 ++ Recertified in 2010 +++ Recertified in 2011 ++++ Recertified in 2012 Green Mark Awards for 2013 can be found at www.cdl.com.sg. The average Customer Satisfaction satisfaction In 2012, over 200 of our Livia homebuyers participated in the Customer Satisfaction Survey. level amongst all homebuyers Overall, our homebuyers surveyed expressed high levels of satisfaction with their entire service experience, which ranges from finishes and workmanship, surveyed was close overall construction quality, green features provided in the home, facilities and to 85%. In addition, landscaping at communal areas, responsiveness of CDL employees throughout the handover process and management of defects rectification. a large number of The average satisfaction level amongst all homebuyers surveyed was close to homebuyers also 85%. In addition, a large number of homebuyers also indicated that they would indicated that they recommend CDL properties to their friends and relatives. would recommend Homebuyers’ Satisfaction % CDL properties to Homebuyers’ Overall Level of Satisfaction 84.6 their friends and relatives. Homebuyers’ Level of Satisfaction — Recommend to Friends 66.3 Tenants’ Satisfaction % 42 Office 91% Industrial 91% 93% CDL Sustainability Report 2013 retail In 2012, there were no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data. Ethical Management CDL had zero incidents of anti-competitive behaviour, fraud and monopoly practices within the Company in 2012. There was, however, an investigation involving one employee for not complying with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The employee involved was subsequently terminated for unethical behaviour and the case is now under the purview of the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau(16). We adopt a ‘zero-tolerance’ approach against all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. In line with this commitment to maintain high ethical standards which is integral to our corporate identity and our business, three corporate policies covering anti-corruption, fraud and competition were adopted in 2012. These policies were disseminated and all employees were require to attend training sessions to familiarise themselves with the important information and compliance issues regarding each policy. The policies and guidelines are also available on our intranet. There were no incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations for which significant fines or non-monetary sanctions were issued to the Company. There has also not been any reported incidents of non-compliance with the Singapore Code of Advertising Practice. COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP CDL’s contributions to active citizenry go beyond philanthropy. To effectively engage the community, we have been a strong supporter of the Government’s 3P Partnership model with efforts that encompass the People, Private and Public sectors to ensure that our programmes are meaningful and impactful. (16) The Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau is an independent body which investigates and aims to prevent corruption in the public and private sectors in Singapore, and reports directly to the Prime Minister’s Office. Employee participation in volunteer activities organised by the Company has increased in 2012, attributed to two major community events that rallied Company-wide participation from employees: the Assisi Hospice Charity Fun Day and Staff Day. For our Staff Day held in November 2012, employees helped refurbish and paint one-bedroom rental homes occupied by the elderly and low-income families in the Marsiling community. Our employees also painted the mural walls at the playground to add some colour and vibrancy to the neighbourhood. CDL’s involvement in this neighbourhood is a partnership with the North West Community Development Council (CDC) under the North West Care & Repair Programme to improve the lives and social wellness of residents in this district. CDL has adopted two rental blocks as part of our community efforts. employee volunteer % total number of volunteer hours participation rate Employee volunteer manhours 2008 66% 2009(17) 85% 2010 60% 2011 71% 2012 89% 2,644 5,524 2,894 2,838 3,589 2008 2009(17) 2010 2011 2012 43 Contributing Towards a Better Society MAKING THE DIFFERENCE Arc is a day care facility that provides assistance to children with cancer or other life-threatening illnesses. CDL has been a corporate partner since its inception Arc Children’s Centre in August 2011 and our volunteers are actively involved in children’s outings and enrichment programmes. Assisi Hospice is an outreach service of Mount Alvernia Hospital that provides palliative care to adults with life-limiting illnesses. A long-standing partner of Assisi Hospice since 1999, CDL, together with our subsidiary, CBM Pte Ltd, and our sister hotels collaborated to organise the annual Charity Fun Day. In Assisi Hospice the spirit of volunteerism and charity, 240 CDL staff volunteers enthusiastically came out in full force in 2012. In all, the carnival helped Assisi Hospice raise over $900,000. The money raised will go towards the expansion and improvement of the Hospice’s three core services of in-patient care, home care and day care centres. CDL has, in partnership with the Lions Befrienders, been involved in a food distribution and befriending programme for the elderly since 1999. The Lions Befrienders & Henderson Senior programme reaches out to over 40 beneficiaries. Aside from monthly visits, Citizens’ Home CSC volunteers also organise celebratory outings for more than 60 elderly from Henderson Senior Citizens’ Home. Viriya Community Services provides social services to low income families in Singapore. CDL has been supporting this NGO for over seven years in their Viriya Community Services & South East Character Building Programme for students. Aside from these on-going sessions Community Development Council (CDC) and outings, CSC volunteers also organised an overnight camp for the youth and children to encourage team behaviour. The initiative has also been extended to the South East CDC in 2012. (17) The extraordinary employee volunteer manhours and employee volunteer participation rate achieved in 2009 was due to the significant addition of community activities organised in celebration of CSC’s 10th anniversary. Beyond our direct engagement and contribution through CSC — our employee volunteering platform since 1999, CDL has supported numerous awareness-raising events and community projects. The Company has encouraged, in particular, projects with clear developmental objectives, direct engagement with beneficiaries, dialogue with stakeholders and measurable as well as sustained outcomes. Championing Environmental Awareness This initiative aims to engage local tertiary students in the national effort to green the built environment and to raise awareness of best green building practices BCA-CDL Green Sparks Competition 2012/13 and solutions amongst future practitioners. 2012 saw 23 teams of close to 120 students participating, a 15% increase from the inaugural competition in 2010. An eco-themed ‘Amazing Race’-style national competition targeted at youths between the ages of 17 and 25. Participants face various green challenges in the form of tasks, quizzes and activities which focused on six sustainability CDL E-Generation Challenge 2012 topics. 2012 saw the participation of close to 400 youths pounding the streets of Singapore. In line with the Carbon Footprint theme, participants were challenged to learn about their carbon shoe size, and how they may reduce their earth impact by embracing a more sustainable lifestyle. CDL has been supporting World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)’s Earth Hour campaign by engaging various stakeholders since its launch in Singapore in 2008. In addition to the participation of 16 CDL buildings, the Company 44 encouraged tenants to take part in the ‘½ Hour Off at Lunchtime’ Campaign the day before, which included switching off all non-essential lights as well as Earth Hour 2012 air-conditioning. 91% of the tenants in these 16 buildings participated in this initiative leading to an estimated energy savings of about 18,500 kWh, the CDL Sustainability Report 2013 equivalent of powering four Singapore households for a year. City Square Mall also organised eco-activities including a film screening throughout the evening of Earth Hour celebrations. A committed partner of NEA CASP since 2005, CDL adopts six schools and helps them to nurture environmental interest and action through eco-related projects that each school embarks on. The projects are then entered into a nationwide competition which culminates at the annual Clean and Green Singapore Schools’ National Environment Agency (NEA) Carnival. 2012 saw two of our participating schools garnering awards: Catholic Corporate & School Partnership Programme (CASP) High School (Primary) emerged the top prize winner (Primary school category) for their project ‘Utilities-R-Us’ which aims to encourage users to cultivate good consumption habits through a mobile game application. Catholic High School (Secondary) won the second prize (Secondary school category) for their Selfwatering Plant System. The Carnival drew 10,000 visitors. This outreach initiative by CDL and Singapore Environment Council (our NGO partner) targets office workers to adopt eco-friendly practices at the workplace. 2012 marked the 10th Anniversary of this programme. A total of 62 offices Project: Eco-Office were certified (49 new and 13 re-certifications). This brings the total number of participating offices to 227. Through the wide distribution of the Eco-Office Kit, launch of an online platform and numerous awareness campaigns, some 25,000 office employees were also reached. Empowering Our Youth The Award is a youth case competition which aims to promote thought leadership amongst students and generate greater awareness of embracing CSR principles into a company’s daily operations. CDL-Singapore Compact Open to all students in Singapore aged 17 to 30 years old, 33 teams comprising close to 160 Young CSR Leaders Award students participated in this second edition (an increase of 26% from 2011). Senior management from 10 Small and Medium Enterprises were also engaged in this effort and the top three winning proposals were shared with over 440 corporate delegates at the Singapore Compact CSR Summit. CDL has also developed close partnerships with education institutions. Some of the projects supported in 2012 include: • CDL Innovation Design Competition 2012: Organised by Nanyang Polytechnic, this Competition encourages final year students to incorporate their core design skills into developing innovative product designs. Partnerships with • National University of Singapore (NUS) Geography Challenge 2012 Singapore: Organised by the Education Institutions Department of Geography in NUS, this is a nationwide competition targeted at secondary school students to create awareness about the different aspects of urban planning, such as sustainable environments and green spaces. • National Technological University (NTU) Asian Business Case Competition 2012: This is Singapore’s first international undergraduate business case competition, and is also the only one focusing on sustainability and business. CDL supported 17 overseas youth-led projects largely focused on: 45 • Building and refurbishment of education facilities in villages. MAKING THE DIFFERENCE • Water management projects including harvesting of rainwater, irrigation and providing access to Community Involvement clean water. Programmes Overseas • Education programmes for children and youth in rural areas and provision of related materials. The projects were mainly in neighboring communities such as Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar and Philippines. Close to 300 youths were directly impacted by our support. CDL supported 14 youth-led projects largely focused on environmental awareness, and serving the underprivileged and marginalised in our community. Some key initiatives include: • NUS Climate Action Day (CAD) 2012: The main environmental event in the University organised by SAVE (Students Against Violation of the Earth) aimed at effecting behavioural change beyond awareness. CAD is the first youth-led climate movement initiated in Singapore. Community Involvement Programmes Local • Project Inspirar Sit Exercise 2012: An active ageing initiative attended by some 300 senior citizens. As a follow-up to the success of the initiative, a vaccination drive for interested elderly was also organised. • Singapore Management University (SMU) Challenge 2012: The Challenge mission was to encourage active aging among underprivileged elderly. Aside from $55,000 raised for Lion’s Befrienders, 400 elderly were also provided with goody-bags filled with food and daily necessities. Promoting Appreciation for the Arts Held biennially since 2006, this nationwide photography competition aims to discover and nurture 4th CDL Singapore Young young photographic talents aged between 13 and 25 years old. From receiving just 400 entries in Photographer Award 2006, the number of submissions has jumped more than four-fold, hitting 1,643 in 2012. Aside (SYPA) 2012 from prize monies, the winners were also given the unique opportunity to showcase their works at the National Museum of Singapore. CDL supported the 13 Steps Visual Arts Programme organised as part of the Esplanade’s 10th Anniversary celebrations. Aside from providing opportunities to local artists for a site-specific work 13 Steps Visual Arts through a commissioning process for the final display, this was also a community engagement Programme initiative that allowed the public to vote for their choice of visual art to be displayed at the centre’s Concourse Steps. CDL, in partnership with National Parks Board, completed the commissioning of the winning work from the 4th CDL Singapore Sculpture Award in 2009 titled ‘An Enclosure for a Swing’. The striking CDL Singapore sculpture by architect Kelvin Lim, now lies perched on the peak of Recycle Hill within the Bishan-Ang Sculpture Award Mo Kio Park. This community initiative is part of CDL’s efforts to promote sculpture art by nurturing local talent, enhance the character of public spaces and cultivate art appreciation within the community-at-large. CDL is also actively involved in sharing our CSR journey and spreading the sustainability message. Some of the initiatives we participated in include the following: organiser Topic ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights (AICHR) and the Australian Joint Workshop on CSR Human Rights Commission (ACHR) Asian Corporate Governance Association Annual Conference: Sustainability Reporting — How does it benefit Asian companies? Association of Chartered Certified Green Economy Roundtable: Is Corporate Asia ready for the Green Economy? Accountants Singapore & WWF OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) & ESCAP Regional Corporate Responsibility Conference: International Corporate (United Nations Economic and Social Responsibility Instruments — Putting Convergence into Action Commission for Asia and the Pacific) Department of Architecture, nus Sustainable Urbanism in Asia Public Lecture Series: Strategy on integrating sustainability into business for Department of Real Estate, nus leadership and competitive advantage CSR Student Movement, nus Shaping the Present to Sustain the Future 46 CHIJ St. Nicholas Girls’ School (Secondary) Annual Expanding Your Horizons Conference: Greening the world today for tomorrow CDL Sustainability Report 2013 Corporate Access Panel: Real Estate — Improving the business case for green Responsible Research building in Asia International Green Building Conference: The Role of Businesses in Helping to Singapore Green Building Council Develop Green Communities Master of Business Administration Enhancing Business Competitiveness, Creating a Sustainable Future (MBA) Programme, Smu The Institute of Internal Leadership Forum: Transforming Organisations Through Corporate Governance & Auditors Singapore Risk Management Foreign Delegation Visit: Climate Change and Energy/Environment Sustainability The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Management * This list is non-exhaustive. We take concerted efforts towards preventing pollution on the environment and striving to apply environmentally-friendly practices in our operations. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION CDL’s Total Carbon Emissions k kWh For over a decade, CDL has been advocating environmental 34,367 30,924 34,221 31,589 32,303 sustainability in Singapore’s built environment. We take concerted efforts towards preventing pollution on the 132 81 65 298 251 57 307 environment and striving to apply environmentally-friendly 78 280 2,196 244 3,004 practices in our operations. 5,159 2,452 4,137 Carbon Emissions Extreme and unpredictable weather conditions in 2012 have helped heighten the need to address climate change urgently by many world leaders. According to a report commissioned 47 28,778 26,429 31,693 28,836 28,927 by the World Bank, without immediate action, global MAKING THE DIFFERENCE 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 temperatures could rise by 4°C this century with potentially devastating consequences. There is increasing acceptance Property Projects Corp Office Business Travel that climate change is not just an environmental issue but also has far-reaching social and economic impact. Low-lying and densely populated, Singapore is at risk from Since 2009, CDL voluntarily reduced our annual carbon the adverse impacts of climate change. Effects possibly emissions to ‘net zero’(19) for 11 Tampines Concourse, the first include coastal land loss, flooding, water resource impacts, CarbonNeutral® development in Singapore and Asia Pacific, heat stress, public health implications from the resurgence of and our Corporate Office operations including our data centre. diseases and impact on island and marine biodiversity. The carbon credits CDL have purchased under this exercise The main driver of climate change is carbon emissions, funded a number of projects in Asia and all our supported forming 97% of Singapore’s total GHG emissions(18). In line projects have been verified to the international Voluntary with the Singapore Government’s aim to make Singapore a Carbon Standard (VCS) and are pre-Clean Development ‘climate resilient’ city, CDL targets a 22% reduction in our Mechanism (CDM) projects. carbon emissions by 2020, below BAU levels from baseline year 2007. Without the injection of carbon finance, these projects would be unviable. Beyond generating climate benefits, these In 2012, we have reduced CDL’s total carbon intensity projects also bring about social benefits such as employment emissions as measured in tonnes CO2/m2 by 11% from and training opportunities, as well as improving the quality baseline year 2007. In other words, we produced less carbon of life for the local community. This is also in line with CDL’s per leased square metre of area. commitment to CSR. (18) Source: Ministry of Environment and Water Resource’s website www.mewr.gov.sg. (19) ‘Net zero’ or carbon neutralise refers to achieving net zero carbon emissions by balancing a measured amount of carbon released with an equivalent amount offset. This process was facilitated by The Carbon Neutral Company, one of the world’s leading carbon offset and carbon management companies. Energy new developments, which is above legislative requirements. We remain committed to improving our energy performance Nearly all of Singapore’s energy needs (99.8%) are across all our business operations so that we can reduce met by imported fossil fuels as the country lacks both electricity consumption and contribute towards national the size and geography needed for large-scale alternative targets. energy. As a result, Singapore is committed to increasing energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions. By adopting green innovations in CDL properties, it is our aim to help develop the industry’s expertise and capabilities To help Singapore achieve the target of a 35% in sustainable solutions for our built environment as well as improvement in energy intensity by 2030, from 2005 contribute to Singapore’s goal of becoming a global solar levels, a new Energy Conservation Act was issued in 2012. energy hub. In 2012, CDL buildings generated a total of This new Act has no impact on CDL operations. CDL has 121,934 kWh of renewable energy, equivalent to the annual also set a higher minimum BCA Green Mark GoldPlus for all electricity used by 28 Singapore households. CDL’s TOTAL ENERGY USED(20) total energy used at worksites k kWh 65,422 61,496 71,708 66,230 62,647 k kWh kWh/m2 528 14,000 60 4,613 513 596 570 5,150 5,838 12,000 49 558 43 46 50 9,860 48 8,248 10,000 38 40 8,000 27 30 6,000 CDL Sustainability Report 2013 20 4,000 9,860 8,248 4,613 5,150 5,838 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 56,213 2,000 10 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 Property Projects Corp Office energy used at cdl industrial buildings ENERGY used at cdl commercial buildings kWh/month/m2 kWh/month/m2 9.364 9.745 9.012 8.155 7.283 18.839 17.704 16.727 16.388 15.158 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (20) Energy conversion ratio: 1 kWh = 0.0036 gigajoules (GJ) total energy used at all commercial and industrial buildings ENERGY used at the corporate office k kWh k kWh k kWh/m2 650 93 91 100 86 84 88 600 80 60 54,993 52,690 66,568 60,567 56,213 550 40 500 570 558 528 513 596 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 WATER Managing water resources at CDL includes activities relating total WATER used at worksites 49 to efficiency in our water consumption and our methods for m3 m3/m2 MAKING THE DIFFERENCE harvesting, reusing and discharging water. We recognise that water is a constrained but essential resource to the 210,000 1.26 1.4 1.20 sustainability of our business. In water scarce Singapore, 180,000 1.10 1.2 the Government has developed a diversified and sustainable 150,000 1.0 water supply using a strategy called the Four National Taps. 0.80 120,000 0.68 0.8 The water comes from four different sources; local catchment 90,000 0.6 areas, imported water, reclaimed water known as NEWater(21) and desalinated water. 60,000 154,273 150,176 182,859 127,426 191,160 0.4 30,00 0.2 In 2012, CDL conserved approximately 68,349 m3 of potable 0.0 water at all our worksites and where infrastructure was 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 available, used some 125,981 m3 of NEWater for operations that do not require potable water in our investment buildings such as cooling towers and sprinkler water tanks. total water used at all cdl commercial total water used by cdl m3 and industrial buildings m3 632,636 603,558 764,643 682,519 758,549 3,065 2,737 182,859 191,160 154,273 127,426 150,176 478,363 453,382 581,784 552,356 564,324 478,363 453,382 581,784 552,356 564,324 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Property Projects Corp Office(22) (21) NEWater is treated used water that has undergone stringent purification and treatment process using advanced dual-membrane (microfiltration and reverse osmosis) and ultraviolet technologies. (22) Data specific to Corporate Office was only tracked from 2011 onwards. WATER used at cdl commercial buildings WATER used at cdl industrial buildings m3/month/m2 m3/month/m2 0.161 0.188 0.140 0.144 0.145 0.089 0.088 0.082 0.077 0.077 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 WASTE & RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 50 As a property developer and manager, CDL’s most significant impacts relate to the way we manage and dispose of the waste generated by our builders and the tenants of our developments. Singapore has limited space for landfills and all incinerated waste that is not recovered, reused, or recycled is disposed at the four waste-to-energy incineration plants. We aim to reduce CDL Sustainability Report 2013 waste and adopt approaches to reuse or recycle resource use in areas within our influence. In 2012, construction waste generated at all of CDL worksites amounted to 6,671 tonnes or 43.9kg/m2 of Gross Floor Area (GFA). This increase is due to waste generated in 2011 being significantly lower than in previous years as a number of our worksites were either at the initial stages of construction or nearing completion where less waste is usually generated. A variety of Silt and Earth Control Measures are implemented at all worksites. Typically, the water discharged into the waterways has Total Suspended Solids (TSS) readings ranging from 10 to 15 mg/litre, significantly below the legal limit of 50 mg/litre. The tenant participation rate in our recycling programme has increased from 68% in 2005 to over 90% in 2012. The amount of paper recycled in 2012 is equivalent to over 11,000 trees(23). We have also achieved 100% use of eco-friendly paper for communication publications. construction waste generated at worksites Total Volume of Paper Recycled kg tonnes kg/m2 18,000 80.0 16,000 61.7 70.0 59.87 14,000 60.0 12,000 10,000 46.5 50.0 43.92 8,000 40.0 6,000 24.5 30.0 384,047 320,233 374,050 361,397 647,789 4,000 2,000 20.0 13,587 11,160 8,071 2,552 6,671 10.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (23) A ton of recycled paper is equivalent to 17 trees. Source: Conservatree.org. to ensure that piling in the area containing the tree was left Total Volume of Paper Used to the last. CDL also went on to engage with the Singapore at cdl corporate office No. of A4 reams Bird Park to advise on appropriate measures to be taken should the eagles be noted to be in distress. The monitoring process by the wildlife consultant was carried out until July 2012, when the eagles successfully completed their nesting cycle. For all sites, CDL incorporates a standard practice to assess during the concept stage, identification of existing mature trees that can be conserved on-site or transplanted at a 4,796 4,395 3,774 3,488 3,544 later stage to or from another CDL site. In this case, CDL was advised by experts that this particular tree where the eagles had their nest, could not be retained due to its poor 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 condition. The tree was eventually removed after the eagles completed their nesting. The wildlife consultant affirmed that a new nest will be made elsewhere for the next breeding season. In 2012, CDL conserved three existing mature trees in one completed project. BIODIVERSITY As Singapore is a highly urbanised and densely populated NOISE 51 country with a limited land space of just 710 km2, the In Singapore, the NEA regulates the noise limits for MAKING THE DIFFERENCE Singapore Government pays particular attention to land construction sites, which vary depending on the time of use planning efficiently. As a result of prudent planning, the day and by the types of premises nearby. Construction Singapore is able to dedicate 10% of land area to parks and noise limits protect nearby residents from noise impacts. nature reserves and achieve green coverage of almost 50% CDL is committed to complying with the noise limits at all of the total land area. our worksites and ensures that our builders take all necessary action to address and resolve complaints due to The forests in Singapore are not commercially exploited construction noise. for timber or other timber products. All of CDL’s projects are not located within any protected areas. However, as an In 2012, three worksites received complaints due to environmentally responsible developer, we are sensitive to construction noise. In all cases, additional measures by the biodiversity present at our developmental land sites and the builders were put in place to mitigate further possible remain committed towards sustainable site management noise impacts. practices, in addition to mitigating our impact on the natural habitats of the wildlife that may be present. number of complaints on construction For sites with existing natural habitats and sites in close noise received at worksites proximity to natural habitats, a biodiversity impact study is conducted before the site is developed. Upon acquiring a site in 2011, it came to our attention that there was a nest belonging to a pair of white-bellied sea eagles on a tree within the site. A wildlife consultant was then specially engaged to advise us on necessary action to be taken to ensure that the eagles would be able to continue their nesting duties. 2 3 4 2 3 In response, when construction commenced in 2012, we worked with the builder on a phased construction strategy to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 allow the hatchlings to successfully complete their nesting. In addition to hoardings being set up 50m from the tree to create sufficient buffer area between the tree and the construction activities, piling at the site was also rescheduled To ensure that the organisation is moving together in the right direction, CDL has clear EHS performance targets. At our Corporate Office, this is our performance and targets: EHS Policy 2012 2012 Performance 2013 2013 Key Pointers Objectives Targets in 2012 Objectives Targets ‘Green’ To use eco-friendly To achieve 90% use Achieved To use ecoTo achieve 90% use Corporate paper in of eco-friendly or 100% use of friendly paper of eco-friendly or Culture communication recycled paper or eco-friendly in communication recycled paper or publications FSC certified paper paper publications FSC certified paper by end of 2012 by end of 2013 To promote eco(a) To organise Achieved To promote eco(a) To organise consciousness four eco-related consciousness four eco-related and reinforce a awareness and reinforce a awareness ‘green’ culture events/ ‘green’ culture events/ amongst staff campaigns amongst staff campaigns for for staff staff (b) To sustain (b) To sustain 52 awareness via frequent awareness via frequent communication communication — six email — six email CDL Sustainability Report 2013 blasts a year blasts a year Resource To reduce the use To achieve average Achieved To reduce the use To achieve average Conservation of paper use of 11.5 reams average use of of paper use of 11.5 reams & Pollution Prevention of A4 paper per 10.2 reams of of A4 paper per headcount per year A4 paper per headcount per year headcount To reduce the use (a) To achieve Achieved To reduce the use (a) To achieve of electricity average average of electricity average electricity electricity electricity consumption of consumption of consumption of 4.4 kWh/m2 4.04 kWh/m2 4.4 kWh/m2 (excluding (excluding computer room) computer room) (b) To monitor (b) To monitor power power utilisation of utilisation of computer room computer room to maintain to maintain optimal optimal efficiency efficiency To reduce the use To monitor average Maintained at To reduce the use To monitor average of water water consumption consistent of water water consumption (m3/m2) by level (m3/m2) by floor to floor to maintain throughout maintain optimal optimal efficiency the year efficiency At CDL, we understand that our environment is a shared resource, a common habitat and a personal responsibility. Our commitment to environmental conservation remains an integral part of our business and corporate culture. 53 gri application level check statement INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Management and Stakeholders of City Developments Limited: Ere-S Pte Ltd [Ere-S] has been commissioned by the management of City Developments Limited [CDL] to carry out an independent assurance engagement on CDL Sustainability Report 2013 [the Report]. Ere-S’ responsibility was to execute the assurance engagement, prepare this assurance statement and a separate assurance report. The Management of CDL was responsible for the preparation of the Report and all statements and figures contained within it. Scope and assurance standard The assurance engagement was executed in accordance with a Type 2 assurance of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS 2008) and a moderate (or limited) level of assurance. This included desktop review and management-level data verification to evaluate CDL’s sustainability framework and processes using the criteria of AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (AA1000APS 2008): inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. Ere S also assessed the disclosed performance information and the relevant data collection processes against the GRI G3.1 Reporting Principles: sustainability context, completeness, balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. The scope of assurance covered all sustainability-related statements and figures found in the Report for the reporting period of January 2012 to December 2012. It did not include historical figures, financial data, technical descriptions of equipment and buildings and production processes supported by already verified documents, such as CDL’s previous sustainability reports, annual report or third-party audit reports and certifications. 54 Assurance methodology The assurance engagement was carried out in accordance with Ere-S verification methodology for non-financial information, CDL Sustainability Report 2013 which encompassed: 1. Identification and classification of statements, figures, charts and data sets to be verified. 2. Data verification interviews with key functional managers and data owners at CDL headquarters, which included: • Asking a series of questions on the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the Report disclosures, including performance information, policies, procedures and underlying management systems. • Requesting evidence of the data sources and explanation of relevant collection and calculation methods to substantiate the figures and claims. • Sampling quantitative data that originated from multiple sources. • Challenging the claims made in the Report and, where possible, confirming the presented evidence, including calculation methods, criteria and assumptions, with multiple data owners and other documentation from internal and external sources. • Crosschecking data with previous sustainability reports and CDL’s current annual report. 3. The provision of recommendations to CDL reporting team for immediate or future improvement of the Report content. Ere-S’ independence This statement represents Ere-S’ independent opinion provided to the Management of CDL only. Ere-S was not involved in the development of the Report or the disclosed management processes; neither has Ere-S been engaged by CDL for other projects. Ere-S’ activities are independent of CDL and contain no financial interest in CDL’s business operation. Findings and observations Evaluation of the adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Inclusivity — How the organisation engages with stakeholders and enables their participation in identifying issues and finding solutions. We have found evidence of stakeholder engagement processes. Employees and clients are amongst the company’s key stakeholder groups benefiting the most from solid engagement and feedback channels. These include frequent surveys, meetings and grievance mechanisms, which have all, to different extent, been strengthened in 2012. There is also evidence of continued engagement with suppliers, through diverse seminars and training on health and safety. The engagement with community partners is also visible but remains at project-level. In the area of environment, health and safety, the company’s level of commitment to all stakeholders appears strong. However, there is limited evidence to suggest formal stakeholder involvement in business decision-making processes on key material issues. Materiality — How the organisation recognises issues that are relevant and significant to it and its stakeholders. The definition and assessment of significant sustainability-related issues is evidenced at the highest levels of the company, through committees, survey results, workshops, other focus meetings and events. The implementation at management levels of key performance indicators (KPIs), particularly on the corporate governance, safety and environment topics, provide further evidence of the importance that the company attaches to these issues. Future improvements will come from identification of additional sustainability issues in CDL’s operations and the formalisation of inclusive measurement processes, most particularly in human rights. In that regard, we commend the new criteria relating to the well-being of workers on project sites. Responsiveness — How the organisation responds to stakeholder issues and feedback through decisions, actions, performance and communication. We have observed response mechanisms and actions taken to answer stakeholders’ concerns. Examples in 2012 include the investigation carried out following a whistle blowing case; the enhancement of operation manuals to cater for new regulations and customers’ needs, and the biodiversity study and action taken to protect sea eagles on a construction site. CDL shows a high level of disclosure of all its sustainability-related initiatives, policies and performance through 55 internal communication channels. An example of this is the company-wide publication of CDL’s new policies on anticorruption, fraud and competition. Similarly, CDL publishes its sustainability performance figures and key policies, independent assurance statement including the whistle blowing procedure and contact details, on the company website. Evaluation of adherence to the GRI Principles From our observations, the Report shows satisfactory compliance with the GRI G3.1 Reporting Principles. During interviews with data owners, we were provided with the requested evidence of statements, figures, relevant calculations and, in some cases, data sets for low-level sampling. Inconsistencies were promptly rectified by CDL’s reporting team. The Report shows an improved level of balanced information. However, we expect to see greater disclosure of weak performance spanning a broader scope in future reports, particularly from the supply chain where more measurement on environmental and social aspects is being implemented. Completeness of the Report could also be improved with disclosure of measurable targets for more topics in addition to environmental performance. Conclusion On the basis of the assurance work undertaken, Ere-S is satisfied that the claims in CDL Sustainability Report 2013 provide a credible and fair representation of the company’s sustainability profile and performance and a reasonable application of the AA1000 AccountAbility and GRI Reporting Principles. The assurance findings also provide confidence, within the limits of a moderate assurance, that the Report’s statement and figures achieve an adequate level of reliability and accuracy. Moving forward • As human rights performance findings emerge from the first assessments of contractors holding workers quarters on CDL sites, we encourage the company to consolidate measurements and implement relevant reporting mechanisms to the entire supply chain. In addition to adequate living, hygiene and security at the site quarters, which CDL has started to measure, we believe that more criteria related to human rights could be expanded in the medium term. For this, further engagement with relevant stakeholders in the supply chain may need to be carried out. • We also encourage CDL to continue integrating management processes to consider, measure and respond to sustainability issues. We expect this to be evidenced by additional KPIs impacting functional and senior managers, inclusion of more sustainability topics in the risk register and ongoing CSR training targeted to employees, supply chain partners and tenants. The new Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance Committee will certainly play a key role in further consolidation and channelling of current and new CSR procedures and indicators. • We recommend that future reporting exercises feature more balanced content and the inclusion of yearly quantitative targets for sustainability indicators from the social categories (labour practices and decent work conditions, human rights, society and product responsibility). More specifically, future reports would benefit from disclosure of CO2 emissions aligned with the scope of the Carbon Disclosure Project, in which CDL has recently qualified for the advanced reporting level. The above findings and additional suggestions for improvement have been presented to the management of CDL in a more detailed assurance report. Singapore, 23 May 2013 Jean-Pierre Dalla Palma, Director & Ere-S Pte Ltd is a consulting company specialising in business sustainability and provides services in the domains Certified Sustainability Assurance of sustainability reporting, sustainability report assurance, Practitioner stakeholder engagement and CSR training. Our assurance team is composed of assurance practitioners with expertise in CSR and each member is required to follow Ere-S’ assurance code of conduct, which can be found at http://www.ere-s.com/assurance-code-of-conduct/. This report may contain forward-looking statements that involve assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Representative examples of these factors include (without limitation) general industry and economic conditions, interest rate trends, cost of capital and capital availability, availability of real estate properties, competition from other developments or companies, shifts in customer demands, customers and partners, expected levels of occupancy rate, property rental income, charge out collections, changes in operating expenses (including employee wages, benefits and training costs), governmental and public policy changes and the continued availability of financing in the amounts and the terms necessary to support future business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are based on the current view of management on future events. Published by City Developments Limited. No reproduction, in part or in whole, of the report may be made without prior permission of the editor. Company registration number: 196300316Z www.cdl.com.sg MCI (P) 083/06/2013 In line with CDL’s continuing efforts to promote environmental sustainability, this report is printed on Antartic Snow Galaxy and Enviro Wove which are 100% recycled papers. Designed by Green House Design + Communications
