MAKING MODERN LIVING POSSIBLE Sustainability Report 2012 www.danfoss.com Danfoss stepping up sustainability efforts Niels B. Christiansen President & CEO Danfoss has a long-standing tradition for taking corporate social responsibility. Our products provide a solution to many global climate and energy challenges and they actively contribute to facilitating modern living in an increasingly globalized world characterized by urbanization and growing prosperity in the world's new, populous growth economies. In 2002, Danfoss became a signatory to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative dealing with human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We continue to support the Global Compact, which governs our sustainability and social responsibility efforts. This is our Communication on Progress report to the UN on how our efforts have progressed. Our achievements in 2012 included the implementation of ethical conduct training for all people managers and the development of a new anti-corruption program. We also worked out a new method of presenting the overall climate and energy footprint of our products in response to growing demand from our customers. We have also continued the momentum of our energy savings project which aims to optimize our own energy consumption at our 15 largest factories. However, we want to do more. Therefore, we set out to draft a new sustainability strategy in 2012, intending to clarify priorities for our sustainability efforts based on the Group's strategic goals. Our sustainability strategy will anchor the Group's sustainability targets and priorities even more strongly in our business processes, constantly optimizing value creation for our customers, employees and the local communities we serve. We look forward to presenting our sustainability strategy in 2013. 2 Sustainability Report l 2012 ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING This sustainability report has been prepared in compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative and describes Danfoss’ policies, goals and efforts and the results of our work with human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The report comprises all companies of the Danfoss Group in which Danfoss exercises control, excluding Sauer-Danfoss, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and as such presents its financial statements under US stock exchange rules. Environmental and climate data is collected from Danfoss factories with more than 20 employees and whose volume of energy, raw materials, chemicals and waste exceeds 1% of the Group's total volumes. All factories irrespective of size contribute information about energy consumption and working environment, while companies with sales activities only do not contribute environmental data. In addition to the sustainability report, Danfoss has since 2009 reported climate activities and greenhouse gas emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project's Supply Chain program. Companies joining this program get a coherent overview of supply chain emissions. The report is available at www.danfoss.com. For many years, the sustainability report was verified by an external third party. This year, Danfoss has opted not to have the sustainability report verified and has also opted not to report under the Global Reporting Initiative in addition to the sustainability report. Danfoss believes that the sustainability report provides an accurate, true and fair view of the company's efforts in 2012. Sustainability Reportl 2012 3 Organization and management systems This part of the report describes the Group's management approach Ethical guidelines and sustainability policies and management systems implemented to ensure continual enhanceDanfoss has established rules and guidelines to supplement legislation goverment of and compliance with the Group's values and policies in respect ning how Danfoss intends to act in ethical and environmental matters. They of sustainability and corporate citizenship. comprise: Distribution of roles and responsibilities • The Danfoss Ethics Handbook and Anti-corruption Manual setting out The distribution of roles and responsibilities in Danfoss’ sustainability efforts is guidelines for responsible behavior which all employees and managers consistent with Danfoss’ general governance and risk management principles, must comply with to live up to Danfoss’ values and policies. which prescribe a clear segregation of functions and mechanisms of checks • Danfoss’ environmental, working environment and corporate citizenship and balances. policies. • Danfoss' Negative List describing the substances and materials which Danfoss • Danfoss' Board of Directors and Executive Committee have overall responintends not to use or limit the use of. sibility and define the framework for Danfoss' sustainability efforts. • A Supplier Code of Conduct defining the requirements Danfoss makes on its suppliers in respect of the environment, labor rights, human rights and • Danfoss’ Group Sustainability function is responsible for defining and anti-corruption. implementing Danfoss’ global strategy, corporate targets and activities for • Guidelines for supplier approval. sustainability and corporate citizenship, including for drafting guidelines • The Danfoss '3x25' climate strategy. and instructions. The function is also responsible for reporting on sustainability and corporate citizenship. Training and compliance programs Danfoss has developed training and compliance programs to help anchor the • All people managers are responsible for ensuring that their departments ethical guidelines at all levels in the Group. are aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and guidelines. In addition, all factory managers are responsible for environmental activities at the indivi• Ethics program. Training is based on a combination of real cases involving dual site, including for appointing an environmental compliance coordinator difficult situations which were solved by Danfoss managers, fictitious to perform environmental day-to-day tasks and participate in knowledge dilemmas and exercises in identifying 'red warning lights' indicating and experience sharing across the Group. unethical behavior. The program emphasizes competition and anti-corruption, but also deals with issues such as equal treatment and anti-discrimi• All employees are responsible for ensuring that they are aware of and comnation. ply with Danfoss’ rules and guidelines. Furthermore, all employees have a duty to report any breaches of Danfoss’ rules and guidelines they may • Anti-corruption program. In 2012, Danfoss also developed and implebecome aware of or have grounds for suspecting. mented a comprehensive anti-corruption compliance program. An anticorruption manual has been prepared, setting out new rules for reporting • In specific areas, it is the responsibility of Danfoss’ corporate risk managegifts and entertainment expenses and rules for approval of new third parties ment and compliance function to follow up on compliance with guidesuch as agents and distributors. The manual is based on the UK Bribery Act lines and programs launched. The function is also responsible for the and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Danfoss Ethics Hotline, where an external company takes and records reports on breaches of Danfoss’ rules. Danfoss is in the process of developing additional training and compliance programs, including in the areas of anti-trust and data security. • Danfoss has set up an Ethics Committee to deal with violations of Danfoss’ ethical rules and, if necessary, it submits them directly to the Danfoss Board. Environmental and working environmental certification Danfoss has for more than 15 years worked systematically to reduce the • Danfoss’ internal audit function performs unannounced checks for unethical environmental impact of its production. behavior in special areas such as anti-corruption. 4 Sustainability Report l 2012 Activities relating to the environment, the working environment and safety In addition to the Code of Conduct, suppliers of goods used in production or in all factories are embedded in environmental management systems, and products from countries which Danfoss believes present a high risk of human Danfoss intends for all factories to be certified to the ISO 14001 environmental rights breaches or the like, are subject to an audit, in which the supplier is management standard. Of the 35 Danfoss factories, 30 have environmental assessed by Danfoss' own specialists or an external, independent consultant. management systems certified to this standard. The five factories that have not been certified are small factories in Brazil, the USA and France, which have Stakeholder engagement been exempted from the rules because certification would create value Danfoss seeks to maintain active communications with its employees, mananeither for customers nor for the environment. gers and external stakeholders, such as NGOs and customers. This enables Danfoss to adapt processes and tools to match the requirements of the global Approximately one third of the Danfoss factories are also certified to the community and developments in countries and areas where Danfoss operates. OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Standard. This applies to all factories in Denmark and to the Danfoss factory in Slovakia. The stakeholder engagement helps Danfoss be aware of the framework conditions for business operations in countries where Danfoss operates. Danfoss Data collection and reporting considers knowledge of new legislation, new initiatives from organizations Once a year, Danfoss collects data on the sustainability efforts and results of all and being challenged on attitudes and policies to be a natural and necessary factories for use in preparing sustainability reporting and defining priorities for resource in meeting global challenges. continued efforts. In addition, quarterly data is collected for the quarterly reporting. Danfoss plays an active role in networks such as • the Danish Business Network for Human Rights Environmental and working environmental data is collected via Danfoss' • the Global Compact Nordic Network finance systems. Data relating to human rights, labor rights, anti-corruption, • the UN Caring for Climate Initiative local commitment and stakeholder relations is collected in an online questionnaire (CSR Survey) from all Group factories and sales companies. Information In the context of its new sustainability strategy, Danfoss intends to engage about dismissals on grounds of unethical behavior is collected via an online even more effectively with stakeholders, including customers. questionnaire (People Managers Survey) to all people managers. Other employee data is collected through the personnel management system. Danfoss follows up on reported data as and when required by making internal inspections to check on the company's handling of environmental, social and ethical issues and to strengthen communications with local management about sustainability activities. In 2012, Danfoss worked to develop a new frame of questions for factory visits, which is based on the Global Compact Self Assessment Tool and incorporates the requirements for compliance with human rights in the UN guidelines on business and human rights. When completed in 2013, this work will be used in the company's future efforts. In addition, Danfoss performs regular supplier audits to verify compliance with the Danfoss Code of Conduct and to ensure that any non-compliance is addressed. Danfoss also performs an environmental due diligence prior to any potential acquisition. Data collection from suppliers Danfoss works systematically with risk assessment and supplier management. Since 2004, Danfoss has had a Code of Conduct for suppliers, which defines environmental and social requirements. All suppliers are required to sign the Danfoss Code of Conduct, which defines environmental and social requirements. Sustainability Report l 2012 5 Efforts and results in core areas This part of the report documents efforts and achievements in 2012 electricity consumption, 18% came from renewable sources such as solar, water, in selected special-focus areas within sustainability and corporate wind and biomass against 21% in 2011. Electricity from nuclear power plants citizenship. accounted for 12% of the Group's consumption, and the rest derived from fossil sources such as coal, oil and gas. Climate and energy The individual factories report annually on which sources of energy were used Climate change involving drought, flooding, scarcity of resources, population specifically in producing the electricity they bought from the power compagrowth and a number of other megatrends poses huge challenges for the nies. This statement showed that the proportion of fossil sources of electricity world, requiring long-term, targeted efforts and investment. Danfoss is a global production in 2012 fell by an average of 0.7% relative to the year before while leader within energy-efficient solutions that lower energy-consumption and CO2 emissions from such sources increased by 0.8%. In other words, the elecreduce CO2 emissions, thereby making a positive contribution to meeting tricity which Danfoss procured for its factories was a little less green that the these challenges. year before. The company is therefore inherently committed to reducing the climate Danfoss’ total CO2 emissions in 2012 were 73% of emissions in 2007, on which impact of its own activities. Danfoss has adopted a climate strategy termed the '3x25' climate strategy is based, and the target will therefore have to be '3×25'. The strategy commits Danfoss to reduce absolute CO2 emissions from adjusted in connection with the drafting of Danfoss’ sustainability strategy. energy consumption, transportation of finished goods and business travel by 25% and to increase the proportion of CO2 neutral energy by 25% by 2025 In 2012, Danfoss continued the efforts of reducing the energy consumption in relative to emissions in 2007. This corresponds to an annual average reduction its 15 largest factories for the purpose of achieving a 20% reduction by 2015. of total CO2 emissions of 1.5%. Danfoss emitted a total of approximately The first seven analyses were completed and the first two projects imple180,000 tons of CO2 in 2007. Accordingly, emissions should not exceed mented in 2012. 135,000 tons by 2025. Danfoss expects to perform analyses at the other eight factories in 2013. Depending on the results of the analyses, including the estimated reduction, In 2012, the Group's electricity and heat consumption accounted for approxidecisions with respect to implementation will be made over the next few years. mately 126,500 tons of CO2 emissions against 127,500 tons in 2011. The sources were both direct emissions (own plants for the generation of power and heat) Consumption of energy for heating fell by 5.5% relative to 2011. Virtually and indirect emissions (purchase of power and heat from external sources). all energy for heating came from fossil sources in 2012, with natural gas accounting for 84%. To reduce the proportion of fossil fuels, Danfoss is investiDanfoss’ electricity consumption accounted for 78% of the Group's total CO2 gating the possibilities for a project that will see the Group's factories on the emissions in 2012, corresponding to 98,400 tons. Approximately 28,100 tons island of Als in Denmark supplied by district heating based on a combination of CO2 was emitted due to heating. Relative to 2011, total CO2 emissions fell by of a woodchip-fired heating plant, heat from a new geothermal plant and 1,000 tons, or 0.8%, in 2012. combustion of household waste. The heat produced will be largely CO2 neutral and is expected to reduce the Group's total CO2 emissions by more than 30%. The consumption of electricity declined by 3.4% compared to 2011 and The project is amongst others subject to the necessary approvals being represented 58% of Danfoss' total energy consumption in 2012. Of the total obtained, expectedly in 2013. Energy consumption CO2 emission [tonnes] 2,500 200,000 180,000 2,000 160,000 140,000 1,500 120,000 100,000 1,000 80,000  CO2 target 60,000  CO2 emission 500 40,000  Energy consumption 20,000 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 6 Sustainability Report l 2012 Environmental and climate footprint of products Environmental product label the environmental and climate impact of products, a socalled EPD – EnvironDanfoss increasingly faces demands from, in particular, large customers and mental Product Declaration. Based on international standards, the method the authorities of certain countries to declare the material content or origin of also takes into account future rules in the area. Danfoss intends to develop the products and the CO2 emitted during production and operation. method further in 2013, establishing corporate guidelines for environmentallyTo address such demands, Danfoss developed a method in 2012 to document friendly product development. Danfoss helping Anshan exploit surplus heat 100 per cent natural refrigerants Anshan, a large city north-east of Beijing in China, is the spearhead of Customers shopping in a supermarket in Carpinteria, California, do so in Chinese steel industry and has China's largest steel mill. The local governa new and more environmentally-friendly store. Danfoss and Aztec Energy, ment has decided to utilize the surplus heat from the steel mill as residena company in the Danfoss Group, have implemented a range of energytial district heating instead of coal power. saving products and solutions in the supermarket, making it the first store of the SUPERVALU chain where food is cooled by all natural The aim is to provide the city's almost 2 million residents with a more refrigerants, primarily CO2. stable heating supply, notably cleaner air and an improved indoor climate. The project will also help China meet the ambitious climate and Although the use of CO2 for refrigeration purposes is spreading more energy targets defined in the twelfth five-year plan. Annual CO2 emissislowly than, for example, in Europe, the natural refrigerant is becoming ons will be cut by 240,000 tons while electricity and water consumption increasingly popular in North America, where more and more enterprises will also be significantly reduced. are seeking greener and cheaper alternatives to conventional refrigerants. Danfoss and COWI have worked together to develop a solution to recycle the heat from the steel mill, offering major energy-efficiency and enDanfoss has contributed to more than 4,000 CO2-based cooling systems vironmental benefits. The Anshan project alone will create up to 100 new worldwide. The use of CO2-based cooling systems means that fewer green jobs in Danfoss and COWI while also providing a platform for harmful greenhouse gases and fewer potentially ozone-depleting further expansion in China. The intention is for the project to form the substances will be emitted. basis of similar projects in other large Chinese cities. Sustainability Report l 2012 7 Environment, working environIn order to keep internal as well as external stakeholders updated on changed and new requirements, Danfoss has set up a subscription service which offers ment and safety suppliers regular updates of the Negative List. At December 31, 2012, approximately 20% of suppliers of goods used in production or products had Work-related accidents subscribed to this service. Initiatives will be launched in 2013 to induce most Danfoss is committed to creating a safe working environment and limiting suppliers to subscribe to the service. the number of work-related accidents, which has been declining since 1999 when the accident rate exceeded 28. In 2012, the accident rate among proWater duction staff was 9.2 against 9.4 in 2011. The rate for white-collar employees Danfoss’ consumption of water for processes and sanitary purposes has was 1.5 against 1.3 the previous year. The accident rate is defined as the declined steadily for a number of years with the exception of 2011 when number of accidents per 1 million hours worked. a defective cooling compressor for an IT system at the Nordborg factory used 80,000 m3. This excessive consumption has stopped, and in 2012 Danfoss' In 2012, Danfoss recorded 136 accidents resulting in at least one day’s consumption of water was 637,000 m3 against 770,500 m3 the year before. absence. The injured employees were absent for a total of 2,883 days, corresponding to an average of 20 days per accident. Two-thirds of the injured Raw materials employees returned to work after less than 10 days' absence. 22 accidents Raw materials consumed by Danfoss comprise mainly metals, plastics, elecaccounted in aggregate for more than 1,600 days' absence. tronics and packaging. Total raw material consumption fell by 17% relative to 2011, primarily due to reduced consumption of materials at the factories in One sales company has reported that one employee died as consequence of the USA, France and China, but also because a number of small factories no a traffic accident that occurred during work hours. longer report their raw material consumption to the sustainability report. This applies to an estimated 5% of the total volume of raw materials. Stress prevention and stress management Danfoss' policy is to have a healthy and safe working environment. Danfoss wishes for its employees to develop and thrive in all work-related matters and Ethics and anti-corruption for all employees to strike a good work-life balance in order that long-term stress is prevented and efficiency and well-being go hand in hand. In 2012, Danfoss updated its guidelines for ethical conduct, which are compiled In 2012, Danfoss continued the efforts to prevent stress and stress-related in the Ethics Handbook. The update is intended to ensure that the Ethics absence. Managers and HR partners can learn more about handling stress Handbook reflects developments in legislative requirements and expectaand indications of stress among employees in an updated publication on tions on the part of the company's stakeholders, while also incorporating procedures for coping with stress. experience gained with respect to how employees understand and use the If employees show signs of stress, their immediate superior is responsible for ethical guidelines. The updated Ethics Handbook will be distributed to all taking action, making sure the problem is addressed and the right parties are employees in early 2013. involved. Danfoss makes a number of professional assistance and support services for stress management available to managers and HR partners from All people managers attended ethics training in 2012 and took a test via which they can seek further knowledge and assistance. the Danfoss Learning e-learning platform. In future, new people managers must complete ethics training and testing within the first month of being Chemical substances appointed or promoted. In manufacturing its products, Danfoss uses a number of chemical substances which may be harmful to humans or to the environment. Danfoss strives to In 2012, Danfoss developed a dedicated anti-corruption program, and approlimit the use of such substances. If the substances cannot readily be omitted ximately 5,000 employees have been designated to complete this program or replaced, Danfoss makes sure they are used as effectively as possible and in 2013. Danfoss also intends to draw up a global process for handling third that measures to protect employees and the environment are taken. parties in relation to anti-corruption in 2013. The amount of CRAN substances (carcinogenic or allergenic, harmful to Ethics cases reproduction or neurotoxic) fell by 14% relative to 2011, primarily due to lower A total of 47 employees left Danfoss in 2012 due to unethical behavior against consumption of chemicals at the Mexican factory, but also because Danfoss 26 in 2011 and 40 in 2010. This figure comprises dismissals as well as voluntary Power Electronics in Gråsten, Denmark, replaced cleaning solvents with resignations in connection with ethical issues being raised. 39 of the dismissals substances that use bacteria to clean as efficiently as the solvents, but which were reported through a survey that Danfoss conduct every year amongst are much more friendly to the working environment. the 2,200 people managers while 8 cases were reported through Danfoss’ Ethics Hotline, through which Danfoss’ employees can report unethical The Danfoss Negative List is the cornerstone of the Group's efforts to reduce behavior anonymously. the use of harmful substances in processes and ensure that unwanted substances are used neither in production nor in the products. 8 Sustainability Report l 2012 Corporate Sustainability Report l 2012 Citizenreport 9 The 47 dismissals in 2012 were distributed on categories as follows: Theft and unethical handling of company resources (4), fraudulent travel expense Healthier employees settlements, forging of documents or attempted embezzlement (17), conflicts of interest (6), industrial espionage/theft of data (3), abuse of alcohol Your blood pressure is too high and needs to be reduced. Otherwise, (3), violent behavior and discrimination (5), non-compliance with company you will be in the danger zone. Such was the message to a production policies (3), manipulation of time reporting (1) and other causes (5). worker after a health check at the Danfoss factory in Kolding, Denmark, a couple of years ago. Things have changed today. The worker heeded Discrimination the advice, changed his dietary habits and lifestyle, takes more walks and Danfoss has, at the facility at Arkansas, USA, had a few cases relating to alleged gets enough sleep. discrimination in the context of staff adjustments. Anti-discrimination laws are particularly strict in Arkansas, and most cases of alleged discrimination have His colleagues have also become better at listening to health advice from been dismissed while two undecided cases remain to be solved. the Danfoss Health Department, where the Group's physicians and nurses provide advice to the employees about health, vaccinations and other health-related issues. Employees Of the people examined this year, 22% were advised to lose weight. The Employee commitment and development corresponding figure in the 2010 examination was 43%. The proportion In 2012, the Danfoss Group (excluding Sauer-Danfoss) had 16,550 employees, of employees whose cholesterol level was too high also declined, from a slight decline of 0.5% relative to last year. The employees were distributed as 51% in 2010 to 20% in 2012. follows: approximately 9,500 in Europe, approximately 3,500 in China and approximately 1,800 in the USA and Mexico. A total of 6.5% of employees chose to leave Danfoss compared to 7% last year. Responsible supplier management Total employee turnover was 17.2% in 2012 compared to 15.7% in 2011. Danfoss works systematically to enhance standards in its supplier chain and in 2012 maintained the particular focus on suppliers of goods used in Danfoss' Danfoss continued its dedicated efforts to retain and motivate employees in production processes or directly in the products. At December 31, 2012, 2012. Initiatives included an evaluation of management's ability to define and Danfoss had approximately 2,800 suppliers of such goods against approximcommunicate clear goals and perform systematic follow-up. Surveys in 2012 ately 3,500 at December 31, 2011. showed progress in the employees' perception of managers' ability to define a clear performance framework from 71 to 74 on a scale to 100. In addition, Signatures to the Danfoss Code of Conduct were obtained from 721 suppliers Danfoss increased the offering of e-lessons and virtual training and competence in 2012. Danfoss prioritizes this effort based on a risk assessment which inclubuilding through its in-house Danfoss Business System programs while also des the supplier's place of production, meaning that suppliers in areas posing deploying the systematic use of employee performance reviews globally. the greatest risk of non-compliance are given the highest priority. In addition, all new suppliers of goods used in Danfoss' production processes or in its Danfoss consulting its employees products are subject to a qualification and approval process which assesses their ability to comply with the Danfoss guidelines before they become part Danfoss Poland has several times experienced the situation where the of Danfoss' supply chain. In 2012, Danfoss had 702 suppliers in countries economic downturn necessitated an adjustment of the workforce. In deemed to present a high risk of non-compliance, 284 suppliers in mediumorder to avoid layoffs, the Grodzisk factory with approximately risk countries and 1,791 suppliers in low-risk countries. 1,000 employees opted to introduce a four-day workweek for brief periods of time, after which it was possible to return to full working hours A total of 2,234 suppliers of goods used in production or in products have without anyone losing their job. Management also did what it could to signed the Danfoss Code of Conduct against 2,151 in 2011. The proportion of ensure the four-day week would only affect one breadwinner in a family suppliers having signed the Code of Conduct increased to 80% from 61% in if both worked for Danfoss. 2011. A total of 586 (83%) suppliers from high-risk countries, 192 (68%) from medium-risk countries and 1,450 (81%) from low-risk countries have signed This arrangement was the result of the Employee Forum set up in 2009 to the Danfoss Code of Conduct. facilitate the dialog between employees and management. Almost all employees took a favorable view of the arrangement. In November 2012, In 2012, Danfoss performed 201 audits at suppliers, including 106 initial audits the Employee Forum took the initiative to reintroducing the four-day and 95 follow-up audits to verify compliance with the Danfoss guidelines. week due to a lower order intake. As an audit as such does not ensure rectification of any non-compliance, Danfoss also performed a number of other follow-up activities. Follow-up 10 Sustainability Report l 2012 visits were generally made to follow up on matters such as inadequate safety In 2012, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation distributed DKK 10.4m to precautions, including lack of emergency exits and fire extinguishing equipalmost 400 recipients, which included associations and institutions in Danfoss’ ment, lack of personal protection equipment, incorrect handling and storage local communities, schools and universities, museums, choirs, orchestras and of hazardous chemicals and discharge of waste water. The ability and willingaid organizations. A number of large donations of DKK 100,000 or more were ness to comply with the Code of Conduct determine whether Danfoss wishes given in 2012 to support research in photovoltaic cells. to continue and extend the collaboration with a supplier. A school in Monterrey, Mexico, received DKK 400,000 for a new security fence Going forward, Danfoss intends to focus on the transparency and documenaround the school which is located in an area characterized by increasing tation requirements made on the company by legislation and large customers. drug crime. School management wanted to provide optimum security for their pupils. This was made possible by support from Danfoss, which has for Local commitment several years supported the school through a local initiative providing for Danfoss supports a number of initiatives in the local communities in which enterprises to adopt schools. the company has factories or sales offices. The company is an active partner in the local community through sponsorships, involvement in trade organizaThe Danfoss Employee Foundation tions and groups, and through participation in social work. The Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation providing consulting and financial support to employees of the Danish Danfoss companies. The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation was established by the founder of In 2012, the Foundation considered approximately 250 applications involving Danfoss in 1960. Its purpose is to provide support to charitable projects in issues such as strained finances due to a dissolved relationship as well as conDenmark and abroad. In line with the expansion and globalization of Danfoss, sequences of the financial crisis. Many employees applied for help in 2012 the area in which support may be provided has been extended to comprise connection with confirmations, stays at boarding schools and Christmas. The all Danfoss locations in Denmark and abroad. The Foundation provides Foundation granted total financial support of approximately DKK 2.8m in financial support for training, research, sports, art, culture and charitable 2012. organizations. Sustainability Report l 2012 11 The Danfoss Group in brief Danfoss is a global leader focused on energy-efficient solutions that save energy and costs, and reduce carbon emissions. The company’s wide range of products and services are used in areas such as cooling food, air conditioning, heating buildings, controlling electric motors and powering mobile machinery. The company is also active in the field of solar and wind power as well as district heating and cooling infrastructure for cities and urban communities. Danfoss was founded in 1933 in Nordborg, Denmark. Today, the Group employs around 23,000 employees and sells its products in more than 100 countries around the world. Read more about Danfoss at www.Danfoss.com. Learn about its energy-efficient solutions at: http://www.danfoss.com/SolutionsReady/
