Coca-Cola HBC Croatia United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress 15 April, 2013 0. Statement of continued support by the CEO Dear Stakeholder, I am delighted to present to you our reporting according to the 10 Principles of the Global Compact for 2011. Since publishing our first Environmental Report in July 2002, we have been recognised as the leading reporter on sustainability in Croatia, publishing our first Social Report in November 2003 and our first Sustainability Report in late 2005. Up to and including the report covering 2009-2010, we issued full Sustainability Reports using the latest GRI standards and incorporating the Communication on Progress under the Global Compact. Given the coverage of sustainability issues across the group in the annual Sustainability Report for Coca-Cola Hellenic, we have now discontinued the practice of separately reporting on the Croatian operations. This in no way diminishes our commitment to and our leadership in corporate social responsibility in Croatia. On the contrary, the lessons we have learned from this type of reporting are now directly implemented in practices in Croatia and beyond. In addition, our commitment to the Global Compact and to being a comprehensive, timely and accurate reporter remains as strong as ever. As Croatia enters the European Union on July 1, 2013, we will enter a new phase in our business, ensuring that we meet all the legal requirements of an EU member state and aspiring to European best practices in sustainability and our commitment to the community, our workforce, consumers, customers and suppliers. I can also say that our awareness of the importance of diminishing our environmental footprint has grown enormously in the last few years and we are implementing significant innovations to minimise our water and energy use and to increase material recycling. Above all, we recognize that the climate change challenge is one which requires the combined efforts of governments, industry and consumers. Over time, our commitment to corporate social responsibility has been integrated into the very culture of our operations. It is reflected in our quality standards, ethical procedures and key performance goals. As a global brand with a strong local presence and reputation, we are very aware of our responsibility and potential as a change maker. We have moved, over time, from one-off donations to longer-term strategic partnerships with a wider range of stakeholders including NGOs, small initiatives and local authorities, adding value to their efforts to make a difference in the lives of the people around them. We are facing challenges within the context of the continued economic slowdown in parts of Europe and in Croatia. We have built a strong culture of dialogue with our workforce, who knows that we never make decisions related to restructuring lightly or hastily. We reward excellence, initiative, loyalty and commitment in all our staff. We work incredibly hard to support those who have to leave us to ensure that they are ready to face the new challenges ahead. Our Global Compact membership is one that we are proud of, both as a demonstration of our commitment and as a crucial place where best practices can be shared and learnt from. Best regards Mircea Draja General Manager of Coca-Cola HBC Croatia 1. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia and corporate social responsibility Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is a Zagreb-based company which manufactures, distributes and sells nonalcoholic beverages of The Coca-Cola Company in Croatia. It is majority owned by its parent company Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A., an international corporation with operations in 28 countries. The business in Croatia is long-standing, and in 2013 we will mark 45 years of continuous operations in Croatia. The parent company Coca-Cola Hellenic is in a number of ways a driver in terms of promoting corporate social responsibility in the marketplace, an example which has helped us to remain one of the recognised CSR leaders on the Croatian market. Since 2005, Coca-Cola Hellenic has actively fulfilled its commitments towards the UN Global Compact and local networks. In terms of the implementation of values embedded in the 10 Global Compact principles, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia has implemented strict guidelines which were developed at group level and which serve to foster a strong culture of compliance and accountability. Our actions are aligned with the proposals and recommendations of internationally respected organisations and institutions, and they are in accordance with universal codes and conventions. We are continuously working to reduce our environmental impact and to invest in our communities. We work in partnerships and help to protect local watersheds, to increase recycling, to contribute skills for sustainable tourism and to promote healthy and active lifestyles with, for example, the Our Beautiful Sava project, the Bistra Bike Tour, etc. Additionally, we are continuously working to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. In order to promote a higher standard and to maintain superior performance benchmarks, we have implemented a number of management systems and standards which reaffirm our commitment to quality. These include quality management (ISO 9001), food safety (ISO 22000), environment management (ISO 14001) and occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001). In addition, we follow leading external standards for managing, measuring and reporting on specific issues, including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG calculation and submission by the group’s central office using the protocol’s CO2 accounting tool), the LBG Model (measuring and reporting on our community investments according to the widely recognised approach of the London Benchmarking Group), the Global Reporting Initiative (reporting on progress in our group’s Sustainability Report using this leading framework for sustainability reporting) and the UNESDA Commitments (voluntary code of the European Beverage Industry Association to the EU Platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health, covering the beverages on offer, the manner in which these are marketed, nutritional information provided and the promotion of healthy lifestyles). As a group member, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia operates in accordance with the corporate governance guidelines of its parent company. One major aspect of this is the implementation of the corporate responsibility guidelines laid down in the Code of Business Conduct, which is distributed to all employees. The separate statements applied in our company are as follows: the Code of Business Conduct; the Equality of Opportunity Policy; the Environmental Policy; the EU undertaking relating to commercial practices in the EU, Island and Norway; the Quality and Food Safety Policy; the Health and Wellness Policy; the GMO Position Statement; the Greenhouse Gas Policy; the HIV/AIDS Policy; the Human Rights Policy; the Occupational Health and Safety Policy; the Packaging Waste and Recycling Policy; the Supplier Guiding Principle Policy; the Climate Change Policy and the UNESDA Commitments. The sustainability approach is not altruism, it benefits our business as well. By reducing, for example, the environmental impact of our own operations, i.e. the amount of water, energy and packaging used to produce each beverage, we are making our business more efficient. This reduces our costs in the short term as well as risks to our long-term business growth. Through our sustainability initiatives we are unleashing our own capacity for innovation. Our programmes are earning us a reputation for leadership and our reputation as an employer of choice in Croatia is recognised.. Reporting on our progress plays an important part in our dialogue with stakeholders. We previously followed the practice of reporting on our performance in Croatia in our bi-annual Sustainability Report. Considering the level of interaction and the complexity of the implementation of CSR standards within our parent company, we are now committed to providing timely, up-to-date and relevant information and activities within the overall CSR framework of our parent company, which discusses progress across the group’s global business. In 2012, the company published its ninth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report. These efforts have also been recognised globally since Coca-Cola Hellenic was listed as a world leader in sustainability by Dow Jones indices for a fifth consecutive time in 2012, and Coca-Cola Hellenic’s sustainability reporting has qualified for GC advanced level as the highest reporting level under the new Differentiation Programme, recognising companies which have adopted best practices in sustainability governance and management. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is also a member of the United Nations Global Compact in Croatia and is committed to supporting and enacting the core values defined by the ten principles. This Communication on Progress highlights the national implications of our global approach and implementation in each of the priority areas. In addition, we provide clear examples and data on progress whenever possible. All the information provided is regularly updated on our website and the Global Compact website. Promotion of the 10 principles at Coca-Cola Hellenic: http://csrreport.2011.coca-colahellenic.com/pages.asp?pid=0&subid=18. 2. Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is actively implementing the official Human Rights Policy, upholding the UN Global Compact and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As is the case in all group segments, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is strictly enforcing this policy, which is also a legal requirement in Croatia, as Croatia is due to become the newest member of the European Union. Policy details are disseminated among our employees, and managers are informed about the implications of human rights in day-to-day business operations. To this end, we regularly monitor and evaluate our performance. Both Croatian and EU legislation provide a framework for the prevention of discriminatory practices. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia remains committed to taking this approach further with the implementation of its Equality of Opportunity Policy, protecting against discrimination and ensuring equality of opportunity and fair treatment for all. This has helped to make our company an inclusive workplace where all our employees are treated fairly and equally. Although our workforce is largely male due, in part, to the physical nature of work, women make up two thirds of Coca-Cola HBC Croatia’s top management. Almost all our senior managers are from Croatia. Where international managers are seconded temporarily, talented local employees are sent on international assignments to gain new skills. This is a comprehensive approach, intended not only to minimise risks but also to maximise awareness of the issue and the potential implications for the wider community in which we operate. The success of this approach is reflected in the fact that there have been no complaints or registered legal proceedings against Coca-Cola HBC Croatia in relation to the violation of either of the two principles, and we are firmly committed to maintaining this successful track record. 3. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Employees are an integral part of the success of our company and therefore a central part of our corporate sustainability strategy. All employees have the opportunity to take advantage of the excellent career prospects in our company, and the company is committed to investing into training and personal development in order to enable employees to excel at their tasks. Employee feedback is collected on a regular basis through the annual engagement survey, which gives employees an opportunity to voice their opinions on a wide range of topics. We also conduct programmes to promote healthy, active lifestyles among our employees. Latest activities include the procurement of bicycles for employees and the promotion of sports and wellness activities through our Small Incentives Programme. As safety in the workplace is paramount, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia applies the internationally recognised safety management system OHSAS 18001. At each of our facilities, safety committees include both management and employees. To address specific safety risks, we develop targeted training programmes. Our Safe and Eco-Driving Programme, for example, helps us reduce accidents and minimise the environmental impact of our car fleet. Our safety performance is outlined in the annual Group CSR Report. In terms of recognition, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia has been identified as one of the most desirable working environments in Croatia. The company has been named one of the top employers in Croatia for several years in a row, and it has received a Key Difference Award as an employer with best practices for achieving and encouraging diversity in the workplace. One key element of interaction in the workplace is above-mentioned Code of Business Conduct as an overarching policy designed to give all employees a broad and clear understanding of the working environment. Our policies are widely communicated and are integrated into management training programmes. In addition, our Supplier Guiding Principles Programme sets out similar expectations for our suppliers’ work environments. Moreover, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia fully adheres to Croatian legislation, in line with EU standards and regulations, prohibiting all forms of discrimination. The Equality of Opportunity Policy outlines our obligation to provide equal opportunities for all employees and not to discriminate in any employment aspect on the grounds of race, religion, colour, ethnic or national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, political opinion, gender or marital status. Policies and procedures are in place to tackle discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment. Another policy ensures the nondiscriminatory treatment of persons infected with the HIV virus or suffering from AIDS. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is also committed to zero tolerance for forced or compulsory labour and child labour, both in relation to our employees and the operations of our approved suppliers. Through its Collective Agreement and the guidelines of the Code of Business Conduct, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia supports the freedom of association, i.e. the freedom of employees to join or not to join a trade union and to engage in collective bargaining. In addition to extending collective agreements to all employees, the regular exchange of views and information is maintained through the work of the Works Council, which represents all employees, union representatives and managers in the company and which is consulted or involved in decision-making processes on all topical issues. 4. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia has maintained a long-term focus on its ecological footprint. We aim to minimise the impacts of our business on the natural environment. Within this context, we implement the internationally recognised environmental management system ISO 14001. Our environmental efforts are focused on the three areas where we have the greatest impact and can therefore make the most significant contribution. These are water stewardship, energy and climate protection, and packaging and recycling. As well as reducing our own impact, we work with others to address broader sustainability issues. We work with government agencies, NGOs and others to support environmental conservation and education. Performance targets are set for each of these three areas, and we regularly report our progress as part of a larger group in the annual Group CSR report. In 2012, Coca-Cola Hellenic Group published its ninth Sustainability Report, highlighting the measurable progress it has made in a range of environmental indicators to conserve some of the planet’s most precious resources. Croatian facilities are also regularly monitored by The Coca-Cola Company in relation to their environmental standards. Water stewardship Demand on the amount of freshwater around us is increasing and climate change is impacting traditional rainfall patterns. As the world’s population is growing, the demand being placed on freshwater is rising rapidly. Our ability to grow is directly related to the availability and quality of local water resources. As a result, we place a major focus on our water stewardship efforts and an integrated approach to this critical resource by improving our water efficiency (reducing the amount of water needed to produce our beverages) and by working in partnerships to protect local watersheds and to promote sustainable water management. In our bottling plants, we closely monitor our water sources, minimising the amount of water we withdraw. By incorporating water conservation technologies in our production lines, we have managed to improve the efficiency with which we use water. Each bottling plant regularly conducts risk assessments. We study the quantity and quality of local water supplies, as well as environmental, regulatory and other concerns. Based on these assessments, we develop action plans to mitigate risks. Although we have significantly improved our efficiency, we cannot reduce the amount of water in our beverages. As we produce a greater volume of beverages, we use more water. It is therefore increasingly important to further improve water efficiency, hence we invest in emerging technologies. We ensure that all water returned to the natural environment is treated to a level that supports fish life. Our three bottling plants in Croatia all have on-site wastewater treatment facilities or they utilise municipal water treatment resources. The treated water released into the environment is suitable for use in agriculture and for supporting plant and aquatic life. To address water-related issues, we work in a growing number of partnerships. The Green Danube project is our longest standing partnership. Together with the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River we conduct conservation and awareness-raising activities in Croatia and nine other countries in the river basin. These activities include annual Danube Day celebrations, in which tens and hundreds of thousands of people participate. In partnership with the Croatian Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management and local tourist associations we work to increase the awareness of the local population and responsible authorities about the protection of the Danube River and its tributaries, so they can be used and enjoyed by the generations to come. Danube Day celebrations mark the completion of all our preceding activities which start in May with the Our Beautiful Sava project, which consists of numerous local business, ecological and tourist activities aimed at promoting awareness of the importance of the Sava River. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia, Coca-Cola Adria and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) have also been conducting a joint project under the name Every Drop is Important – Let's Revive Gacka River, dedicated to the protection of water resources in the Gacka River basin and the promotion of water preservation in Croatia. We also support public policy initiatives to promote sustainable water management. On an international level, Coca-Cola Hellenic is a founding signatory of the CEO Water Mandate of the UN Global Compact. This initiative aims to address water sustainability issues in operations, supply chains and communities and to work with governments and NGOs to shape public policy. To better understand water use in our supply chain, Coca-Cola Hellenic is also working with the Water Footprint Network. Energy and climate protection Climate change is the greatest and most urgent environmental challenge our planet faces. Swift and decisive action is needed to set our society onto a low-carbon growth path. With its capacity for innovation and investment, business plays a critical role in this massive transformation. We strive to take a leadership position, adapting our business to the demands and opportunities of a low-carbon economy. As a result, we are accelerating our efforts in those parts of our business which use the most energy: our bottling plants, car fleet and cold drink equipment. • In our bottling plants, we are expanding energy-saving programmes. • In our car fleet, we are exploring and increasing the use of hybrid vehicles and alternative fuels. We are also changing driver behaviour with our Safe and Eco-Driving Programme. • Our new energy-efficient cold drink equipment emits up to 50% less CO2 than in 2004. In our bottling plants, we are implementing energy-saving programmes to reduce CO2 emissions during beverage production. In Croatia, we have installed a system for reusing high-pressure air in the PET bottles blow-molding process. We also centralized the production of pre-forms used in PET bottles production at the Zagreb bottling plant exclusively, thus rationalizing electricity consumption. Additionally, we have also installed an LPG supply device for forklifts at the Zagreb plant. All our facilities have switched to energy-efficient lighting. Although our bottling operations use more energy than our offices and other facilities, additional steps are taken to reduce CO2 emissions there as well. Through our Green IT Programme, for example, we are changing the IT equipment we use as well as the way we use it. We are also reducing the impact of our conventional car fleet by downsizing engines and monitoring actual fuel and CO2 emissions. Changing driver behaviour is also a major contribution to reducing CO2 emissions. Through our Safe and Eco-Driving Programme we teach truck and company car drivers techniques such as driving at optimum speed and early gear changes. Initial results are encouraging, showing potential for significant CO2 emission reductions across our business. Our consumers expect to find chilled beverages in restaurants and shops when they are thirsty. As a result, placing coolers and other cold drink equipment on customer premises is an important part of our business strategy. Although we do not operate this equipment, we still have a responsibility to reduce its carbon footprint. We therefore work with our suppliers to improve the equipment’s energy efficiency. We also train our employees to ensure that coolers in the marketplace operate as efficiently as possible. In addition, we strive to eliminate hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), the greenhouse gases widely used in commercial and domestic refrigeration. We no longer use HFCs in insulation foam and are trialling alternative refrigerant gases. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) have been almost completely phased out from our equipment through a capture and recovery programme in the marketplace. On an international level, Coca-Cola Hellenic is a founding signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Caring for Climate initiative, the largest global business coalition on climate. Packaging and recycling Packaging plays a vital role in safely delivering our beverages to customers and consumers. However, once the beverage inside has been consumed, the package can become either valuable material for recycling or recovery in heat capture incineration plants – or waste which ends up on a landfill. We are working to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging at every stage of its lifecycle. Our integrated approach includes reducing the amount of packaging we use, increasing recycled content and promoting recycling and recovery. Minimising the amount of packaging we use is one of the most significant ways how we can reduce its environmental impact. In addition to using less material, this helps reduce the carbon footprint of packaging throughout its lifecycle: from manufacture to transportation to disposal or recycling. Our PET bottles are among the lightest in the marketplace weighing merely 15g and they are a third lighter than their predecessors. The ultra-glass bottle, which uses a third less glass, is now used in Croatia and 16 other countries in which Coca-Cola Hellenic operates. Our beverage containers consist mostly of recyclable materials: PET plastic, aluminium, steel and glass. Since these are among the most widely recycled packaging materials, another way how we can reduce the impact of our packaging is to increase the recycled content in them. By using recycled aluminium in cans, for example, we save up to 95% of the energy required when using virgin aluminium. Our aluminium cans and glass bottles already contain up to 60% recycled content. Including recycled PET plastic in our bottles presents a challenge in terms of availability and cost. Although PET is widely recycled, it is cheaper and easier to channel towards carpet and clothing industries, which do not need to meet the high quality standards required of food containers. Internationally, our business uses up to 15% recycled PET in seven countries. In Croatia, we are tackling the challenges involved in using recycled PET. We help set up recycling infrastructure and encourage consumers to recycle beverage packaging. We are working to establish a packaging management scheme in Croatia, and throughout Coca-Cola Hellenic’s business operations. To date, the company has helped set up systems in 19 countries, co-owning 17 recycling and recovery organisations. In addition to minimising waste from our beverage containers in the marketplace, we are increasing recycling and minimising waste in our own bottling plants. 5. Anti-corruption principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Coca-Cola HBC Croatia is firmly committed to conducting business in compliance with the highest ethical standards and all applicable laws. The Code of Business Conduct provides employees with a broad and clear understanding of the conduct required from all our employees wherever we do business. The Code of Business Conduct applies to all managers, officers and employees of Coca-Cola HBC Croatia. It lays down our core values and a series of guidelines for the proper conduct of representatives of Coca-Cola HBC Croatia. The overarching theme of the Code of Business Conduct can be summed up as follows: as a representative of the company, you must act with honesty, respect and integrity in all matters. Among other things, the Code states that no employee is authorized to take any actions which might be linked to corruption or compromise the company’s reputation in any way. The Code covers the following areas: conflict of interests, financial records, corporate opportunities and the use of company assets, fair dealing, co-operation with governments, protection of information, environmental protection and workplace safety. The Code is presented to each employee and special electronic bulletins are sent to employees on a regular basis, explaining different aspects of the Code and reminding employees of the proper conduct in various situations. 6. Reporting transparently According to our self-assessment, the sustainability reporting of Coca-Cola HBC Croatia qualifies for GC active level, as it provides updates on the progress made on the Croatian market in the time period since the last communication on progress. This communication should be viewed as an extension of the communication on progress and the sustainability reporting by our parent company Coca-Cola Hellenic, which has, according to the self-assessment, qualified for the Global Compact advanced level. For additional information on the activities of the parent company, please visit: http://csrreport.2011.coca-colahellenic.com/pages.asp?pid=0&subid=18 or refer to the Group CSR report. For more information: BoškaTrbojević Public Affairs and Communications Department Manager Coca-Cola HBC Croatia
