Sustainability 2012 Report Contents 1. One Source in a Global Context 4 2. CEO Statement 8 3. The four divisions – Challenges and Solutions 10 a. Customer Services – Challenges 12 b. Customer Services – Solutions 12 c. Material Handling – Challenges 16 d. Material Handling – Solutions 16 e. Mineral Processing – Challenges 20 f. Mineral Processing – Solutions 20 g. Cement – Challenges 24 h. Cement – Solutions 24 4. Focus areas – Progress made 28 a. People 30 b. Health and Safety 34 c. Governance & Compliance 38 d. Responsible Sourcing 42 e. Carbon Footprint 44 5. FLSmidth Facts 46 About this report The 2012 Sustainability Report contains the FLSmidth Group’s efforts in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability. It includes the FLSmidth Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. In 2012, we have aligned our Sustainability Report with our Annual Report and consequently adopted the divisional structure. The consequence of a divisional structure as opposed to a market structure is that some of the case studies in this report are placed within the division where they organisationally belong although they might also have been grouped with a different industry. The reason is that many of our product and research activities relate to more than one industry which underlines our strategy of being a One Source supplier to both the cement and mineral industries. The reporting period is 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 and in this year’s report we have consolidated the data from the last three years (2010 – 2012), whenever possible and relevant. Moreover, this report includes case studies from our local entities and business units around the world. 2 One Source in a Global Context 2012 FLSmidth is a leading supplier of technologies and services to the global cement and minerals industries. With activities spread all over the world, the global challenges that our customers face in their respective industries have become a central part of our business strategy. The global context has changed. So have our strategic objectives. As a one-source supplier of sustainable cement and minerals technologies, we strive to address the global challenges inherent in the industries we serve. Our focus is on building a closer relationship with our customers by thinking innovation and seeking excellence in everything we do. 4 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 One Source in a Global Context Growth, change and challenges We believe it is possible to create value for money for our customers The global economy is growing. As economies open up, a clear by making more efficient and durable solutions, while addressing shift in trade, production and consumption from developed to social issues such as environmental performance. By addressing developing countries and emerging markets has occurred. A driver global challenges through innovation and local presence, we seek to of change in many organisations, globalisation has brought a new show our commitment to our customers, and to society in general. competitive environment with increased environmentally driven technological innovation and new customer preferences. Within each of our key industries, our research and development strategies are among other things, focused on increasing productivThe growing global economy has led to an increase in commodity ity while using fewer resources – a “more for less” strategy. demand. Although a dramatic growth in demand is experienced, this is not new in itself. However, what makes the current rise in Our primary value proposition is based on a holistic life-cycle apdemand for commodities unique is the broad understanding of the proach, where we want our total cost of ownership to be lower correlation with climate change and ongoing resource constraints. than our competitors, based on more sustainable, durable, cleaner, These have become drivers of change and challenges for the safer, and eco-efficient technologies. In our Group Strategy, we industries that FLSmidth serves. commit to continuously develop products and solutions that are more sustainable – both in the production and in operation of our Most governments, states, businesses and many citizens are aware technologies. Not just because it is good corporate social responsiof the climatic impact of the surge in CO2 emissions associated bility, but also because it is good business – for our customers and with meeting market demands. Without major changes, the curfor FLSmidth. rent level of global CO2 emissions is foreseen to lead to a global temperature increase exceeding two degrees Celsius, which again could result in an ice-free Arctic and a dramatic sea level rise that could result in a potential global environmental catastrophe. It is becoming increasingly difficult to expand the supply of commodities, especially in the short run. While there may not be an absolute shortage of resources such as water and energy — the perceived risk of one, has spurred efficiency-enhancing innovations. The links between natural resources is becoming increasingly important. Consider the potential ripple effects of water shortfalls at a time when roughly 70 percent of all water is consumed by agriculture and 12 percent by energy production. A new way – our vision At FLSmidth, our strategy is to minimise the impact on the environment while meeting the demands from the growing global economy. We have chosen to be the preferred full-service provider that constantly pursues innovation to meet these challenges. We seek ways to improve output and decrease resource input while increasing output, as well as ways to decrease fuel usage, reduce energy and water consumption, while producing less CO2 emissions. These are challenges that are imposed on the industries we serve by the global drivers of change, and we strive to deliver solutions to these challenges. 6 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 7 CEO Statement 2012 highlights 2012 A warm welcome to the third FLSmidth Corhas been the implementation of safety measures in managers’ objectives and bonus schemes. porate Social Responsibility report submitted to the United Nations Global Compact. We also realise that although we have taken several important steps to ensure that we will lower the number of injuries, it remains a focus area that needs our utmost attention – every day. Regrettably, The year 2012 has been a transformational year characterised by we lost one employee in 2012 and that is one too many. expansion and the launch of our new company vision and strategy. With that also came a new organisational structure with four divisions – In 2012, we welcomed several new companies to the FLSmidth Customer Services, Material Handling, Mineral Processing, and Cement. family and we are working closely with these companies to implement safety standards and procedures, so that we all are aligned Moreover, working with a new vision and business strategy has with the FLSmidth commitment to a safe working environment, also brought renewed commitment to our CSR and sustainability with no injuries. work and prospects. In our 2012 report, we continue to bring forward how we work within key areas related to people, safety, and With growth and expanded activities as experienced in 2012, the delivery of sustainable technology – areas that also link with we acknowledge the accompanying task of being a responsible our company vision and strategy. employer and business partner. By the end of 2012, we numbered 15,900 employees, and welcoming new talent to our organisation There are many motivating aspects of being a global company, and is a very evident outcome of our strategy. That brings responsibility many tasks. With our 2012 report, we are placing FLSmidth in a for more people and a responsibility – not only to live up to – but global context with regards to the sustainability agenda and in relaalso pass on our company culture, which is based on three values: tion to the global drivers of change. competence, responsibility and cooperation. CO2 emissions, water scarcity, energy and resource constraints Through our new vision, we are underlining that our core business are all elements that influence the world we live and operate in. activities and sustainability are closely linked. We will continue to In this year’s report, we have expanded the section related to the incorporate this commitment to responsible business conduct into environmental dangers that influence our industries – and thereby our business operations and decisions. our own company. The case studies in this section of the report illustrate how we live and execute our new vision of being “…our We recognise that an on-going effort to keep improving our procustomers’ preferred full-service provider of sustainable minerals cedures and internal compliance activities is needed. However, we and cement technologies”. also believe that we have taken the first steps to a more systematic approach and we will continue on that path. One key issue for us is the safety of our people. We want to ensure that our employees are safe and that the procedures and standards With some of the highlights from 2012 and a firm commitment to stay in place enable us to reach our commitment to a safe working on board with the UN Global Compact, I wish you pleasant reading environment. and hope that you will find the information useful and interesting. Last year, we announced our company target of lowering the injury Jørgen Huno Rasmussen rate (LTIFR) to three by 2015. One initiative in meeting this target Group CEO, FLSmidth 8 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Jørgen Huno Rasmussen Group CEO FLSmidth 9 Four divisions: Challenges and Solutions 2012 FLSmidth is a leading supplier of complete processing plants, equipment and services to the global copper, gold, coal, iron ore, fertilizer and cement industries. We help our customers meet changing industry requirements, market demands and environmental regulations. For the past 130 years, research and development has played a crucial role in our continued growth. Our research and development investments place particular emphasis on the use of alternative fuels, reduced emissions and waste, improved heat recovery, lower power consumption, minimised water consumption, increased plant capacity, availability and operating efficiency and minimising safety risks. We recently signed a EUR 130 million-loan agreement with the Nordic Investment Bank to support our research and development activities that take place in our centres of excellence located around the globe. 10 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 11 The four divisions Customer Services Challenges and Solutions 2012 Customer Services – Challenges Being a global company, local presence and acceptance is key to the business. Therefore, our Supercenters are strategically located The Customer Services division is following the latest developments to support minerals and cement operations and work as a partnerand long-term trends in both the cement and mineral industries. ship with our customers and the local community – and is an We focus on topics that affect our ability to create shared value, important part of our CSR work. With three Supercenters already such as CSR issues, and on understanding how the global drivers of opened and four more on their way, each centre is designed to be change will impact our customers – and our business. sustainable and environmentally friendly (page 15). In our Sustainability Development department under the Customer Services division, we develop services and technologies that enable Customer Services – Solutions our cement customers to live up to the expectations in their industry. A general concern across industries is the need for reducing Waste Heat Recovery emissions, while maintaining high production. Waste Heat Recovery, Challenge: Alternative Fuels and Supplementary Cementitious Materials are Conserving energy while maintaining productivity technologies have the potential to become some of the solutions to Faced with rising operating costs, and tighter emission regulathis global challenge for the cement industry (page 13). tions and in some cases an unreliable power supply, manufacturers around the world are seeking new ways to cut down their power The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) business in our Customer consumption. However, lowering consumption is not the only opServices division can deliver a complete organisation for a customer tion. Based on proven technology, FLSmidth’s comprehensive Waste if outsourcing is required. Finding the right people with the right Heat Recovery (WHR) systems are ideal for new or existing cement skills can be a challenge for the industries we serve, in some locaor minerals plants. The WHR system provides a significant amount tions. At FLSmidth, one of the competitive advantages lies in the of a plant’s power needs at no extra fuel cost, reduces its carpeople we employ. With our O&M activities, local presence has bon footprint and may save precious water. And as governments been established in many countries around the world – both on a around the world launch tax initiatives and subsidies to encourage short and long-term basis. With that we take our commitment to manufacturers to reduce their carbon footprint, the global demand developing the skills of our people seriously, and we ensure that for WHR installations is rising. safety is a top priority. The Waste Heat Recovery System The CSR approach in O&M involves developing ties with univerBased on Kalina Cycle® technology, FLSmidth provide one of the sities and communities to raise local skill levels. New jobs and most efficient waste-heat-to-power systems available. Depending educational opportunities contribute to the general development on the carbon emission intensity of the grid power being replaced, of society, and help develop the skills that the industry needs. As WHR can save a 5,000 tpd cement plant more than 60,000 tonnes FLSmidth’s Operations and Maintenance business grows, training of CO2 a year. Based on an average electric grid price of 0.12 USD/ and skill development is playing a significant role in strengthenkWh and an operating cost of 0.01 USD/kWh for a WHR unit, a ing local communities. The partnership between FLSmidth and the plant can save a massive USD 6 million a year in energy costs. Helwan University in Cairo is a good example of this local support (page 14). 12 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Case Study: Star Cement edge, many cement and minerals producers worldwide have set Star Cement in the United Arab Emirates invested in a 6,850 tpd ambitious targets for increasing the use of alternative fuels – capacity Pyro system for its Ras Al Khaimah cement plant in 2006. waste-derived, as well as biomass. Satisfied with the system’s performance, in 2011 the company asked FLSmidth to upgrade the plant’s existing clinker cooler in orAs a technological leader in this field, our goal is to be the preder to reduce operating costs and reduce the clinker temperature. ferred supplier of alternative fuel-based solutions for the cement and minerals industries. We develop and supply complete alternaThe upgrade was a success, and a year later Star Cement signed a tive fuel solutions that allow cement and minerals producers to contract for a Waste Heat Recovery System. Working closely with utilise up to 100 percent alternative fuel in their pyro-processing Star Cement, FLSmidth designed, engineered and supplied a 4.75 installations. The alternative fuel thereby becomes the primary fuel, MWe (gross) Kalina Cycle® WHR system, based on a 28°C ambient without decreasing production capacity or product quality. temperature. With the Kalina Cycle® technology, power generation can be optimally adjusted to the ambient temperature. During the Supplementary Cementitious Materials winter season, for example, the ambient temperature is as low as Challenge: 8°C and at this temperature, the WHR plant generates up to 5.2 Higher productivity with less energy consumption MWe (gross). The global demand for cement is growing rapidly and is expected to double by 2050. This increase is primarily driven by the rapid deCompared to a conventional Rankine Steam Cycle or Organic velopment of infrastructure, housing and industry in countries like ­Rankine Cycle-based technologies – and under the same input China and India. However, cement production currently accounts conditions at Star Cement – the Kalina Cycle® technology provides for almost five percent of global manmade CO2 emissions, so the more than 20 percent higher power generation. potential for new types of cement that can be produced with lower CO2 emissions and lower clinker content is key to being able to With the most efficient technologies available installed at its meet the global development needs without increasing greenhouse Ras Al Khaimah cement plant, Star Cement ensures the facility gas emissions. is cost-effective and sustainable. Supplementary Cementitious Materials (SCM) include materials Alternative Fuels with cement-like properties that can be used as a supplement to Challenge: clinker. Some of the most common SCMs are natural and synthetic Efficient production with less dependence on fossil fuels pozzolan, flyash and slag. With the right approach, SCMs can Due to rising energy costs and increasingly strict energy and provide environmentally friendly cement, without ­compromising ­environmental regulations, alternative fuel technology is b ­ ecoming product quality. an important factor in controlling costs. To gain a competitive 13 The four divisions – Customer Services Other benefits include: The two 3800-tpd production lines have been in operation since • Lower operating costs the mid-1980s. The technical upgrade that FLSmidth is supplying • Adherence to strict emissions limits for the two lines includes a new ATOX™ mill, new top cyclones in • Increased production the preheater, new FLSmidth® CrossBar™ coolers, Duoflex™ main • Reduced carbon footprint by 25 percent or more burners, new kiln drives, a CemScanner™ and bag filters. The goal • Potential revenue from recycling waste is that by early 2014, each line will have a production capacity of 5,200 tpd and emissions will be reduced. FLSmidth has developed a new Flash Calciner System for producing SCMs providing unique benefits compared to other technology Helwan University options. With minimal moving parts and better control in the actiChallenge: vation, the calciner system lowers plant maintenance requirements Developing talent where it is needed most while significantly reducing the lifetime operating cost compared In 2010, FLSmidth initiated a public-private partnership with the with traditional SCM systems. But most importantly, the flash calHelwan University in Egypt. The aim of the partnership is to improve ciner design is very efficient; with normal clay moistures, it utilises the quality and quantity of graduates who have an interest in the celess than 600 kcal/kg. As a result, replacing 35 percent of the ment industry. In many emerging economies, public-private partnerclinker with calcined clay will reduce the overall carbon footprint ships are an important driver of development within a specific sector. of the traditional cement producing process by about 25 percent. FLSmidth can apply the same patent-pending process to convert When the first FLSmidth operation and maintenance contract was traditional kiln systems with comparable results. signed in Egypt in 2007, there were 26,912 graduate engineers in the country, which then numbered around 81 million inhabitants. In a pilot system, FLSmidth has produced high quality synthetic It was therefore clear that educating qualified engineers for the pozzolan from clays supplied by leading cement producers and cement industry would benefit the industry in general, FLSmidth is currently developing industrial scale SCM solutions for these and the community. When the project kicked off, the cement inspecific installations. dustry was growing steadily and the future for qualified engineers looked promising. Operation and Maintenance Challenge: Three years on, there have been a number of challenges to overImproving production, organisation and quality while come. The most important and unforeseeable was the Arab spring, ­reducing emissions which threatened the project in 2011. But the partnership was An operation and maintenance contract is a long-term agreement honoured throughout this time, with all partners maintaining a – both for the customer and the local community. From a sustainstrong commitment to the project. ability perspective, this is especially important to us, as it provides valuable feedback from customers and from the communities To date, 33 students have graduated from the Helwan University where we work. When we operate and maintain a plant for an program: extended period, we build up a significant local presence and with 9 have been recruited by FLSmidth that, a responsibility to the surrounding community. 8 have been recruited by other companies (not in cement industry) Technical and organisational upgrade 10 have been recruited by the military Egypt’s National Cement Company signed a seven-year operation 6 are unemployed where we expect to recruit 3 to be lab and maintenance contract for two production lines in Cairo with engineers in the cement diploma degree. FLSmidth in 2012. Faced with an aging plant and increasing pressure from the local community to curb dust emissions, the aim of From this partnership, we have demonstrated the capacity and the the contract is to raise production capacity, improve product quality ability to lift the skill level of an organisation and local employees and dramatically reduce dust emissions. to an internationally competitive level, with improved efficiency, greater knowledge and improved safety. FLSmidth will supply the complete organisation to run the plant, supply spare parts and consumables, as well as implement a The next phase of the partnership will raise the qualification level maintenance system to secure maximum availability and apply best at the FLSmidth Helwan Cement Institute from a certificate to a practices in the pursuit of operational excellence. The majority of diploma degree, which will be launched February 2013. Approved employees will be local, and over time it is hoped that the manageby The Supreme Council of Higher Education, the training will help ment team will also be Egyptian nationals, either from our own caincrease efficiency, strengthen the knowledge base and improve reer development program, or from the Egyptian cement industry. safety at plants throughout Egypt. 14 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Community College in India programs to teach, train and help customers better understand Challenge: the processes, systems, and the equipment that they operate. The Developing talent where it’s needed most training programs will also help operating staff increase their skills In India, a new technician training partnership has been initiand bring them up-to-date with safety guidelines and practices, ated with the renowned Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), and which in turn will improve the plant’s efficiency and help secure the Indian Society of Technical Education (ISTE). The aim of the safe operations. two-semester certificate program is to pass on experience from FLSmidth’s 130-year history, provide up-to-date training and imThe third Supercenter opened in Arequipa, Peru following the sucprove the quality and quantity of graduates. An alternative form of cessful establishment of Supercenters in Santiago, Chile and Perth, education, the aim is to empower individuals through appropriate Australia. With a commitment to grow the business in Peru and skills development. stay at the forefront of efficiency, sustainability and environmentally friendly production, Country Head, Mr. Jesus Cabrera explains: There are now 19 students undergoing training. The students will “We decided to take this project a step further and contribute to be placed at Operation & Maintenance (O&M) sites for the second the development of our society. So the courses we offer our cussemester for practical training. At the end of their training, they tomers and miners will also be offered to university students. Our will be available for employment at O&M sites as technicians. customers have suggested a number of topics and are interested in Through this initiative, we hope to maintain a strong foothold as including the environment and safety.” an attractive employer with Indian graduates. Supercenter Director, Romy Martin, elaborates: “A unique element Supercenters of the FLSmidth® Supercenter concept is our community outreach Challenge: and we believe in impacting the local societies with what we do Building local competencies best, which is offering knowledge, training, and the development FLSmidth is building all-in-one service centres around the globe. of people. When we are developing our local societies, we are With an increased focus on safety and requests from some mines also improving and enhancing our business and our customers’ to have a large portion of work done offsite to replace and repair businesses. All our Supercenters will host training programs and items, the FLSmidth Supercenters are located near mining and ce® educational meetings to enrich the community.” ment activities and will provide localised services and support. Preparations are underway to launch three centres at Antofagasta, To support our vision of getting closer to our customers, the Chile, Delmas, South Africa, and Tucson, USA in 2013, with Supercenters are tailored to solve customer challenges. Through ­another planned for Mongolia in 2014. FLSmidth now has seven close collaboration with customers, the Supercenters will offer of these centres built or in the pipeline across the globe. 15 The four divisions Material Handling Challenges and Solutions 2012 Material Handling – Challenges The fertiliser market is mainly driven by four factors: population/ GDP growth; dietary changes; biofuel crop development and arable The Material Handling division provides material handling solutions land per capita. primarily for the coal, iron ore, and fertiliser industries. This division also contain the Air Pollution Control Business Unit which provides Global population growth is gradually slowing down, but income clean air solutions and the Automation Business Unit that provides growth and living standards are increasing faster than ever. With automated solutions all across our industries. Lastly this division global GDP/capita forecast to grow at over two percent each year, also contain the Maag Gear Business Unit. the demand for fertiliser in relation to GDP growth is estimated to increase by at least two percent each year. In addition, changTo meet the ever-increasing global demand for ore, the number of ing dietary habits, increasing demand for biofuel crops and the open pit mines is on the rise, existing open pit mines are becoming diminishing amount of arable land per capita are seeing demand deeper, mining rates are increasing and cut-off grades are falling. for fertilisers rise. And the deeper the open pit, the higher the cost of truck hoisting. Together, these changes are increasing the environmental impact of each tonne of extracted ore. Material Handling – Solutions To help mitigate the environmental impact of open pit mining, Pit FLSmidth® Product: KOCH® Pipe Conveyor Crushing and Conveying (IPCC) solutions offer a cost-effective and Challenge: flexible material handling method. Traditionally, shovels and trucks Transport of material without environmental damage. are used to transport the extracted rock to the crushing stations. A pipe conveyor is essentially a belt wrapped into a tube. More verWith an IPCC solution, hauling distances are shorter and fewer satile than conventional conveyors, pipe conveyors are also more trucks are required, which means less manpower is needed, energy environmentally friendly. consumption is lower and CO2 emissions from the truck cycle time are reduced. IPCC solutions also reduce the cost of trucking and The KOCH® Pipe Conveyor is ideal for transporting all types of macan be adapted to meet the specific needs of coal and iron ore terial, from cement and coal, to phosphorate granulates and wood mining, and waste removal. chips. Experts in conveying technology, FLSmidth designs and engineers closed conveying systems. We currently have more than 300 The world’s fastest growing fossil fuel, coal, now accounts for pipe conveyor installations in operation around the world, including around 30 percent of global energy consumption. At FLSmidth we the world’s longest, measuring 8.3 kilometres, in Peru. do not try to argue that coal produced energy is the most sustainable solution, however, in many emerging economies, coal is the The KOCH® Pipe Conveyor completely encloses the material for only feasible short and medium-term solution for meeting the 95 percent of its journey, ensuring no material is spilled or blown growing demand for energy. away. Ideal for long distances and problematic topographic areas, the Pipe Conveyor ensures the dust-free and low noise transport of At FLSmidth, we recognise that we have an obligation to develop bulk materials over roads, tracks, waterways or open seas, as well technologies that ensure that coal is produced in the cleanest and as through existing plants and environmentally protected zones. safest way possible. Our dedicated coal research team is workEven contaminated material can be conveyed without any negative ing on solutions to improve the recovery rates from small mining environmental impact. operations. 16 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 The FLSmidth® Gas Suspension Absorber percent reduction in SO2 emissions and a 95.2 percent reduction Challenge: in HCl emissions. The emissions testing also showed a 90 percent Reducing SO2 emissions. reduction in mercury, proving that the equipment can meet the Our Air Pollution Control department is in constant search for proposed NESHAP emission standards. new solutions to meet increasingly stricter emission regulation. In the United States, the proposed National Emissions Standards for The GSA is very efficient at processing lime slurry and dramatically Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) imposes the strictest limits on reduces the need for fresh lime in the system. Based on gas suscement plant emissions in the world – especially for organic hydro pension technology, the GSA builds up a very high concentration carbon emissions. Recent changes to the NESHAP standards that of fly ash, dust particles and lime inside the reactor. And compared will take effect in 2015, include for example, reducing mercury to conventional systems, the maintenance costs for the GSA are emissions to 90 percent below present World Bank limits. These extremely low due to few moving parts, less wear and tear and a new regulations will help reduce the level of hazardous air pollutsimple stationary nozzle. ants, but require a prompt response from cement industry equipment manufacturers. Case Study: Gas suspension absorber technology reduces emissions at the Daye Huangshi Iron and Steel Co. in China To help U.S cement plants meet the new emission standards, Recently, a GSA was applied to a sinter line at the Daye Huangshi FLSmidth developed the Gas Suspension Absorber (GSA). A semiIron and Steel plant in China. One of the most critical steps in the dry scrubber system, the GSA has a flexible multi-pollutant control steel production process, the sinter line prepares iron ore before device that provides a very high level of SO2, HCl and mercury entry into the blast furnaces. Cost-efficient and space-saving, the removal. The FLSmidth® Gas Suspension Absorber optimises GSA can remove up to 97 percent of the sulphur dioxide without absorbent re-circulation and helps keep operating costs to a minicreating waste-water pollution, and is therefore one of the best mum. Installed and tested at the Norcem plant in Brevik, Norway, available technologies for desulphurization of sinter lines. the GSA exceeded its performance parameters, achieving a 97.3 17 The four divisions – Material Handling A great success for Huangshi Iron and Steel, the iron industry is One of the largest steel producers in the world, the Baosteel comnow aware of the benefits of applying this technology to sinter plex is located in Shanghai, and as such there is a huge focus on lines. And with over 400 potential installations in China alone, effectively reducing dust particle emissions from the plant. FLSmidth is ready to help reduce emissions from the iron and steel industry in China. Continuous Emission Measurement System Challenge: Coromax® Pulse System Meeting national emission legislation requirements Challenge: Tougher emission legislation is driving the need for effective emisDust emissions in the atmosphere sion measurement systems. Previously, stack emission analysis was As air pollution control regulations get tougher, minerals and other often performed solely to meet local legislation requirements. Toheavy industries have to find new and better ways to reduce their day however, many plants impose their own even stricter standards particulate emissions. Electrostatic precipitators (ESP) have long as a part of a sustainability program. In most countries, measuring been the preferred equipment for dedusting large volumes of gases stack emissions is required if waste is burned in the kiln in order to produced by industrial processes and are a popular method availreduce production costs. able to control dust emissions. But conditions such as low humidity, very fine dust particles and high resistivity applications can make If waste is burned, the feeding will in most cases only be permitted the dust difficult to collect, which severely impedes the ESP’s operaif the stack gas analysis system is in full operation. To document tional efficiency. stack emissions, a Continuous Emission Monitoring (CEM) system can be a solution used to validate and report the data in the corThe solution rect format. The Coromax® pulse system, developed by the Air Pollution Control department, seeks to address this challenge. An ESP’s dust collecFLSmidth’s Continuous Emission Monitoring system can submit tion efficiency depends on the dust’s electrical resistivity – if it’s too reports according to any national standard. We can supply both the high the ESP’s performance is dramatically reduced. To overcome production equipment and the know-how to operate at minimum this problem, FLSmidth designed the Coromax pulse system. Now emission levels, as well as the emission gas analysis equipment in its fourth generation, the Coromox pulse system reduces ESP required for temperature, pressure, flow, dust and gas analysis dust outlet emissions by 50 percent and cuts power consumption (IR, UR, LUM, FTIR – and prove the results. significantly. When dust emissions exceed permitted levels, ESP efficiency must be improved. One solution is to build a larger precipitator. This option takes up more space, requires a plant shutdown – and it’s expensive. A more effective solution is to replace the traditional DC power supply with an FLSmidth Coromax pulse system. This not only keeps plant downtime to a minimum during installation, it also dramatically reduces power consumption by almost 30 percent and emissions by half. Small, versatile and efficient, the Coromax pulse system is a smart way to capture high resistivity dust and avoid back corona. Easily installed on the roof of the ESP, the Coromax pulse system takes up little space, reduces plant power consumption and cuts dust emissions. This is great news for the industry and for the environment. Baosteel China installs Coromax pulse system In accordance with its 2011 five-year plan, the Chinese government has reduced the amount of national dust particle emission levels by 50 percent compared to the 2009 level. In January 2013, FLSmidth will deliver 16 Coromax pulse systems to the Baoshan Iron & Steel plant in Shanghai. 18 The four divisions Mineral Processing Challenges and Solutions 2012 Mineral Processing – Challenges sustainable, and that can be an important part of our customers’ communication with local communities and to obtaining a licence The mining and minerals processing industries are facing increasing to operate. energy and water costs, difficulty in finding mining and processing ore bodies, and increasingly complex processes for obtaining Other sustainability-related challenges facing the mineral industries environmental permits. include water supply, energy consumption and payback ratios. Water is a critical issue in dry mining districts; however, sea water is Local communities, national governments and non-governmental now becoming a viable alternative in some areas. organisations are also exerting increasing pressure on the mining and mineral industries. Mutual understanding and good relations are therefore critical to the successful development of a project. Mineral Processing – Solutions Companies working in these industries are trying to strike the right balance between environmental concerns, safe and secure working Automated tailings filtration conditions, as well as respect for international labour conventions Challenge: and human rights. Water recovery and environmental reclamation Recent developments in FLSmidth’s filtration technology have A growing number of companies are looking to create shared value enabled mining customers to increase their water recovery, as well with the communities in which they are located by forging links as maximise the dryness of the cake from tailings in the mining between society and corporate performance. This trend, which process. “More companies want a dry cake that they can stack,” now has a firm hold in the mineral industries, redefines companies says Todd Wisdom, Director of filtration products at FLSmidth. “In as creators of shared value for all stakeholders, instead of solely response, we developed the biggest automatic filter press in terms generating profit. Through the creation of wealth and sustainable of capacity per machine.“ business conduct, they strive to live up to the expectations of the societies where they operate. FLSmidth’s AFPIV™ minerals pressure filters are installed at the end of the minerals processing line to assist in the recovery of water for Global mining companies are also exploring ways to incorporate re-use in the process. This specialised equipment helps support the shared value into their business practices. The groundwork is being environmental reclamation process and speeds up the re-vegetation laid for new ways to generate innovation and growth, not only of the surrounding landscape. for the mining companies and their stakeholders, but also for the benefit of society. Pressure filters are the most effective way of squeezing moisture from the remaining tailings to create a filter cake with a less moisture Obtaining environmental and operation permits can be a time content. This enables mining companies to stack and compact the consuming and complex process. Mining companies and technoltailings and start the re-vegetation process much earlier. ogy suppliers must adhere to strict environmental standards in the industry. In some regions, more than 300 permits are required. What is more, the filtered dry tailings concept means plants use Community understanding and goodwill are fast becoming much less water compared to similar concentrator plants. When dealmakers or breakers when it comes to obtaining final permits. combined, the advanced filtered dry stack tailings technology FLSmidth develops equipment that aims at being environmentally makes for a more environmentally friendly mining site. 20 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 21 The four divisions – Mineral Processing FGD Scrubber Blowdown Systems FLSmidth’s high-density thickener equipment will help dewater tailChallenge: ings at a large plant currently under construction in the Atacama Reducing SO2 emissions from coal and oil power plants Desert. FLSmidth is supplying design, engineering, and process For electric power plants, reducing gas emissions while maintaining equipment for the copper and molybdenum plant, and on comsafety and profitability is a major challenge. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) pletion, the plant is expected to process approximately 105,000 emissions are a natural by-product of coal or oil-fired boilers. To tonnes per day of primary and secondary copper ore. FLSmidth’s reduce these emissions, Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) was introthickeners will be an important part of the plant’s tailings manageduced as a way to convert the SO2 contained in the flue gas into ment water conservation system. gypsum by adding lime or limestone in a wet scrubbing system. High Pressure Grinding Roll The equipment required to separate gypsum is only a small part of Challenge: a power plant’s overall capital investment. FLSmidth’s FGD solution Saving energy and water – and reducing the carbon footprint helps plants meet regulatory requirements, while transforming SO2 Grinding is often the most energy intensive process at a mining gas emissions into a safe and potentially useful by-product. The site. FLSmidth’s High Pressure Grinding Roll (HPGR) crushers use gypsum can be used in applications such as the production of wallat least 25 percent less energy than traditional semi-autogenous board, or as material in cement, road base and structural fill. And grinding mills. The harder the ore, the greater the energy savings, because it’s a stable material, it’s also suitable for landfill. and because these high-pressure grinding roll crushers typically reduce the amount of steel lost through wear, the amount of energy Since the introduction of the FGD solution, FLSmidth has led the required to produce the steel is also reduced. development of thickening and dewatering SO2 scrubber sludge technology. Recent test results show that the wide-spread use of FLSmidth® HPGR crushers could reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the Paste Thickener Equipment grinding process by as much as 30 percent. A dry grinding unit, the Challenge: HPGR does not require water during operation, so water consumpSolving water scarcity tion is also reduced. With the possibility for further dry mining Water scarcity is also a major challenge, as many ores are mined downstream and the potential for dry recovery, mining companies in remote locations or in arid climates. An example of this is could reduce their water consumption completely in certain minerChile’s Atacama Desert where many new mining projects are using als extraction operations, such as with precious metals recovery. seawater instead of fresh water. The driest desert in the world, the Atacama is composed mostly of salt lakes, sand and felsic lava. And because the majority of the Atacama Desert mining projects are located at high altitudes, pumping seawater to the mines is costly and complicated. To reduce the amount of water lost to the disposal of tailings at the end of the process, FLSmidth® paste thickening equipment is utilised to maximise water recovery. Once the minerals have been successfully removed from the ore during the processing stages, the tailings are fed into sedimentation tanks, known as tailings thickeners, to settle the remaining solids and separate them from the water used during the process. The tailings are then normally fed into tailing ponds where it is left to allow any excess water to evaporate or dissipate back into the soil. FLSmidth’s paste thickener equipment increases the underflow solids concentration and reduces the amount of water entering the tailings pond for more effective tailings management – and helps conserve precious water for reuse within the plant while lowering overall water consumption. This is a key factor for mining customers, who often find it difficult to secure water rights for their operations. 22 The four divisions Cement Challenges and Solutions 2012 Cement – Challenges Cement – Solutions The cement industry is responsible for about five percent of global FLSmidth provides full solution for Ste. Genevieve manmade CO2 emissions – around 50 percent is from the chemical Challenge: process, 40 percent is from the burning of fuel and 10 percent is Meeting demands for increased production and from other processes. The cement industry emits nearly 900 kg of ­environmental performance CO2 for every 1000 kg of cement produced. The Ste. Genevieve cement plant in Missouri, USA has a clinker capacity of 12,000 metric tons per day and a cement capacity of The European Union (EU) has the most stringent CO2 regulations in 4 million metric tons year. What makes this plant unique is not only the world. Within the framework of EU’s emissions trading system, its size, but also the very strict efficiency and environmental goals a benchmark of 766 kg of CO2 per tonne of clinker was set for the applied to the site development, construction and operation. industry in 2011. This target is currently achieved by less than 10 percent of all plants. In Western Europe, the average rate is 858 kg Ste. Genevieve is one of the few cement plants in the United States of CO2 per tonne of clinker. Five percent of all plants have emission that is NESHAP compliant and requires no replacements or further levels in excess of 1000 kg of CO2 per tonne of clinker. investments. Designed and constructed to be future ready, the plant uses sustainable FLSmidth® technologies, which has proven Besides CO2 emissions, some of the long-term environmental beneficial for the plant owners, Holcim. challenges facing the cement industry are energy efficiency, water consumption and hazardous dust emissions. These are areas where Located close to a nature reserve and the Mississippi River, it was FLSmidth’s research and development initiatives are having a posiparamount that the planning and development process minimised tive impact. We have created new business units that focus on the environmental impact of the plant. New technologies and sustainable solutions, based on previous research and development customised solutions were applied in order to install one producinitiatives, such as Alternative Fuels, Waste Heat Recovery, and tion line with the production capacity of two lines, which would Supplementary Cementitious Materials (SCM). Based on the sucpreserve the surrounding landscape during the development and cess of these solutions FLSmidth will continue to develop enhanced construction phase. This was achieved through close customer emission control technologies and processes to reduce a plant’s contact and open dialogue. CO2 footprint. The plant’s emissions limits are among the lowest in the world, and We continuously strive to develop the best available technology for set new standards in the United States. More than 600 engineers the cement industry in order to support the environmental agenda, from FLSmidth centres around the world helped contribute to this while maintaining a strong production focus. With that strategy, achievement. Within the first three months of operation, the masFLSmidth has achieved groundbreaking results by delivering total sive plant’s kiln clinker production reached 13,160 metric tonnes solutions that improve environmental performance and producper day (tpd) – the first single kiln production line to break the tion – two essential elements of our service delivery offerings. The 13,000 tpd limit. Ste. Genevieve plant set world records when it was inaugurated in 2009 and has shown the way for many new solutions. Although it has been up and running for a couple of years, it still serves as a case study of possible solutions to various environmental challenges. 24 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 25 The four divisions – Cement The In-line calciner Carbon capture and storage Challenge: Challenge: High production demands with low emissions levels Reduce CO2 emissions in the cement producing process The natural environment around the Ste. Genevieve plant posed Finding effective ways to reduce CO2 emissions is a challenge for constraints with regard to space. Consequently, the hybrid design the cement industry. On a global level, approximately five perconsists of two bottom stage cyclones that each split into a twin cent of all CO2 emissions come from the cement industry. Howpreheater tower, and was invented in close collaboration with ever, there is no viable alternative to concrete as a major global Holcim engineers. construction material. Other materials can be substituted in some cases, but not for large-scale applications. In 2012 the global ceFLSmidth’s Low-NOx In-line Calciner (ILC) is designed to keep NOx ment production was 3.5 bn tonnes and estimated to grow 4-5 % emissions to a minimum. The ILC is designed to reduce the NOx in the comming years. emitted from the burning process in the kiln at the duct on the outlet of the rotary kiln. All the fuel for the calcinations process is As a supplier of sustainable technologies for the cement industry, introduced into this riser duct, without the addition of combusFLSmidth must rise to this challenge. In our Sustainability Develoption air. To further improve the NOx reduction, a high temperature ment department we develop and supply in CO2 reducing solutions is maintained by controlling the addition of material as cooling and technologies such as Supplementary Cementitious Materials, medium to this zone. After the reduction zone, the gases enter the Waste Heat Recovery and Alternative Fuels (see page 12-13). We calciner vessel where hot air from the cooler is added for the full also entered into a cross-industry collaboration with the Eurocombustion of the fuel. This technique gives the best conditions for pean Cement Research Academy (ECRA), where we participate NOx reduction in the industry. as an associate member of the ECRA Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS) Project. Together with customers, competitors and leading The OK™ mill researchers, we are helping to investigate the feasibility of CCS as a Challenge: sustainable cement technology and finding solutions to address the Increase production and lower energy consumption global CO2 challenge. The FLSmidth OK™ vertical roller mills at Ste. Genevieve are designed to grind a large variety of cement types and slag. When used Known as Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS), the technology is not to grind normal cement, the energy consumption of an FLSmidth expected to be ready for market for many years and at present is in OK™ mill is 30-40 percent less than traditional ball mill systems, and a pre-commercial research phase. up to 50 percent less when used to grind fine slag or cement. The collaboration is now in its development phase and ECRA is The OK™ vertical roller mill has a higher capacity than a ball mill. currently applying for funding to conduct tests. The largest ball mill can produce up to 300 t/h OPC, whereas the roller mill can produce more than 400 t/h. This makes the OK™ vertical roller mill very cost-effective and more environmentally friendly. The drying, grinding and separation process in a mill is combined in one unit. And because it has a low noise level, the mill can be placed outdoors, which reduces the civil construction costs and improves the working environment. The design of the rollers and the roller mill concept makes the mill extremely efficient. Curved, with a groove in the middle of the segment, the surface of the roller allows the air to escape when the clinker is compressed. This also helps reduce vibration levels during operation, which can affect output and efficiency. 26 Focus areas – Progress Made 2012 This 2012 progress report is the third on our commitment to CSR and sustainable business conduct. This year, we wish to consolidate the efforts we have made over the past three years by communicating our progress within each of our CSR focus areas. Therefore when possible and applicable, this section will include data from the reporting years 2010, 2011 and 2012. 28 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 29 Focus areas People 2012 Human resources policy: The following are some of the areas highlighted in the internal asRespecting people and diversity sessment, as well as areas where our company can make an impact Our human resources policy states that we strive to conduct our and influence human wellbeing. business with the highest ethical standards, integrity and professionalism. Employees FLSmidth employs 15,900 people around the globe and have poliOur stance on labour practices is clear; “FLSmidth offers competitive cies and procedures in place that support good and safe working employment conditions and remuneration and recognises employees’ conditions, development opportunities and equal opportunities. right to be organised and bargain collectively. We respect and support human rights and do not engage in child or forced labour”. A number of activities are combined in order to provide consistent compliance and ensure the integration of HR-related policies and The policy also emphasises that equal opportunity is a basic tenet: procedures: “We offer equal opportunities…irrespective of gender, age, ethnic or national origin and religious beliefs, disability, political or sexual Every second year, an Employee Engagement Survey is conducted orientation and family status”. at FLSmidth to measure the satisfaction and motivation rate amongst our employees. Moreover, the survey provides the opporMore information on our human resources policy can be found on tunity for all employees – anonymously – to disclose if any breaches www.flsmidth.com of company policies or procedures have taken place. Responsibility to our people Every second year, an HR Compliance Review is conducted in order FLSmidth’s most valuable resource is our employees and we believe to improve compliance with our company policies with regard to it is our responsibility to ensure their wellbeing in all aspects relevant labour, working standards and regulations, health and safety polito their job. cies and standards, and more generally with our CSR policy and training targets. A key aspect of responsible business conduct is a company’s obligation to respect and protect human rights. The UN Guiding Sites and projects Principles on Businesses and Human Rights, released in 2011, sets a For several years, FLSmidth have worked to strengthen its approach global standard for preventing and addressing the adverse impacts to health and safety on site, and in our in-house production, inon human rights linked to business activity. cluding safety training for employees working on site. At FLSmidth, we do our utmost to ensure that we respect and supOne area identified for improvement includes developing more speport human rights through our operations, policies and procedures. cific internal procedures on how to mitigate risks related to human This is fundamental to the way we operate and reflect our comrights in general. Furthermore, human rights have been incorpopany values. However, we also acknowledge that we have areas rated as a separate point for assessment in a new internal business where internal procedures can be improved. Consequently, in 2012 review procedure that will be launched in 2013. an internal assessment was completed that to reveal areas where FLSmidth might have an adverse impact on human rights, and to uncover areas where improvements can be made. 30 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 31 Focus areas – People Suppliers In 2010, we initiated a Responsible Sourcing project with the objective of making CSR an integrated part of the procedure for assessing suppliers. See page 42 for more information on the project and progress made. Consolidation of activities from 2010 report – 2012 report Employee Survey: 2008 survey 2010 survey 2012 survey Response rate (% of all employees) 84 88 89 Satisfaction rate (on a scale from 0-100) 73 71 72 Human resource data: 2010 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT Number of employees 11,229 13,200 15,900 Countries with operations 40 50 50 Female managers Not reported 7.2 % 9.2 % Case study: People Development knowledge and skills also changes. For example, the communicaThere are many exciting career opportunities at FLSmidth. In order tion skills required of Specialists early in their career is different to to navigate the opportunities, employees at FLSmidth can choose those required by Specialists further on in their career. to follow one of three defined career paths – specialist, manager or project manager. Managers and Group HR therefore developed the Cross-functional training for Specialists. A range of development activities support employees with moving down the path they have chosen. However, managers and Group The training is structured in 7 modules and support Specialists HR found that those choosing the specialist path were not as well with their development throughout their career. The modules have supported as those following the manager and project manager been grouped into three steps to reflect this. Since we do not have paths. They found that Specialists were supported with developing a common title structure at FLSmidth, the three steps have been their functional competencies but that there was not enough supnamed ‘Specialist’, ‘Senior Specialist’ and ‘Lead Specialist’. They port for developing cross-functional competencies. give an indication of what is most relevant for those early in their career as opposed to those further on in their career. Specialists typically develop their functional skills through research, engagement with peers, research institutes and professional The training was launched in November 2011 and is: organisations as a result of increasingly complex job assignments • delivered globally related to their specialism. However, Specialists also operate within • by experts the frame of the team, the organisation and the customer and in • FLSmidth certified. order to operate successfully within this frame, there is a range of non-functional knowledge and skills which need to be developed. It is expected that 444 employees will participate in the CrossAs the depth of the specialism increases, so does the breadth of functional training for Specialists in 2013 and to date, the training the frame. This means that the range and depth of non-functional has been rated ‘excellent’ by participants. 32 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Follow up on targets and initiatives: Target and initiative 2012 activities 2013 targets Employee development initiatives – Performance and Development Reviews – Roll out of a systematic PDR process in (PDR) are conducted annually. New more countries systema­tic approach has been implement– To be able to report on total amount of ed in Valby, Denmark and ­Bethlehem, USA training days for all employees (16 % of all employees) – Continue conducting courses to support – Courses conducted to support the Specia­ the Specialist, Project Management, and list, Project Management, and Leadership Leadership career-paths in more countries career-paths have been conducted. E.g. in 2012, 121 employees took part in Project Management training Employee survey – In August 2012, a new survey was con– Follow up on action plans will continue in ducted. Follow up on the survey outcome 2013, with an overall corporate focus on took place in the fourth quarter of 2012 leadership ­quality and people development throughout the organisation Compliance review – Evaluation of the 2011 HR compliance – Conduct a new compliance review in 2013 review and follow up on action plans were handled from the head-office in Valby, Denmark Diversity target – Communication of diversity target to the – Continue working with action items with local entities was initiated the objective of increasing the number of female ­managers – Pilot project was established in Denmark and r­ esulted in several action items to be – Employ more female managers than the ­initiated in 2013 reported 9.2 % in 2012 – A closer follow up procedure on diversity items, with reporting requirements as part of the quarterly financial reporting was launched Human resources data Age distribution Seniority Gender Geographical Job-function distribution < 30 (23%) < 2 (33%) Male (85%) Denmark (11%) Technical and engineering 30 39 (33%) 2 4 (21%) USA (17%) (incl. design and product engineers, Female (15%) mechanics, electricians, technicians, 40 49 (23%) 5 -10 (26%) India (23%) trouble shooters etc.) (59%) 50 59 (15%) > 10 (19%) Germany (4%) Non-technical >59 (6%) Australia (6%) (incl. administration, management, Other (39%) sales and project management etc.) (41%) 33 Focus areas Health & Safety 2012 Health & Safety Policy – creating a safe Following up on injuries working envionment Safety performance in terms of reported injuries is constantly being Our Health and Safety Policy demonstrates our FLSmidth commonitored in FLSmidth, and the 2012 data shows an unfortunate mitment to provide employees with a healthy and safe working increase of 12% in the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) environment and addresses the responsibility of all managers and which has increased from 4.2 in 2011 to 4.7 in 2012. employees to ensure the same. In this regard, we have had to take into consideration that the The H&S Policy prioritises complying with relevant laws and regulacomposition of companies within the group has changed due to tions, proactively assessing and striving to reduce occupational injularge acquisitions in 2012 and due to new Operation and Mainteries, continous improvement, implementing documented managenance (O&M) activities. Targeted efforts are made to align these ment systems, providing appropriate training, and taking measures activities with the FLSmidth safety procedures and standards. and evaluating security risks related to travel and working abroad. Furthermore, we can see an underlining trend in the data that The H&S Policy also addresses the health and safety conditions looks promising. If acquired companies and new O&M activities related to products, technologies, services and instructions. were excluded from the 2012 injury data, the LTIFR would be 3.4, which is comparable with 2011 results of 4.2. We expect that the More information on the safety policy can be found on ongoing integration of new companies will result in a considerable www.flsmidth.com improvement within 1-2 years and that our long-term target of reaching a LTIFR of 3 in 2015 can be sustained. Building a safety culture At FLSmidth, we are committed to improving our safety perforWe are saddened to report that one tragic fatality took place in mance. Employees working on customers’ construction/project 2012 due to a traffic accident on a public highway. Though sites, operating cement and mineral plants, or our own manufacFLSmidth continuously evaluate on the safest ways of travelling turing units are exposed to potential high health and safety risk. for the company, road safety continues to be a considerable risk in Therefore, we are striving to ensure that this type of work can be many countries where we operate. done safely. Consolidation of activities from 2010 report – 2012 report In 2012, we consolidated our safety organisation ensuring that all major FLSmidth locations have a competent HSE officer to train and implement health and safety procedures. Safety has been included 5 4.7 4.7 4.2 in the cash incentives for relevant managers, hereunder targets for 4 the safety performance to ensure continued management attention. This approach will continue in 2013. 3 3 We have implemented a set of initiatives with the objective of re2 ducing the number of injuries and creating more awareness in the organisation around safety (ref. initiatives summarised under the 1 paragraph “Follow up on targets and initiatives”). 0 2010 2011 2012 Target 2015 34 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Number of Number of Lost time injury Lost time injury injuries lost time injuries frequency rate (LITFT)* severity rate (LITSR)** 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Technology, sales, projects, service and administration 69 24 46 34 45 18 10 19 9 19 1,0 0,7 1,3 0,6 1,5 16 21 34 21 36 Production units 141 81 90 107 135 73 36 44 51 68 9,6 6,0 9,0 7,3 11,7 225 144 312 92 228 Operation and Maintenance 61 46 17 20 16 6 4,1 4,1 1,9 152 220 42 Cembrit 81 53 49 35 41 40 48 43 24 36 21,8 25,8 23,2 14,8 22,1 607 458 492 487 593 FLSmidth 352 204 202 176 221 151 110 112 84 123 4,7 4,2 4,7 3,6 6,0 119 110 128 79 135 * LITFT=Lost Time Injuries per million working hours ** LITSR=Number of lost working days per million working hours 35 Focus areas – Health & safety Safety data: 2010 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT Fatalities FLSmidth employees 4 0 1 Safety training hours per employee Not reported 2.5 5.7 FLSmidth sites audited Not reported Not reported 12 Follow up on targets and initiatives: Target and initiatives 2012 activities 2013 targets Certifying O&M sites OHSAS 18001 – 1 certificate obtained covering – To have additional 3-4 sites certified – 3 operating sites. including sites in Egypt and Chile Adding safety training to the – Safety training has been added to the – Start defining targets for training efforts safety metrics safety metrics – 5.7 hours of safety training conducted per employee Adding safety to managers cash – Safety has been added to managers – Continue implementation and incentives cash incentives for most parts transparency of process Lowering LTIFR to 3 by 2015 – LTIFR = 4 for 2012 was set as a stage – The 2012 target was not achieved and gate towards the target in 2015 therefore maintained in 2013, LTIFR = 4 Conducting Group HSE audits at – 12 FLSmidth locations audited in 2012 – 1 audit of each site every year app. FLSmidth locations by the global 40 audits per year conducted by the – Standardisation of audit procedure was safety organisation Group Safety Organisation ­initiated Global Safety training programs – Training materials developed – Launch the safety training program for for FLSmidth technical supervisors all FLSmidth technical supervisors Safety policy – The Safety policy has been evaluated – Launch a revised Safety policy with and improvement areas identified more focus on management obligations and behavioural safety Standardising the safety procedure – Continued the work towards standardised – The standardisation process will continue procedures for safety and health covering to ensure compliance with local regulations the the whole Group and a basic internal FLSmidth standard 36 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Case study – FLSmidth MAAG Gear in Poland The Task Force was quick to implement measures to improve safety, We put our policy into practice through our Health and Safety and positive results were visible shortly afterwards. organisation and have continued last year’s practices of conduction audits at FLSmidth’s own manufacturing sites. With LTIFR at the customer’s locations having moved from 4.0 in 2011 to 1.5 in 2012 the efforts to strengthen the safety culture In the spring of 2012, an internal audit was conducted at the at FLSmidth Chile already look promising. The most significant FLSmidth MAAG Gear facilities in Poland. Like in most cases, the result was achieving 0 Lost Time Injuries at our customer’s site and audits are conducted by our own global safety organisation which only one medically treated injury after the creation of the taskis also working on standardising the audit procedures. force and implementation of a range of measures. This includes activities from focus on basic skills of the employees, additional Monika Grabowska-Sztajnke, Safety Specialist at our unit in training, better documentation (included risk assessment and work Poland, was involved in the audit and the subsequent activities. instruction) – and more management resources and a strong safety The visit by the Health & Safety Advisor resulted in an action plan organisational structure. The Task Force Group also proposed a that included a number of improvement activities. For Monika number of long-term initiatives to be implemented by the Safety Grabowska-Sztajnke and her colleagues, it was an important learnorganisation in Chile. Positive feedback from several customers ing experience. underlines the success of this process. It is important to recognise the efforts made by the Operation & Maintenance and Customer “Both during and after the audit, we met with an experienced colService departments, who achieved a LTIFR at 1.0 and 0.0 respecleague who helped us identify areas for improvement and we also tively in 2012. However, hard work is still ahead for the FLSmidth identified several easy wins. Having a fresh pair of eyes to evaluate Chile organisation and the focus now is on developing a Health, our premises has been a very valuable experience to us and one we Safety and Environmental system that can maintain the high level have learned from” Monika Grabowska-Sztajnke explains. of safety and ensure implementation of corrective actions in future. External HSE certification (OHSAS18001 and ISO 1400) of OperaCase study – Safety Task Force in Chile tion & Maintenance Chile is part of this process as is ensuring good An increasing number of injuries at customer’s sites in Chile in integration of FLSmidth product companies and Supercenter in the 2011 and the beginning of 2012, prompted FLSmidth Chile to HSE management system in Chile. establish a Task Force Group to implement immediate steps to improve safety onsite. 37 Focus areas Governance & Compliance 2012 The Code of Business Conduct Speak-up – our integrity framework FLSmidth’s internal “Speak-up” function has been established to The FLSmidth Code of Business Conduct was introduced in 2008 deal with any situations in which an employee may get suspicious and was amended in 2012 to include a clear statement on our about other employees’ possible violations of our Group’s Complizero-tolerance policy towards facility payments. ance policies. Employees are encouraged to report to his or her immediate local superior or local management if they are aware of The Code encompasses three key areas: violations. The Group General Counsel and Head of Group HR can 1. Compliance be contacted in cases where an employee cannot contact his or her 2. Business practices own manager, and the Chairman of the Board in cases involving 3. Company assets and financial integrity Executive Management. FLSmidth practices a zero tolerance towards bribery, including The cases are dealt with locally, and in 2012 we experienced a low facilitation payments and corruption, violations of competition/ number of suspected cases of misconduct. A few of these cases anti-trust regulations and violations of export control regulations. led to dismissals or other termination of contracts, while the rest We expect integrity and fairness in all of our business dealings. turned out to be groundless. More information on the Code of Business Conduct can be found By the end of 2012, the Board of Directors decided to file for apon www.flsmidth.com proval with the relevant Data Protection Authorities of cross-border investigations of cases. Developing the Group’s new When approval has been granted, the Board will evaluate, whether Compliance ­department a new Whistleblower Policy relevant for the whole FLSmidth Group. In the 2011 report, we launched a new Global Governance and Compliance department to facilitate and support the already ­existing integrity and compliance framework and adherence to Compliance policies in FLSmidth. Throughout 2012, the new compliance function was introduced to all business units in FLSmidth. Local compliance representatives were appointed to continue rolling-out and advise on the compliance policies locally. More than 100 compliance representatives have now been appointed and trained worldwide under the concept “Train-the-Trainer”. With this approach, we continue to emphasise the importance of local responsibility, enforcement and ownership when rolling out new policies and conducting local training sessions for relevant employees. 38 Follow up on targets and initiatives: Target and initiatives 2012 activities 2013 targets Amendment of existing policies – The Code of Business Conduct and the – Continue improving the complianceAnti-bribery & Anti-corruption Policy have instructions, templates and, if needed, been amended, with a clearer provision updating any existing Compliance policies on our zero-tolerance towards facilitation ­payments and as well an amendment to our stand on charity Establishing an internal – 100+ local Compliance representatives – Continue building up and strengthening Compliance Organisation have been appointed the worldwide Compliance-organisation – Train-the-Trainer sessions have been ­conducted Training of employees (e-learning) – Code of Business Conduct e-learning – Continue rolling out the e-learning course course has been rolled out to the whole – The objective is that all employees must FLSmidth Group have completed the Code of Business – The e-learning course has been translated Conduct e-learning into 8 languages and is mandatory for all employees – 40 % of all employees have completed the module Establishing an internal – Export Control Coordinators have been – Continue building up and strengthening Export Control Organisation ­appointed the worldwide Export Control-organisation and roll-out the Export Control Policy – Appointment of a National Export ControlOfficer in countries with more than one business unit is requested and emphasised – The Board of Directors has adopted a new Export Control Policy applicable to all FLSmidth business units Monitoring and internal audits – Random audits occur frequently by our – More specific monitoring and internal controllers or other staff functions audits to follow up on roll-out of and compliance with our Compliance policies New Whistleblower Policy – The Board of Directors decided to file for – Upon approval, re-evaluation of the authorization to cross-border investigations ”Whistleblower” Policy 40 Focus areas Responsible Sourcing 2012 The Code of Supplier Conduct Case study: Assessing new suppliers – stating expectations In 2012, we conducted pilot projects with new suppliers to test In 2012, FLSmidth introduced the Code of Supplier Conduct, which our CSR assessment procedures, as well as a set of audit tools. As sets out our expectations to our suppliers. part of this, an experienced internal auditor visited a new potential supplier in India. The purpose of the audit was to evaluate quality Our focus areas and areas where FLSmidth expects suppliers to capabilities and CSR-related conditions. demonstrate that they have adequate policies and management systems in place to assess, manage and ensure that adverse imThe review revealed several areas related to safety and health that pacts are minimized, are as follows needed to improve before the supplier could be approved. An even • Human rights, including labour standards (as per internationally larger challenge during the audit was the presence of a child at the recognised legislation, conventions, etc.) workshop – a child who was working for a sub-supplier to the sup• Safe and healthy working conditions plier in question. The conditions of the employment were not clear • Managing environmental impact and risks to us and consequently, we had a discussion with our potential • Business ethics (e.g. internationally agreed standards for antisupplier to find a solution, so that no breaches occurred. corruption) • Quality of supply and sub-supplier requirements The final outcome of the audit was a corrective action plan that must be implemented before the supplier can be approved for business. We chose to take an active role in developing the action The Responsible Sourcing initiative plan and entered into a dialogue with the supplier on how to make In line with the UN Global Compact, we are using our sphere of the necessary improvements in order to build their capabilities in influence in areas where we have potential high risk and impact. the areas identified for improvement. On a global scale, we have around 8,000 equipment suppliers, so we have chosen to work with the initial group of strategic suppliers in areas related to responsible and sustainable business conduct. This group numbers 542 suppliers. In 2012, we continued to develop and implement our new procedures for Responsible Sourcing at our five technology and project centres Bethlehem (USA), Salt Lake City (USA), Wadgassen (Germany), Chennai (India) and Valby (Denmark). Late in 2012, the new procedures were rolled-out in China, where training was conducted at our own workshop in Qingdao. Moreover, our Group Quality department introduced a new global procedure for evaluating new suppliers, and CSR areas have been integrated into this. The new procedure will be implemented throughout 2013. 42 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 Follow up on targets and initiatives: Target AND initiatives 2012 activities 2013 targets Training of employees in Responsible − Class-room training of relevant employees − Train more employees in relation to the Sourcing in six entities further roll-out of procedures − 885 employees have taken the e-learning module Implementation of CSR procedure for − Implemented in six locations − Implement procedures in the remaining existing suppliers, including CSR selflocations with purchase functions and sub− 542 suppliers have received a supplier self assessment for 875 existing suppliers mit CSR Self Assessment to more suppliers. assessment − Collect and assess the remaining supplier − 361 suppliers have responded surveys − Assessments of 243 supplier responses Introducing new global procedure for − Procedure for approval of new suppliers − Implement the global procedure for apapproval of new suppliers was launched in Q4 2012, with CSR now proval of new suppliers part of the assessment criteria − Conduct supplier approval assessments according to the new global standard − The FLSmidth Code of Supplier Conduct − CSR-related areas will be a part of the is a part of the documents issued to new entry requirements for potential new suppliers suppliers 43 Focus areas Carbon Footprint 2012 Environmental Policy – our commitment to Consolidation of activities from 2010 report – 2012 report the environment In addition to the newly launched vision on delivering sustainable 100,000 technology, we also have our Environmental Policy that entails 82,000 77,500 79,000 reducing the consumption of energy and natural resources, and as 80,000 far as is possible, reducing or eliminating emissions. Besides a full 60,000 life-cycle focus on products and services, this policy also focuses on our own in-house consumption of energy. 39,800 40,000 34,000 More information on the environmental policy can be found on 20,000 www.flsmidth.com 0 0 2010 2011 2012 Scope 1+2 Scope 3 Managing our own carbon footprint FLSmidth publishes an annual report on our internal carbon footprint to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The following FLSmidth’s carbon footprint in 2012 amounted to 82,000 tonnes information is based on the preliminary data for the CDP report to CO2 reported from scope 1 and scope 2. The figures from 2012 be published in May 2013. show an increase of 3.7% compared to 2011. 39,326 tonnes CO2 is derived from Cembrit’s production of fibre cement, which in 2011 amounted to 39,000 tonnes CO2. C02 footprint compared with business growth: 2010 CDP report 2011 CDP report 2012 CDP report Tonnes of C02 scope 1+2 77,500 79,000 82,000 CO2 scope 1+2 in relation to total revenue 3.8 3.6 3.3 CO2 scope 1+2 in relation to number of employees 6.9 6.0 5.5 C02 scope 3 (business travel) Not reported 34,000 39,800 CO2 scope 3 in relation to total revenue Not reported 1.5 1.6 CO2 scope 3 in relation to number of employees Not reported 2.6 2.6 44 Overview of FLSmidth 2012 Who we are What we do FLSmidth is a leading supplier of equipment and services to the FLSmidth supplies the minerals and cement industries globally global cement and minerals industries. FLSmidth supplies evewith everything from engineering, single machines and complete rything from single machinery to complete cement plants and processing plants, to maintenance, support services and operation mineral processing facilities, including services before, during and of processing facilities. Our core strengths are our market-leading after construction. product range, our ability to implement, manage and maintain projects, and our unmatched operation of minerals and cement Our vision is to be our customers’ preferred full service processing plants, worldwide. ­provider of sustainable minerals and cement technologies. Through years of innovation and experience, FLSmidth has develFLSmidth offers world-class products, facilities and systems, backed oped a vast global pool of specialist engineering resources that is by tailored consultancy and support services. Our wealth of know­ unique within our market. We focus on cement, coal, copper, gold, ledge and resources means that we are able to provide one source iron ore and fertilisers, and are a one source supplier of products, solutions for even the most challenging requirements, worldwide. solutions and services for these industries. FLSmidth invests heavily in developing new solutions to meet the Today, we offer comprehensive, flexible and global services. With important future energy and emissions challenges of our customers. offices in more than 50 countries and service centres in our primary regions, we are on site to help customers with every stage of their FLSmidth has over the past 130 years developed a business operational processes, from strategic planning to overcoming every­ culture based on three fundamental values: competence, day challenges, as well as facility lifecycle management. responsibility and cooperation. FLSmidth in numbers More than App. Presence in Revenue of 130 years of 15,900 more than EUR 3,338 million FLSmidth history employees 50 countries in 2012 46 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 How we are organised In 2012, we introduced our new vision and company strategy, FLSmidth is present in more than 50 countries and has major which led to a new organisational structure around our four divi­project and technology centres in Denmark, the USA, Germany sions: Customer Services, Material Handling, Mineral Processing and India. and Cement. The company is headquartered in Valby, Denmark, and employs approximately 15,900 people worldwide. FLSmidth Supercenters Customer Material Mineral Cement Project and Technology centres Services Handling Processing Production Sales and representation offices Invested Out of all EUR 47 million managers 9.2% in research and are women development in 2012 47 FLSmidth Our Approach In Short 2012 At FLSmidth, we have built on 130 years The FLSmidth CSR Board: The CSR Board was established in 2010 and has quarterly discusof history in our approach to sustainable sions about our strategy and development opportunities. business conduct, also referred to as Members of the CSR Board include: ­C orporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Jørgen Huno Rasmussen, Group CEO Corporate values: Pernille Friis Andersen, Group Communications/IR > Competence Anders Høeg, Group Supply Chain & Quality > Responsibility Egon Toft, Operations and Maintenance > Cooperation Jakob Lyngsø Andersen, Group Human Resources Michael Skovgaard Christensen, Group Governance & Compliance Vision: We will be our customers’ preferred full service provider of Ann-Katrine Havris Lundgaard, Group CSR ­sustainable minerals and cement technologies. Focus areas: Definitions: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): The term cover our selected focus areas defining our approach to responsible business People behaviour and sustainable business development from the perspective of our own company and from the industries we operate within. Social Health performance & Safety Sustainable technology: Our approach to research and product development, with the highest attention to environmental challenges Responsible related to energy consumption, emissions levels and water scarcity. business conduct Supply chain Complicance Strategy: It is FLSmidth’s CSR strategy to have our CSR initiatives linked Environmental with and supportive of our business strategies. We continue to Impact strengthen our focus on sustainable technology, safety and people development while creating shared value for our stakeholders. 48 FLSmidth An Overview 2012 SOCIAL NUMBERS 2010 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT EMPLOYEES 11,229 13,204 15,900 GENDER % FEMALE EMPLOYEES 16 15 GENDER % FEMALE MANAGERS 7.2 9.2 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT (satisfaction rate) 73 71 72 SAFETY – LTIFR 4.7 4.2 4.7 SAFETY TRAINING HOURS (per employee) 2.5 5.7 FLSMIDTH SITES AUDITED (HSE AUDIT) 12 ENVIRONMENTAL NUMBERS 2010 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT SCOPE 1 – CO2 (TONNES) 24,000 23,000 27,550 SCOPE 2 CO2 (TONNES) 53,700 55,900 54,450 SCOPE 3 CO2 (TONNES) 34,000 39,800 ECONOMIC NUMBERS (EURm) 2010 REPORT 2011 REPORT 2012 REPORT REVENUE 3,107 2,952 3,338 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 223 193 175 50 FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2012 UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Resources Section page 30 internationally proclaimed human rights Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Resources Section page 30 Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Human Resources Section page 30 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Resources Section page 30 Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Human Resources Section page 30 Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Human Resources Section page 30 and occupation Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Customer Services Section page 12 environmental challenges Material Handling Section page 16 Mineral Processing Section page 20 Cement Section page 24 Carbon Footprint section page 44 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Customer Services Section page 12 responsibility Material Handling Section page 16 Mineral Processing Section page 20 Cement Section page 24 Carbon Footprint Section page 44 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Customer Services Section page 12 friendly technologies Material Handling Section page 16 Mineral Processing Section page 20 Cement Section page 24 Carbon Footprint Section page 44 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Responsible Sourcing Section page 42 including extortion and bribery Compliance Section page 38 51 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 Fax: +45 36 44 18 30 corppr@flsmidth.com www.flsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912
