Transparency Accuracy Registration document 2011-2012 contents 1 THE BONDUELLE GROUP 1.1 Key Bonduelle Group figures AFR 3 4 5 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AFR 91 1.2 Message from the Executive Management 6 5.1 Consolidated income statement 92 1.3 Corporate strategy and policies 8 5.2 Consolidated statement of financial position 93 1.4 The global vegetable market 10 5.3 Consolidated statement of cash flows 94 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 12 5.4 Consolidated statement of changes 1.6 Group organization structure 14 in equity 95 1.7 Our activities AFR 15 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL 5.6 financial statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 96 148 6 RESPONSIBILITY AFR 23 2.1 Introduction 24 2.2 Bonduelle’s Commitments to SEPARATE FINANCIAL Corporate Social Responsibility 25 STATEMENTS AFR 149 2.3 Environmental commitments 35 6.1 Income statement 150 2.4 Commitments to social responsiblity 6.2 Statement of financial position 151 and civil society 45 6.3 Statement of cash flows 152 2.5 Product responsibility 53 6.4 Notes to the annual separate financial 2.6 Reporting 57 statements 153 3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.1 Administrative and executive management and control bodies 61 62 6.5 6.6 6.7 Information regarding subsidiaries and affiliates Five-year financial summary Statutory Auditors’ report on the annual financial statements 172 173 174 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 65 6.8 Special report of the Statutory 3.3 Additional information regarding Auditors on regulated agreements the management and supervisory bodies 68 and commitments 176 3.4 3.5 3.6 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board AFR Statutory Auditors’ report drawn 71 72 7 INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY AND THE SHARE CAPITAL 177 up pursuant to Article L. 226-10-1 7.1 Information regarding the share of the French Commercial capital AFR 178 Code on the report of the Chairman 7.2 Shareholder structure AFR 187 of the Supervisory Board AFR 77 7.3 Bonduelle share and dividend information 189 4 REVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 4.1 Business and earnings AFR 79 80 7.4 7.5 Description of the share repurchase program General information regarding the Company 190 191 4.2 Risk management 86 8 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 8.1 Person responsible for the registration document and the annual financial 199 report AFR 200 8.2 Statutory Auditors 201 8.3 Documents available to shareholders and the general public 202 8.4 Cross-reference tables 203 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Registration document 2011/2012 Including the annual financial report This registration document was filed with the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des marchés financiers) on October 25, 2012, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the General Regulations of the French Financial Markets Authority. It may be used in support of a financial transaction if it is supplemented by a prospectus approved by the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) This document has been prepared by the issuer and its signatories are responsible for its content. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 1 2 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 1 The Bonduelle Group 1.1 Key Bonduelle 1.4 The global vegetable market 10 Group ﬁgures AFR 4 1.4.1 Trends 10 1.1.1 Key figures 2011-2012 4 1.4.2 Structure 11 1.1.2 Breakdown of revenue 2011-2012 4 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 12 1.2 Message from the Executive Management 6 1.6 Group organization structure 14 1.3 Corporate strategy and policies 8 1.7 Our activities AFR 15 1.7.1 Highlights 15 1.3.1 Long-term focus 8 1.7.2 Bonduelle Conserve International 17 1.3.2 Growth 8 1.7.3 Bonduelle Frais International and Bonduelle 1.3.3 Food safety 8 Traiteur International 17 1.3.4 Respect for the environment 8 1.7.4 Bonduelle Food Service 18 1.3.5 Profitability 8 1.7.5 UCR 19 1.3.6 Brand strategy 8 1.7.6 Gelagri 19 1.3.7 Innovation 9 1.7.7 Bonduelle Champignon 19 1.3.8 Agro-industrial commitment 9 1.7.8 Bonduelle North America 20 1.3.9 International expansion 9 1.7.9 Bonduelle Development 21 1.3.10 Personal development 9 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 3 1 The Bonduelle Group Key Bonduelle Group ﬁgures 1.1 Key Bonduelle Group ﬁgures 1.1.1 Key ﬁgures 2011-2012 (in millions of euros) 06/30/2010 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Current operating income 104 81 101 EBITDA * 167 139 170 Gearing (as a %) 116% 102% 121% ** Revenue 1,560 1,726 1,767 Net income 58 31 48 Revenue growth at current exchange rates 2.30% 10.70% 2.38% Capital expenditure 90 81 77 * EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization). This indicator represents the proﬁt generated from operations, independent of ﬁnancing conditions, tax constraints and the cost of replacing old equipment. ** 106%: adjusted for treasury shares. 1.1.2 Breakdown of revenue 2011-2012 (in millions of euros) ■ Revenue by region Eastern Europe (1) 7% Central Europe (2) 5% Benelux 5% Germany 12% Iberian peninsula 3% Total revenue Italy 10% 1,767 Other 4% North America 18% France 36% (1) Russia + other CIS countries. (2) Former Eastern Bloc countries now in the European Union. 4 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Key Bonduelle Group ﬁgures 1 ■ Revenue by European and Outside European Areas Total European Area 72% revenue Outside European Area 28% 1,767 1 ■ Revenue by distribution channel Food service 20% Total Retail 74% revenue 1,767 Other 6% ■ Revenue by brand Private label brands 43% Total Brands 51% revenue 1,767 Other 6% ■ Revenue by segment Frozen 24% Total Canned 54% revenue 1,767 Fresh 22% Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 5 1 The Bonduelle Group Message from the Executive Management 1.2 Message from the Executive Management The 2011-2012 ﬁnancial year saw an upturn in proﬁtability (following the slump of 2010-2011), together with signiﬁcant changes in the scope of consolidation that will prove decisive moving forward. Daniel Vielfaure Christophe Bonduelle Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Chairman Sharp recovery in proﬁtability Increase in revenue The Group’s margins were knocked by a catastrophic double hit Revenue also improved, at same scope and excluding the impact in 2010-2011: oversupply in the industry led to a drop in selling of changes in exchange rates (+3.2% compared with +0.6% at prices, which was then followed by a disastrous harvest! June 30, 2011), across all of the Bonduelle Group’s regions and segments. Harvests improved in 2011 and excess inventory was cleared, allowing selling prices to pick up again, which in turn gave a significant boost to operating profitability (+42%). This significant improvement was also driven by the bold Changes in scope restructuring measures taken during the previous year, which Following the successful integration of the mushroom business in now ensure that all production facilities have optimized workload 2010-2011, the 2011-2012 financial year saw a number of changes in schedules and which were implemented in accordance with our the scope of consolidation: values and our proactive sustainable development policy. ■ U.C.R. (ULTRA CONGELADOS DE LA RIBERA) The sale of the Frudesa brand and the creation of a production joint venture with Ardo, both in Spain, allowed us not only to eliminate a persistently loss-making business but also to make our sourcing process in Spain more competitive. 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Message from the Executive Management 1 1 This performance demonstrates not only the Group’s resilience in a time of crisis, but its ability to make the most of the opportunities this creates. Outlook ■ RUSSIA AND HUNGARY Having refinanced these acquisitions The acquisition of these agricultural, industrial and on excellent terms, the Group heads commercial assets (the Globus brand in Eastern Europe) will allow us to pursue our aggressive expansion in the into the 2012-2013 financial year canned vegetables segment in this region. in a promising position and with a new geographical breakdown ■ ALLENS FROZEN FOODS (US) of its activities (1/3 France 36% Finally, the opportunity arose for us to set up an industrial presence in the US by purchasing three frozen food of revenue, 1/3 other EU 36% and processing plants and one packaging facility, which will allow us to relieve the pressure on our Canadian sites, 1/3 outside the EU 28%), reflecting hedge against exchange rate fluctuations and spread our its now-global scale. sales more evenly between Canada and the US. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 7 1 The Bonduelle Group Corporate strategy and policies 1.3 Corporate strategy and policies The Bonduelle Group’s ten strategic focus areas, which are intrinsically linked, address fundamental objectives deﬁned by the family shareholding group: sustainability, independence, and the individual development of its employees. 1.3.1 Long-term focus 1.3.4 Respect for the environment Bonduelle, a family-run group established in 1853, is now the global The actions undertaken by Bonduelle to limit its environmental impact market leader in ready-to-use vegetables. This success is down to the form part of an ongoing improvement process. The production facility Group’s constant focus on the long-term. Ever-attentive to worldwide energy performance review (down 2.6% on a like-for-like basis in economic, social and environmental changes, in 2011-2012 the 2011-2012, compared with the previous year) demonstrates both Group sought to reassert its long-term commitment by launching the the commitment of Bonduelle’s management and operatives and the “Vision” project, which aims to define how the Bonduelle Group will effectiveness of the best practice sharing system implemented within develop between now and 2025. To this end, four working groups the Group. In 2011-2012, Bonduelle also set up a system of “energy” were formed: the first comprising the family shareholding group, audits, conducted by an external service provider in order to allow the the second the members of the Executive Committee, the third the Group to benefit from a fresh viewpoint on the recorded performance management “Top 50” and the fourth a group of 150 Managers. levels, using a broader benchmark. The audit was carried out at eight The sharing of ideas through workshops and special seminars pilot sites in 2011-2012 and will be held at two more units next year. identified various areas for action, focusing in particular on increased Finally, the water demand reduction target was also achieved, with investment in sustainable development. consumption down 9.3%. 1.3.2 Growth 1.3.5 Proﬁtability Bonduelle builds its presence through both internal growth and a The 2011-2012 financial year saw a surge in operating profitability sound acquisition strategy that enables it to expand its geographical (+42%), demonstrating the Group’s resilience in a time of crisis coverage, reduce exchange rate risks and ensure a more balanced and the effectiveness of its long-term development strategy. This distribution of climate-related risks. This policy also allows the Group significant improvement was achieved by optimizing the workload to implement suitable agro-industrial synergies designed to ensure schedules in each of the Group’s production facilities and reducing its growth; it was illustrated in 2011-2012 by acquisitions in Hungary, inventories, which allowed selling prices to recover. Russia and the United States. For the 2011-2012 financial year, the Bonduelle Group reported a total growth of 2.4%. 1.3.6 Brand strategy 1.3.3 Food safety Offering vegetables in all forms, under all brands, through all channels and across all segments is the stated ambition of the Bonduelle Food safety is a key priority for Bonduelle and the Group has an Group, which boasts a portfolio of internationally-renowned brands. undisputed worldwide reputation in this area. The “Quality” plans In order to carry the Bonduelle, Cassegrain and Arctic Gardens deployed at each of the Group’s production sites, combined with brands to even greater heights, Bonduelle increased its marketing a continuous monitoring process (46,500 analyses carried out on investments by 15% in 2011-2012, a year that saw the memorable canned products and 17,500 on frozen foods in 2011-2012) and return to French TV screens of Cassegrain’s famous bunny rabbit a refresh and upgrade policy for its optical sorters, guarantee that mascot. consumers receive the very finest vegetables. The Group has also established a product development charter in each of its subsidiaries (reviewed in 2011-2012) which exceeds regulatory requirements. Finally, a new project launched in 2011-2012 is aimed at restricting and reducing the additives used in the Group’s recipes. 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Corporate strategy and policies 1 1.3.7 Innovation 1.3.9 International expansion In an environment of heightened competition, innovation is not just The 2011-2012 financial year saw the Group strengthen its the key to differentiation – it is also a way of anticipating changes in consumption patterns. With the launch of pre-cooked steamed international presence by completing three major transactions, beginning with the acquisition of the agricultural, industrial and 1 vegetables on the French frozen food market, the deployment of the commercial assets of the French co-operative group Cecab in Russia steaming process in the global canned food segment, raw vegetables and the Hungarian company Kelet-Food. These two purchases will in the canned range in France, salads in oxo-biodegradable bags fuel the strong growth of sales of canned goods in the region, whilst and new recipes for grated carrots flavored with coriander or wholeensuring a more even distribution of agricultural risks. Moreover, grain mustard on the prepared food segment, Bonduelle ramped the purchase of three processing plants and a packaging facility for up its innovations in 2011-2012. In addition to product innovations, frozen vegetables belonging to the American firm Allens will provide Bonduelle also rolled out new services such as the Marelle tool (www. a major growth channel for Bonduelle’s activities in the United States. marelle-repasequilibres.com). The site, launched by the research and development division and Bonduelle Food Service in 2012, allows users to plan balanced meals in accordance with the regulations of the GEMRCN (Groupe d’étude des marchés de restauration collective 1.3.10 Personal development et de nutrition French Working Group on institutional food service Bonduelle places people at the heart of its corporate vision and contracts and nutrition) and to create school meal menus to match. aims to guarantee each of its employees the best possible working conditions with a view to fostering personal development. This policy was illustrated in 2011-2012 by the drafting of a ethics charter, the 1.3.8 Agro-industrial commitment implementation of a Group-wide “Safety” network and the signing of a raft of agreements with social partners concerning, among other Faithful to its commitment to sustainable agriculture, in 2009 the topics, GPEC (Gestion Prévisionnelle des Emplois et Carrières, a Group and its partners began investing in a pilot program for the strategic workforce planning agreement), stress, working conditions, integrated crop management of field-grown vegetables, deployed gender equality and the employment of older workers and people on eight farms. In July 2012, Bonduelle presented the first results with disabilities. of this program, which will be used to recommend new practices and improve industry practices by reducing certain plant-health treatments. Another example of our commitment is the Woestyne farm. Birthplace of the Bonduelle Group, it is still run by members of the family using innovative cultivation techniques such as no-till farming, direct seeding under plant cover, intermediate crops, limited use of pesticide products, etc. A real test center for ideas and best practices! Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 9 1 The Bonduelle Group The global vegetable market 1.4 The global vegetable market Across the world, the vegetables market has seen the share of ready-to-use vegetables increase, matching changes in lifestyles. These products meet the needs of consumers seeking practical food products with optimum taste and nutritional qualities. 1.4.1 Trends times, the changing role of women in the workplace, the increase in the amount of time devoted to recreational activities and new Ready-to-use vegetables are packed mere hours after harvesting, technologies designed to facilitate everyday life have had a profound and only when they are ripe. Controlled production processes and impact on eating habits. Meal preparation times have shortened and the proximity of the harvest areas to the production facilities preserve new consumption patterns have emerged, such as eating on-theall of the benefits * and organoleptic qualities of the vegetables. go. Ready-to-use vegetables respond to these changes by offering Their ease of use is another major argument with which to win over solutions developed through an ongoing commitment to innovation. consumers. In the space of several decades, longer commuting ■ Average yearly change in the consumption of vegetables per capita, in volume, on three segments between 2006 and 2011 ** Country Fresh raw Frozen Fresh-cut Canada -1.2% 2.1% -0.3% France -1.6% 0.7% 2.4% Germany -0.2% 2.6% 1.6% Italy -2.5% 3.8% 1.2% Poland -1.7% 0.8% 4.1% Hungary 0.3% 3.3% 1.8% ■ Breakdown of global vegetable market by category value ** Fresh-cut vegetables 3% Canned vegetables 10% Frozen vegetables 10% Raw vegetables 77% * On consumers’ plates, the nutritional qualities of fresh raw vegetables are the same as those of ready-to-use vegetables. Favell D.J. 1998. A comparison of the vitamin C content of fresh and frozen vegetables. Food Chemistry, 62 (1), 59-64. ** Source: Food For Thought 2012. 10 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group The global vegetable market 1 1.4.2 Structure The raw vegetable category holds a majority share of the market worldwide, giving ready-to-use vegetables great potential for growth. The vegetable market is broken down into four categories: 1 fresh raw vegetables, sold directly with no preparation stage; and ready-to-use vegetables, which is itself comprised of: In addition to its segments, the vegetable market is structured around two distribution channels according to customer type: the consumer products market, which sells vegetables directly to consumers 1 through retailers, and the food service market, which includes all 1 packaged vegetables (in cans, jars, etc.); commercial services in the catering segment and non-domestic 1 frozen vegetables; food services. In this sector, where professionals expect products of 1 and ready-to-use fresh vegetables, known as “fresh cut vegetables” consistent quality at competitive prices, the ready-to-use vegetables (bagged salads) and fresh, ready-to-use vegetables (seasoned, market generally overshadows the fresh, raw vegetables market. prepared salads). ■ Food service vegetable market by segment value in 2011 ** (in millions of euros) Fresh raw Ready-to-use Canada 597 967.2 France 1,068 1,282.1 Germany 422 815.3 Italy 1,122 608.2 Poland 617 83.5 Hungary 68 12.7 ** Source: Food For Thought 2012. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 11 1 The Bonduelle Group Bonduelle around the world 1.5 Bonduelle around the world Saint-Denis Montréal Saint-Césaire Sainte-Martine Bedford Ingersoll Fairwater Brockport Tecumseh Strathroy Oakfield Bergen Bonduelle has a full range of products spanning both national brands and private label products, adapted to suit the specific requirements of each geographic region. With its unique agro-industrial expertise, it installs its production facilities as close as possible to its customers. Its product ranges offer some 500 varieties of vegetables, grown on nearly 100,000 hectares of land. Cristalina São Paulo Buenos Aires 12 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Bonduelle around the world 1 1 Renescure Villeneuve-d’Ascq Vaulx-Vraucourt Flaucourt Estrées Rosières Russy-Bémont Moscow Copenhagen Gniewkowo Warsaw Eindhoven Kortemark Ruchocice Straelen Kiev Prague Falaise (1) Reutlingen St-Mihiel Rosporden Nyiregyhaza Loudéac Saint-Benoist Budapest Saint-Caradec Montoire sur-Vanne Békéscsaba Timashevsk Nagykorös Genas San Paolo d’Argon (2) Zagreb Bucharest Novotitarovskaya Herm Labenne Bordères Bagneux (Saumur) Milagro Doué-la-Fontaine (1) Marcilla Longué-Jumelles (La Tourte) Battipaglia (2) Madrid L’Île Bouchard SITES Benimodo Longué-Jumelles (1) Fresh-cut Loudun Frozen Santarém Montreuil-Bellay (1) Torre-Pacheco Thouars (1) Canned Santaella Prepared Own agricultural production Logistic centers Sales and marketing departments (Markets not served by a sales and marketing department are managed by the Bonduelle Development subsidiary’s export service.) (1) In association with the France Champignon cooperative. (2) In partnership with OP OASI. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 13 1 The Bonduelle Group Group organization structure 1.6 Group organization structure Executive Management GROUP SERVICES Finance Human resources Communication and corporate marketing IT systems External relations and sustainable development Research and development Purchasing Audit 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 35.5% 50% 100% 100% Bonduelle Bonduelle Bonduelle Bonduelle Bonduelle Gelagri UCR Bonduelle Bonduelle Conserve Champignon Frais Traiteur Food Development North International International International Service America Own agricultural FRANCE SPAIN RUSSIA CANADA LonguéTorre-Pacheco Novotitarovskaya Ste. Martine Jumelles Timashevsk production sites (La Tourte) Loudun Montoire L'île Bouchard Industrial ITALY SPAIN RUSSIA Estrées Frozen production sites POLAND SPAIN BRAZIL POLAND HUNGARY GERMANY Logistics BELGIUM FRANCE SPAIN USA Kortemark MontreuilMarcilla Brockport platforms Bellay (1) FRANCE LonguéFlaucourt Jumelles (1) Rosières EUROPE SCOPE OUTSIDE EUROPE SCOPE (1) In association with the France Champignon cooperative. (2) In partnership with OP OASI. 14 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Our activities 1 1.7 Our activities 1 1.7.1 Highlights ■ BONDUELLE’S SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE POLICY Innovative cultivation methods and techniques (sustainable ■ CREATION OF A PRODUCTION JOINT agriculture) were show-cased at the Woestyne farm in Renescure on VENTURE IN SPAIN September 21, 2011. Environmentally-friendly cultivation techniques In July 2011, the Bonduelle and Ardo Groups decided to set up a have been used at the farm for a number of years. These include a joint venture to supply vegetables to the Findus brand in Spain and drastic change in tillage (no-till farming), direct sowing under plant Portugal, having signed an exclusive production agreement with cover with intermediate crops and the limited use of pesticides. Findus. In addition, Bonduelle sold its Frudesa and Salto brands to Findus. Through this partnership, and thanks to the synergies ■ THE CASSEGRAIN RABBIT RETURNS generated, Bonduelle and Ardo aim to create a competitive producer TO FRENCH TV SCREENS of frozen vegetables. The famous mascot of the Cassegrain brand returned to the small screen in November 2011, starring in a new advertising campaign for ■ NEW ACQUISITIONS ratatouille. The TV commercial shows the bunny rabbit singing love songs to its vegetables. In 2011-2012, the Bonduelle Group finalized the acquisition of assets from companies in Hungary, Russia and the United States. In May 2012, the Group strengthened its agro-industrial presence ■ INNOVATIONS AT BONDUELLE in Central Europe with the purchase of a Hungarian cannery with a CHAMPIGNON capacity of 25,000 to 30,000 metric tons. A major program for the deployment of mechanical mushroom On March 30, 2012, Bonduelle North America confirmed the cutting systems was implemented across all of the Bonduelle acquisition of three processing plants and a packaging facility for Group’s integrated growing centers. The mechanical cutting system frozen vegetables in the United States. will be extended to Bonduelle Champignon’s co-operative partners. On the same day, the Bonduelle Group acquired the industrial and The 2011-2012 financial year also saw the transfer of the Royal commercial assets of the co-operative group Cecab in Russia: Champignon brand to the Bonduelle brand in France, along with the Timashevsk plant, located close to the Bonduelle plant in the launch of new mushroom ranges in Spain, Portugal, the Czech Novotitarovskaya, the operation of a 6,000-hectare kolkhoze (a Republic, Hungary, the Netherlands and Russia. In Poland, the former collective farm), which will be added to the 3,500-hectare farm changeover from the Abra brand to Bonduelle was completed already owned by Bonduelle, and the Globus brand in the former CIS successfully. countries. ■ ADDING MORE AND MORE FLAVORS! ■ POOR HARVESTS IN 2011 CAUSE A SHARP Buoyed by its success, the steaming process is continuing to spread FALL IN PRODUCTION IN NORTH AMERICA throughout Europe, particularly in Portugal and Spain with a new North America endured a particularly hot spring with high rainfall, range of steamed vegetables known as “Natur +”. leading to production shortfalls. Good harvests in 2012 rectified this The French frozen food market welcomed a new range of pre-cooked situation. single-variety steamed vegetables, preserving a texture and flavor close to that of fresh vegetables. ■ THE LOUIS BONDUELLE FOUNDATION With a fresh taste and crunchy texture, various varieties of canned AT THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT raw vegetables are now available in France. In November 2011, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation organized a The “Légumes du soleil range was launched in the Benelux countries conference at the European Parliament in Brussels, with the theme and Russia under the Bonduelle brand. Eat Well to Live Well? The Impact of New Eating Habits and Lifestyles Two new canned vegetable medleys based on fresh peas (unique on on People’s Health. The conference followed a week-long exhibition the market) were launched in Brazil. entitled Healthy Eating for All. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 15 1 The Bonduelle Group Our activities In Canada, Food Service offers its customers “Minute” vegetables: In Brazil, Bonduelle was selected as the leading brand in the frozen pre-cooked by steaming, the vegetables preserve all of their flavor. vegetable category by “Cozinha Profisional”, a specialist food service magazine. The magazine surveyed both readers and professional Bonduelle Traiteur International is revisiting grated carrot with its chefs over a six-month period, asking them to vote for the leading recipes using Sicilian lemon, coriander and whole-grain mustard. brands in each product category. In the frozen sector, Bonduelle Benelux is marketing innovative products such as “Bonduelle Kookhulp”, a range of washed and WEB chopped ingredient vegetables. The new Benelux website, launched in December 2011 and accessible at www.bonduelle.nl and www.bonduelle.be, won the “IMA Best in Class” award in the “consumer goods” category. Bonduelle was ■ PRIZES WON BY THE BONDUELLE GROUP chosen as one of five winners from 105 entries! Awarded by the RETAIL PRODUCTS Interactive Media Council, this annual international prize assesses websites on design, content and ease of use. In Poland, Bonduelle’s chopped spinach portions were awarded the “Golden Receipt” by Hurt & Detal magazine. Polish store OTHER AWARDS owners assessed criteria including product sales, the quality of its Christophe Bonduelle, the Chairman, was awarded the 2011 Chaptal promotional campaigns and its overall attractiveness. Prize in the Agriculture and Agri-food Industries category. Bonduelle’s “Broccoli Soup” and “corn and olives” mix were named Conferred by the Société d’Encouragement pour l’Industrie Nationale “gems of the market” by the Polish magazine Wiadomości Handlowe. (Society for the Encouragement of National Industry), this award The Company’s German chickpeas won the 2011 HIT award, honors industrialists who promote cutting-edge industry. rewarding the product’s excellent launch in the fruit & vegetables Working with his teams, Christophe Bonduelle has been able to sector! meet the challenges of global competition, technological progress In France, the “Précuit Vapeur” steamed vegetables range was named and the financial and economic crisis, pursuing a strategy based best innovation of 2011 in the frozen consumer products category, by on innovation, external growth and international development a jury made up of 53 members of the LSA’s editorial team. in an environmental-friendly way and whilst meeting consumer In Poland, mushrooms in sweet dill vinegar took third place in the expectations. “Best Product of 2012” competition. In Romania, the Bonduelle brand won the 2011-2012 “Superbrand” In the Benelux countries, the Provençal vegetables range was chosen prize. For the second year running, the Group was recognized as as the best innovation of 2011 in the “vegetables” category and won the standard-bearer in the canned vegetables category. This award the “Golden Archer” award. This prize is awarded by retailers and reflects the opinion of 1,500 Romanian consumers on the quality and retail buyers looking for an innovative, high-quality product that won reliability of various brands, along with what sets them apart on the over consumers and was the fruit of successful cooperation between market. The consumers assessed 1,260 brands from 40 different the producer and retailer. industrial sectors. The Association of Lithuanian Chambers of Commerce named two At Bonduelle North America, Ontario Food Service Sales director Bonduelle products – jars of peas and canned corn – as the most Steve Tultz won the Tim Hortons Excellence Award for ongoing popular in the canned vegetables category in 2011. improvement, in the food and drink category. Performance was assessed in the following areas: FOOD SERVICE PRODUCTS 1 presentation of accounts; In France, Bonduelle Food Service’s (BFS) “Mille-feuille d’épinard”, 1 quality assurance; a layered Napoleon pastry-style frozen spinach product, was named “Saveur de l’Année Restauration” (Food Service Taste of the Year) 1 R&D; 2012. Selected and approved by a jury of chefs, the “Mille-feuille 1 distribution; d’épinard” has proven its many qualities (unique preparation process, fast, high-quality turnaround, etc.). 1 finance. 16 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Our activities 1 1.7.2 Bonduelle Conserve ■ THE SUCCESS THAT CAME IN FROM THE COLD! International “The Bonduelle and Cassegrain brands have consolidated their market shares by launching new, high-value added products In terms of Bonduelle-brand frozen products, BCI enjoyed a positive year with double-digit growth on a relatively flat market (2% average growth in Europe). France, the Netherlands and Italy were the main 1 that set them apart.” drivers of this performance, which was also boosted by the launch of new products such as “vapeur” pre-cooked steamed vegetables Philippe Carreau, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, (green beans, broccoli, cauliflower), which consumers can finish Bonduelle Conserve International. cooking to suit their own personal tastes. Although volumes on the European canned vegetables market declined overall in 2011-2012, Bonduelle Conserve International (BCI) maintained its positions on both Group and private label ■ AN OPPORTUNITY IN CENTRAL EUROPE brands and recorded an increase in frozen food sales. The Bonduelle Group’s acquisition of the assets of the Hungarian Under intense pressure due to the economic environment, the company Kelet-Food in May 2012 has strengthened its agro-industrial European canned vegetables market – usually a “safe” product presence in Central Europe. Operating in Hungary for more than 20 sector in times of crisis – stalled in 2011-2012, shrinking by around years, the Bonduelle Group has two industrial units located in the 1.5% by volume. Behind this decline, however, lay some contrasting south of the country: Nagykőrös, acquired in 1992, and Békéscsaba, fortunes: the Iberian countries (Spain and Portugal) were most purchased in 2002. The Nyiregyhaza plant will allow the Bonduelle severely affected (-5%), whilst Italy’s market stagnated to a lesser Group to strengthen its presence on rapidly-expanding markets. extent and the French market stabilized. BCI’s broad geographical Moreover, as this acquisition is located in a different production positioning in Europe, covering most countries in the region, allowed region to the Group’s two other sites, it ensures that the agricultural the subsidiary to retain its market shares for its Group brands risks are spread more evenly. (Bonduelle, Cassegrain) as it benefited from thriving sales in the Czech Republic and Hungary in particular. In terms of private label brands, BCI managed to hold its positions and expand its corn business, against a backdrop of surging commodity costs. 1.7.3 Bonduelle Frais International and Bonduelle Traiteur ■ THE YEAR OF THE MUSHROOM! International Bonduelle Conserve International also pursued and finalized its “The 2011-2012 ﬁnancial year highlighted a change in the strategy transferring the Royal Champignon brand to the Bonduelle European fresh and prepared vegetables markets. A number brand. This transition took place in France in stages and was of operators that previously specialized in one or other of these completed successfully thanks to significant marketing investment areas began developing product ranges built on combined (in a poster and TV commercial campaign). At the same time, the expertise in the ﬁeld of snacks.” marketing of mushrooms – in cans or jars depending on the country Patrick Néaume, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Frais and variety – began in Spain, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Hungary International and Bonduelle Traiteur International. and the Netherlands and was strengthened in Germany. With sales growth of around 15% on a market that declined by 2.5% in Europe The economic recession adversely affected the activities in 2011-2012, the mushroom range looks to have a very promising of Bonduelle Traiteur International and Bonduelle Frais future, as does the international deployment of the steaming process International, although both subsidiaries managed to strengthen on the vegetables market (especially in Portugal and Spain). their positions. Sensitive to changes in the economic environment, the European prepared vegetables and fresh-cut salad markets stagnated in 2011■ OPTIMIZED INDUSTRIAL MODEL 2012. However, a number of factors should be taken into account in Moreover, the 2011-2012 financial year saw the closure of the relation to this sluggishness: Italian consumers, hit hard by the crisis Saint-Sever plant, whose production lines were transferred to other and the subsequent drop in their buying power, began opting for cutproduction facilities. BCI also purchased a Hungarian cannery with price products mainly from private label brands, or choosing branded a capacity of 25,000 to 30,000 metric tons that produces canned products whilst avoiding those with high added value. These changes sweet corn and peas, which it sells to private labels in Hungary and led to a slight decline in sales volumes, though Bonduelle maintained nearby markets. The plant went into receivership following the 2008 its market shares thanks to strong promotional campaigns. crisis, the poor harvests in 2010 and the rise in prices of agricultural commodities recorded in 2011. ■ INNOVATIONS AND PROMOTIONS The German market, meanwhile, came back to life. After the health crisis in Spring 2011, when the E.coli bacteria was found in various vegetables, sales of fresh-cut salads fell by 25% in volume over the second half of the year. Since early 2012, however, activity has Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 17 1 The Bonduelle Group Our activities returned to a similar level to that seen before the E.coli episode, Bonduelle Food Service addresses the needs of the catering sector which was entirely unrelated to the products sold by Bonduelle. (businesses, institutions, hospitals, schools, etc.) and the leisure requirements of individual customers (commercial foodservice In France, the market returned to growth after a slack period. The operations) in equal measure. Both sectors are sensitive to the Bonduelle brand was the main driver behind this growth in both the ups and downs of the crisis, although the latter was hit harder by fresh-cut and prepared segments, managing to increase its market the recession during the 2011-2012 financial year, with marked shares significantly through the launch of new ventures – in terms of disparities noted from one country to another. In the Iberian region, both packaging and products – and a highly active promotion policy. the commercial foodservice operations sector has declined by 20% The Group’s innovation knows no borders and in Italy, the launch over the last three years, with foodservice establishment closures of salad-style meals inspired by a concept of enriched green salads at close to 8% in 2011-2012! Northern Europe (Scandinavia, the developed in France was a success. Netherlands and Belgium) managed to withstand the “economic Bonduelle’s new bagged salads, which are more environmentallychill” more strongly, recording growth of 1%, whilst Poland and the friendly (with oxo-biodegradable packaging and “green” inks), have Czech Republic – growth drivers during second half of 2011 – were been designed in line with Bonduelle’s values: modernity, freshness gripped by the crisis and by an accompanying dramatic slowdown in and vitality! consumption in the segment. Organic salads grown using organic farming methods, organically prepared by washing in clean water, organic packaging with an oxo■ PROMOTING BALANCED EATING biodegradable bag: Bonduelle is setting itself apart by offering, in With the development of more cost-effective product ranges, the Italy and France, the first range of salad that is fully organic, from promotion of single-variety vegetables and tailored packaging, in the farm to fork. last financial year Bonduelle Food Service launched a wide variety of Following its grated carrot seasoned with Sicilian lemon juice, initiatives aimed at supporting its customers in these difficult times. Bonduelle has expanded its range to include carrots flavored with A special advisory program was also launched for professionals, with coriander or mustard seed. New twists on plain grated carrot! the assistance of culinary advisors to help restaurant owners reduce their expenditure, primarily through the use of “Minute” products, which are pre-cooked and thus synonymous with lower energy and ■ MARKET CONVERGENCE labor costs. Another initiative in the field of training and advice is Although the phenomenon is not a new one, 2011-2012 nonetheless the Marelle tool (www.marelle-repasequilibres.com), launched by allowed the Group to gain a better handle on a notable change in the Group’s research and development division and Bonduelle the fresh vegetables market: long-established European companies Food Service in May 2012. The site allows users to plan balanced specializing in fresh-cut products are increasingly widening their meals in accordance with the regulations of the GEMRCN (Groupe reach by including prepared products in their range. d’étude des marchés de restauration collective et de nutrition – French Working Group on institutional food service contracts and nutrition) and to create school meal menus to match. This work has ■ 120 METRIC TONS DONATED been recognized by the French Ministry for Agriculture, Agri-food and For a number of years, Bonduelle Traiteur International has donated Forestry, which awarded Bonduelle the PNA (Programme National Bonduelle-brand products to food banks, the Restos du Cœur and pour l’Alimentation, French National Program for Food) logo. Secours populaire français charities and CCAS (Community Centers for Social Action) in the Brittany and Champagne regions. The ■ OPTIMIZING LOGISTICS FLOWS subsidiary gave away 120 metric tons of food during the 2011-2012 financial year. Sustainable development is also at the heart of BFS’ concerns. In 2011-2012, the subsidiary implemented a program to optimize its logistics flows along two main lines: ensuring the proximity and freshness of its products and achieving a substantial reduction in CO2 1.7.4 Bonduelle Food Service emissions. This program is being implemented alongside the internal Guide to environmental responsibility initiative and the analysis “In this time of recession, Bonduelle Food Service’s goal is to carried out on each new BFS product. offer its customers a cost-effective, innovative and durable product range by placing its development and advisory resources at their disposal.” ■ SOMETHING TO SUIT EVERY TASTE Pascal Bredeloux, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, The long-standing partnership with the Paul Bocuse Institute Research Bonduelle Food Service. Center and the work carried out by the researcher David Morizet In a sector that is particularly sensitive to changes in the (whose thesis, supported and financed by Bonduelle, examined economic environment, Bonduelle Food Service has maintained the eating habits of children aged between 8 and 11) continued in its market shares in Europe by focusing on supporting its 2011-2012. In January 2012, Bonduelle Food Service set up a new customers to help them manage their costs more effectively. “Consumer Science” Department in cooperation with the Group’s research and development division. Its objective: to meet the needs 18 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Our activities 1 of consumers more effectively with products that match their specific products meeting the needs of the joint venture partners, offer new consumption habits, whilst at all times promoting balanced eating. growth prospects for Ultra Congelados de la Ribera. BFS has also launched an initiative aimed at developing products whose taste, and the degree to which they are cooked, meet the needs of older people in various European countries. UCR’s two sites are situated in northern and southern Spain, providing two additional locations from which to serve the Spanish market. 1 ■ 100% “VEGETABLES” A new project, launched Group-wide in 2011-2012, requires each 1.7.6 Gelagri subsidiary to exceed the European regulations in terms of the additives added to the products sold by the Group. BFS has thus produced a For Gelagri, the joint venture between Bonduelle and Triskalia, “100% vegetables” range with no preservatives or additives (broccoli the last ﬁnancial year saw the development of synergies at all purée, carrots, etc.), which went on sale in September 2011. levels, including industrial, sourcing and supply chain. Gelagri Iberica and Gelagri France, two entities created through Bonduelle’s partnership with Triskalia, specialize in the production of ■ “HEALTHY SCHOOLS” frozen goods sold under private label brands. Their shared goal is to The partnership in school cafeterias in the Czech Republic and consolidate a leading position on the European markets. Slovakia, aimed at enhancing the quantity and quality of vegetables consumed, has been a real success, with 1,240 establishments already signed up. ■ PROMOTION OF PRODUCT RANGES Given the economic difficulties during the period, Gelagri recorded a healthy level of activity in the 2011-2012 financial year, driven primarily by the promotion of its product ranges. The complementary 1.7.5 UCR business model provided by Ultra Congelados de la Ribera (UCR) on Ultra Congelados de la Ribera, the production joint venture the Iberian and French markets underscores the Bonduelle Group’s between Bonduelle and Ardo, operates in a Spanish market desire to turn a profit from its activities in the region by increasing its heavily impacted by the crisis. investments in the frozen segment. In July 2011, Bonduelle teamed up with Ardo, Europe’s leading producer of frozen vegetables. Their goal was to supply the Spanish ■ EUROPEAN AMBITION market, and in particular the Findus brand, with an extensive range Gelagri’s determination to of expand its private label business of products covering vegetables, meat and fish. The partnership and cut-price ranges in Europe in the retail and catering channels has proved a success, since it has enabled a number of economic was realized with the achievement of significant market gains. and logistical synergies to be harnessed from the first financial year, Furthermore, over the past financial year, Gelagri strengthened its despite the market declining by more than 15%. exports in other regions, bringing new growth perspectives to the joint venture. ■ A SHARED PASSION FOR INNOVATION The joint venture has also highlighted the two companies’ shared passion for innovation and the launch of new products. The Benimodo 1.7.7 Bonduelle Champignon site has begun production of a risotto sold in Spain and five other countries under the Bonduelle brand. This new item has been joined “The mushroom cultivation modernization plan, endorsed in by some new Findus products. June 2012 by the producers belonging to the France Champignon Agricultural Co-operative who supply Bonduelle, will provide the subsidiary with an opportunity to enhance its competitiveness ■ TWO EXTRA SITES in Europe.” The activities and locations of the two UCR sites – one in northern Jérôme Bonduelle, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Spain near Pamplona, dedicated to packaging, logistics and storage, Bonduelle Champignon. the other in the south near Valencia and specializing in production, In a difﬁcult market environment, Bonduelle Champignon has packaging and storage – ensure good geographical coverage of the continued to integrate the assets acquired in 2010 whilst moving Spanish market whilst maintaining continuity with the agronomic forward with its plan to modernize its agro-industrial equipment, basins in south-west France. The consolidation of sales of Findusinnovating to support the growth of group-brand sales made by brand vegetables in Spain, together with the development of new subsidiaries and revitalizing sales of fresh mushrooms. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 19 1 The Bonduelle Group Our activities Down 2.5% on average in Europe, the canned mushroom market 1.7.8 Bonduelle North America was hit by the crisis in 2011-2012. Against this background, the marketing strategies deployed for mushrooms by the Group’s “As well as driving our sales growth, the acquisition of four subsidiaries achieved encouraging growth of Group-brand sales, Allens sites allows us to protect ourselves more effectively particularly in retail (see Bonduelle Conserve International, “the year against exchange rate and climate-related risks.” of the mushroom”). In Food Service, the successful launch of frozen Louis Frenette, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, wild mushrooms, again under the Group’s own brand, confirms the Bonduelle North America. potential of these products, which have high culinary value and are sold to the catering market, in Bonduelle’s vegetables range. The acquisition of four production facilities in the United States marks a key stage in the growth of Bonduelle North America. The purchase of three processing plants and a packaging facility for ■ NEWS FROM THE FRESH SEGMENT frozen vegetables belonging to the American firm Allens will provide The relative difficulties suffered by the European processed mushroom a major growth channel for Bonduelle’s activities in North America. market are being offset by buoyant sales of fresh mushrooms, a Bonduelle North America (BNA) is the leader on the canned and segment that has been growing continually for several years. frozen vegetables segments in Canada, under both private labels and On this fresh vegetable market, the efforts undertaken by the France the Group’s own brands (Bonduelle, Arctic Gardens, etc.), with more Champignon cooperative, one of Bonduelle’s partners, have helped than 335,000 metric tons of vegetables grown in Quebec and Ontario. improve cultivation practices and thus create higher-quality products Before this acquisition, the subsidiary exported 30% of its production that keep better and provide the sector with an opportunity to gain to the US, mainly as frozen produce via the Food Service networks. market share, with volumes up 4% over the second half of the year. The three Allens frozen vegetable processing plants in Bergen and Moreover, the finalization of a fresh mushroom mechanical cutting Oakfield (New York State) and Fairwater (Wisconsin), together with process should soon allow France Champignon to take up an the frozen vegetable packaging facility in Brockport (New York State) even more competitive position on this segment by focusing more will allow BNA to boost its sales growth by distributing its revenue specifically on an “entry-level” range of French origin. evenly between Canada and the US. The purchase of the four Allens sites saw 400 new permanent employees join the Bonduelle Group. ■ INVESTING AND INNOVATING The 2011-2012 financial year saw a number of investments aimed at modernizing Bonduelle Champignon’s agro-industrial equipment, ■ REVENUE ON THE RISE mainly in the Val de Loire region and Poland (white mushrooms) but Bonduelle North America increased its revenue in 2011-2012. The also in south-western France (wild mushrooms). These included the many adverse weather events (spring floods in Quebec, followed refurbishment of the composting facility at La Tourte, the installation by a drought and Hurricane Irene) led to poor production levels, of optical sorters at Thouars, the start of construction of a warehouse generating substantial additional costs for the subsidiary. at Doué-la-Fontaine, the automation and increase in the sterilization capacity of the Ruchocice plant (Poland), and new quick-freezing tunnels in Herm for wild mushrooms. Finally, the sustained research ■ THE “MINUTE” ADVANTAGE and development efforts in 2011-2012 should bring about the launch In retail, frozen vegetables were hit by competition from the fresh of a new range of cooked mushrooms on the “premium” segment, vegetables segment. Arctic Gardens, however, managed to under the Cassegrain brand, in autumn 2012. outperform its category, thanks mainly to the brand’s success in Hard Discount stores in Ontario and Quebec. In Food Service, the launch of “Minute” vegetables showed great promise, especially ■ NATURAL VENTILATION among targeted users who prefer to use food warming equipment. Bonduelle Champignon is supporting a brand-new initiative launched The quality and ease of use of this range make it a strong growth by a group of producers. The idea is to use the air circulating in channel for Bonduelle North America. abandoned caverns to regulate the temperature of new cultivation rooms, using ducts specially fitted between them. This natural process ensures better-quality mushrooms and energy savings of ■ A YEAR OF INVESTMENT around 25%. Alongside the acquisition of Allens, Bonduelle North America made a number of investments totaling 17 million Canadian dollars, with the goal of enhancing its competitiveness (with automatic cutting machines in the Tecumseh plant), improving the quality and safety 20 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com The Bonduelle Group Our activities 1 of its sites (through the Global Food Safety Initiative or GFSI label) ■ NEW SYNERGIES IN RUSSIA and reducing its environmental footprint. Since December 2011, In addition to this performance, another notable development for BDV the Saint-Denis-sur-Richelieu plant has run on natural gas, allowing greenhouse gas emissions to be cut by more than 30% – eliminating some 4,500 tons of CO2 every year. This project is in keeping with in Eastern Europe was the conclusion of negotiations concerning the acquisition of the agro-industrial and commercial assets (Globus brand) of the French co-operative group Cecab in Russia and in the 1 Bonduelle North America’s desire to make sustainable development countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). This a priority, for example by re-using 95% of its plant by-products. transaction, finalized in March 2012, will strengthen Bonduelle’s presence in Central and Eastern Europe, where the Group has ■ PROMOTING HEALTHIER LIFESTYLES! operated since the mid-1990s. The Timashevsk plant, 30 kilometers from Bonduelle’s Krasnodar site, also offers a number of possibilities In Canada, Arctic Gardens supports the 5/30 challenge (five portions for agro-industrial synergies. of fruit and vegetables and 30 minutes of exercise a day) organized by the retailer Sobeys. The brand is also backing “The chef’s Six thousand hectares of land on Cecab’s kolkhoze (former collective suggestion”, which seeks to help companies improve the eating farm), in addition to the 3,500 already operated by the Group, will be habits of their employees by making suggestions for balanced lunch cultivated by Bonduelle in accordance with the Group’s agronomic boxes. These initiatives are consistent with the work carried out by methods. the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in Canada. ■ TIMASHEVSK: NEWS FROM THE EAST! The Bonduelle Group’s acquisition in 2012 of the Timashevsk agro1.7.9 Bonduelle Development industrial facility, with its 160 employees, in south-western Russia, is intended to increase sales of canned vegetables under the Bonduelle “The strength of the brand, combined with heavy investment and Globus brands. The acquisition will be accompanied by in sales and marketing, has enabled Bonduelle Development to investment aimed at optimizing the irrigation system and increasing outperform the markets in which it operates.” the plant’s production capacity to 50,000 metric tons a year. Benoît Bonduelle, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Bonduelle Development. With double-digit growth – in both volume and revenue – for ■ DESTINATION BRAZIL Bonduelle Development, the 2011-2012 ﬁnancial year lived up its ambitions. On the Mercosur, in Brazil, Bonduelle Development reaped the full benefits of its new Cristalina plant, which completed its first full year The industrial, marketing and sales momentum that picked up during of operation in 2011-2012. Sales volumes were particularly satisfying the previous year was confirmed by the performance levels achieved in this country, where BDV is building its presence by innovating by Bonduelle Development, from Eastern Europe to South America. and differentiating its product range, launching fresh peas, vacuumIn Russia, Bonduelle Development (BDV) consolidated its growth and packed corn and two new medleys known as “Dueto” (corn and turned its market shares to good account by profiting from the stable peas) and “Seleta” (peas, carrots and potatoes). These successes exchange rate against the ruble. The subsidiary achieved excellent will require the subsidiary to expand its teams on the Cristalina site, results in Russia after modifying its supply structure, which is now a which produces not only for Brazil but also for Argentina, where a direct line that allows it to be more responsive and in tune with the range of peas and corn was launched this year. requirements of its major food retailer customers. The launch of new products (“Fusion” premium range, Bonduelle-brand mushrooms, etc.), combined with heavy investment in marketing and sales ■ NEW PRODUCTS teams, helped bring about this success, which was also recorded Eggplant, zucchini, ratatouille: the Premium “Légumes du soleil” in Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Ukraine and the Balkans. Meanwhile, range was launched in Russia under the Bonduelle brand, achieving business stagnated in Belarus, Romania and Bulgaria, all of which promising sales! were hit hard by the crisis. The launch of mushrooms in Russia (marinated in jars, for example) demonstrates the Group’s understanding of the tastes and expectations of consumers – with the Bonduelle quality guarantee as an added bonus. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 21 1 The Bonduelle Group 22 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 2 Corporate social responsibility 2.1 Introduction AFR 24 2.4 Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society AFR 45 2.2 Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social 2.4.1 Social responsibility 45 Responsibility AFR 25 2.4.2 Commitment to civil society 51 2.2.1 History 25 2.2.2 Governance 25 2.5 Product responsibility AFR 53 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 2.5.1 Quality: a priority 53 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional quality 54 2.2.5 Guide to environmental responsibility, 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 54 incorporating environmental and social 2.5.4 Indicators 55 criteria throughout the product life cycle 34 2.5.5 Promotion of better eating habits: 2.2.6 Sourcing charter 34 Louis Bonduelle Foundation 55 2.2.7 Glossary 34 2.6 Reporting AFR 57 2.3 Environmental 2.6.1 Reporting context and objectives 57 commitments AFR 35 2.6.2 Reporting procedure 57 2.3.1 Supporting agriculture upstream 35 2.6.3 Reporting scope 57 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 36 2.6.4 Indicators 58 2.3.3 Optimizing transport 44 2.6.5 Reporting schedule 59 2.6.6 Limited assurance report 59 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 23 2 Corporate social responsibility Introduction 2.1 Introduction “Bonduelle, a family-run group established in 1853, is the global market leader in prepared vegetables. The Company has built its success on two pillars of growth: respect for the natural environment, which is essential for a Group whose business is linked directly with the earth, and placing People at the heart of our long-term corporate plan. As part of our commitment, we aim to offer the best that nature can provide, guided by ethical principles formulated over six generations of involvement in agricultural production. Bonduelle has been a pioneer in sustainable development, in line with the objectives deﬁned by the Group’s shareholders: sustainability, independence and the development of employees. We take our responsibilities to sustainable development very seriously and in 2002-2003 formed a dedicated Sustainable Development Steering Committee to formulate policy and further strengthen the Group’s actions in this area. This cross-disciplinary Committee meets once a month, bringing together representatives from across the Group, including agro-industrial, human resources, external communications and management control functions. As a result of the actions undertaken, Bonduelle has cut its energy consumption in recent years (-2.6% on a like-for-like basis in 2011-2012, compared with the previous year) and reduced the water footprint of its sites by 9.3% year-on-year. At the same time, the Group has stepped up initiatives aimed at ensuring the safety of our employees. The past ﬁve years have seen a steady fall in the accident rate and the 20112012 action plan reduced this rate by 23%, providing concrete evidence of our commitment to the very best business practices. These signiﬁcant results also encourage the Group to embed the principles of citizenship even deeper in its corporate culture. Ten years after launching our sustainable development policy, Bonduelle gave new impetus to its environmental, social and societal commitment in 2011-2012, as part of our determination to pursue the policy of continuous improvement which has consistently underpinned our growth and strengthened our relationships with stakeholders.” Jean-Bernard Bonduelle Director of External Relations and Sustainable Development 24 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 2.2 Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2.2.1 History ■ 2007-2011 Bonduelle’s approach to sustainable development has moved forward over the years since our policy was formulated and launched: 1 Definition of a fifth focus: transport 1 Launch of pilot farms focused on reducing the use of pesticides and integrated production and signature of the French Institute for 2 sustainable agriculture charter ■ 2002-2003 1 Further actions to promote the inclusion of disabled workers and 1 Definition of four focus areas: agricultural production, people, safety in the workplace nutrition and quality, and natural resources 1 Support for the launch of the World Responsible Economy Forum 1 Definition of the priorities for progress in Lille, France 1 Improvement metrics 1 Publication of initial results ■ 2011-2012 1 Awareness-building within the Company 1 Increased involvement with stakeholders 1 Membership of the Global Compact 1 Preparation of an ethics charter, an environmental responsibility charter, and the fourth version of the sourcing charter for growers ■ 2003-2004 1 Adoption of the GRI guidelines and verification of CSR data 1 Unified indicators 1 Development of self-assessment tools 2.2.2 Governance 1 Implementation of action plans The Steering Committee collates and distributes information, 1 Continued internal deployment of action plans proposes objectives and priorities and submits them to the Group’s 1 Response to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) General Management. The Group focuses on five priority areas: people and safety, agriculture, natural resources, quality and nutrition, and transport. Environmental and social data are gathered at Group ■ 2004-2007 level and used as the basis for defining improvement actions, which 1 Sustainable development embedded in all subsidiaries’ growth are updated and added to annually and which enable Bonduelle to plans improve its efforts. 1 Internal mobilization 1 Evaluation of the first phase Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 25 2 Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility ■ RESULTS FOR 2011-2012 AND OUTLOOK FOR 2012-2013 Priorities Results for 2011-2012 Outlook for 2012-2013 People and 1 Frequency of work-related accidents: 1 Ensure safety at work, target zero safety Target: reduce the rate by 15% for in FY 2011-2012 work-related accidents Result: 18.76, i.e. -23% 1 Career development interview: 1 Promote our employees’ personal Target: conduct 100% career development interviews development and training, conduct Result: 82.02% of interviews conducted career development interviews with all personnel 1 Gender equality 1 Pursue initiatives aimed at ensuring Target: Launch a workplace program on gender equality equality, diversity and the inclusion Result: “Agreement to promote gender equality” drawn up with personnel of people with disabilities representatives and signed in France on June 5, 2012 1 Continue actions promoting gender equality 1 Continue the action plan supporting disabled people Result: 10.65% integration of people with a disability 1 Complete and distribute the ethics charter 1 Finalize the ethics charter Result: preparation of the ethics charter in June 2012 Agronomy 1 Prepare the fourth agricultural sourcing charter in consultation with stakeholders 1 Finalize and share the fourth Result: launch of a working group and preparation of the agricultural charter agricultural charter 1 Reduce pesticide use by 20% over 3 years 1 Reduce pesticide use by 20% in Result: actions under way aimed at controlling the use of pesticides the period 2011-2015 1 Measure the environmental impact of agricultural practices, introduce metrics 1 Measure the environmental impact Result: training for farmers on techniques to optimize spraying of agricultural practices, introduce metrics 1 Continue research into integrated production * 1 Continue research into integrated Result: briefing with farmers in July 2012, “pilot farms” operation agricultural production Natural 1 Conduct a fresh review of the Group’s environmental impact resources Result: environmental impact from supply/production of commodities to delivery to the customer: 1,800,000 MTCO2e +/600,000 over the year 1 Reduce energy consumption in plants by 5% per year 1 Reduce energy consumption by Result: -2.6% (on a like-for-like production basis in 2011-2012, excl. Italy) 5% per annum in the period 2011 to 2014 1 Reduce water consumption in plants by 3% per year 1 Reduce water consumption by 3% Result: -9.3% (on a like-for-like production basis in 2011-2012, excl. Italy) per annum in the period 2011 to 2014 1 Recover > 75% of ordinary industrial waste 1 Recover 80% of ordinary industrial Result: 73% waste in the period 2012 to 2015 1 Develop alternative energy projects (biomass, biogas, etc.) 1 Launch five alternative energy Result: on-site biogas recovery at the Nagykőrös plant in Hungary in 2012 & projects in five years finalization of the study on biogas recovery in St-Denis (Canada) 1 Launch a Guide to Environmental Responsibility 1 Roll out the Guide to Environmental Result: the Guide to Environmental Responsibility project has been finalized and Responsibility and develop tools to is being tested measure environmental impact 26 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 Priorities Results for 2011-2012 Outlook for 2012-2013 Quality and 1 Extend the sourcing charter to all fruit and vegetable suppliers 1 Extend the sourcing charter to all Nutrition Result: 63% of suppliers representing 79% of incoming vegetables fruit and vegetable suppliers 93% of mushroom suppliers evaluated 1 Formalize the Group’s quality policy 1 Reduce the complaints rate Annual coordination and joint action plans meeting in January Centralized purchasing with a shared quality policy 1 Initiative launched to reduce additives 1 Maintain certifications and Transport 1 Reduce CO2 by 3% per metric ton transported recognition by external bodies 1 Reduce CO2 emissions by 3,000 2 Result: > 3% for canned products logistics metric tons 1 Extend the implementation of transport indicators to all subsidiaries and 1 Extend CO2 emissions metrics to countries include all subsidiaries Result: all subsidiaries and countries taken into account, except Canada 1 Increase use of mixed rail-road systems 1 Identify and share pilot actions The process initiated three years ago is continuing 1 Optimize upstream-downstream logistics 1 Optimize logistics and increase Continued actions to optimize logistics the use of alternatives to road transport 1 Share downstream transportation with other industrial sites We are continuing to examine this possibility, but no conclusions were reached in 2011-2012 * Agricultural production techniques prioritizing agronomic practices (soil management, crop rotation, genetics, intermediate crops, etc.) with the aim of reducing the use of inputs and the impact of farming on the environment. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 27 2 Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Ten years after the Bonduelle Group prepared and launched its Bonduelle Foundation is particularly proactive in promoting lasting Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy, we felt it was time changes in eating habits against the backdrop of growing public to provide new momentum to our approach. Our aim now, more health concerns related to poor diet, working in collaboration with its than ever, is to securely embed sustainable development at the scientific and public partners and associations. heart of our Company, galvanizing our efforts around projects such The Bonduelle Group also engages in dialog with its stakeholders. as the eco-design charter for products, and the development of It expanded the scope of this dialog with the establishment of its our engagement with stakeholders. This new momentum is in line CSR approach: extending dialog to new stakeholders (ratings with our determination to pursue the Group’s policy of continuous agencies, research bodies, and solidarity associations, etc.), and improvement, which has underpinned our steady economic growth incorporating new focus areas (to meet the demands of retail grocery and geographical expansion for the past ten years. markets, partnership on disability, and environmental projects such as the “frugal factory” project), which continue to enrich Bonduelle’s corporate policy. 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders To strengthen this dialog and provide further momentum to its citizenship commitments, in December 2011, the Group invited The Bonduelle Group has long engaged in active dialog with its a panel of stakeholders to exchange ideas with Bonduelle’s stakeholders, both internally (employees and social partners) CEO, Daniel Vielfaure, and other representatives from across the and outside the Company (farmers, suppliers, national and local organization (human resources, agronomy, industry, sales, marketing public bodies, etc.). Bonduelle employees participate in the work and sustainable development). Stakeholders were selected with of trade organizations (see list in Section 2.2.7 Glossary, page 34) a view to a forming a representative panel encompassing general as committee members, directors or Chairperson, to ensure the CSR professionals, experts in Bonduelle’s five priority areas and Company’s active and responsible engagement in the sector and associations. Accordingly, a range of different readers of our to defend its interests through the communications of these joint annual reports were represented, in particular, by representatives trade groups and federations to government bodies in France and of organizations with which the Group had not yet developed a in Europe. Areas of work include protection of the environment and formal dialog process. The aim of the initiative was to challenge agricultural production. The Bonduelle Group makes no contributions our sustainable development approach and how we communicate to funding political parties, either in France or abroad. information about it. Stakeholders submitted ideas for further The Company has a history of forging partnerships and initiating consideration, asked questions about published information, and actions to share best practices, with an emphasis on pilot programs requested more educational materials aimed at consumers regarding run in conjunction with public or private institutions and organizations. the Group’s sustainable development policy. This report takes into In his role as director of External Relations and Sustainable account considerations arising from these discussions. Development, Jean-Bernard Bonduelle is tasked with developing As it seeks to better integrate environmental and social factors in relations with a diverse range of stakeholders: trade federations, the design of its products, the Group also consulted with supplyinstitutions, national, European and international regulatory bodies side stakeholders to further its project and to ensure inclusion of and agencies, NGOs, ratings agencies, local communities, the suppliers’ needs. media, and teaching and research institutions. Moreover, the Louis 28 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 The table below shows Bonduelle’s stakeholders by type and outlines the methods used to provide them with information and engage in dialog with them: Agreements partnerships Stakeholders Information and Communication Dialog consultation collaboration Employees/ 1 Web-based communication tools 1 Dialog with employees, employee Three agreements Social partners (Intranet, Internet) representatives and trade unions (workplace stress, gender 1 European Works Council – at least one equality in the workplace, meeting per year and ‘Handipol’) were signed in France in 20112012, together with five 2 amendments to previous agreements (including on older workers and working conditions) Customers 1 Response to questionnaires and CSR audit – annual Citizens/Consumers 1 Country-specific websites 1 Consultation with consumer panels – in-depth 1 CSR reports survey every three years 1 Awareness-building initiatives by 1 Louis Bonduelle Foundation, whose three aims the Louis Bonduelle Foundation are: 1 information and awareness building 1 local activities 1 support for research Institutions/ 1 Conference and presentation 1 Information meeting at the European national, European to the European Parliament on Parliament in Brussels on April 27, 2012 and international nutrition with the Louis Bonduelle 1 Participation of national and international regulatory authorities Foundation institutions in the stakeholders’ session in and agencies December 2011 – annual 1 Participation in the Global Compact – annual Farmers under 1 Dialog and consultation – annual, and 1 Sourcing charter contract with permanent contact during the harvest period Bonduelle Suppliers 1 Awareness campaigns focusing on human 1 Sustainable rights, working conditions and the environment development clause – annual included in purchasing 1 Evaluations contracts (reminder of the ten principles of the Global Compact) NGOs 1 Brochures, reports, website 1 Replies to queries 1 Meeting with NGOs – annual 1 Participation of environmental and labor associations in stakeholder sessions in December 2011 Ratings agencies 1 Brochures, reports, website 1 Response to questionnaires/queries – annual Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 29 2 Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Agreements partnerships Stakeholders Information and Communication Dialog consultation collaboration Investors 1 Quarterly financial information 1 Financial calendar/analysts’ meetings – 1 Annual and interim results at least twice per year 1 Annual and interim reports 1 Specific meetings (socially responsible 1 Group’s CSR performance: investment funds) – once every two years management and sustainable 1 Response to questionnaires/queries – annual development report, registration (for CDP) (e.g. the Carbon Disclosure Project document (CDP) is an association which brings together 1 Letter to shareholders more than 280 institutional investors. Each year the CDP sends a questionnaire to major global companies to request information on how they are dealing with climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Bonduelle has provided this information since the initiative was first launched in 2003 (CDP1), and its responses are available on the CDP website (www.cdproject.net)). Local communities 1 Brochures and reports 1 Dialog with local communities – as required 1 Specific events – e.g.: Rural retirement homes (MARPA): this most recent project undertaken by the Louis Bonduelle Foundation offers vegetable cooking workshops and “Art and Nature” workshops, in partnership with the National Federation of MARPAs, which represents 162 retirement homes in France. Media 1 Press releases – at least once per year 1 Website 1 Visit to a pilot farm in July 2011 Trade federations One or more Bonduelle employees participates in the following trade organizations as a committee member, director or Chairperson, to ensure the Company’s active and responsible engagement in the sector and to defend its interests: ADEPALE; FIAC; UNILET; ANIFELT; ANIA; UPPIA; CTCPA; PROFEL; ILEC; ECOPAR; SYNAFAP; SFPAE; AETMD; ANICC (for an explanation of these acronyms, please see Section 2.2.7. Glossary, page 34) – meetings at Board of Directors’ and Shareholders’ Meetings Education and 1 Initiatives in schools close to 1 Trainee and apprenticeship programs 1 Partnerships with research subsidiary headquarters and sites 1 Partnerships/studies, for example with UTC, UPJV schools Amiens, École des Mines de Paris, Université de Bretagne Occidentale, ISA, LASALLE Beauvais, Université de l’Artois, Institut National Polytechnique Grenoble, ESI Reims, ICAM (for an explanation of these acronyms, please see Section 2.2.7. Glossary, page 34) CSR experts 1 Response to questionnaires – annual 1 Participation in forums – annual (e.g.:“major partner” of the World Forum for a Responsible Economy in Lille,) 1 Satisfaction surveys – annual In progress: 1 Corporate Social Responsibility website to improve information to consumers about Bonduelle’s sustainable development commitments; 1 preparation of the fourth Bonduelle sourcing charter. 30 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 2.2.4 Ethics charter of Bonduelle’s stance as a corporate citizen, responsible, equitable and integrated company. In 2012, the Bonduelle Group produced its ethics charter conveying the values it has long been committed to and worked to promote: placing people first, trust, openness, simplicity, integrity, equity ■ GLOBAL COMPACT WEBSITE and excellence. This charter demonstrates the Group’s intention to pursue continuous improvement. It supplements the Company’s existing rules and regulations for employees, while encouraging individual ethical behavior in accordance with Bonduelle’s values. In the spirit of openness and trust synonymous with our Company, the Group encourages dialog and discussion on ethical issues. At the end of the period informing people about the charter and 2 before the end of FY 2012-2013, an Ethics Committee will be formed to play an advisory role and support the Group’s efforts. The ethics charter will reiterate the Group’s commitment to social and environmental responsibility, particularly through its long-standing membership of the Global Compact (since 2003). This United Nations initiative requires signatories to apply ten basic principles in the areas of human rights, anti-corruption, labor standards and the environment. The Group’s ethics charter defines the core principles ■ TEXT OF THE BONDUELLE ETHICS Ethics, how does it work? CHARTER This ethics charter supplements our existing rules and regulations for all employees. It defines the framework for the Group’s policies and ETHICS CHARTER helps to explain their rationale and intentions. Ethics in action The ethics charter is a tool. It can be used to challenge existing practices and aid in decision-making. The charter is inclusive, Why have an ethics charter? promoting individual ethical behavior in line with our corporate values. In 2012 Bonduelle decided to write a charter, drawing inspiration from our history, epitomizing our values and committing us to a process of Ethical dilemmas can be complex and rarely have clear solutions. continuous improvement. For this reason, and in the spirit of openness and trust synonymous with our Company, the Group encourages dialog and discussion on We are fully aware that while ethics cannot be regarded as absolute, ethical issues. they must inspire each and every one of us as stakeholders, both inside and outside the Company. Ethics Committee Our Code of Ethics must lead us to do more in the Bonduelle spirit of An Ethics Committee will be formed and may be consulted on corporate responsibility. issues of general interest when no solution is proposed by general management, or the Group’s experts in Human Resources, Health Bonduelle’s spirit and values and Safety or Purchasing. In this ethics charter, Bonduelle sets out to expand on the core The role of the Committee will be to support the Company on ethical values it intends to defend and promote: placing people first, trust, issues, and to issue opinions in an advisory capacity. openness, simplicity, integrity, equity and excellence. The Committee will have eight members, four appointed from within Bonduelle is convinced that its success stems from its corporate the Company and four external members, selected based on their culture and is intent on continuing to grow, underpinned by these experience, profiles and expertise. The Ethics Committee reserves values. the right to invite outside experts or submissions from employees on The Group is committed to living the “Bonduelle spirit” through specific subjects. ethical behavior that promotes sound practices. By acting with A secretary will be appointed and the Committee will meet at least integrity, our Company engages with its stakeholders in a relationship three times a year. built on trust. The challenge we face is to consolidate this connection, sharing and nurturing it in the long term. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 31 2 Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible corporate citizenship HEALTH AND SAFETY The Bonduelle Group has a strong history of corporate citizenship Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right and our commitment to social and environmental responsibility is to a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical, clearly shown by our membership of the Global Compact. mental and social wellbeing. Bonduelle is committed to maintaining working conditions at the highest standards by developing policies to PEOPLE FIRST prevent negative impacts on health and working conditions. Bonduelle complies with the regulations of a number of international All employees must comply with Bonduelle’s rules on health, safety organizations. and security in the workplace. It also complies with the conventions of the International Labor Organization. WORK-LIFE BALANCE Bonduelle strives to offer conditions that ensure a healthy work-life It is particularly stringent about ensuring respect for basic human balance. rights in the workplace, namely freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and It promotes dialog between employees and management to compulsory labor, and the effective abolition of child labor. optimize work organization in order to take individual obligations and requirements into account. It is committed to respecting the European charter of fundamental rights in the organization. The Group aims to create a working environment where individual wellbeing is valued and nurtured. BUILDING THE COMMUNITY Bonduelle’s international reach means that it respects communities DISCRIMINATION and seeks to add value and develop local areas wherever it operates. The Bonduelle Group believes strongly in the importance of diversity Reflecting this commitment, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation works in its employees. with local authorities, developing communities and supporting local We are committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination, either associations. direct or indirect, in the workplace and in employee relations, Bonduelle encourages its employees to play an active role in this including that based on age, color, civil status, disability, nationality, type of project. sexual orientation, ethnic or social origin, race, religion or gender. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT This anti-discrimination policy applies to all stages of employment, from hiring through an entire career. Bonduelle respects the environment and endeavors to reduce its carbon footprint, independent of its activities. It is a major and All employees are free to take part, in a personal capacity, in activities committed sustainable development player. It takes responsibility for or organizations of a political or religious nature. the impact of its activities, products and services on the rural and HARASSMENT urban environment, as well as their broader environmental impact. Placing people first is a key value for Bonduelle. We encourage all our employees to embody this commitment in their day-to-day lives. Its policies protect employees from all forms of harassment, intimidation or victimization, be it physical, psychological or sexual. Bonduelle references this environmental responsibility in its relations with agricultural producers and suppliers. Any form of moral or sexual harassment is resolutely condemned. All employees have the right to be respected, and to a positive, An equitable company pleasant and professional working environment in which each DIALOG IN THE COMPANY person’s ideas and contributions are valued. All employees must Dialog and openness in internal company relations are important for work to foster and respect this commitment by being open and clear Bonduelle. in their relations with their fellow workers to maintain a culture of loyalty, trust and solidarity. The Group respects the right of its employees to form or join the representative organization of their choice, including trade unions TRAINING and workers’ organizations, and to be able to participate in collective Excellence is the cornerstone of the Group’s success and bargaining negotiations. competitiveness. Bonduelle respects the role and responsibilities of the social partners Bonduelle aims to develop employees’ skills at all stages of their and is committed to negotiating issues of collective interest with them. career through a voluntary training and coaching policy. Bonduelle listens to its employees and engages an independent body to conduct international surveys to assess personnel satisfaction with working conditions. 32 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility 2 The Institut Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle was created to deliver SAFEGUARDING THE COMPANY’S ASSETS training to all Group personnel, validated by recognized professional The purpose of Bonduelle’s funds or assets is to ensure the Group qualifications. achieves its targeted results and safeguard its financial independence. Misuse or waste or these resources is potentially damaging; SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS personnel must guard against any illicit use or use unrelated to the Suppliers and subcontractors are key to ensuring the value of Group’s business. Bonduelle’s products and play an important role in customer satisfaction. We each have a responsibility to safeguard Bonduelle’s tangible and intangible resources, to protect against diversion of assets or They are required to adopt behavior in keeping with Bonduelle’s their use other than for their original purpose by providing them to values, especially when making purchasing decisions. a third party. For example, information systems provided may not Bonduelle’s suppliers and subcontractors must adhere strictly to all legislation regarding their activities and working environment. They be used inappropriately. All Company assets remain the property of Bonduelle. 2 must also commit to ethical conduct. TRANSPARENCY Purchasing decisions must be made based on all the values Honesty and fair dealing must at all times be exercised in relationships advocated by Bonduelle, and primarily, the values of equity, with customers, notably by providing accurate and transparent excellence and openness. Relations with suppliers must take place information on our products and services and by demonstrating in a climate of mutual trust, placing people first and simplicity. openness on all related issues. Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of The transparency of information provided to our stakeholders and the reliability and integrity of the supplier or subcontractor, as well employees is an integral part of the relationship of trust that Bonduelle as the overall value of their offer relative to both shortand longwishes to establish and maintain. term considerations and objectives. Purchasers must also take into account their important role in the local ecosystem. It is our responsibility to ensure that shareholders receive reliable, transparent, honest and timely information, with regard to the Stock An integrated company Market Code of Conduct. QUALITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The high quality of the products and services offered to customers is We each have a responsibility to avoid situations where personal essential for Bonduelle. Providing high-quality and efficient products interests conflict or may conflict with those of Bonduelle or harm the and services bears testimony to our commitment to and respect for Group. consumers. Bonduelle is meticulous in its attention to compliance Objectivity must be our guide in relations with the Group’s partners. with health regulations, quality control, food legislation and food Relations with partners may not involve or be influenced by personal packaging legislation. factors. It is up to each one of us to ensure such objectivity is The trust thus created is essential for the Company’s reputation and maintained at all times and in all long-term relations. long-term presence. All potential conflicts of interests must be disclosed so that the The highest levels of food safety are guaranteed through advanced appropriate action can be taken to prevent or resolve the situation. technologies and constant adaptation to new regulatory requirements. Moreover, Bonduelle does all in its power to prevent corruption, CONFIDENTIALITY reflected in its responsibility policy, defined in accordance with the Respect for confidentiality is a measure of Bonduelle’s integrity rule of law. and safeguards the relations of trust built up with our partners. GIFTS AND INVITATIONS Therefore, it is vital that each employee pays the strictest attention to Bonduelle’s marketing activities do not exclude the possibility of safeguarding the confidentiality of Bonduelle’s information. exchanging gifts and invitations, provided that these do not result in Information obtained by employees of the Bonduelle Group may not a conflict between personal gain and professional obligations. be used, either directly or indirectly, for the purposes of personal It is therefore our policy to ensure transparency when accepting gifts investment. or invitations, which must not exceed a nominal or insignificant value. The confidentiality of all information relating to the activities of the For example, such gifts may be accepted in line with the normal Company or its partners must be guaranteed in all roles and areas in rules of courtesy or hospitality, but under no circumstances may which employees work. In particular, the level of information available they appear, be considered or interpreted to be complaisance or to different employees is restricted and data is secured. favoritism. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 33 2 Corporate social responsibility Bonduelle’s Commitments to Corporate Social Responsibility POLITICAL SPHERE REPRESENTING THE COMPANY All employees are entitled to engage in political activities in a personal Each and every employee is an ambassador for Bonduelle. capacity, provided that they take place outside of working hours and It is therefore important to exercise good judgment in accordance with do not involve any of Bonduelle’s assets, and provided that it is clear Bonduelle’s values and interests and to ensure an explicit distinction that such activities are in no way representative of the Company. between personal opinions and interests and those of the Company. Bonduelle and its employees comply with all applicable laws and All of our conduct may have an impact on the Group’s reputation regulations governing contributions to political parties, regardless of and we must therefore ensure never to say or do anything that could the location of the Company’s activities. damage Bonduelle’s image. 2.2.5 Guide to environmental 1 ANIA: Association Nationale des Industries Alimentaires (National Food Industry Association – France) responsibility, incorporating 1 ANICC: Association Nationale Interprofessionnelle du Champignon environmental and social de Couche (National Joint Trade Association of Cultivated criteria throughout the product Mushrooms Producers – France) life cycle 1 ANIFELT: Association Nationale Interprofessionnelle des Fruits et Légumes Transformés (National Joint Trade Association of Fruit A team with representatives from across the organization (R&D, and Vegetable Processors – France) marketing, purchasing, communications, etc.) was formed in 2012 to work on preparing a Guide to assist teams to include environmental 1 CTCPA: Centre Technique Agro-alimentaire (Agri-foods Technical and social criteria at all stages of a product’s life cycle. Its purpose is Center – France) to act as a guide for the teams responsible for design, production and 1 ECOPAR: Compagnie Pour la Participation Éco-Emballages (Ecomarketing. It will set out the core objectives for all Bonduelle products packaging Company – France) sold throughout the world (Bonduelle, Cassegrain, Arctic Gardens) and provide guidelines for improving aspects such as pleasure, taste, 1 ESI Reims: École Supérieure d’Ingénieur de Reims (Reims Engineering School) accessibility and responsibility. Hand-in-hand with this Guide, Bonduelle is developing a tool to help 1 FIAC: Fédération Française des Industries d’Aliments Conservés (French Preserved Food Industry Federation) teams to plan improvement actions based on their objectives and the requirements of consumers in their markets. The inventory and test 1 IAD: Institut de l’Agriculture Durable (Institute for Sustainable phase is currently under way, prior to publication of the Guide and Agriculture – France) roll-out of the tool to all teams. 1 ICAM: Institut Catholique d’Arts et Métiers (ICAM School of Engineering) 1 ILEC: Institut de Liaisons et d’Études des Industries de Consommation (Institute for Consumption Industry Liaison and Research – France) 2.2.6 Sourcing charter 1 ISA: Institut d’enseignement Supérieur spécialisé dans l’Agriculture, Bonduelle’s sourcing charter sets out the Group’s requirements l’agroalimentaire et l’environnement (Higher Education Institute from our producer partners. Its main purpose is to limit agricultural specializing in Agriculture, Agri-foods and the Environment – France) production risks and to ensure the quality of vegetables. 1 ORSE: Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises We embarked on a renewal of our sourcing charter in FY 2011-2012. (Corporate Social Responsibility Observatory – France) The first charter was launched in 1996, and the fourth edition, due 1 PROFEL: Organisation européenne des industries transformatrices for publication in 2013, will become the reference manual for all de fruits et légumes (European Association of Fruit and Vegetable Bonduelle producer partners. Processing Industries) The latest version of the sourcing charter will reflect new environmental 1 SFPAE: Syndicat des Fabricants de Fruits et Légumes Prêts à and social challenges for the sector (health and safety). It will support l’Emploi (Union of Prepared Fruit and Vegetables Producers – France) the Group in expanding its international reach by defining a single reference base, which may be supplemented by any subsidiary or 1 SYNAFAP: Syndicat des fabricants de produits traiteurs frais country, to reflect our sustainable development policy. (Union of Freshly Prepared Products Producers – France) 1 UNILET: Interprofession des légumes en conserve et surgelés (Canned and Frozen Vegetables Joint Trade Association) 2.2.7 Glossary 1 UPJV Amiens: Université de Picardie Jules Verne (Picardy Jules Verne University) 1 ADEPALE: Association Des Entreprises de Produits Alimentaires 1 UPPIA: Union Pour la Promotion des Industries Conserve Élaborés (Association of Food Processing Industries – France) Appertisé (Union for the Promotion of Canned Foods – France) 1 AETMD: Association Européenne des Transformateurs de Maïs 1 UTC: Université de Technologie Compiègne (Compiègne Doux (European Association of Sweet Corn Producers) Technology University) 34 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments 2 2.3 Environmental commitments 2.3.1 Supporting agriculture monitoring of crops and vegetable maturity, harvest date and choice of equipment to be used by specialist providers, and transport upstream logistics to the plant. They are responsible for ensuring compliance with the specifications, before the vegetable preparation process. The environment is a core focus of the Bonduelle Group’s Our field supervisors are the link between Bonduelle and its producer sustainable development policy and concerns agricultural production, the preservation of natural resources and transport. partners and play a key role in ensuring application of Bonduelle’s principles. Lastly, an international agronomy network, comprised of 2 representatives from these departments, enables best agronomic ■ SUPPORTING AGRICULTURE UPSTREAM: A practices to be shared across the Group. KEY PRIORITY FOR BONDUELLE The aim of the Bonduelle Group is to produce healthy, high-quality ■ PREVENTION AND SUPPORT vegetables which are accessible to the public and grown according to the values of respect for the land and the environment in general. Monitoring crops and providing support for producers are key aspects of Bonduelle’s agricultural policy, with prevention being Bonduelle maintains close relations with its producer partners viewed as key. By selecting the most suitable land for different (3,500 grouped into producers’ organizations) to guarantee the vegetable varieties and regular crop rotation, we avoid exhausting quality and yield required for its business and to encourage them to the soil of nutrients, while promoting biodiversity and improving limit their impact on the environment. yields. The introduction in 2012 of geo-referencing of land is a major Our partner producers supply 90% of the Group’s vegetables. For advantage, since it provides an “agronomy database” of cultivated other sources, the Group requires that its suppliers comply with areas (varieties, planting and harvesting dates, yield, qualitative all laws and regulations in force related to their activity and their analysis, etc.), aiding optimization of crops and soil from year to year. professional environment (see page 51, Social Responsibility). This initiative supplements the predictive testing method already in place to enable detection of diseases that could endanger seedlings, The rules and standards are set out in our sourcing charter, which all thereby reducing the risks of crop failure and waste of commodities producer partners are required to sign. This charter is an exclusive (seeds, fertilizer and water etc.). According to the same principle contractual commitment covering the process from seed to harvest of early detection, observation networks have been established to to ensure that Bonduelle’s specifications are strictly adhered to, from operate as early-warning systems if pests are detected. For example, selection of plots of land and seed selection to cultivation methods, in France, based on the information gathered, producer partners etc. receive recommendations on the best techniques to use to control 87% of our producer partners have signed the sourcing charter, these risks. This initiative forms an integral part of the biological which was first launched in 1996. Revised in 2011-2012, the monitoring system established by the French Ministry of Agriculture, charter is testimony to Bonduelle’s ongoing commitment to using which has been run by industry professionals since 2010. environmentally-friendly farming techniques. Controlling the use of plant-health products and reducing the With its partners, Bonduelle has developed an organization which treatment frequency index (TFI) also requires training in the application supports their work on a practical level. of pesticides, according to hygrometry, wind, pH and water hardness. To meet the needs and challenges of our countries and markets, the Group’s agronomy organization is broken down by subsidiary, with ■ PROTECTING THE SOIL AND BIODIVERSITY each being responsible for their own agricultural policy. Their sales forecasts determine the activities of their agronomy departments Soil protection and biodiversity are constant guiding principles of the for each business segment. The agronomy departments manage a Group’s policies. For Bonduelle, the land is not merely a resource, but range of issues, including: selection of the areas and amount of land a habitat for living organisms which must be respected. We seek to to be sown, signature of contracts and relationships with Producers’ optimize the protection of crops and aim to reduce pesticide use by Organizations, selection of varieties according to the sowing plan, 20% over three years. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 35 2 Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments ■ SEED SELECTION ■ INNOVATION Optimum seed selection constitutes the genetic lever of Bonduelle’s New seeding techniques, alternative mechanical weeding methods, pesticide-reduction policy. The Group works with national and research on optimizing soil activity, testing the contribution of international seed producers to identify the varieties with the highest mushrooms or bacteria to stimulate plant root systems and protect resistance to disease, water and climate stress using traditional against parasites, controlled irrigation through capacitive probes, cross-cultivation methods. Bonduelle also takes part in testing etc. are just some of the many pilot projects run by Bonduelle to new varieties to measure their suitability and behavior in different promote sustainable agriculture using natural techniques and control geographies. mechanisms that are as close as possible to those occurring naturally in nature. These projects are run in partnership with other institutions (see page 51 Social Responsibility) ■ INDICATORS Biodiversity Almost 500 vegetable varieties distributed in the Group’s various ranges. 216 varietal collections enabled 818 plant varieties to be observed in 2011-2012 Agronomy personnel 283 employees Sourcing charter 87% of farmers have signed Farmer assessment 78% of farmers have been assessed Soil analysis 89% of nitrogen fertilizers – calculated using the remainder method Farming intensity 25.5 hectares of vegetables grown by each producer Security network 131 trapping networks 2.3.2 Preservation of natural ■ MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES resources In the area of natural resources, Bonduelle has long focused on networking and sharing information between its plants, subsidiaries The Rio conference in June 2012 stressed the need for a “green and corporate functions to efficiently roll out its strategy, in line with economy” to develop a sustainable world. Bonduelle’s strategy the challenges facing our societies, and more specifically, with issues for natural resources supports this vision. The Bonduelle Group’s closely related to its activities, namely, increasingly scarce natural strategy aims to: resources, rising prices, metrics to measure environmental impact, etc. 1 ensure the broadest possible incorporation of environmental criteria in the processes involved in the design and production of “Operating network” meetings are organized for this purpose on our products and services; an annual basis. These intra-group meetings on energy and the environment provide the forum for sharing best practices and 1 review consumption and production patterns and in particular, to withdraw from the use of fossil fuels in the coming decades; monitoring the roll-out of the Group’s strategic priorities. The participants vary according to the topic being discussed, from 1 highlight renewable energies related to solar power; equipment operators to subsidiary Technical directors. 1 aim for high construction quality; Bonduelle’s plant inspections take place according to a three-year 1 recycle mineral and material commodities; cycle (18 sites were inspected in 2011-2012) and are carried out by the Group’s experts. A shared benchmark is used to evaluate the 1 return organic matter to the soil for agricultural land; performance of plant processes. These visits are also the opportunity 1 test planning tools to incorporate collective targets, including to share best practices and to implement the Group’s environment reducing greenhouse gases and consumption of commodities. policy. In addition, Bonduelle devised a two-year trial program of energy audits conducted by an external firm. This method is designed to provide an objective view of performance using a broader benchmarking system. It also allows new approaches to actions to be integrated, in line with local conditions, and aids decision-making 36 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments 2 on research and/or future investments. This type of audit was carried Bonduelle also organizes technical training for its employees, similar out at eight pilot sites (in France, Germany and Italy) in 2011-2012. to the thermal energy module which was first delivered on a pilot Two Hungarian plants will be audited during the next financial year. basis at the Renescure plant in France during 2011-2012. An internal audit report on this operation will be distributed to all 1 Thermal optimization of sterilization processes training: new companies in the Group. module devised in 2011-2012 and tested during a pilot session Technical reference guides, dealing with cross-disciplinary technical with eight trainees. A schedule will be drawn up to deliver the problems and presenting the Group’s recommended best practices module across the Group. (cooling water, lighting, heating, etc.), are also valuable assets in 1 Industrial cold optimization training – Frozen foods: module improving site performance. The process breaks down into four deployed since 2010: ten-person sessions steps: 1 creation of reference documents based on assessments at pilot sites; ■ ENERGY EFFICIENCY: WATER AND ENERGY 2 CONSUMPTION 1 formulation of a self-assessment table to assist plants in targeting their efforts and measuring their performance relative to the ideal, 2011 proved to be another difficult year in terms of agronomics, with related training information; with an extremely early season in Europe and severe climate events in Canada. Globally, the Group’s tonnage increased slightly (+3%) 1 dissemination of information during network meetings and site compared with the previous year. Site environmental performance visits and assistance with implementation at the production was very positive in 2011-2012, rewarding the efforts made by facilities; our internal stakeholders (management, operatives, training, 1 annual review at all sites. benchmarking and dialog) in the past eight years, even though our theoretical targets were not quite reached. This process was adopted in FY 2011-2012 to optimize management of cooling water and boilers at eight sites run by three of our Bonduelle’s performance and target reductions in energy consumption subsidiaries. A collaborative IT platform will enable documents to be relative to metric ton produced for 2011-2012 are presented in the pooled. following table: ■ Change in electricity/heat/water consumption ratios, versus the previous year ENERGY HEAT WATER TOTAL ELECTRICITY kWh GCV m3 per metric ton of Ratio kWh kWh of electricity of electricity Group manufactured product (TMP) per TMP per TMP per TMP 2011-2012 (excl. Italy) 12.3 901 343 558 2010-2011 (with Italy) 13.7 939 370 569 Change expressed adjusted for ﬂuctuations in activity -9.3% -2.6% -5.8% -0.4% Target -3% -5% -5% -5% Taking historic consumption into account, we can quantify aggregate 1 the equivalent of 132 GWhGCV of gas saved in six years, or savings over six years (date of inclusion of Bonduelle North America 10,100 metric tons oil equivalent; in the Group’s scope): 1 10,300,000 m3 of water saved in six years, equivalent to the 1 54,000 MWh of electricity saved over six years, equivalent to the annual consumption of almost 190,000 French people (French annual consumption of some 6,900 French people (according Sustainable Development General Commission 2011). to World Bank data on electricity consumption: 7.9 MWh per inhabitant per year); Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 37 2 Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments ■ Focus on the performance of three production facilities over the five-year period from 2006-2007 to 2011-2012 Production facilities selected for their consistent tonnage over five years. Change expressed as an index Fresh: Canned: Frozen: Reutlingen, Germany Nagykőrös, Hungary Ingersoll, Canada Segment 2006-2007 2011-2012 2006-2007 2011-2012 2006-2007 2011-2012 TMP 1 1.17 1 0.98 1 1.14 3 m per TMP 1 0.53 1 0.6 1 1.18 kWh of electricity per TMP 1 0.63 1 0.63 1 0.96 kWh GCV per TMP 1 0.61 1 0.61 1 0.73 The Group set two energy-efficiency targets: to reduce energy Based at three pilot sites representative of three technologies, the consumption by 5% per year and its water consumption by 3% per analysis identified proven technological solutions applicable to a year. One of the main methods of achieving its first objective is the specific operation and overall solutions that impact on a number of extension of energy recovery from thermal processes to all facilities. operations and are based on energy integration. Since 2006-2007: investments totaling 1,940,000 euros in energy These findings were prioritized according to their technical and recovery equipment, i.e. 13% of the Bonduelle Group’s total energy economic advantages, with benchmark action plans implemented investment. in the pilot production facilities and subsequently rolled out in other Bonduelle facilities. Replacement of tools and equipment with a view to low energy consumption is another vital part of the Group’s environment policy, Specific developments are under way as a result of other, more with a resulting improvement in the energy performance of cold complex, solutions to devise the operating rules and plan the rooms (negative temperatures). investment budgets for their application. For example, to coincide with the installation of LED lighting to replace fluorescent strips, the Our total investment for the construction of the large-scale cold room Group conducted lighting audits analyzing the position of the fixtures (150,000 m3) in Estrées enabled us to meet the energy consumption relative to the ground to ensure compliance with lighting regulations. target set for this leading-edge equipment. After one year of operation, the consumption ratio is more than 50% lower than the average for Bonduelle’s corporate functions (Purchasing/Energy) also inventoried conventional cold rooms. Overall, the cumulative investment made supplier offers, and simultaneously analyzed a range of technologyunder the plan for the monitoring of equipment and optimization performance-consumption-cost criteria. Based on their findings, of control of cold rooms introduced in 2006-2007, has enabled the they issued “the right light in the right place” recommendations for Group to cut its ratio by 18% in 2010-2011. canned food stores, negative-temperature cold rooms and positivetemperature cold stores. The scope of the analysis was international Our drive for improved energy efficiency is also illustrated by the (11 countries) and spanned seven global suppliers. project undertaken in partnership with EDF Research & Development and the Center for Energy and Processes (CEP) of the École des Lastly, a number of solutions identified represent technological Mines de Paris from 2009 to 2011. Supported by the French breakthroughs based on new concepts, with three research programs Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), the ‘frugal initiated as a result for 2012-2013, known as “Frugal Factory – phase 2”. factory’ initiative set out to analyze the Group’s energy practices and In addition to the actions undertaken in the context of the Frugal procedures. Factory initiative, Bonduelle also finalized another project to improve waste quality in 2011-2012. Two natural gas boilers (replacing fuel oil boilers) were installed at the Saint-Denis site in Canada, delivering 10% more energy efficiency, cleaner discharge into the environment, and a reduction in combustion emissions of 3,500 MTCO2e (metric ton carbon dioxide equivalent) per year. A pilot program to map water consumption is also under way at the Canadian Saint-Denis site to pave the way for further optimization and new recycling initiatives. This plan is part of a Quebec program run by the CTAC (Agri-food Processing and Consumer Product Council) to optimize the use of water in agri-food processes. Five industry partners have teamed up for the program, together with the 38 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments 2 engineering and consultancy firm, Axor. The two-year program has a Optimization of packaging and logistics is also under way, in the number of major challenges in its sights: context of our networking initiatives. Actions undertaken in the frozen food segment yielded a net improvement in secondary packaging 1 identify water-treatment technologies to reduce consumption by methods using specialized tools for more efficient fill. The process 25%; generated savings of 155 metric tons of cardboard in France and is 1 draw up a program to test the best available technologies; being extended to other Group locations. We reduced the area of film 1 analyze the regulatory changes required to adapt to the realities of per package by 11% by reducing the dimensions of some products both the industry and technology, in partnership with the Canadian packed in pouches. Food Inspection Agency. The Group’s efforts to reduce the environmental impact of canned A similar internal program was launched in Santarém, Portugal, food packaging has been extended to all packaging methods, using mapping to identify and prioritize ways of reducing water consumption at source, examining process, washing and re-use. especially batch wrapping and unitization, with potential savings of some 90 metric tons annually. Our program to reduce the thickness 2 of metal cans in place for the past two years saved 500 tons of metal The findings of these studies will be distributed within the Group and per year in Europe. the methodology may be used on a voluntary basis by new sites. At the same time, the Group is in the process of integrating environmental criteria into its product design framework. Packaging ■ REDUCE CONSUMPTION OF VIRGIN represents a key priority in this regard. The Group has established RESOURCES AND DEVELOP RENEWABLE metrics to monitor progress as part of this initiative. Our aim is to ENERGIES use the appropriate packaging and the right amount of material, Excellent performance in 2011-2012: while also guaranteeing and protecting the safety and quality of the product. Bonduelle constantly monitors packaging developments 1 the Group’s water consumption stands at 12, 215, 056 m3, i.e. with a view to the use of bio-based substitutes in its packaging. a ratio of 12.3 m3/TMP, a reduction of 9.3% in one year (based on data adjusted for variations in activity). We have significantly Recycling of industrial waste is another key priority, with a target outperformed our target reduction of 3% versus 2010-2011; recycling rate of 75%, to be achieved by selective sorting at source and a specific sourcing policy. 1 compared with 2010-2011, the drive to cut consumption saved almost 2,000,000 m3 (the annual consumption of a town of In 2011-2012, the Group produced 35,502 metric tons of ordinary 36,000 people); industrial waste, equating to a ratio of waste generated per metric ton of manufactured product of 35.8 kg, a reduction of 6% compared 1 three-quarters of the water supplied to our plants is from private with the previous year. wells, with the remainder sourced from the urban drinking water system; Energy or materials recovery accounted for 73% (76% in 2010-2011) of the tonnage produced, with the remaining 27% going to landfill. 1 over three years, we invested in excess of 1,000,000 euros to improve the Group’s water supply in Hungary, Poland and Quebec. The shortfall against target will be covered by energy recovery or reuse of 700 metric tons of ordinary industrial waste. Our production facilities worldwide must continue campaigns to raise employees’ awareness and improve the efficiency of sorting at source, either internally or by subcontractors. One of the key points is the recycling rate and the improvement in the rate of recycling for controlling overall plant operating costs. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 39 2 Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments The target for energy recovery from waste for FY 2012-2013 has been ■ EFFLUENT TREATMENT AND LOCAL raised to 80% of the total ordinary industrial waste generated. INTEGRATION In 2011-2012, the Group generated 239 metric tons of special Investment to improve wastewater treatment facilities industrial waste (i.e. 0.24 kg/TMP), disposed of through a specialized Over six years, the Group has invested more than 19 million euros waste management provider. The scheduling of disposal operations in equipment for the treatment of effluent from all its production explains the annual variations in the ratio and tonnage produced facilities; (228 metric tons and 0.23 kg/TMP). 1 18 plants have their own independent treatment facilities – > four Bonduelle’s activities generated 443,697 gross metric tons of organic were built or refurbished over the past five years; by-products (vegetable or mushroom) in 2011-2012, equating to a ratio of 448 kg plant matter (PM) per TMP, remaining stable compared 1 ten production facilities use urban wastewater management with the previous year (444 kg PM/TMP). infrastructures; In 2011-2012, 95% of this tonnage was reused for animal feed, 1 five production facilities have an agricultural wastewater recycling methanation or standardized composting products (NF 44-051) in system, after physical or biological treatment. 2011-2012. Other agricultural uses accounted for the remaining 5%. Almost 11.4 million m3 of water is discharged by Bonduelle. The Reducing energy consumption is a major focus of the Group’s Group’s Environment Department rigorously control and monitor the environment policy, but the development of renewable energy quality of plant effluent: sources is another path leading to sustainable development. 1 89% of wastewater transits through urban wastewater plants or a Accordingly, we are planning projects to reduce dependence on Bonduelle treatment plant; fossil fuels, such as co-generating and methanation, since Bonduelle has substantial organic matter at its disposal. 1 8% of effluent is treated using agronomic methods (fertigation, spreading); Bonduelle’s sizable organic resources include good methanogenic power capacity and total solids of some 10%, which is suitable 1 3% of effluent is good quality and is returned directly to the natural for combined methanation with agricultural by-products. Without environment. investing directly, the Group supports the development of projects In parallel, production facilities are engaged in developing green locally linked to the agricultural sector, supplying by-products on a techniques to reduce the organic load (COD) in the effluent treated long-term basis, especially to the sites at Tecumseh (Canada, active in the wastewater treatment plants. These solutions generally since 2011 in cooperation with SEACLIFF ENERGY) and Bordères require technical adjustments if the upstream agricultural sector is (France, commissioning scheduled for 2015). compatible or if the collection of loaded flows is clearly limited: The Group is continuing its initiatives to produce and recover biogas In 2011-2012, effluent generated from industrial activities represented from the treatment of its biodegradable effluent. The Nagykőrös plant approximately 19,000 metric tons of biochemical oxygen demand in Hungary is the first to operate on-site energy recovery from biogas (BOD). 99.6% of effluent is treated through operating processed in 2012. Three other plants are expected to adopt the same process controlled by Bonduelle. of consuming self-produced biogas by 2015. Wastewater treatment generated almost 5,250 metric tons of The current volume of biogas produced in the digesters at biological biological sludge dry matter in 2011-2012. The sludge is used for treatment plants represents a potential 6,000 metric tons oil controlled agricultural spreading, compost or methanation. In a drive equivalent. to reduce the organic load of effluent at source and thereby reduce waste treatment downstream, production facilities are developing a range of actions. 40 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments 2 Integration of facilities into the local environment is a keen concern The data was processed taking the international nature of the business for all our production facilities. Bonduelle deals with occasional into account and based on a number of authoritative databases in olfactory nuisance on a case-by-case basis, and had developed a France and internationally (ADEME in France and ECONIVENT). It range of specific solutions, such as improved aeration of storage and is planned to present detailed results to stakeholders in 2012-2013. treatment facilities and misting equipment for storage lagoons. This voluntary Group process has provided us with a database and skills sets specific to the “vegetable processing business”. A new priority aimed at reducing chemical products used in water treatment and their discharge into the natural environment has Performance: emerged in line with European environmental protection and public Net greenhouse gas emissions for 2011-2012 are estimated in health regulations. Accordingly, Bonduelle is improving the reliability the range 1,800,000 MTCO2 e, +/-600,000, equivalent to the annual of its technical wastewater treatment methods and is working on the reduction or replacement of chemical products at source. emissions of about 200,000 Europeans (ADEME – 8.8 MTCO2/ Western European/year). 2 The stages in the life cycle analysis are as follows: ■ MEASURE, KNOW, ACT, REDUCE 1 cultivated and purchased food commodities: emissions for To ensure consumers receive reliable environmental information and production, growing and supply to our production facilities: 45%; to counter unfounded allegations, Bonduelle has actively participated in the projects initiated by the Ministry of the Environment since 2011 1 non-food commodities, such as packaging: emissions for production, supply, end-of-life and avoided through re-use: 36%; to measure environmental impacts. Hence, the Group measured the impact of a family-size can (850 ml) of extra-fine peas, in juice. The 1 industrial processing: direct and indirect energy emissions findings were: 94 g C02 equivalent of greenhouse gas emissions per relating to scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, and emissions from the 100 g net drained weight over the product’s entire life cycle; water treatment of ordinary industrial waste: 10%; consumption is 0.9 liters per 100 g net drained weight. Water is 1 transport of intermediate and finished products: emissions calculated based on washing the vegetable and filling the can, in the generated by inter-site flows and customer deliveries to the absence of an established methodology and database. distributor’s warehouse: 8%; Following this initial experiment, Bonduelle has embarked on 1 transport of employees and work-related travel: 1%. measuring the environmental impacts of the Group as a whole. Note that sorting of industrial waste represents almost 4% of total The first stage in assessing the environmental impact of our activity gross emissions. (Bonduelle’s greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption 2011-2012) was to map the initial data. Data collection is based on Water consumption for 2011-2012 is estimated at 70,000,000 to life cycle assessment, as described in ISO 14040. 105,000,000 m3 per year. 60 employees were mobilized for this stage alone across all our The breakdown is as follows: departments and locations for a period of six months, working on: 1 agricultural production (for food crops): 62%; 1 dividing stages of the life cycle into standardized sectors (activity 1 manufacture of non-food materials, such as packaging: 23%; or geographical); 1 industrial processing: 15%. 1 presenting the project to stakeholders; The impact mapping will be presented to all the Group’s stakeholders 1 establishing data-collection records. to be used in a major awareness campaign and to form the basis of improvement plans. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 41 2 Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments Our action programs anticipate emerging requirements of societies 1 providing a working tool to classify products in terms of worldwide, making use of simulation tools to analyze a range of tax, the environmental impact from GHG emissions and water regulatory and marketing scenarios: consumption, to provide additional knowledge for design changes to minimize these impacts. 1 calculating mass emissions independently of energy performance, in the context of the Grenelle environment law in France, which Through these actions, the Bonduelle Group has established contact requires companies to provide a scope 3 GHG inventory for its with a range of external bodies providing benchmarks: regulatory activities by 2015; authorities (ANIA, local and international trade federations), leading international environmental impact assessment companies, 1 meeting the needs of the national initiative in France to inform researchers and international specialists in assessment methods and consumers about the environmental impacts of consumer products customer requirements. through environmental labeling. Bonduelle is one of the volunteer companies in this pilot program as a member of ADEPALE; ■ INDICATORS The indicators below were prepared in accordance with our reporting framework, whose main components are summarized in the Methodology note on page 57 of this report TMP (metric tons): 991,463 metric tons TMP Water consumption: 12,215,056 m3 ✔ consumed, i.e. 12.3 m3 per metric ton of manufactured product Water sourcing 9,259,339 m3 of well water 2,903,957 m3 of urban water 51,760 m3 of suAFRce water Energy consumption 3,095,342 gigajoules (GJ) overall consumption Electricity: 1,226,234 GJ ✔ Natural gas: 1,612,125 GJ ✔ Fuel (very low sulfur content): 168,475 GJ Propane: 36,091 GJ LPG: 4,603 GJ Domestic fuel oil: 29,778 GJ Biomass: 18,036 GJ Electricity consumption by country: 60% France 27% Canada 4% Portugal 4% Poland 2% Hungary 2% Germany 1% Russia 0.3% Brazil Production of ordinary waste 35,502 metric tons ✔, or 35.8 kg per metric ton of products manufactured Treatment: Low-impact landfill site: 27% Energy recovery: 4% Recycling: 69% ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. 42 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments 2 Production of special waste 239 metric tons ✔, or 0.24 kg per metric ton of products manufactured Production of green waste 443,697 metric tons ✔, or 448 kg per metric ton of products manufactured Use: Agricultural spreading: 3% Animal feed: 76% Energy recovery: 1% Marketable product: 18% Pollution discharge Other (compost): 2% Breakdown of treatment in m3: 2 89% m3 discharged to treatment plant 7% m3 discharged for spreading after pretreatment 1% m3 discharged directly for spreading on crops 3% m3 discharged as clean effluent Discharge of pollutants and proportion treated: 18,747 metric tons biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) produced at industrial sites (calculated based on estimates) 95% of BOD treated at Bonduelle treatment facilities 2% of BOD treated by the soil and plant cover (controlled agricultural spreading) 2% of BOD treated at external treatment facilities 0.4% discharged into the natural environment in compliance with regulations Biosolids Production of 5,244 metric tons of dry biological sludge Production of 1,543,320 Nm3 of biogas Packaging 145,220 metric tons Breakdown by type of material: Glass jars: 9.6% Metal cans: 58.4% Plastic film: 8.6% Cardboard boxes: 17.4% Plastic trays: 1.7% Lids: 3.0% Labels and other: 1.4% Expenditure for minimizing Wastewater and sludge treatment: €2,077,414 the impact of activities on the Industrial and green waste: €262,650 environment Air and energy: €3,572,954 Greenhouse gas emissions 41,567 MTCO2 e from indirect emissions (purchase of electricity) 153,149 MTCO2 e from direct emissions (purchase of fossil energy, biomass, refrigerant fluid leaks) Emissions of ozone depleting gas 2,197 MTCO2 e for R22, R134A, R404A and R422A ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 43 2 Corporate social responsibility Environmental commitments ■ EU GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION QUOTAS One possibility being examined is the creation of larger-scale storage infrastructures. Logistics sites are also organized by geographical Directive 2003/87/EC establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas area and are responsible for selecting carriers for distribution to emission allowance trading within the European Community applies customers according to the most appropriate transport options. to the Bonduelle Group in respect of four sites: Estrées, Vault, Renescure and Russ. In 2008, the Group initiated a program of measuring CO2 emissions at its Bonduelle Conserve International subsidiary (BCI) to identify The quota allocation for the 2008-2012 period is 355,115 MTCO2 e. opportunities for improvement and ways of minimizing our carbon Annual emissions in the period were: footprint. This pioneering measurement program for the agri-food 2008 = 49,460 MTCO2 e; sector is based on the calculation method devised by the ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency) and approved 2009 = 43,473 MTCO2 e; by an independent firm of experts, Bio Intelligence Service. 2010 = 45,566 MTCO2 e; Initially launched for product flows between BCI’s French production 2011 = 47,045 MTCO2 e; facilities and logistic centers, the emissions measurement program was subsequently extended to all countries in Europe to which finished products are delivered. Progress was achieved by using combined rail-road transport, especially between production facilities 2.3.3 Optimizing transport located in the South-West and North-Picardy areas of France. Combined rail-road transport is used for routes between NorthTransporting vegetables to production facilities and ﬁnished Picardy and South-East France and Italy, as well as for flows from products to distribution points is central to Bonduelle’s business. Hungary to Germany. The Group is implementing a wide range of projects to optimize ﬂows and reduce the environmental impacts of transport and As part of its policy of continuous improvement, Bonduelle extended minimize greenhouse gas emissions. implementation of these metrics to its other specialist subsidiaries in 2011-2012 to cover all product segments (frozen, fresh and prepared Since transport is a particular focus for Bonduelle, it has formed foods), with the new collaborative e-space platform used to present a Transport and Sustainable Development Committee to monitor results and initiatives and share best practices. The use of combined strategy in this area. The members of the Committee include rail-road transport has been increased (for the Hungary-France and international representatives from sales and marketing, production Hungary-Belgium routes, for example) to improve our environmental facilities’ logistics, supply chain, and central Purchasing Departments, performance. In this way, the subsidiary Bonduelle Conserve as well as sustainable development officers. The Committee is International succeeded in saving 2,203 MTCO2e in 2011-2012. responsible for legislative intelligence in the sector, monitoring the progress of the French Environment Round Table (Grenelle de The Group has also arranged with its incumbent transport services l’environnement), and researching long-term solutions to minimize providers for the deployment of 44-metric ton loads for all inter-site the environmental impact of transport flows. road flows in France, following official approval of the change in France in 2011, which is intended to substantially reduce the number It has always been Bonduelle’s policy to locate production facilities of trucks on the road. close to agricultural production areas with a view to optimizing product quality, allowing crops to ripen to maturity and reducing the Other improvements were also initiated in 2011-2012: investments time between harvest and processing. The selection criteria for cropin new cold rooms (Estrées, Santarèm, Labenne, etc.) to increase growing areas comprise soil and regional climate, but also proximity storage volume and reduce traffic between supplier sites; roll-out of to markets. Careful location of production facilities not only minimizes geo-referencing of land parcels to optimize organization of harvests the distance traveled by Bonduelle’s products, but also promotes the and related transport modes, load-sharing with industrial partners, development of local economies. and optimization and reduction of packaging. Lastly, the Group is continuing to research alternatives to road, including for example sea Bonduelle goes further and continually looks for new ways to optimize transport to Spain from Northern France. the transport of its products and supplies. 44 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society 2 ■ INDICATORS CO2 emissions (metric tons) Upstream agricultural transport,11,920 metric tons CO2 equivalent (MTCO2 e) Distribution, 63,731 MTCO2 e Inter-site, 18,231 MTCO2 e i.e. 93,882 MTCO2 e (excl. Canada) Ratio of kg of CO2/metric ton Upstream agriculture, 17 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported Distribution, 69 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported Inter-site, 21 kg CO2 emitted/metric ton transported 2 2.4 Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society 2.4.1 Social responsibility 1 Group labor relations and human resources in France; 1 worldwide human resources communications. Social dialog, working conditions, training, diversity and health and safety are all central concerns of the Bonduelle Group’s The Group’s Human Resources Division team meets with all the HR human resources policy, which places people at the heart of our teams from across the organization during an international seminar, corporate plan. organized at least twice a year. Bonduelle’s global human resources strategy is presented and proposals for new actions from across all The Group’s HR policy is built on our seven core values: placing our locations are discussed and considered. Policy is then approved people first, integrity, trust, excellence, equity, openness and by the Global Executive Committee and applied in each country, simplicity. Human resources established six priorities for 2011-2012: where the HR team leads a team of dedicated human resources safety at work was a primary focus with the establishment of a global officers in each subsidiary. safety network, but also training, equal opportunities, employment of older workers, career development and remuneration. Bonduelle employs 8,971 people (full-time equivalent), 6,449 ✔ of ■ HEALTH AND SAFETY which are permanent positions. 23% of our workforce is outside Each and every person working for or with Bonduelle has the right Europe, 20.6% in Europe (outside France) and 56.4% in France. to a healthy and safe working environment, ensuring their physical, (See breakdown at the end of the Section.) mental and social wellbeing. Bonduelle is committed to maintaining working conditions at the highest standards by developing policies to prevent negative impacts on health and working conditions. ■ ORGANIZATION In November 2011, the Group undertook a review of its safety Bonduelle’s HR policy is led by our Group Human Resources organization to redefine responsibilities at all levels of the structure, director. A member of the Global Executive Committee, the director and launched a large-scale awareness campaign on this vital issue at participates in and contributes to all the Group’s strategic decisions. all its sites worldwide. He is assisted by a team with four areas of responsibility: We have established a more robust reporting system with safety 1 career development and coordination with the HR Departments of included as a mandatory point on the agenda for weekly production the European units (outside France); facility Management Committee meetings, for monthly meetings between the Industrial directors of each subsidiary and Production 1 compensation and relations with the HR Departments of units Facility directors, and for the quarterly meetings between subsidiaries’ located outside Europe (Bonduelle North America and Bonduelle general management and country Managers. Development); ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 45 2 Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society To intensify employees’ commitment to safety, 10%-40% of the ■ WORKING CONDITIONS amount of variable compensation for operating personnel is now The objective of the workplace stress agreement negotiated with linked to their safety performance. the social partners in June 2012 is to protect all employees from In addition, a safety network was created in May 2012 with site and stress in their jobs (physical stress, aggressive environment, pace subsidiary representatives. The network’s purpose is to exchange of work). It sets four guidelines: reducing exposure of employees best practices, set priorities for action programs and investments and to multiple risk factors, adapting and fitting workstations, improving prepare monthly reports. overall working conditions and acting to reduce sources of stress, As a result of this new approach, Bonduelle has already recorded stress-prevention and training. This last priority is in turn broken significant progress since the accident frequency rate fell from 24.4 down into four points: training to increase awareness of specific in 2010-2011 to 18.76 ✔ in 2011-2012. risks, inclusion of prevention modules in technical training, increasing awareness amongst supervisory personnel, and campaigns to raise the professional standards of employees working at stressful jobs. ■ SOCIAL DIALOG Bonduelle intends to dedicate 10% of its training budget in France In accordance with its ethics charter which is currently being rolled to safety – stress in order to reach these objectives. The three-year out across the Group, Bonduelle promotes openness and dialog in agreement provides for one or two annual monitoring meetings with its internal relations. The Group respects the right of its employees to a report on the outcomes of actions, as well as consultation on form or join the representative organization of their choice, including the basis of the report prepared by the Health, Safety and Working trade unions and workers’ organizations, and to be able to participate Conditions Committee at each site. in collective bargaining negotiations. Bonduelle respects the role and The amendment to the working conditions agreement reinforces responsibilities of the social partners and is committed to negotiating awareness and understanding of workplace stress and psychosocial issues of collective interest with them. risks by the Company, employees and representatives, by anticipating The European Works Council (EWC) meets at least once a year risks that may arise in specific situations related to work organization for a presentation on the Group’s strategic guidelines and a report (substantial changes to health and safety conditions, introduction of on the financial year just ended in Europe and other countries in new technologies, etc.) and by providing employees with a framework which Bonduelle is present. The French Group Works Council is the to detect, prevent and deal with possible cases of workplace stress. representative body for Bonduelle’s five product segments in France These agreements continue Bonduelle’s long tradition of initiatives (canned, frozen and fresh products and prepared foods), and meets in this area, including specific actions aimed at seasonal workers. three times a year. The very nature of its business and the rhythm dictated by the The Group Works Council provides French employee representative harvests mean that the Bonduelle Group employs a large number of bodies (56.4% of the workforce) with additional information, above seasonal workers. Seasonal employment accounts for close to 24% and beyond its legal obligations, on Bonduelle’s activities in Europe of all Bonduelle Group’s contracts (full-time equivalent). We develop and elsewhere. loyalty through a competitive remuneration policy and employment contracts by type of harvest, affording them work that is compatible The dynamic of social dialog in the Bonduelle Group was illustrated with other seasonal employment. At some sites, Bonduelle works in 2011-2012 by the signature of a number of different agreements with employer groupings to pool skills, provide regular seasonal and amendments: work and offer specific training, such as a fork-lift truck operator 1 amendment to the strategic workforce planning (GPEC) agreement; qualification. Another aspect of this policy, in the United States and 1 amendment to the agreement on older workers; Canada, is the provision of accommodation for personnel, making good quality accommodation available at no cost. 1 amendment to the working conditions agreement; Depending on the employment areas in which its sites are located, 1 gender equality agreement; Bonduelle focuses on local employment or opportunities for people 1 workplace stress agreement; from areas with few economic prospects. 1 “Handipol 3” (disability) agreement. These agreements reflect the Group’s HR policies. For example, Bonduelle increased the percentage of disabled employees from 7.76% in 2010-2011 to 10.65% in 2011-2012. ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. 46 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society 2 ■ TRAINING The Group has set the following guidelines for its training policy for 2012-2013 to support its overall human resources strategy: Employee training is very important for Bonduelle and central to its Human Resources policy. There were four priority areas in 2011-2012: 1 corporate culture: develop management skills, implement and supporting and improving safety across all its activities, capitalizing share values, integrate and support employee development; on skills, enhancing knowledge of and integration in the Group, and 1 business expertise: capitalize on and develop core skills (agronomy, developing new talent. The training rate stands at 1.76% (training industry, quality, supply chain, etc.) and emerging skills (marketing, expenditure as a percentage of payroll) and the average training sales, product innovations, etc.); duration per person is 14.98 hours. 1 social responsibility: improve safety and security at work, improve Launched in 2002, the Group’s university, the Pierre et Benoît employability. Bonduelle Training Institute (IPB), was set up to accelerate skills development and the Group’s human dimension. It is intended to benefit all personnel. ■ DIVERSITY 2 The institute works to achieve three objectives: Employee diversity is important for Bonduelle. It is committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination in the workplace and in 1 share the Company’s values and culture, for example, by organizing “Know your company” seminars and language immersion employee relations, both direct and indirect. The Group was not programs to help new hires to integrate in the Group’s culture; convicted of any type of discrimination in 2011-2012. This antidiscrimination policy applies to all stages of employment, from hiring 1 develop know-how and expertise specific to the Group’s business through an entire career. It is underpinned by programs to promote segments, such as seaming techniques training modules for the diversity. The Group signed a gender equality agreement in 2011Group’s canned food facilities; 2012, concentrating on four main areas: 1 develop relationship and managerial skills. The most recent 1 recruitment; program developed by the institute, the Bonduelle Executive Program, trains Managers to detect and develop new talent in the 1 working conditions; Company to prepare for the managerial organization of the future. 1 actual remuneration; The amendment to the strategic workforce planning agreement 1 balance between work and family responsibilities. (GPEC), signed in 2008 and extended at the end of 2011, provides Bonduelle launched an action plan along with this agreement to: for assessing foreseeable developments in jobs and the employment market in relation to the Company’s needs, and to promote awareness 1 forge partnerships with schools and/or approved training centers of this agreement with the aim of informing employees and building to encourage job applications; accountability throughout the organization. It plays a role in guiding a 1 produce three guides and a film presenting careers in the Company; number of training actions by identifying: 1 organize an open day at four industrial sites, targeting students; 1 the need for more personnel, anticipating requirements in terms of training, retraining, recruitment, etc.; 1 analyze job requirements with a view to adapting job frameworks and training; 1 declining workforce needs, in addition to natural attrition (jobs under threat), requiring advance reconversion and training actions, 1 analyze training actions required before employees return to work etc.; after taking parental leave. 1 stable workforce needs, but with a substantial rate of natural 2011-2012 also saw a further increase in the number of women in attrition requiring corrective measures to guarantee availability of management, notably the appointment of a female director to head key resources and skills; up one of the Group’s largest production sites at Renescure in Northern France, and female Chief Financial Officers in Poland and 1 significant changes to content that call for new skills and Spain. These three appointments illustrate the Group’s willingness appropriate training policies. to further women’s’ careers and confirm its commitment to gender equality in the workplace. Another highlight of the past year for the Group’s promotion of diversity was the signature of the disability agreement, “Handipol 3”, intended to embed existing programs in the Company and promote Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 47 2 Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society new awareness actions and the involvement of all employees. The coaching. Under this agreement, the percentage of older workers Group is committed to: over 55 employed by the Group is expected to exceed 11% by December 31, 2012. 1 increase the percentage of disabled workers to 6% or higher. In 2011-2012, the rate was 10.65%; 1 provide each subsidiary with the appropriate objectives and ■ HUMAN RIGHTS resources in this area; Bonduelle complies with international labor laws. The Group 1 adopt forward planning measures to deal with possible aptitude lays particular emphasis on respecting and promoting the seven issues with a view to promoting long-term employment; fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 1 take into account the consequences of an aging population at the occupation, freedom of association and the recognition of the right Group’s sites. to collective bargaining, the effective abolition of child labor, and The Bonduelle Group has embarked on numerous initiatives to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. It is also committed support its disability policy: to respecting the European charter of Fundamental Rights in the organization. 1 creation of the Disability Mission in the HR Department in France, with a pilot unit in each facility and a Group-wide joint monitoring In the framework of its ethics charter, published in 2012, Bonduelle committee; requires all employees, suppliers and subcontractors to strictly adhere to all laws regulating their activities and working environment. 1 creation of a “Handipol 3” coordinator; We encourage our subcontractors and suppliers to commit to ethical 1 organization of information and awareness-building campaigns for conduct. employees with a disability rating of 10% or more; Bonduelle has been a member of the Global Compact since 1 regular communication on actions through the Company 2003. This United Nations initiative launched in 2000 encourages newsletter and the Intranet; companies to adopt fundamental values according to ten universal 1 recruitment on permanent contracts of at least ten employees with principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a disability at the end of the agreement’s term; the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on the Environment 1 opening up of all accessible positions to people with disabilities; and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against 1 possible tutoring with the agreement of the disabled employee; Corruption. 1 training and raising awareness amongst those directly involved in disability policy on the specific needs of employing people with ■ INDICATORS disabilities; The indicators below were prepared in accordance with our reporting 1 developing a program for trainees from the sheltered employment framework, whose main components are summarized in the sector. Methodology note on page 57 of this report In addition, Bonduelle signed an amendment to the 2009 agreement with the social partners on the employment of older TOTAL EMPLOYEES workers highlighting three key principles: forward career planning, 1 6,449 permanent staff ✔ development of skills and qualifications and access to training, 1 8,971 employees on long-term, short-term, and seasonal contracts dissemination of knowledge and skills and the development of (full-time equivalent) ■ Total employees by type of employment contract and geographical area (full-time equivalent) Europe excl. France France Outside Europe Total Permanent 3,879.69 1,231.35 1,251.52 6,362.57 Non-Permanent 296.11 118.85 46.93 461.89 Seasonal 829.64 496.54 766.46 2,092.64 Other 45.54 6.7 1.53 53.77 ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. 48 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society 2 ■ Total employees by gender, status and geographical area (permanent staff) Europe excl. France France Outside Europe Total Women 1,662 527 472 2,661 Men 2,249 744 795 3,788 Executive 729 280 112 1,121 Non-Executive 3,182 991 1,155 5,328 Seniority (permanent staff): New hires, in number of contracts: 2 1 0 to 3 years: 1,082; 1 Long-term: 459 ✔; 1 3 to 9 years: 1,534; 1 Short-term: 940 ✔; 1 9 years: 3,833. 1 Seasonal: 6,316. Average seniority: 14.99. Proportion of disabled workers: 10.65%. TURNOVER Group turnover: 10.75% ■ Turnover by contract Europe Outside France (excl. France) Europe Total Permanent 3,879.69 1,231.35 1,251.52 6,362.57 Non-permanent 296.11 118.82 46.96 461.89 FTE employees Seasonal 829.64 496.54 766.46 2,092.64 Other 45.54 6.70 1.53 53.77 Total 5,050.98 1,853.41 2,066.47 8,970.86 Due to layoff – Executive 8 12 6 26 Due to a death, retirement, agreed Executive departure, etc. – Executive 22 6 2 30 Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Executive 18 12 4 34 Due to layoff – Non-executive 92 83 55 230 Due to a death, retirement, agreed departure, etc. – Non-executive 70 89 10 169 Non-executive Due to the employee (resignation, end of probationary period, etc.) – Non-executive 327 57 91 475 TURNOVER 10.63% 13.97% 8.13% 10.75% ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 49 2 Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society ■ Turnover by gender Europe (excl. France France) Outside Europe Total Departures – Men 305 145 108 558 Departures – Women 232 114 60 406 Turnover – Men 6.04% 7.82% 5.23% 6.22% Turnover – Women 4.59% 6.15% 2.90% 4.53% ■ Turnover by age Europe (excl. France France) Outside Europe Total Departures under 26 159 53 34 246 2.74% Departures 26-35 116 76 35 227 2.53% Departures 36-45 85 72 38 195 2.17% Departures 46-49 24 14 21 59 0.66% Departures over 50 153 44 40 237 2.64% TRAINING SAFETY CONDITIONS 1 % of gross payroll 1.76%. 1 Work-related accident rate: 18.76. 1 Number of training hours: 144,639 ✔. 1 Work-related accident severity rate: 1.64. 1 Average training duration per individual: 14.98 hours. 1 Breakdown of training by gender: 38.08% women and 61.92% men. ■ Breakdown of work-related accidents No. days lost due No. of to workNo. days lost accidents at related Severity due to workAbGeographical work with Frequency accidents rate related illness Severity Hours senteeism area Gender stoppage rate (WRA) (WRA) (WRI) rate (WRI) worked rate Outside Europe F 14 9.97 601 0.43 0 0.00 1,404,893 NA M 22 9.96 924 0.42 0 0.00 2,209,477 NA Total outside Europe 36 9.96 1,525 0.42 0 0.00 3,614,370 NA Europe F 32 22.98 742 0.53 0 0.00 1,392,723 4.51% M 31 16.58 494 0.26 0 0.00 1,869,920 2.51% Total Europe 63 19.31 1,236 0.38 0 0.00 3,262,643 3.36% France F 74 21.15 4,404 1.28 9,696 2.81 3,452,201 6.80% M 110 22.71 6,015 1.27 1,806 0.38 4,754,841 4.11% Total France 184 22.42 10,419 1.27 11,502 1.40 8,207,042 5.28% SUMMARY 283 ✔ 18.76 ✔ 13,180 0.87 11,502 0.76 15,084,055 ✔ 4.42% ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. 50 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society 2 DEPARTURES AND TRANSFERS Bonduelle encourages its suppliers and subcontractors to commit Departures: 964 ✔. to environmentally-friendly processes. As part of the contractual relation, suppliers undertake to respect the principles of the Global Resignations: 509 ✔. Compact (Bonduelle has been a member since 2003). This approach Layoffs: 256 ✔. is currently being extended across the Group. For example, in 2011-2012, 85% of contracts to purchase cans (by value) were in Transfer to another Group company: 59 ✔. compliance with the principles of the Global Compact (cans account INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING for 40% of purchases).Purchasing decisions are based on an objective assessment of the reliability and integrity of the supplier or Staff affected by industrial restructuring plans who have received subcontractor, as well as the overall value of their offer relative to both outplacement support: 19. ORGANIZATION OF WORKING HOURS shortand long-term considerations and objectives. Buyers from the Group’s Purchasing Center, with local contacts for some products, must also take the importance of their role in the local ecosystem 2 Number of hours worked: 15,084,055 ✔. into account. Considering the local impact is an inherent part of Absenteeism rate: 4.42% (excl. Canada). all Bonduelle’s activities (see Section 2.3.3 Optimizing transport, page 44). Lastly, relations with suppliers must take place in a climate REMUNERATION AND DEVELOPMENT of mutual trust, placing people first and based on simplicity. Amount of remuneration paid (long-term, short-term and seasonal Bonduelle works with its partners to optimize product quality, contracts): 234,819,248 euros. while ensuring compliance with environmental and social criteria. Percentage of employees with whom performance evaluation and Although the Group’s policy is to source supplies close to centers career development interviews were held: 82.02%. of consumption, some types of product may have to be sourced from countries further afield, in particular, in Africa. In this event, Gender breakdown of the employees with whom performance the Group selects partners to work with small producers, providing evaluation and career development interviews were held: 86.29% of them with an additional revenue stream to their food producing women and 79.81% of men. activity. Bonduelle’s partners are quality-certified. They support their producers to manage and minimize the use of pesticides. This long-term partnership is one way for Bonduelle to make an effective contribution to the local economy. One of its partners, for example, 2.4.2 Commitment to civil society offers its small producers micro-credit solutions to fund such The Bonduelle Group’s commitment to society is illustrated by requirements as rental and labor costs, as well as health care for the its involvement in the value chain: sourcing policy, training and employees in its production facilities. To ensure compliance with the awareness-building incorporating environmental and social production criteria specified by Bonduelle and to support its partners criteria. as part of a continuous improvement process, our employees have a permanent presence in both structures. ■ PURCHASING POLICY ■ SHARING EXPERIENCE AND BEST Bonduelle places strong emphasis on its founding values of PRACTICES TO PROMOTE DEVELOPMENTS equity, excellence and openness during its purchases of supplies IN CULTIVATION METHODS (metal cans, cardboard boxes and packing wrap, vegetables and ingredients used in its recipes and not grown or produced by the For Bonduelle, agriculture is a vital link in the prepared vegetables Group, energy, animal products, advertising and communication, value chain. Based on its principles of support for sustainable seeds, etc.,) as well as for vegetables grown by our producer partners agriculture, since 2009 the Group and its partners have invested in (3,500, grouped into producer organizations), who are signatories of a developing a pilot program for the integrated crop management of particularly rigorous sourcing charter. field-grown vegetables. The initiative is conducted in collaboration with producers’ organizations in northern France that supply our Bonduelle’s suppliers and subcontractors must adhere strictly to facilities in Picardy, the Chambers of Agriculture in that region, all legislation regulating their activities and working environment. AgroTransfert, the Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique Moreover, this purchasing policy is reflected in the inclusion of (French National Institute for Agricultural Research – INRA), the Union environmental and social criteria in purchasing contracts (either at interprofessionnelle des légumes en conserves et surgelés (UNILET), Group level or locally), an analysis of the health risks of foodstuffs and the Fédération Régionale contres les organismes nuisibles de with a rating system and supplier mapping, and actions undertaken l’agriculture (French Regional Federation Against Harmful Organisms with can manufacturers to reduce the thickness of cans, etc. in Agriculture – FREDON) and is being run on eight farms. ✔ This indicator has been veriﬁed by the Deloitte company, see page 59 of the 2011-2012 registration document. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 51 2 Corporate social responsibility Commitments to social responsiblity and civil society Bonduelle presented the initial findings of the program, primarily on research prize for a thesis on a subject related to nutrition, open to weed control, at a pilot farm in July 2012. After three years’ work on researchers around the world. The Louis Bonduelle Foundation has vegetables and biological pests (adventitious plants, diseases, pests, committed more than 1,150,000 euros to supporting research. The etc.), practical advances enable us to recommend new practices to Foundation’s website features theoretical and practical information the benefit of the industry and enabling us to produce higher quality on changing eating habits. The information is available in English, and healthier vegetables for the consumer. French, Italian and Dutch. 2012-2013 will see the addition of Portuguese and Spanish to the site. The mechanical tools tested have resulted in the optimization of machines and a reduction in certain pesticide treatments. As part Reflecting Bonduelle’s ambition to fulfill its commitments to society in of this program, AgroTransfert published a brochure (Le désherbage all countries in which it has a presence, the Foundation is expanding mécanique des légumes en région Picardie – Mechanical weed its international reach, which included Canada and several European control of vegetables in the Picardy region) reporting on this new countries in 2011-2012. It initiates actions on a national level in these approach. It will be distributed to all producers in the region. countries, for example: Another example of our commitment is the visit in September 2011 1 in France, the foundation has teamed up with the charitable to the Woestyne farm, the birthplace of the Bonduelle Group and organization, Secours populaire français, to raise awareness now operating independently. Woestyne is still operated by members amongst disadvantaged groups of healthy eating, in a campaign of the Bonduelle family using innovative farming techniques (direct known as “Ronde des légumes” (Vegetable Round); seeding under plant cover with intermediate crops, limited use of 1 in Italy, the foundation has turned its attention to children aged 6 to pesticide products, etc.) and constantly testing ideas and best 14 to teach them about a balanced diet and where our food comes practices to ensure, once again, that the healthiest vegetables are from. The “Orto in Condotta” campaign was run in partnership with available to consumers. Slow Food. Bonduelle promotes and develops farming innovations and shares The Louis Bonduelle Foundation continues its work to create lasting the lessons learned to encourage the most environmentally-friendly changes in eating habits with a range of initiatives, including its most practices in the field. recent conference in June 2012 on “Nutrition and aging well”. The satisfaction survey filled in by participants underlines the general ■ PROMOTING HEALTHY EATING HABITS interest in this type of initiative: 86% were satisfied, with 94% stating LOCALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY that they learned something new. The Bonduelle Group’s commitment to promoting better eating For more information, go to fondation-louisbonduelle.org or see the habits dates back to 2004. presentation of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in Section 2.5.5, Promotion of better eating habits, on page 55. The Company’s Louis Bonduelle Foundation has launched an appeal for projects every six months since 2007, to support local initiatives to improve eating habits. These appeals are open worldwide and have ■ FOOD DONATIONS already resulted in support for 100 projects, with 280,000 individual Bonduelle donated 2,144 metric tons of food in 2011-2012 in France, beneficiaries for a total budget in excess of 330,000 euros. Similarly, Italy, Poland and Hungary, including canned, frozen and prepared each year since 2005, the Foundation has awarded a 10,000 euro foods, and pre-washed salad. 52 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Product responsibility 2 2.5 Product responsibility Quality is a key priority for the Bonduelle Group. Our quality policy is fundamental to ensuring consumer satisfaction and the sustainability of our business worldwide. This key commitment is reﬂected in the continuous improvement approach applied internally in the Company and with our suppliers. Bonduelle’s quality policy is implemented together with the actions undertaken by the Group to ensure customer and consumer satisfaction, primarily by providing transparent product information and efforts to increase access to healthy vegetables. In addition to high food quality, pleasure, taste and social and environmental responsibility are fundamental principles for Bonduelle in producing its products. 2 2.5.1 Quality: a priority 1 1 site is ISO 22000-certified (This standard specifies the requirements for food safety The policy implemented by Bonduelle to ensure maximum product management systems and aims to improve customer satisfaction quality is based on a process and management system under the by effectively controlling food safety hazards); control of a Quality Manager in each subsidiary. Working in a network, these Quality Managers report to a general coordinator and meet 1 24 facilities are IFS-certified once a year. Each subsidiary has a quality plan tailored to their (Private international food standard, owned by the French Food specific technological needs (canned, frozen or fresh food), and the Retail and Wholesale Federation (FCD – Fédération des entreprises requirements – particularly regulatory – applicable to their locations. du commerce et de la distribution) and its German counterpart. Quality plans are implemented at all production sites, broken down The IFS evaluates food product suppliers focusing on product into three main aspects: incoming quality control of vegetable quality and safety. The current version is IFS V6); commodities and all other supplies, production line quality control, 1 16 are BRC-certified (British Retail Consortium) and quality control of end products before dispatch. Bonduelle also (Private standard, owned by the British Retail Consortium, and very operates a continuous monitoring system. In 2011-2012, 46,500 similar to the IFS. The current version is BRC V6); quality control tests were carried out on canned foods and 17,500 on frozen. 1 4 are FSSC 22000-accredited Moreover, the Group is continuing its annual policy of renewing and (Private Foundation for Food Safety Certification standard, based upgrading optical sorters to detect the presence of foreign bodies on ISO 22000 and PAS 220 for food producers.). during the vegetable preparation process. Totaling approximately 2011-2012 also saw the addition of BRC and IFS Food Defense 500,000 euros annually, these investments are part of our program certification addressing external risks to which the production sites to reduce the use of pesticides and to promote greener farming may be exposed (malicious attacks, theft, intentional contamination, methods, which necessarily entail sorting of vegetables on receipt. etc.) and which could give rise to product dangers. Bonduelle The Bonduelle Group’s site-certification audit process is particularly conducted a risk assessment in its European facilities concerned by comprehensive. All production facilities must obtain at least one the IFS and BCR standards. of the certificates mentioned below, delivered by an accredited Regular audits are carried out to keep certification up to date: every body. 97% of Bonduelle’s production facilities have at least one three years, and every year for IFS, BRC and FSSC. ISO certification certification, i.e. 99% of the Group’s tonnage (only Cristalina in also requires an annual audit. Brazil, where operations started in 2011, is soon to embark on the certification process). The Company’s quality designations also include other specific areas (“organic”), or client-specific requirements, which are also audited by Of our quality-certiﬁed facilities, the majority are certiﬁed by the appropriate accredited external bodies. several bodies: Procurement of commodities is central to the Group’s Quality 1 15 have obtained ISO 9001 certification policy. Our vegetable producer partners sign a specific charter with (International quality management certification standard delivered the Group guaranteeing compliance with the cultivation specifications by an accredited external body. It sets out the requirements for for each vegetable species. The third version of this charter, first an effective quality management system ensuring that products established in 1996, was published in 2007. As part of our policy of comply with the requirements of customers and applicable continuous improvement, Bonduelle drew up a dedicated sourcing regulations. The most recent version is ISO 9001 V 2008); charter for suppliers of food products used in the composition Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 53 2 Corporate social responsibility Product responsibility of its recipes, but not grown directly or indirectly by the Group. In The Visa Santé initiative ensures that Bonduelle offers products addition to signing this charter, the suppliers may be subject to an whose nutritional quality is carefully controlled, by reducing salt audit to check their performance and measure compliance with their content across all product ranges, eliminating palm oil, reducing the commitments. fat content in salad dressings, etc. All Bonduelle brand products (in 2009) have been audited. Concerning purchases of vegetables, ingredients and products, Bonduelle requests quality guarantees from its suppliers (see The program’s objectives also include the development of page 51). Hence, its suppliers in Africa each have quality certification. well-thought out, simple, transparent and objective nutritional communication. The Group will therefore not put nutritional claims on the packaging of “prepared and gourmet” foods. 2.5.2 Product composition Visa Santé was launched by general management and, in addition to the Nutrition Department, now involves engineers in the Quality and nutritional quality Department, R&D and subsidiary marketing departments. In all, more Bonduelle constantly endeavors to incorporate sound nutritional than 100 employees are involved in this mature, cross-disciplinary principles and environmentally-friendly practices in its products. project, which constitutes one of the Group’s ongoing, day-to-day commitments. In line with this priority and to supplement its quality policy, the Group introduced a product development charter in each of its subsidiaries, Guided by the same principles, in May 2012, the Group’s R&D exceeding regulatory requirements. These charters were reviewed Department and Bonduelle Food Service launched MARELLE during FY 2011-2012. (www.marelle-repasequilibres.com) as a tool for planning balanced meals and menus in accordance with the recommendations of the They set out the list of ingredients and additives banned from the GEMRCN (Groupe d’étude des marchés de restauration collective composition of our products. For example, Bonduelle products do et de nutrition – French Working Group on institutional food service not contain GMOs. The removal of palm oil from all items produced contracts and nutrition) for school catering. This work received the and marketed by Bonduelle is almost complete (with the exception recognition of the French Ministry for Agriculture, Agri-foods and of flavorings essential for certain recipes, which still contain palm oil). Forests, and the project was awarded the PNA (French National Another project initiated during the past financial year is also aimed Program for Food) logo. at reducing or limiting additives used in recipes. Based on the categories defined by the program, Bonduelle either bans certain additives or works to minimize others. 2.5.3 Consumer information Nutritional quality is a key priority for the Group. 2008 saw the launch of Visa Santé, a continuous improvement initiative built around and satisfaction reviewing and optimizing our products. All Bonduelle products provide the consumer information required Visa Santé is organized around four essential points: under European law. Bonduelle voluntarily embarked on group-2 nutritional labeling of its products in 2004 in the interests of 1 a nutritional audit of the Bonduelle product range: the Group’s transparency. In addition to the information on group-1 labels Nutrition Department has prepared a reference framework of (calorific value, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids), group-2 labels nutritional values related to recommendations on the quantity also include saturated fats, sugars, dietary fiber and sodium content. and quality of salt, sugar and fat content in food. 1,158 products – from across the range – were analyzed by the Group’s Nutrition All of this information is now mandatory under the European Food Department to determine if they were in line with the recommended Information Regulation, No. 1169/2011, which became effective on nutritional values; December 13, 2011. The general provisions of the regulation will be applicable in 2014. 1 classification of products into three “nutrition” groups, according to their levels of certain nutrients: Since the Company has long-established labeling practices in place, more than 80% of its product packaging already provides • “raw products, that have undergone minimum processing”, the mandatory information under this new regulation. Bonduelle • “lightly cooked vegetables”, goes further and presents the RDA (Recommended Daily Allowance) • “prepared and gourmet products”; of minerals and vitamins on the majority of its containers (size of container permitting) to encourage a varied diet and a healthy lifestyle. 1 reformulating recipes: the 200 recipes that did not meet the nutritional standards were reviewed by the development In each country where it has a presence, Bonduelle’s customer departments in the respective subsidiaries; service departments focus on customer satisfaction, respond to complaints from consumers and pass information on to their quality 1 all new vegetable products developed must meet a number of Managers. Complaints may relate to the presence of a foreign body, minimum criteria defined by Visa Santé. 54 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Product responsibility 2 an imbalance in vegetable mixtures in the package, packaging As soon as the alarm was raised, Bonduelle mobilized its resources anomalies, etc. to ensure that its products posed no risk to health, mainly thanks to the full traceability of its supplies and deliveries. Bonduelle has an international complaints monitoring system to ensure that corrective measures are introduced as quickly as This unprecedented situation, which did not concern any Group possible. products, nonetheless illustrated its ability to manage a crisis in terms of both its investigation of the potential causes and communications Where there is a risk to human health, Bonduelle activates its with its customers and suppliers. emergency procedure, the effectiveness of which was demonstrated early in 2011 during the scare caused by the presence of the E-coli bacteria in some vegetables. 2.5.4 Indicators 2 Total quality control personnel 537 employees (full-time equivalent), of which: 8.8% work in the quality departments of subsidiaries and in the Purchasing Department 35.2% work in the quality departments at production facilities 37.3% work in quality control on production lines 18.6% work in quality control of incoming produce Certiﬁed factories 15 are ISO 9001 certified 31 are BRC and/or IFS and/or FSSC 22000 certified 10 produce certified “organic” products Customer services 1 Customer Services Department operates in each country Labeling 78% of brand labeling provides information on nutrition Fruit & vegetable purchasing 98 suppliers have signed the simplified charter (i.e. 46%) 253 phyto and TME analyses carried out, of which 100% were in compliance 42 suppliers have been audited (i.e. 20%) 132 suppliers have been assessed (i.e. 62%) 2.5.5 Promotion of better eating the Bonduelle Group: Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation and Chairman of the Bonduelle Group, Jeanhabits: Louis Bonduelle Bernard Bonduelle, director of External Relations and Sustainable Foundation Development, Laurence Depezay, Nutrition Manager, and Christophe Château, director of Corporate Communications and Marketing. Created in 2004, the Louis Bonduelle Foundation was born of the Group’s desire to contribute to the debate on healthy eating and to The three pillars of the Foundation’s work are: demonstrate its commitment to nutrition. The aim of the Foundation 1 inform and raise awareness, providing practical tools and is to contribute to long-term change in eating habits by focusing information on vegetables on its website, www.fondationon vegetables and their benefits. It is administered by a Board of louisbonduelle.org for teachers, health professionals, journalists Directors with seven voluntary members: 3 independent members and the general public; chosen for their expertise in the areas in which the foundation works 1 support research, with a research prize awarded to support work (Béatrice de Reynal, Nutritionist, Marie-Laure Frelut, Pediatrician on a thesis each year, as well as an annual grant to a childhood and member of the European Childhood Obesity Group, Jeanobesity research group. The Foundation is also the co-founder Charles Fruchart, Doctor of Human Biology and President, of the Fondation Cœur et Artères (Healthy Heart and Arteries International Atherosclerosis Society), and four representatives of Foundation), recognized for its work in the public interest. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 55 2 Corporate social responsibility Product responsibility 1 initiatives on the ground to improve eating habits, carefully targeted 1 Lunch-discussion at the European Parliament in Brussels. at groups most in need, such as children or disadvantaged groups, 1 Launch of actions in partnership with Age Platform Europe. to make sure that vegetables form an important part of a healthy diet. 1 Launch of “Orto in Condotta” for children (aged 6-14) in Italy. Some key examples of the Foundation’s work include: 2010-2011 2004-2005 1 Launch of the Foundation in Canada. 1 Launch of the Foundation in France. 1 Launch of the partnership with Rural Retirement Homes (MARPA) for the Art and Nature project. 1 Launch of Vegetable Day. 1 Foundation recognized by health professionals (1) 1 Launch of the Louis Bonduelle Research Prize. Highlights of the 2011-2012 financial year included: 1 Launch of the Foundation’s website. 1 an exhibition and conference at the European Parliament in 1 Co-founding of the Fondation Cœur et Artères (Healthy Heart and Brussels in November 2011 to present the Foundation’s aims and Arteries Foundation), recognized for its work in the public interest. actions. The conference was sponsored by MEP Sophie Auconie 2005-2006 on “Eat well to live well?” examining the impact of new eating habits and lifestyles on peoples’ health; 1 Launch of the Foundation in Italy. 1 First initiatives to raise awareness of healthy eating amongst 1 the Fifth Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference was entitled “Food and Healthy Aging”. The conference brought together Bonduelle employees. leading experts, researchers and health professionals to debate 1 Launch of “Les Robins du potager” (“Heads of the Vegetable eating habits amongst older people, according to such issues as Garden”) for children (aged 9 to 11) in France. social differences, changes in sensory perception, etc.; 1 Launch of “Amici per la Tavola” for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. 1 the Louis Bonduelle Research Prize was awarded to Eloïse Remy, 2006-2007 at the Centre des sciences du goût et de l’alimentation (Center for Taste and Food Science) at the French National Institute for 1 Launch of the Foundation in Belgium and the Netherlands. Agricultural Research (INRA) in Dijon, for the study entitled “Factors 1 Launch of “Het Groente & Fruit Lab” in the Netherlands for children influencing children’s eating behavior and food preferences”, and aged 4 to 12. to Nathalie MICHELS, Department of Public Health, University of Ghent in Belgium for the “Longitudinal Study to assess the 1 Launch of “Légumes 2000” (Vegetables 2000) for young adults in influence of stress on eating habits and body composition in France. primary school children”; 2007-2008 1 the awarding of the ECOG (European Childhood Obesity Group) 1 First international calls for proposals. and Louis Bonduelle prizes to the team in the Nutrition Department 1 First Louis Bonduelle Foundation Conference organized in Paris. at John Moores University in Liverpool, UK for its research into the eating habits of children in Liverpool; 1 Launch in France of initiatives in partnership with the Secours populaire français, the Ronde des légumes (Vegetable Round) 1 the collaboration with the French Ministry for Food and Agriculture project. as part of the French National Program for Food (PNA) to devise a training course for the creation of a mobile vegetable garden with 1 Launch of “5ive” for children (aged 6-12) in Italy. children or adults; 2009-2010 1 the success of the Foundation’s website, with more than 35,000 1 Launch of the European Childhood Obesity Group and the Louis visitors on average per month. Bonduelle Research Prize. 1 Extension of the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in France for a period of 99 years. (1) (OpinionWay study conducted in France for the Louis Bonduelle Foundation in October 2009 and again in May 2011. Aided brand awareness up 16 points, to 49%. Favorable opinion up 19 points, to 100%.) 56 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Reporting: Note on sustainable development reporting methodology 2 2.6 Reporting: Note on sustainable development reporting methodology 2.6.1 Reporting context Managers of the five areas concerned (transport, quality-nutrition, agriculture, natural resources, People and safety). Together, they and objectives The analysis of Bonduelle’s sustainable development performance is coordinate an international network drawing on a Group-wide, multilingual reference base (seven languages). 2 reported annually in this registration document, which supplements Indicators are selected according to the requirements of the Global the Review of Operations and Sustainable Development report. Reporting Initiative (GRI), the specific challenges of the Bonduelle Group’s activities and stakeholders’ demands. Metrics are gathered Bonduelle set out its commitment to progress in sustainable every year by coordinators in each subsidiary and, since FY 2011development in 2002-2003, using a traditional phase-based project 2012, are uploaded to the Group’s “e-space” data-exchange Intranet management methodology: platform. The data are then validated by the relevant Managers. 1 phase 1: set and validate objectives and communicate them Data relating to natural resources are validated by plant directors throughout the organization; and/or management controllers at each production site. The 1 phase 2: implement progress plans to achieve these objectives; reporting procedure is as follows: the Natural Resources coordinator, 1 phase 3: measure and monitor the results: relevant Managers in charge of the process, draws up a standard reporting format (using have drawn up lists of indicators for Bonduelle’s sustainable Excel) for all entities within the scope of consolidation, together development priority areas, in association with their exchange with a user guide setting out the rules and associated definitions. networks and approved by the operating departments. These These two items form part of the Group’s multilingual reference indicators have been chosen on the basis of a combination materials and must comply with the Bonduelle Group’s annual of Bonduelle’s sustainable development commitments and reporting management and distribution procedure. Reporting data GRI version 3 guidelines, and have led to the development of are managed and consolidated in a database overseen by the Bonduelle’s own reporting guidelines. Group Management Control Department. Consistency checks and data analysis are undertaken by the data coordinator and the Group The Group has issued a Review of Operations and Sustainable Management Control Department. Reporting data for People and Development Report since 2002-2003, based on the financial year, safety are provided by the human resources contacts at each site namely this year from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012 for this year. The for consolidation and validation by the Managers of the three areas, indicators published in the Review of Operations and Sustainable France, Europe excluding France and Outside Europe. The data is Development Report cover two years (i.e. the current and previous then further consolidated by the People and safety Manager. years) and the indicators published in the registration document cover the year just ended. The in-house tools used for social reporting are: The primary aim of comprehensive reporting is to enable the Group 1 database tools: COGNOS; to enhance sustainability management. With this in mind, the findings 1 training management tool: FOEDERIS; are analyzed by the Sustainable Development Steering Committee and the Bonduelle Group Management Committee to determine the 1 pay inteAFRces: ARCOLE, HOROQUARTZ, CEGID, ADP GSI. objectives for the following year. The 2011-2012 registration document was prepared in accordance with GRI application level B+ guidelines and was verified by the GRI 2.6.3 Reporting scope (version 3.1 of the GRI Food Sector Supplement, see certification Sustainable development reporting extends to all Bonduelle Group on page 217, at the end of this registration document). To include sites and subsidiaries (see list on page 14). The reporting scope is external validation of reporting reliability, for this financial year the governed by the following rules: reporting process and 18 indicators were also checked by Deloitte, Joint Statutory Auditors (see assurance advice on page 59). 1 new sites and subsidiaries acquired during the financial year ended will be included within the scope for the following year; 1 sites and subsidiaries either disposed of or no longer in operation 2.6.2 Reporting procedure during the year ended are excluded from the scope for the entire period, to enable comparability of results; The Group’s director of External Relations and Sustainable Development is responsible for oversight of reporting, aided by the Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 57 2 Corporate social responsibility Reporting: Note on sustainable development reporting methodology 1 equity-accounted companies (see Note 31 List of Group 2.6.4 Indicators companies) – are excluded from the scope. Their activities are reported as external purchasing; 1 logistic centers are also excluded from the reporting scope, with ■ DESCRIPTION OF INDICATORS VERIFIED the exception of transport, and People and safety; BY DELOITTE 1 similarly, the headquarters of fully-consolidated companies (see HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS Note 31 List of Group companies) are excluded from the scope, The scope of social and safety indicators in terms of the Group’s with the exception of People and safety. workforce is as follows: The following changes to the scope took place during the 20112012 year: 1 workforce on June 30: permanent; 1 in July 2011, the Bonduelle and Ardo groups decided to create a 1 number of departures: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal + others (trainees); production joint venture in Spain. The Benimodo site was removed from the reporting scope; • of which, resignations: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal + others (trainees), 1 in March 2012, Bonduelle took effective control of three processing facilities and a frozen vegetables packaging facility in the United • of which, dismissals: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal States. The Bergen, Oakfield, Brockport and Fairwater sites will be + others (trainees). added to the reporting scope in 2012-2013; Ended fixed-term and seasonal contracts are not included in the 1 in March 2012, the Bonduelle Group took effective control of the “Number of departures”. industrial and commercial assets of the Cecab cooperative group Permanent employees due to leave the Company on June 30 are and, in particular, the Russian plant at Timachevsk, which will be included in both workforce to date and departures (27 employees on added to the reporting scope in 2012-2013; fixed-term and permanent contracts). 1 in May 2012, the Group strengthened its agro-industrial presence 1 number of transfers: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal in Central Europe with the acquisition of a Hungarian cannery at + others (trainees); Nyiregyhaza, which will be added to the reporting scope in 20122013. 1 number of hours worked: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal + others (trainees, external workers); There are no items specific to the quality-nutrition and agriculture scopes in FY 2011-2012. 1 accident frequency rate: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal + others (trainees, external workers); Transport has been included in Bonduelle’s sustainable development strategy since 2007-2008. Data will be added to Group-wide data on 1 accident severity rate: permanent +non-permanent + seasonal + others (trainees, external workers). Work-related illnesses are a gradual basis. Accordingly, the operational scope of reporting for taken into account in calculating the accident severity rate; transport in 2011/2102 is defined as: 1 number of work-related accidents: permanent + non-permanent 1 the transport activities of Bonduelle Conserve International, + seasonal + others (trainees, external workers); Bonduelle Frais International and Bonduelle Champignon, i.e. upstream agricultural activities, distribution and inter-site flows, 1 number of days lost: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal are included in the scope; + others (trainees, external workers); 1 distribution and inter-site flow activities for Bonduelle Traiteur 1 number of training hours: permanent + non-permanent + seasonal International and Bonduelle Surgelé International are included in + others; the scope; NATURAL RESOURCES INDICATORS 1 distribution activities for Bonduelle Development are included in the scope; Indicators are the result of quantitative measurements (invoices, weight, meter readings, etc.). If no direct quantitative measure is 1 the activities of Bonduelle North America are not yet included in available, data may be estimated according to calculation rules duly the transport scope. described and validated by the production facilities. The operational scope of natural resources reporting in 2011-2012 Subcontractors’ energy consumption, such as the boiler operators, is is defined as: included in the volume of gas consumed by the relevant production 1 five Bonduelle Champignon sites are excluded from the scope sites, and not in the volume of steam consumed by the plant. due to the recent integration of this activity in the Group, and the Renewable energies (for example, the biogas produced on site or challenges it poses in terms of alignment of and familiarization with close by) and consumed by on-site boilers are included along with reporting procedures; fossil fuels. 1 the Group’s logistic centers are also excluded from natural resources reporting, since they have minimal impact on this area. 58 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate social responsibility Reporting: Note on sustainable development reporting methodology 2 2.6.5 Reporting schedule Date Action Department March 2012 Update of reference frameworks, principally including Area Managers to Group management control the explanations concerning GRI indicators, to comply with GRI Guidelines 3.1 April 2012 Translation of reference frameworks and data-collection Group management control tools, and update May 2012 May 2012 Dissemination of data-collection tools Distribution of data-collection tools Group management control to subsidiaries Site/area subsidiary coordinator 2 July 2012 Gathering and escalation of information Subsidiary sites/areas to the subsidiary coordinator August 2012 Escalation of information Subsidiary coordinator to Group management control August 2012 Consolidation at Group level by area and validation of Group management control to area Managers consolidation September 2012 Validation of the registration document and detailed Area Managers to Group communications and Group management charts management control For all questions relating to the content of this report, please contact: developpement_durable@Bonduelle.com. The most recent published Development report is included in the Bonduelle Group’s registration document, available on www.Bonduelle.com as of October 25, 2011. 2.6.6 Limited assurance report understood that the conclusions set out below apply only to the data, and not to all of the social and environmental indicators published in on certain social and the registration document. environmental indicators published in the registration ■ NATURE AND SCOPE OF OUR WORK document for the year ended We performed our work in accordance with the ISAE 3000 standard, June 30, 2012 as well as the applicable professional standards. Our work included, for the selected data, an evaluation of the standards used in In our capacity as Independent Auditors, in addition to being Joint terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and Statutory Auditors of your Company, and in response to your request, comprehensibility. we performed a review aimed at enabling us to express limited assurance in respect of certain social (1) and environmental (2) indicators We carried out the review set out below, in order to express limited (“the data”) selected by the Group from the Bonduelle registration assurance that the data selected did not include any material document for the year ended June 30, 2012 (Sections 2.3 and 2.4). misstatement. The higher “reasonable” level of assurance would have required more extensive work. The data were prepared under the responsibility of the External Relations and Sustainable Development Department and the For the data selected, we: Human Resources Department, and in accordance with the internal 1 conducted interviews with the External Relations and Sustainable protocol for measuring and reporting social data, available from the Development Department, the Human Resources Department, Group Human Resources Department, and the internal protocol and a selection of sites (3) with the persons concerned by the for measuring and reporting environmental data, available from the application of the Standards; External Relations and Sustainable Development Department (the 1 assessed, using surveys, at the nominated subsidiaries, the “Standards”). A summary of these protocols appears on page 57 application of the Standards and the reliability of the data collected of the registration document and states the limits inherent to the in relation to the relevant documentary evidence, and carried out measurement of certain indicators. These protocols can be obtained consistency tests on the data consolidation. The subsidiaries from Bonduelle on request. Our task, based on our work, was to nominated for review represent 24% of the Group’s workforce, and express limited assurance with regard to the selected data, it being between 18% and 69% of the environmental data. (1) The audit covered the “total Group” ﬁgure for 2011-2012 for the following social indicators: number of permanent staff at June 30, number of new long-term contracts, number of new short-term contracts, number of employees who left during the year, number of employees dismissed, number of employees who resigned during the year, number of employee transfers, number of training hours, and the accident frequency and severity rate. (2) The audit covered the “total Group” ﬁgure for 2011-2012 for the following environmental indicators: water consumption, electricity consumption, natural gas consumption, and production of waste (ordinary, hazardous, green). (3) Subsidiaries: Renescure (France), Estrées BCI (France), Estrées BSI (France), Genas (France), Nagykőrös (Hungary). Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 59 2 Corporate social responsibility Reporting: Note on sustainable development reporting methodology To help us in this work, we consulted experts in social corporate Based on our work, and subject to the reservation expressed above, responsibility at our firm. we did not find anything that would suggest that the data selected were not prepared, in all significant aspects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Standards. ■ CONCLUSION Notwithstanding the conclusion expressed above, we wish to draw We have a reservation to express with regard to the following data: your attention to the fact that the parameters of the social indicators 1 the indicator “number of training hours” includes an element of for each contract type vary according to the indicator. The various significant uncertainty due to the heterogeneous nature of the parameters are described in the note on methodology. information reported, related to the fact that this indicator is not defined in the reporting standards. Lille, October 9, 2012 Joint Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-Yves MORISSET 60 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 3 Corporate governance 3.1 Administrative 3.4 Report of the Supervisory and executive management Board 71 and control bodies 62 Shareholder structure 62 3.5 Report of the Chairman of Bonduelle SCA 63 the Supervisory Board AFR 72 Bonduelle SAS 63 3.6 Statutory Auditors’ report 3.2 Information regarding drawn up pursuant to Corporate Ofﬁcers 65 Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial 3.3 Additional information Code on the report regarding the management of the Chairman and supervisory bodies 68 of the Supervisory Board AFR 77 Positions held by Corporate Officers of the Company in other companies over the last five years 68 Special information regarding the directors and officers of the Company 70 Conflicts of interest involving the Management Board and the Supervisory Board 70 Transactions with related parties 71 Service agreements 71 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 61 3 Corporate governance Administrative and executive management and control bodies 3.1 Administrative and executive management and control bodies LONG-TERM PRIORITY Bonduelle’s shareholding structure has a large family dimension that provides the Group with stability and continuity as it pursues its corporate mission: placing vegetables at the heart of our diets while fostering growth and sustainable development. Shareholder structure Employees 3 famillies: Other families: Free ﬂoat: + treasury shares: 100% 24.67% 37.72% 9.98% Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS Bonduelle SCA General Partner: French limited partnership with shares: 27.63% 99.99% Chairman: Christophe Bonduelle Manager: Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS Bonduelle SAS Chairman: Christophe Bonduelle Chief Executive Ofﬁcer: Daniel Vielfaure Industrial and commercial subsidiaries 62 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Administrative and executive management and control bodies 3 Bonduelle SCA Bonduelle SAS ■ THE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP WITH SHARES ■ EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HAS TWO CATEGORIES OF PARTNER: The Executive Committee brings together the directors of Bonduelle 1 the company Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, owned by three subsidiaries in Europe and outside Europe, the Executive Management, families, is the General Partner, and therefore has joint and and the heads of finance, human resources, and external relations several unlimited liability for the Company’s obligations. Elected and sustainable development. For the implementation of policies from among the Company’s members, the Ownership Strategy relating to European subsidiaries, this Committee is supported by Committee has eight members and is responsible for deciding on the European Operating Committee (EOC), which comprises the the ownership options of the family General Partners; its members directors of this region’s subsidiaries and the heads of the Central are also directors of Bonduelle SAS; Services who are members of the Executive Committee. 1 the liability of the shareholder Partners (other family members, Members: free float, employees + treasury shares) is the same as that of the 1 Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman shareholders of a limited company: it is limited to the amount that they put into the Company. 1 Daniel Vielfaure, Chief Executive Officer ■ THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 1 Evert Jan Mink, Agro-industrial director European subsidiaries 3 It is responsible for monitoring the management of the Company on 1 Philippe Carreau, Chief Executive Officer, Bonduelle Conserve an ongoing basis (reviewing the financial statements, assessing the International conduct of Company business) on behalf of the shareholder partners. 1 Pascal Bredeloux, Chief Executive Officer, Bonduelle Food Service The composition of the Supervisory Board (whose eight members 1 Jérôme Bonduelle, Chief Executive Officer, Bonduelle Champignon are independent) ensures that it has the expertise, independence and availability to accomplish its duties and represent the interests 1 Patrick Néaume, Chief Executive Officer, Bonduelle Traiteur of shareholders. International and Bonduelle Frais International Members: Subsidiaries outside Europe 1 André Crespel, Chairman 1 Benoît Bonduelle, Bonduelle Development 1 Daniel Bracquart, Vice Chairman 1 Louis Frenette, Bonduelle North America 1 Louis Bonduelle Central Services 1 Élisabeth Minard 1 Jean-Bernard Bonduelle, director of External Relations and Sustainable Development 1 Isabelle Danjou 1 Bruno Rauwel, director of Human Resources 1 Yves Tack 1 Grégory Sanson, Chief Financial Officer 1 Marie-France Tisseau 1 Matthieu Duriez ■ AUDIT COMMITTEE Set up by the Supervisory Board, this Committee is responsible for reviewing the financial statements, evaluating internal controls and assessing the annual audit programs for the Statutory Auditors. Members: 1 Yves Tack, Chairman 1 André Crespel 1 Daniel Bracquart 1 Marie-France Tisseau Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 63 3 Corporate governance Administrative and executive management and control bodies ■ BOARD OF DIRECTORS ■ COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Board of Directors mainly comprises members of the Bonduelle The Compensation Committee, which is entirely independent, family. It is responsible for defining the Company’s strategy and decides on the systems and levels of compensation of the directors investment policy. and officers of Bonduelle SAS and employees who are members of the Bonduelle family. It also provides an opinion on compensation Members: policy for certain other Senior Managers. 1 Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman Members: 1 Jean-Bernard Bonduelle 1 Daniel Bracquart 1 Benoît Bonduelle Former Chairman of the Executive Board of Bonduelle, 1 Philippe Vasseur Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA; 1 Pierre Deloffre 1 José-Maria Aulotte 1 Thomas Derville Director of Human Resources of Arc International; 1 Jérôme Bonduelle 1 Yves Delloye 1 Guillaume Debrosse Associate director of Transearch; 1 Hubert Mulliez 1 Antoine Fiévet 1 François Bonduelle Chairman of the Executive Board of Unibel; 1 Marc Bonduelle 1 Thomas Derville Former Chairman of Amora-Maille. 64 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Information regarding Corporate Ofﬁcers 3 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Ofﬁcers Christophe BONDUELLE Chairman and Chief Executive Office of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Chairman of Bonduelle SAS Manager of Bonduelle SCA Chairman of Bonduelle Canada First appointed: 06/17/1995 Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Central Europe Open-ended appointment Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle Iberica Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle Italia 9,762 shares held on own account (1) Chairman of Bonduelle Limited Nationality: French Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Nederland BV Director of Bonduelle Nordic Director of Bonduelle Northern Europe Chairman of Bonduelle Ontario Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Polska 3 Director of Bonduelle Portugal Chairman of Terricole Director of Credit Du Nord bank Manager of Chanvoleau SCI Manager of l’Amirauté, a non-profit association Chairman of Bonduelle US Holding Chairman of Bukh Limited Chairman of Bonduelle USA Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle SA de CV Manager of the Groupement Forestier de Bellebrune Manager of Etienfort, a non-profit association Manager of the Groupement Foncier Agricole des Calinques Louis BONDUELLE Has performed a variety of roles in the supermarket retail and food Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA service sectors. Independent member Currently Central Purchasing director at a subsidiary of a distribution First appointed: 12/04/2008 group. Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2013 Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 30,000 shares held on own account (1) Nationality: French Daniel BRACQUART Director of ID Group SA Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA Manager of Jutiver SCI Member of the Audit Committee Performed the following successive roles between 1975 and late Independent member 2002: Engineer, Plant director, Industrial director, Chief Executive First appointed: 12/10/2003 Officer and Chairman of the Executive Board of the Bonduelle Group. Retired in July 2004. Since then has worked as a company director Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2012 and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Member of the Audit Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the 7,296 shares held on own account (1) Bonduelle Group. Nationality: French (1) Shares held by the named individual, excluding shares held via a company, in accordance with the provisions of the Afep-Medef Code. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 65 3 Corporate governance Information regarding Corporate Ofﬁcers André CRESPEL Spent two years at Crédit Lyonnais, followed by 36 years at the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA L’Oréal Group in the following roles: Member of the Audit Committee 1 Purchasing Manager at Laboratoires Roja Independent member 1 Purchasing and Product Development Manager, Garnier First appointed: 12/10/2003 1 Manager of “Corporate” purchasing for the Group’s “luxury” division Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2012 Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 9,691 shares held on own account (1) Nationality: French Isabelle DANJOU Holds a doctorate in management science, was Research director Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA at ESC Lille business school from 1998 to 2006 and had a book Independent member published by L’Harmattan entitled: “Entreprendre, la passion d’accomplir ensemble” (“Enterprising: the passion for achieving First appointed: 12/07/2006 together”) Since then, has worked as a consultant and trainer in Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2012 human relations. Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 3,005 shares held on own account (1) Nationality: French Élisabeth MINARD Head of a textile company from 1975 to 2008. Has devoted herself to Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA painting since 2008. Independent member Member of the Maison des Artistes and exhibits her work in a number First appointed: 12/02/2010 of galleries. Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2013 Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 11,710 shares held on own account (1) Nationality: French Yves TACK Director of Sedev SA Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA Chairman of Massai SAS Chairman of the Audit Committee Manager of Dumaco Independent member Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI First appointed: 12/01/2004 Chairman of Verywear SA Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2013 Partner-Manager of Girls, a non-profit association Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France Partner-Manager of Team TT, a non-profit association 1,000 shares held on own account (1) Manager of Totem SARL Nationality: Belgian Spent the first ten years of his career in the United States, working in financial analysis and portfolio management. Formed Dessauer & Tack Asset Management in Boston, before founding Global Equities in Paris and becoming Equity Department director at BNP Paribas Capital Markets in London. Returning to his native northern France, directed Participex, a listed expansion and buyout capital company, until it was sold to Crédit Agricole. Currently a consultant to various family-owned companies advising on their strategic direction, in terms of both operations and capital structure. Also Chairman of the Business Angels club in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region and Regional Representative of the French directors’ Institute. (1) Shares held by the named individual, excluding shares held via a company, in accordance with the provisions of the Afep-Medef Code. 66 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Information regarding Corporate Ofﬁcers 3 Marie-France TISSEAU A law graduate specializing in Business Law. From 1970 to 2008, Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA worked in Paris as Legal Advisor, then Legal Counsel, specializing in Member of the Audit Committee Corporate Law and Tax Law for family-owned companies and French subsidiaries of foreign companies. Retired on April 1, 2008 Independent member First appointed: 12/08/2011 Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2014 Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 9,357 shares held on own account (1) Nationality: French Matthieu DURIEZ Manager of Duriez Amo SARL Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle SCA Chairman of Duriez Invest SAS Independent member Chairman of Amo Développement SAS First appointed: 12/08/2011 Trained as an architect and worked in this capacity for 15 years. Term of office expires: Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 2014 Property developer and project management assistant since 2002. Based in “La Woestyne”, 59173 Renescure, France 5,265 shares held on own account (1) Formed Amo Developpement in 2009. 3 Nationality: French (1) Shares held by the named individual, excluding shares held via a company, in accordance with the provisions of the Afep-Medef Code. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 67 3 Corporate governance Additional information regarding the management and supervisory bodies 3.3 Additional information regarding the management and supervisory bodies Positions held by Corporate Ofﬁcers of Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle SA and DG the Company in other companies over Chairman of Bonduelle Canada the last ﬁve years Manager of BFP GmbH Manager of Bonduelle Deutschland Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Food Service Italia ■ GENERAL PARTNER: CHRISTOPHE BONDUELLE Director of Bonduelle Frais France Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Iberica Manager of Bonduelle SCA Chairman of Bonduelle Italia 2007-2008 Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Limited Chairman of the Management Board of P & B Bonduelle SAS Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Nederland BV Director of Baie d’Audierne SA (now La Plaine) Director of Bonduelle Nordic Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle SA and DG Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Northern Europe Chairman of Aliments Carrière (now Bonduelle Canada) Chairman of Bonduelle Ontario Chairman of Aliments Carrière Ontario (now Bonduelle Ontario) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Polska Manager of BFP GmbH Director of Bonduelle Portugal Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Belgium (now Bonduelle Advisor to Fresco Italia Northern Europe) Director of Conserven Picolo Manager of Bonduelle Deutschland Director of La Corbeille Groep Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Food Service Italia Director of La Corbeille Industrie Director of Bonduelle Frais France Director of La Corbeille SA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Iberica Chairman of Terricole Chairman of Bonduelle Italia Director of Lesaffre & Cie Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Limited Manager of Chanvoleau SCI Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Nederland BV Manager of L’Amirauté, a non-profit association Chairman of Bonduelle Nordic 2009-2010 Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Polska Chairman of the Management Board of P & B Bonduelle SAS Director of Bonduelle Portugal Director of La Plaine Advisor to Fresco Italia Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle SA and DG Chairman of Terricole Chairman of Bonduelle Canada Manager of Chanvoleau SCI Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Central Europe Manager of L’Amirauté, a non-profit association Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle Iberica 2008-2009 Chairman of Bonduelle Italia Chairman of the Management Board of P & B Bonduelle SAS Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Limited Director of La Plaine Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Nederland BV 68 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Additional information regarding the management and supervisory bodies 3 Director of Bonduelle Nordic Director of Bongrain SA Director of Bonduelle Northern Europe Manager of Habedia SARL Chairman of Bonduelle Ontario 2008 TO 2010 Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Polska Director of Continentale Nutrition Director of Bonduelle Portugal Manager of Jutiver SCI Advisor to Fresco Italia Manager of Habedia SARL Director of La Corbeille Groep 2010-2011 Chairman of Terricole Manager of Habedia SARL Member of the Supervisory Board of Champiloire Manager of Jutiver SCI Director of Lesaffre & Cie Manager of Chanvoleau SCI ■ ANDRÉ CRESPEL Manager of L’Amirauté, a non-profit association 2007 TO 2011 2010-2011 Chairman of the Management Board of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS No positions held in other companies 3 Director of La Plaine ■ ISABELLE DANJOU Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle SAS and DG 2007 TO 2011 Chairman of Bonduelle Canada No positions held in other companies Member of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Central Europe Chairman of the Board of Directors of Bonduelle Iberica ■ ÉLISABETH MINARD Chairman of Bonduelle Italia Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Limited 2007 TO 2011 No positions held in other companies Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle Nederland BV Director of Bonduelle Nordic ■ YVES TACK Director of Bonduelle Northern Europe Chairman of Bonduelle Ontario 2007 Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bonduelle Polska Representative of Colam Director of Bonduelle Portugal Co-Manager of Dumaco Chairman of Terricole Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Champiloire SA Director of Heatwave Technology SA Director of Lesaffre & Cie Director of Osyris SA Director of Credit Du Nord bank Director of Financière Devianne SAS Manager of Chanvoleau SCI Director of Devianne SA Manager of L’Amirauté, a non-profit association Director of Disport SA Director of Mag Vet SA ■ LOUIS BONDUELLE Director of Interhabillement SA Director of Mod’Est SA 2007 TO 2011 Director of Epivosges SA No positions held in other companies 2008 ■ DANIEL BRACQUART Representative of Colam Co-Manager of Dumaco 2007 Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI Director of Roquette Frères Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 69 3 Corporate governance Additional information regarding the management and supervisory bodies Director of Heatwave Technology SA Director of Ekkyo SA Director of Osyris SA Director of Verywear SA Director of Devianne SA Partner-Manager of Girls, a non-profit association Director of Disport SA Partner-Manager of Team TT, a non-profit association Director of Mag Vet SA Manager of Totem SARL Director of Carrare SA Manager of Girls, a non-profit association ■ MARIE-FRANCE TISSEAU Co-Manager of Team TT, a non-profit association 2007 TO 2011 Manager of Totem SARL No positions held in other companies 2009 Representative of Colam ■ MATTHIEU DURIEZ Co-Manager of Dumaco 2007 TO 2011 Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI No positions held in other companies Director of Ekkyo SA Director of Osyris SA Director of Devianne SA Special information regarding the Director of Disport SA directors and ofﬁcers of the Company Director of Mag Vet SA To the best of the Company’s knowledge, and on the date this document was drawn up, during the past five years none of the Director of Carrare SA directors or officers: Manager of Girls, a non-profit association 1 has been convicted of fraud; Co-Manager of Team TT, a non-profit association 1 has been involved in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation; Manager of Totem SARL 1 has been subject to incrimination or to an official public sanction handed-down by a statutory or regulatory authority; 2010 Representative of Colam 1 has been prevented by a court from acting as a member of an administrative, management or supervisory body, or from being Co-Manager of Dumaco involved in the management or oversight of an issuer’s business Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI dealings. Director of Ekkyo SA Member of the Oversight Committee of NFD SAS Conﬂicts of interest involving Director of Verywear SA the Management Board and the Director of Disport SA Supervisory Board Director of Mag Vet SA To the best of the Company’s knowledge, and on the date this Director of Carrare SA document was drawn up: Manager of Girls, a non-profit association 1 no conflict of interest has been identified between the corporate Co-Manager of Team TT, a non-profit association duties of the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board as directors and officers of the Company and Manager of Totem SARL their private interests or other duties; 2011 1 no arrangements or agreements have been made with the principal Director of Sedev SA shareholders, customers or suppliers that specify the appointment of any members of the Supervisory Board; Chairman of Massai SAS 1 the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Manager of Dumaco Board have not agreed to any restrictions regarding the sale of Manager of Le Moulin Blanc SCI their holdings in the share capital of the Company. 70 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Report of the Supervisory Board 3 Transactions with related parties Service agreements 1 compensation of the Corporate Officers. See Note 16 of the notes To the best of the Company’s knowledge, and on the date this to the annual separate financial statements; document was drawn up, there are no significant service agreements linking the members of the Company’s administrative, management 1 compensation of the directors. See Note 29 of the notes to the or supervisory bodies to the issuer or any one of its subsidiaries and annual consolidated financial statements. providing for the granting of benefits upon fulfillment of any such agreement. 3.4 Report of the Supervisory Board We are pleased to report on the control tasks that you the shareholders asked us to perform. You are therefore asked to re-appoint two members of the Supervisory Board, Ms. Isabelle Danjou and Mr. Daniel Bracquart, and to appoint 3 Mr. Martin Ducroquet, replacing Mr. André Crespel as Chairman of We were regularly informed by the Management Board on the the Supervisory Board. activities of the Bonduelle Group through our Board meetings. The Board would like to thank Mr. Crespel for his tireless contribution The Management Board provided us with all the documents required to the work of the Board and his efforts in the role of Chairman. to evaluate the performance of its obligations and to review the separate and consolidated financial statements. It also provided Subject to the adoption of the resolutions proposed at the us with all information regarding the financial statements, financial Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board will comprise three women and commitments and risks associated with the Group’s activities. five men, thereby complying in advance with the law of January 27, 2011 on the balanced representation of women and men on Boards The report of the Management Board presents the Group’s revenue of Directors and Supervisory Boards, and on equality at work, as well and earnings for the 2011-2012 financial year. The consolidated as with the provisions of the Afep-Medef code. financial statements show an increase in operating profit to 98.2 million euros, compared with 68.9 million euros the previous As was the case last year, a specific report by the Chairman of the year, and net income attributable to owners of the Company of Supervisory Board is attached to the report of the Management 46.7 million euros, compared with 30.4 million euros in 2010-2011. Board to the Shareholders on corporate governance principles, the preparation and organization of the work of the Supervisory Board The Board notes with satisfaction that, after a difficult 2010and its committees during the financial year and on the internal 2011 financial year, the Company substantially improved its control procedures implemented by the Company. profitability despite an adverse economic environment and pursued its international growth policy through three highly-promising In conclusion, we recommend that you adopt the resolutions that acquisitions with attractive financial terms. have been submitted to you and have been approved by us. The Supervisory Board supports the Management Board’s proposal to pay a dividend of 1.50 euros per share. You are asked to renew the expiring authorizations granted to the Management Board by previous Shareholders’ Meetings. At its December 4, 2008 meeting, the Supervisory Board adopted the principles of the Afep-Medef corporate governance code. While the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board do not put a limit on the renewal of terms of office, the Board intends to draw on the recommendations of the Afep-Medef code in this area. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 71 3 Corporate governance Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 3.5 Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board On the corporate governance structure, the preparation and organization of the work of the Supervisory Board and on the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company. Dear shareholders, Conditions for preparing and organizing Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 621-18-3 of the French the work of the Supervisory Board Monetary and Financial Code, as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board I am pleased to present to you, in this report, the corporate governance structure, the conditions under which the work of the ■ COMPOSITION OF THE SUPERVISORY Supervisory Board is prepared and organized and the internal control BOARD and risk management procedures implemented by the Company. In accordance with the law and the provisions of the By-laws, the Bonduelle SCA is a limited partnership with shares (société en Supervisory Board is composed of between three and eighteen commandite par actions, or SCA). These companies have two types members selected from among the shareholders who do not qualify of shareholders, known as partners: as General Partners and are neither the legal representative of the 1 the shareholder partners, who contribute equity and are liable General Partner nor the Manager of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle for the Company’s obligations only in an amount equal to their SAS. Supervisory Board members are appointed by an Ordinary contributions and who are represented by a Supervisory Board; Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of three years. 1 the General Partner shareholders, who are indefinitely and severally The Supervisory Board currently has eight members, including liable for the Company’s obligations to third parties. its Chairman, Mr. André CRESPEL, who has no other functions within the Group. The eight members of the Supervisory Board are Limited partnerships with shares are managed by one or more considered to be independent with regard to the criteria established General Partners, who are natural persons or legal entities selected by its internal Rules of Procedure, which are based on the principle from amongst the shareholder partners or independent third parties. that members of the Supervisory Board are independent and have no relationships with the Company or its management that could comprise the exercise of their freedom of judgment. While the Rules Corporate governance code of Procedure do not put a limit on the renewal of terms of office, the Board intends to draw on the recommendations of the Afep-Medef At its December 4, 2008 meeting, the Supervisory Board of the code when terms of office expire and are considered for renewal. Bonduelle Group adopted the principles of the so-called “AfepMedef” corporate governance code *. ■ REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN AND MEN ON It noted that certain provisions were not applicable in the case of a THE SUPERVISORY BOARD company structured as a limited partnership with shares and with a family-owned controlling shareholder, especially as it concerns the The Supervisory Board currently comprises three women and five role of the Supervisory Board in the decision-making process and the men. The Company has adopted in advance the recommendations role played by the Nomination and Compensation Committee of the of the Afep-Medef code and is seeking to comply with the provisions General Partner, which in the case of Bonduelle SCA is a legal entity. of the law of January 27, 2011 on the balanced representation of women and men on the Board of Directors and Supervisory Boards Moreover, the Supervisory Board includes eight members considered and equality at work, emphasizing the Company’s commitment in to be independent with regard to the criteria established by its Rules this area. of Procedure, which do not provide any restrictions with regard to the renewal of members’ terms. The Board has specified that the Afep-Medef recommendations are, in their spirit, applied in the Bonduelle SAS operating company and its French subsidiaries. * Available on the website www.medef.com under “publications/économie”. 72 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 3 ■ DUTIES OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD ■ ACTIVITIES OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD DURING THE YEAR The Supervisory Board is responsible for the permanent control of the management of the Company. These duties cover the following WORK OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD areas: Four meetings, lasting an average of four hours, were held during 1 reviewing the annual and interim separate and consolidated the financial year, in addition to a visit to two canned vegetable financial statements prepared by the Management Board; production facilities in Russia in July, including the recently1 assessing the conduct of Company business; purchased site in Timachevsk. The visits incorporated a detailed presentation of business activity in Russia and the Commonwealth 1 assessing internal control and risk management procedures; of Independent States (CIS), provided a better understanding of the 1 assessing compliance with shareholder rights. country’s specific issues and constraints and allowed visitors to meet local teams. ■ FUNCTIONING OF THE SUPERVISORY At its September 30, 2011 and February 28, 2012 meetings, the BOARD Supervisory Board reviewed the annual and interim financial statements prepared by the Management Board, and was informed To detail the conditions under which the Supervisory Board prepares of financial reporting matters, on which it offered an opinion. and organizes its work, the Board has drafted Rules of Procedure that The Supervisory Board also benefited from the specific presentations also describe the rights and obligations of its members. The Board decided to create an Audit Committee, comprised of at least three Supervisory Board members, for which the minimum made by the Management Board on the conduct of business, monitoring of Group activities and Group strategic orientations. 3 competence criteria as well as the criteria to determine the competent The characteristics of a number of innovative corporate financing member(s) of said Committee are set out in the Rules of Procedure of tools and the Group’s human resources management policy were the Supervisory Board. described by the Group’s Chief Financial Officer and director of Human Resources respectively. This Committee is charged with preparing the meetings of the Supervisory Board, notably with respect to the following points: The attendance rate at these meetings was 81.3%. 1 oversight of the preparation of financial disclosures; The Supervisory Board benefited from high-quality information and presentations. It appreciated the comprehensive nature of 1 review of the annual and interim financial statements and the information and reports presented to it, and the quality of its monitoring of the legal control by the Statutory Auditors; discussions with the Management Board. 1 review of the effectiveness of internal control and financial and The Supervisory Board reviewed its functioning and considers that operating risk management procedures, and the hedging of said it was able to exercise its control functions in a constructive manner. risks; 1 creation of review schedules of the Auditors and the internal audit WORK OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE service. For the 2011-2012 financial year the Audit Committee was composed The Supervisory Board also has a Remuneration Committee made of four members. up of one Supervisory Board member, plus a majority of members Mr. Yves TACK chaired the Committee, with the other members being from outside the Group. This Committee sets compensation levels Ms. Marie-France TISSEAU and Messrs. André CRESPEL and Daniel for Bonduelle SAS’ Executive Management and employees who BRACQUART. are members of the Bonduelle family. It also offers an opinion on It met four times during the financial year. The attendance rate was compensation policy for certain other Senior Managers. 92.9%. The By-laws stipulate that the Supervisory Board shall meet as The Committee performed the following tasks: often as required in the interests of the Company, and the Rules of Procedure set the minimum number of meetings at four. 1 in-depth review of the interim and annual financial statements; In order to be fully informed and exercise its duties, the Supervisory 1 review of the internal audit reports; Board may, at its discretion, request the participation of the Manager, 1 monitoring of the “risk mapping” procedure and action plans the Chief Executive Officers of the Group and its subsidiaries, the undertaken concerning principal identified risks; Statutory Auditors, the Chief Financial Officer of the Group and the Audit director to consolidate its reflections and ensure its mission. 1 review of the Group’s transfer pricing policy; It may also call upon outside experts or consultants of its choosing, 1 review of the Group’s financial reporting policy; with the related expense to be borne by the Company. 1 review of regulatory activity, AMF recommendations, and expected changes in IFRS; 1 distribution of work within the team of Statutory Auditors, the nature of the tasks assigned to them and their independence, Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 73 3 Corporate governance Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board together with the summary of their role in relation to the renewal b) the application of all procedures and policies established by the submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting. Management Board; The Committee also defined, in liaison with the Group’s Executive c) the smooth operation of the Company’s internal procedures, Management, the assignments and tasks of the Internal Audit especially as regards the protection of its assets; Department. d) the reliability of financial information. At its meetings, the Audit Committee heard presentations from the However, these risk management and internal control procedures Group’s Chief Financial Officer, the heads of the Group’s Financial cannot provide an absolute guarantee as to the achievement of the and Internal Audit Departments and the Statutory Auditors. Company’s objectives. The Audit Committee is pleased to note that, when providing their In fact, any internal control system is subject to inherent limits, report, the Statutory Auditors once again praised the quality of such as uncertainties regarding external conditions, the use of the organization of the closing of the accounts, the information good judgment and the cost/benefit analysis of implementing new made available and the explanations provided by the local Finance controls, or dysfunctions that can occur due to technical faults, Departments and the Bonduelle Group Finance Department. human or simple errors. The Chairman of the Committee presented a report on the Committee’s work to the Supervisory Board at its meeting of December 8, 2011. ■ ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE BONDUELLE GROUP Bonduelle SCA is a holding company whose operating activities are Internal control and risk management carried out by its subsidiary Bonduelle SAS, which comprises the procedures Group’s seven business segments and two joint ventures. The Bonduelle Group has adopted the Reference Guidelines for Bonduelle SAS manages the following tasks: internal controls published by the French Financial Markets Authority 1 oversight of equity interests, mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; (AMF) in January 2007 and updated in July 2010. 1 acquisitions; Risk management and internal control procedures are established by the Company, which takes responsibility for their implementation, 1 oversight of the Group’s overall financial policy, including financing methods; and consist of a body of resources, operating principles, procedures, and initiatives specially tailored to the specific characteristics of each 1 tax policy and implementation; Group company, which: 1 determination of compensation policies, oversight of management, 1 enables directors and officers to maintain the risks at an acceptable and training and staff development; level for the Company; 1 approval of new advertising campaigns prior to their release; 1 contributes to the management of its activities, effectiveness of its 1 corporate communications and investor, analyst and shareholder operations and efficient utilization of its resources; and relations; 1 must enable it to take appropriate action with regard to all 1 pooling of resources, such as IT, purchasing, etc.; significant operating, financial or compliance-related risks. 1 research and development programs. The specific goal of the risk management plan is to: The business segments are broken down by region or business a) create and preserve the value, assets and reputation of the activity. Each segment has its own financial resources, oversees Company by identifying and analyzing the main potential threats its own product development and is responsible for most of its to the Company; production and all of its marketing needs. b) identify the main events and situations likely to affect in a significant For each segment, the Group has defined its mission, organization, way the Company’s objectives; and contribution to essential decisions, performance measurement c) ensure actions concur with the Company’s values; and exchanges with the other segments. d) inform and mobilize the Company’s employees around a common The Group’s objectives are defined by the Management Board. understanding of the main risks. They not only involve business performance, but also areas in which the Group is striving to achieve excellence, such as human Internal control procedures are designed specifically to ensure: resources management, quality, innovation, working conditions, and a) compliance with all laws and regulations in effect; environmental protection. The goals factor in past performance, in-depth analysis and ongoing changes in the business environment. 74 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 3 The risk analysis related to business activities is an integral part of Once each quarter, Bonduelle SAS’ Executive Management, Chief the planning development process, which calls for identifying the key Financial Officer, Head of Human Resources and director of External success factors and analyzing the main assumptions used to achieve Relations and Sustainable Development meet as an internal Board these objectives. of Directors together with the Management Committee of each business segment to determine the segment’s business objectives, review its performance and set policies at segment level. Specifically, ■ PLAYERS IN THE RISK MANAGEMENT the following topics are covered: OF INTERNAL CONTROL 1 in February: First-half results The main risk management and internal control bodies are as follows: 1 in June: Budget for the following year N+1 AT GROUP LEVEL 1 in September: Annual results and investments The Executive Management of Bonduelle SAS consists of two for the following year N+1 members (a Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer), whose authority 1 in November: Three-year plan is attributed by law and the Company’s By-laws. It works collegially to ensure the Group’s operational management. FOUNDATION OF INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES The central administrative departments are responsible for applying The general operating rules handbook defines the respective areas decisions made by the Executive Management and must ensure that of responsibility and authority of the central departments and the the information presented to the latter is accurate and relevant. The Executive Committee comprises Bonduelle SAS’ Executive business segments. A formal procedure for delegating authority sets out the 3 Management, the Chief Executive Officers of the various business responsibilities of Executive Management, the management of segments, and the Chief Financial Officer, Human Resources the central departments and the Management Committees of the Manager and External Relations and Sustainable Development respective business segments. Manager of Bonduelle SAS. It reviews the Group’s sales and financial Budgetary control is based on three principles: performance and discusses all matters of interest to the Group and its subsidiaries. It met 12 times during the financial year. 1 the budget is prepared on the basis of guidelines and directives established by the Executive Management; The Group’s Internal Audit Department is part of the Bonduelle SAS Finance Department and reports to the Company’s Executive 1 the monitoring of performance through monthly reporting or Management and the Audit Committee. The audit programs meetings of the internal Board of Directors; and tasks are approved by the Executive Management and the 1 a three-year strategic plan established each year using the same Audit Committee. A report on each audit is sent to the Executive procedures for implementation as for the budget. Committee, the Audit Committee and the Operations Managers of the audited entities. Twelve audits were performed during the 2011-2012 Procedures and guidelines determine the responsibilities of each financial year at the Group’s various managerial units. Following each party and specify the operating methods and related controls. audit, an action plan is developed by the relevant operating units to The Financial Control units of Bonduelle SAS and the various correct deficiencies identified in the audit report, and the monitoring business segments are responsible for budgetary control. of these action plans is carried out by the Internal Audit Department and Operations Managers, then reviewed by the Group’s Executive Management. With a view to ensuring the ongoing improvement of ■ RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES the internal control process, the Group has implemented reviews As with any company, during the course of its business the Bonduelle focusing on the entities acquired during the financial year. These Group is exposed to a number of risks. The main methods employed reviews were carried out following the three acquisitions made in to manage and control these risks are described in Section 4.2 “Risk 2011-2012. management”. The Supervisory Board, acting on the proposal of the Audit In order to best identify these risks, the Group initiated in 2008 a Committee, is responsible for selecting the Statutory Auditors. general risk mapping project aimed at ranking the principal risks to The Group has chosen a team of Statutory Auditors that provides which the Group may be exposed, in terms of severity, likelihood, geographic and global coverage of the Group’s risks. frequency and degree of management control. AT BUSINESS SEGMENT LEVEL The results of this project were analyzed by the Group’s Executive The Management Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive Committee to ensure that all major risks have been identified and Officer and Executive Officers of the main functions. The Chief assessed, and to develop appropriate action plans and preventive Financial Officer is specifically charged with implementing internal measures. control systems to prevent and manage risks arising from the A report is made to the Supervisory Board of the roll-out of this segment’s business activities as well as those caused by errors or procedure and action plans associated with the different identified fraud. risks. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 75 3 Corporate governance Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board ■ INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES During the closing of the financial statements, the Accounting APPLICABLE TO THE PREPARATION Department audits the financial statements and works with the OF FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING Financial Control Department to analyze and explain changes in INFORMATION results from one period to the next or variances with respect to the The Group prepares interim and annual consolidated financial budget. statements. These processes are administered by the consolidation This system is complemented by the audit work of the Statutory department, which forms part of the Group’s Finance Department. Auditors for the interim and annual separate and consolidated This information is prepared in accordance with an annual schedule financial statements. provided to the subsidiaries, and the main steps are as follows: 1 monthly reporting of activity; ■ OTHER INFORMATION 1 quarterly reporting package; All items that may have an impact in the event of a public takeover offer are discussed in Sections 7.1 “Share capital” and 7.2.3 1 closing of interim and annual financial statements. “Shareholders’ agreements”. The consolidated financial statements are prepared using information provided in the form of reporting packages extracted The rules governing shareholder participation in Shareholders’ from the IT systems by each subsidiary and sent to the consolidation Meetings are set out in detail in Article 23 of the By-laws of Bonduelle department using a special software application. All transactions are SCA. Copies of these By-laws will be provided upon request by the recorded in accordance with the rules established in the Group-wide corporate registered office in Villeneuve d’Ascq. consolidation procedure manual. This report was presented to, discussed and approved by the All documents exchanged as part of the consolidation process have Supervisory Board at its September 28, 2012 meeting. been standardized for the entire group, and the related formats have been defined and disseminated to the entire group and reviewed by the Statutory Auditors. 76 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Corporate governance Statutory Auditors’ report drawn up pursuant to Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code on the report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board 3 3.6 Statutory Auditors’ report drawn up pursuant to Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code on the report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dear shareholders, In our capacity as the Statutory Auditors of Bonduelle, and pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, we hereby present to you our report on the report drawn up by the Chairman of your Company under the provisions of this Article for the financial 3 year ended June 30, 2012. It is the duty of the Chairman to draw up and submit a report for the approval of the Supervisory Board on the Company’s internal control and risk management procedures and to provide the other information required by Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, with regard notably to the Company’s corporate governance system. Our duty is to: 1 report to you any observations that we may formulate based on the information contained in the Chairman’s report regarding internal control and risk management procedures applicable to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information; and to 1 certify that the report includes all of the other disclosures required by Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, it being specified that it is not our duty to verify the accuracy of these other disclosures. We performed our work in accordance with generally accepted French auditing practices. Information regarding the internal control and risk management procedures applicable to the preparation and processing of accounting and ﬁnancial information Generally accepted French auditing practices require the use of due diligence to assess the accuracy of the information contained in the Chairman’s report regarding the internal control and risk management procedures applicable to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information. This due diligence consists in particular of: 1 examining the internal control and risk management procedures applicable to the preparation and processing of the accounting and financial data that forms the basis for the information presented in the Chairman’s report, as well as all existing documentation; 1 examining the work performed to prepare this information, as well as all existing documentation; 1 determining whether any major shortcomings in the internal controls applicable to the preparation and processing of the financial and accounting information we may have observed during our audit have been adequately disclosed in the Chairman’s report. Based on our review, we have no observation to make on the information presented regarding the Company’s internal control and risk management procedures applicable to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information contained in the Chairman of the Supervisory Board’s report, prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 77 3 Corporate governance Statutory Auditors’ report drawn up pursuant to Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code on the report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Other information We also certify that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board’s report contains all of the other disclosures required by Article L. 226-10-1 of the French Commercial Code. Lille, October 17, 2012 The Statutory Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Cécile FONTAINE Jean-Yves MORISSET 78 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year 4.1 Business and earnings AFR 80 4.2 Risk management AFR 86 4.1.1 Revenue 80 4.2.1 Financial risks 86 4.1.2 Operating profitability 80 4.2.2 Equity risk 87 4.1.3 Net income 81 4.2.3 Legal risks 87 4.1.4 Capital expenditure and research 4.2.4 Industrial and environmental risks 88 and development 81 4.2.5 Hedging of non-financial risks 89 4.1.5 Change in capital employed and working capital requirement 81 4.1.6 Borrowings and debt ratio 81 4.1.7 Highlights 82 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 79 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings INTRODUCTION The economic and ﬁnancial crisis that began in 2008 again weighed on consumption levels in 2011-2012. However, the Bonduelle Group posted revenue growth and achieved a strong recovery in proﬁtability, demonstrating the effectiveness of its multi-segment (canned, frozen, fresh), multi-brand (private label and Group brands – Bonduelle, Cassegrain, Arctic Gardens, Globus) and multi-network (retail grocery and food service sector) business diversiﬁcation strategy. The Group also has a high level of geographical diversiﬁcation, with a presence in more than 80 countries. 2011-2012 was a very busy year for the Bonduelle Group in terms of external growth and reﬁnancing operations. It expanded its international sales and agro-industrial operations with three high-potential acquisitions: commercial and industrial assets from Cecab in Russia, and industrial assets from Allens, in the frozen food segment, in the United States and from Kelet-Food in Hungary. These transactions also underlined the Group’s resilience and the validity of its business model in a competitive environment weakened by the economic conditions. In addition, the debt reﬁnancing conditions obtained in the two transactions carried out during the year – a revolving credit facility and a private bond placement for a combined total of 445 million euros – have secured the Group’s funding. The economic outlook for the next ﬁnancial year is highly uncertain and likely to be unfavorable. Nonetheless, the synergies expected to be generated from the Group’s recent external growth transactions, allied with the ongoing commitment of our sales, agro-industrial and administrative teams to enhancing our performance enable us to project revenue and proﬁtability growth for the coming ﬁnancial year, as well as the creation of long-term value. 4.1 Business and earnings 4.1.1 Revenue salads in France, the biggest market in the European area, were especially notable, and contributed to offsetting the decreasing Group revenue increased by 2.4% to 1,767 million euros in 2011-2012 volumes recorded in some markets. (July 1, 2011-June 30, 2012), compared with 1,726 million euros for the previous year. ■ OUTSIDE EUROPEAN AREA Changes in the scope of consolidation (the sale of the Frudesa and Salto frozen food brands in Spain, the acquisition of the Cecab canned Outside European Area, which has historically shown more dynamic vegetable business in Russia and the Allens frozen food business in growth, sales again saw strong growth, at 13.9%. Restated for the United States) and in exchange rates had a negative impact on changes in scope of consolidation and exchange rates, growth was revenue of 0.5% and 0.4% respectively. At same scope and constant 8.9%. This area posted growth throughout the year, while the fourth exchange rates, the Group saw growth of 3.2%, compared with a quarter was especially strong, with sales up 29.3% at constant scope rise of 0.6% at June 30, 2011, with all areas (Europe and outside and exchange rates, despite shortages of peas in North America. This Europe) and all product segments (canned, frozen, fresh) posting performance confirms the validity of the Bonduelle Group’s strategy growth during the year – a particularly noteworthy performance given of geographical diversification and expansion outside European Area. the depressed and volatile economic environment. ■ EUROPEAN AREA 4.1.2 Operating proﬁtability Revenue in the European Area was down 1.4% in 2011-2012. Current operating income increased by 25% to 100.9 million euros, Restated for changes in scope of consolidation (sale of frozen food compared with 80.7 million euros in the previous financial year. brands in Spain) and in exchange rates, growth returned to positive This growth, which had been forecast and was in line with targets, territory in Europe, at 1.3%, compared with -0.1% the previous year. stemmed from the combination of: The development of the steamed ranges of canned products in 1 satisfactory volume sales in Western and Eastern Europe, despite Europe and the excellent performances of the Bonduelle brand in shortages of certain products; retail and food service frozen ranges, bagged salads and prepared 80 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings 4 1 growth in sales by value, at constant scope and exchange rates, At the Shareholders’ Meeting scheduled for December 6, 2012, the despite below-budget volumes in North America due to the poor Management Board will propose a dividend of 1.50 euros per share, harvests of summer 2011; unchanged from the two previous years. 1 an increase in selling prices aimed at offsetting the lower prices agreed in 2010-2011 and the rise in commodity prices during the 2011 harvest; 4.1.4 Capital expenditure and 1 the withdrawal from unprofitable activities (frozen food brands in research and development Spain); Research and development expenditure amounted to nearly 1% of 1 an increase in marketing and communications expenditure. total revenue, and continued to focus on new production processes, By region, current operating income improved both in Europe packaging and energy savings. (45.7 million euros, up from 30.9 million euros) and outside European Total capital expenditure for the financial year amounted to Area (55.2 million euros, up from 49.8 million), underlining the 76.8 million euros, compared with 81 million euros in 2010-2011. positive performance of these two areas, as well as the difference in profitability (3.6% and 11.3% of revenue respectively) and the During the year, Bonduelle strengthened its logistics capabilities benefits of the Group’s international expansion strategy. with the construction of frozen food storage centers in Portugal and Canada, as well as canning facilities in south-west France The net figure for non-recurring items was negative, at and Hungary, and made its first investments to improve the 2.7 million euros (11.7 million euros the previous year), and mainly competitiveness of the US and Russian sites. included the costs relating to the three external growth transactions announced previously and the removal of the Frudesa brand frozen food business in Spain from the scope of consolidation. After taking these non-recurring items into account, operating 4.1.5 Change in capital employed profit increased by 42.5% to 98.2 million euros, compared with and working capital 68.9 million euros in the previous financial year. The impact of changes in scope of consolidation and exchange rates over the year was not significant. Operating profit thus came in within the range requirement Rigorous working capital management, especially as regards customer 4 indicated by the Group in October 2011 of 95-100 million euros and risk, was reflected in a contained increase of 53.8 million euros, increased in February 2012 to 98-100 million euros. principally due to changes in the scope of consolidation and an increase in the unit selling price of inventory related to the rise in commodity prices at the time of the 2011 harvest, with inventory volumes remaining lower than normal levels. 4.1.3 Net income Taking into account this change in working capital requirement, as Net financial expense came to 30.5 million euros, compared with well as capital, administrative and marketing expenditure, changes 23.7 million euros in the previous financial year. The increase in in the scope of consolidation and the continuation of the share financial expense during the year chiefly related to exchange rate repurchase program, total capital employed (equity and debt) was gains and the valuation of financial instruments recognized in 20101,112.1 million euros, compared with 975.4 million euros in 20102011 at fair value. The cost of net debt fell during the year, as the 2011. increase in debt relating to acquisitions was offset by the fall in interest rates. The share of net income from associates, which mainly relates to the production joint venture Gelagri (France) – now profitable – 4.1.6 Borrowings and debt ratio and since this financial year, to the Ultra Congelados de la Ribera The Group’s net debt, after the impact of the three acquisitions (UCR-Spain) joint venture co-owned with Europe’s market leader carried out during the year, totaled 608.4 million euros at June 30, in frozen vegetables Ardo, was -1.7 million euros, compared with 2012, while the debt ratio stood at 120.8%, compared with 101.6% +0.1 million euros the previous year. The synergies generated from the previous year. The average cost of debt improved to 3.39%, from the first year of operation of UCR, and the improvement in profitability 3.81% the previous year, a decrease of 42 basis points. at Gelagri, confirm the importance of the Group’s partnership strategy The Group holds 521,810 treasury shares with a value of in certain targeted business segments. 35 million euros, and this amount has therefore been deducted from Income tax expense was 18.3 million euros, compared with equity, in accordance with IFRS. Restated for the acquisitions carried 14.7 million euros in the previous financial year, equivalent to an out at the end of the year, and the adjustment in relation to treasury effective tax rate of 27.1%. shares, the Group’s debt ratio stands at 88%. Taking into account all of these items, net income attributable to On July 3, 2012, the Group signed a five-year, 300 million euros owners of the Company increased by 53.5% to 46.7 million euros. revolving credit facility with bullet repayment, with seven international Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 81 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings financial groups and on September 10, 2012, implemented a bond (production governed by seasonal factors) and its business model issue in the form of a 145 million euro private placement, with (agro-industrial integration), was strengthened by the refinancing maturity of 6.5 years (March 2019) and paying a coupon of 3.83%, operations carried out, which extended the maturity of its debt (5.6 for the refinancing of its acquisitions and to anticipate the bonds part years pro forma) at particularly competitive conditions, placing the of the OBSAAR 2007 and 2009 repayments. The Group’s financial Group in a sound and secure financial position. structure, which is consistent with the characteristics of its business ■ Net debt (in millions of euros) At June 30, 2010 At June 30, 2011 At June 30, 2012 Net debt 556.1 491.6 608.4 Equity 477.2 483.8 503.7 Net debt/equity 1.16 1.02 1.21 4.1.7 Highlights ■ ACQUISITION OF ALLENS FROZEN VEGETABLE PLANTS IN THE UNITED STATES ■ SALE OF FROZEN FOOD BRANDS AND On March 30, 2012, the Bonduelle Group acquired, via its subsidiary CREATION OF A PRODUCTION JOINT Bonduelle North America, three frozen vegetable processing plants VENTURE IN SPAIN and one packaging facility from US firm Allens. In July 2011, the Bonduelle and Ardo groups decided to set up a The acquisition, in the form of an asset purchase, involves the four joint venture to supply vegetables to the Findus brand in Spain and Allens production facilities located in Bergen, Oakfield and Brockport Portugal, having signed an exclusive production agreement with (all New York State) and Fairwater (Wisconsin), and assures the Findus. In addition, Bonduelle sold its Frudesa and Salto brands employment of 400 permanent employees. to Findus. Through this partnership, and thanks to the synergies In 2011, Allens sold around 150,000 metric tons of frozen vegetables generated, Bonduelle and Ardo aim to create a competitive producer in the United States, with the retail channel accounting for 40%, the of frozen vegetables. food service segment for 25% and sales to industry for 35%. Prior to the acquisition, Bonduelle North America, which is ■ ACQUISITION OF COUBANSKIE CONSERVI headquartered in Montreal, was already the market leader in canned IN RUSSIA and frozen vegetables in Canada (under private label and Group On March 30, 2012, the Bonduelle Group acquired the agro-industrial brands including Bonduelle and Arctic Gardens…), exporting 30% and commercial assets of the French Cecab cooperative in Russia of its production to the United States, consisting mainly of frozen and Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries. products sold to food service distribution networks. The acquisition will enable Bonduelle North America to increase its sales, and will With a commercial presence in Russia and Central and Eastern also be beneficial in terms of exchange rate risk (better balance of Europe since the mid-1990s, Bonduelle is the regional market leader production and sales in US dollars) and spreading climate risks more in canned vegetables. effectively. This acquisition will enable Bonduelle to: 1 benefit from Cecab’s commercial assets in Russia, i.e. the sale of ■ ACQUISITION OF ASSETS FROM canned vegetables to the d’Aucy and Globus brands; KELET-FOOD IN HUNGARY 1 rapidly expand vegetable crops at the Cecab kolkhoze via an On May 31, 2012, the Bonduelle Group acquired certain assets from increase in the production capacity of the Timachevsk plant; Kelet-Food, a Hungarian canning firm with a capacity of 25,0001 generate substantial synergies through the geographical proximity 30,000 metric tons. of the two agro-industrial plants (logistics, etc.) located in the Kelet-Food is located in Nyiregyhaza (north-east of Budapest), and Krasnodar Krai region (Kuban province, south-west Russia). produces canned sweet corn and peas, which it sells to private labels in Hungary and nearby markets. The Bonduelle Group has had an industrial presence in Hungary for 20 years, and produces 130,000 metric tons of canned vegetables there, mainly sweet corn and peas, in two plants located in the south of the country: Nagykőrös, acquired in 1992, and Békéscsaba, acquired in 2002. 82 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings 4 The Kelet-Food plant will enable Bonduelle to supply its markets in ■ CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Central Europe, which are expanding rapidly. Moreover, the plant is Through its business, directly linked with the agriculture sector, located in a different production region from the Group’s two other through its products, a natural basis for nutrition, and through its Hungarian production facilities, thereby providing a better spread of ethics, built over generations on a foundation of essential values, the agricultural risks. Bonduelle Group has always placed particular importance on what has come to be called sustainable development. ■ NEW 300 MILLION EURO REVOLVING The Group has five key priorities on which it bases its objectives: CREDIT FACILITY 1 agricultural production; On July 3, 2012, the Bonduelle Group announced the signing of a 300 million euro revolving credit facility for five years, maturing in 1 employees; June 2017, with a bullet repayment. 1 nutrition and quality; This credit line was put in place with a pool of banks comprising seven 1 natural resources; international financial groups, and was considerably oversubscribed. 1 transportation. It has set ambitious objectives in relation to each priority. Achievement ■ 145 MILLION EURO BOND ISSUE of objectives is assessed by the Group’s Internal Audit Department. On September 10, 2012, the Bonduelle Group implemented a In addition, the Bonduelle Group is the initiator or a participant in 145 million euro bond issue in the form of a private placement. numerous initiatives aimed at raising collective awareness of these The transaction was subscribed by several European institutional issues. investors (insurance companies and mutual insurers); it pays a coupon of 3.83% and has a maturity of 6.5 years (March 2019). BONDUELLE ADOPTS GRI GUIDELINES AND COMMISSIONS CSR AUDITS This transaction, in addition to the 300 million euro revolving credit As part of our commitment to progress in terms of CORPORATE facility, will enable the Bonduelle Group to provide long-term funding for the three acquisitions announced in the first half of 2012 and to refinance the maturities of the bond component of the 2007 and 2009 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR), and with the aim of meeting international standards, in 2012 the Group adopted the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, for which it obtained a B+ rating. 4 OBSAAR bonds early. Ahead of the introduction of the Grenelle II regulations in France, This private bond placement was the first carried out on the European which include the certification of CSR data, the Group submitted its market by an non-rated, medium-sized French company. data for audit by an independent third party (Deloitte). A RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO RESTRUCTURING, ■ MARKETING ACCORDING TO VIGEO In 2011-2012, the Bonduelle Group stepped up its policy of Adapting a company’s structure and plant to the prevailing economic investing in the marketing of its brands (Bonduelle, Cassegrain and conditions is essential and may necessitate restructuring operations Arctic Gardens) in all four product segments (canned, frozen, fresh, by the Company. The Bonduelle Group aims to anticipate changes prepared), with an increase in marketing expenditure of nearly 15%. in the economic environment and take a responsible approach This enabled the expansion of product marketing efforts, mainly to addressing the impact. In 2011, ratings firm Vigeo ranked through TV advertising in France, Poland, Russia, Germany, Czech Bonduelle 6th out of almost 600 European companies for responsible Republic, Romania, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kosovo, restructuring. Armenia and Azerbaijan. LOUIS BONDUELLE FOUNDATION ACHIEVES 2011-2012 also saw our first TV advertising campaign in Brazil, and 100% APPROVAL RATING the return of the Cassegrain rabbit to French television. The Louis Bonduelle Foundation, which is funded by the Bonduelle To complement our dedicated subsidiary and country websites, the Group, aims to improve eating habits, especially in the most Group continued to expand its presence on social networks such as disadvantaged population groups. As part of this commitment, it Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. This new method of communication funds a number of research prizes, and organizes an annual study enables a different and complementary relationship with consumers day for health and nutrition professionals. to be developed, which is, notably, more interactive. In 2011, market research firm OpinionWay conducted a survey of health professionals, which showed that 100% of respondents had a favorable opinion of the Foundation. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 83 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings PARTNER OF THE LILLE WORLD FORUM ■ SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Since its inception, Bonduelle has been a partner of the Lille World OF BONDUELLE SCA Forum, an annual event established on the initiative of Philippe INCOME STATEMENT Vasseur. The aim of this event is to foster responsible economies by promoting the best practices of companies that perform their global The Bonduelle SCA holding company reported net income of activities responsibly. In 2012, the Forum’s theme is “Responsible 57 million euros. companies, profitable companies”. Our Chairman, Christophe This includes primarily: Bonduelle, is to speak at the event on the theme of responsible procurement. 1. Net finance income of 5 million euros, and is based on: • Income from interest on the OBSAAR +4.2 GUIDE TO ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR • Recoveries of provisions and capitalized costs None PRODUCTS • Interest and similar expenses -0.2 The Bonduelle Group has put in place a multi-disciplinary working group to draft a guide to environmental responsibility for its branded • Expenses from interest on the OBSAAR -4.2 products. At each stage of the product life cycle, specialists have • Dividends received from Bonduelle SAS +5.2 established criteria and tools to measure their environmental impact 2. Operating expenses of 1.4 million euros. so that steps can be taken to minimize this. The guidelines are currently at the testing stage. STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION BONDUELLE TESTS ENVIRONMENTAL LABELING Analysis of the main statement of financial position headings: One of the objectives of the French law Grenelle de l’environnement 1. mainly financial non-current assets total 608 million euros. on environmental protection requires firms to provide objective and 2. equity is 329 million euros. accurate information on their products and services. Bonduelle is fully committed to this initiative and has been involved DIVIDENDS in the test phase for environmental labeling at national level since it See paragraph 7.3.2 of chapter 7 “Information on the Company and began in July 2011. the share capital”. BONDUELLE LISTED ON GAÏA AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE OWNERSHIP INDICES At June 30, 2012, the Company’s share capital comprised 8,000,000 Bonduelle has been part of the Gaïa index since its inception. shares with a par value of 7 euros per share, representing a total of This index ranks medium-sized firms based on their sustainable 11,906,027 voting rights. development efforts. The rankings, released in 2011, highlight the As far as the Company is aware, the following hold at least 5% of the progress achieved by the Group: it is ranked 16th out of 288 firms in share capital: all sectors, and is 8th on the list of industrial companies. 1 La Plaine SAS with 22.36% of the share capital and 30.05% of the With more than 3% of its shares held by its employees, the Bonduelle voting rights; Group is also listed on the employee share ownership index (Euronext FAS IAS) established by NYSE-Euronext. 1 Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS with 5.27% of the share capital and 7.04% of the voting rights. Group employees held 3.5% of the capital, primarily through mutual ■ EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE funds. Apart from the refinancing operations mentioned in the “Highlights” During the financial year, the Management Board, exercising the Section, no major event has taken place after the reporting date. authorization issued by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of December 3, 2009, granted 51,700 stock options with an exercise ■ OUTLOOK price of 62.90 euros per share to 114 employees. In an uncertain and volatile consumption environment, with NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS AND SECURITIES consumers paying ever-closer attention to their purchasing power See Note 3 and Note 5 of the notes to the separate financial given the economic conditions and austerity measures introduced statements. in a number of countries, the Bonduelle Group will draw on the resilience of its business model and should start to reap the benefits of synergies generated by its recent acquisitions from the next financial year. The Bonduelle Group is targeting overall growth, including the contribution of its acquisitions over the entire year, of around 8% for sales and 5-10% for operating profit, with the latter projected to rise to 105-110 million euros. 84 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Review of the ﬁnancial year Business and earnings 4 ANALYSIS OF THE SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM – FINANCIAL YEAR 2011-2012 Under the terms of a share repurchase program, Bonduelle SCA made the following purchases and sales of treasury shares during the 2011-2012 financial year: Average Number unit price Valuation Opening balance of treasury shares recorded for the 2011-2012 ﬁnancial year 276,231 68.04 18,795,239 Treasury shares purchased during the 2011-2012 financial year 318,529 66.54 21,193,910 Treasury shares sold during the 2011-2012 financial year (72,950) 67.31 (4,910,360) Reclassification of the net carrying amount of treasury shares allocated to share programs Valuation at end of financial year of shares held (4,512) NUMBER OF SHARES RECORDED AT END OF THE 2011-2012 FINANCIAL YEAR 521,810 67.22 35,074,277 Par value of treasury shares held 7 The cost of the market-making contract with ODDO was 29,900 euros including tax for the 2011-2012 financial year. Reasons for acquisitions of treasury shares: % of capital Share price support (liquidity contract) 0.92% Employee stock ownership program 0.46% 4 Securities giving rights to allocations of shares (stock options) None Acquisitions 2.59% Cancellation None Employee stock Coverage for ownership securities Acquisitions Cancellation Volume of shares used (in number of shares) FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY See Section 6.6 of the separate financial statements. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 85 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year Risk management 4.2 Risk management In line with the objectives defined by the Group’s principal A. LIQUIDITY RISK shareholder (including sustainability, independence and the individual The Group Finance Department is responsible for maintaining development of our employees), Bonduelle takes a conservative and sufficient liquidity at all times. It accomplishes this by efficiently responsible approach to its risks. managing the Group’s cash balances and ensuring that the maturity The Company has reviewed the risks which could result in a and legal conditions of the financing obtained are appropriate. In significant negative effect on its business, financial position or results particular, it arranges confirmed lines of credit to maximize the and considers that there are no other significant risks, apart from flexibility of the Group’s financing (see Note 21 of the notes to the those described below. consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2012). It has also carried out a risk mapping project. The Company specifically reviewed its liquidity risk and considers The risk mapping procedure consists of: that it is able to meet its future payments. 1 identifying and analyzing risks; B. MARKET RISKS 1 prioritizing risks; 1 defining priorities aimed at minimizing risks through the 1. CURRENCY RISK implementation of action plans. Risks related to changes in foreign exchange rates The action plans are reviewed and validated by the Executive The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in euros, Management and approved by the Supervisory Board. and in 2011-2012 72% of revenue and 36% of operating profit were denominated in euros. The share of assets, liabilities, sales and earnings denominated in 4.2.1 Financial risks other currencies – essentially the Polish zloty, Hungarian forint, Russian ruble and US and Canadian dollars – fluctuates continuously. The Bonduelle Group has established an organization that provides This means that the Group is affected by fluctuations in the value of for centralized management of all of its liquidity, currency, interest rate these currencies relative to the euro when they are translated into and counterparty credit risks. The Finance Department has assigned euros in the consolidated financial statements. For example, when the Group Finance and Treasury Department responsibility for risk the euro appreciates against these currencies it reduces the earnings management, and provided it with all of the expertise and tools contribution from those subsidiaries whose financial statements are needed to participate in the various financial markets as effectively denominated in these currencies. and safely as possible. The organization and procedures utilized are regularly reviewed by the Internal Audit Department and the Statutory All sales and expenses of Group subsidiaries are generally expressed Auditors. At meetings held regularly with the Chief Financial Officer in their local currency, with the exception of imports, exports and and the Manager of Finance and Treasury, the Group’s Executive financial transactions covered by centralized and systematic foreign Management validates, on the basis of a report published monthly, currency hedges, where the type of exposure means that it can the implementation of previously authorized management strategies. be hedged: Bonduelle therefore believes that its local exposure to currency fluctuations, after hedging, must remain slight. In a rapidly changing global economic environment, characterized by market volatility and changes in financial techniques, the role of the The Group’s international growth strategy contributes to increasing Group Finance and Treasury Department is to: the weight of non euro-denominated activities in revenue, operating profit and consolidated net income. 1 ensure optimum and sufficient funding to finance the development and growth of the Group’s activities; and Hedging policies for currency risk 1 identify, evaluate and hedge all financial risks in close collaboration The Group seeks to hedge, on a budgeted annual basis, all risks with the operations teams. relating to the activities of its subsidiaries denominated in a currency The objective is to minimize, at the lowest possible cost, the impact other than their functional currency and the risks relating to the net of financial market fluctuations on the Group’s income statement, assets of some subsidiaries operating in countries whose functional in order to reduce the capital allocation required to manage these currency is not the euro. financial risks. The Group uses over-the-counter financial instruments only to hedge The Group prohibits the taking of speculative positions. the financial risks generated by its production and sales activities. All hedges entered into must comply with the objectives and procedures established by the Bonduelle Group’s Executive Management. These 86 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Review of the ﬁnancial year Risk management 4 transactions are centralized within the Group’s Finance and Treasury C. EQUITY MANAGEMENT Department. The Bonduelle Group always ensures that its financial structure The Group’s policy regarding fluctuations in foreign exchange remains optimal by respecting the equilibrium between its net debt rates consists of periodically calculating its net exposure to foreign and its equity, and by maintaining a consistent dividend policy. This currencies and using financial derivatives to reduce this risk. is intended to keep the cost of capital to a minimum, to maximize The Group makes use above all of forward foreign exchange share price and dividend growth for the shareholders and to maintain contracts, foreign currency swaps and options entered into with sufficient financial flexibility to take advantage of any opportunities highly-rated bank counterparties. Details of the portfolio appear that may arise. in Note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements at At June 30, 2012, the Group had equity of 503.7 million euros, on June 30, 2012. the basis of which the Supervisory Board proposed a dividend of 1.50 euros per share. 2. INTEREST RATE RISK The interest rate management policy is coordinated, controlled and handled centrally, with the aim of protecting future cash flows and reducing the volatility of finance costs. The Group uses various 4.2.2 Equity risk instruments available on the market, especially interest rate options Every year, the Company buys and sells its own shares, in accordance and swaps. Details of the portfolio appear in Note 20 of the notes to with the provisions of the information memorandum issued in the consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2012. connection with the share repurchase program as approved by the shareholders. 3. CREDIT RISK In descending order of priority, the objectives of this program are to: In light of the high credit quality of the Group’s principal counterparties and the wide dispersion of its customers throughout the world, 1 ensure secondary market-making and the liquidity of Bonduelle especially in the retail grocery sector, the Group considers that it does shares by an investment services provider; not have a significant exposure to credit risk and uses a credit-insurer to partially cover outstandings. Given the high liquidity of the Group’s trade and related receivables, 1 hold the shares acquired for subsequent use in exchange or as payment in connection with any potential acquisition; 1 ensure that sufficient shares are available to cover needs generated 4 the fair value of these assets is considered to be equal to their by stock option plans and any other form of allocation of shares to carrying amount. employees and/or the Corporate Officers of the Group; 4. COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK 1 provide coverage for securities giving rights to allocations of In its dealings in financial assets in general and any cash balances, Company shares in accordance with applicable regulations; the Group works only with highly-rated bank counterparties. Any 1 cancel any of the shares acquired. cash surpluses are generally managed in short-term interest-bearing Under this program, at June 30, 2012, the Company held 521,810 deposits. treasury shares, of which 81,746 were destined for stock options 5. COMMODITY RISK exercisable in part starting in 2012. Voting rights attached to these shares are suspended, and the shares are recorded as a reduction of The Bonduelle Group has always favored the best agricultural lands shareholders’ equity. and the geographical diversification of its sourcing regions when deciding where to locate its production facilities, in order to reduce The Company is not, moreover, exposed to any equity risks insofar the climate-related risks inherent to all farming activities. as it does not engage in any cash management transactions involving investments in equity funds or other financial instruments with an There is, moreover, no organized market for the agricultural equity component. commodities purchased by the Bonduelle Group. Changes in the prices of agricultural commodities quoted on a market do, however, have a more or less significant impact on the Group’s purchase prices, depending on the agricultural alternatives available to producers. In 4.2.3 Legal risks order to ensure long-term relationships with its vegetable suppliers, Bonduelle holds annual negotiations with producers’ associations, well in advance of the harvest, that set the producer’s net margin A. LAWS AND REGULATIONS per hectare. Bonduelle is therefore obliged to adjust its selling prices Bonduelle complies with all applicable laws and regulations in its to reflect the results of its vegetable purchasing negotiations, which relationships with its partners. As a member of the food industry, vary between sourcing regions. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 87 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year Risk management Bonduelle is subject to national and international regulations Summarizing the European standards and taking up the requirements concerning food safety, quality control, food products and packaging. of the principle of integrated agriculture in France in all of the other countries, this charter has been signed by 87% of farmers, outside There are legal risks associated with the manufacture and distribution Canada, and covers 90% of vegetable supplies, with the remaining of food products. Bonduelle considers that the measures it has set 10% being covered by particular specifications. up are sufficient to meet regulatory requirements and prevent and manage these risks. B. PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY B. TRADEMARKS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Food safety is a key priority of Bonduelle’s quality policy. For this purpose, it has established Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point Rigorous measures are employed to protect Bonduelle trademarks. procedures (HACCP*) to control identified risks at various stages of Internal legal teams assisted by intellectual property consultants the preparation of its products. These procedures, which have been monitor the Group’s trademarks, especially the Bonduelle, implemented throughout the Group, provide an audit trail of its Cassegrain, Globus and Arctic Gardens brands, register and renew products from the planting phase to our customers’ initial points of trademarks and take action against third parties in the event of delivery. Risk analysis procedures and controls at critical points have trademark infringements. been set in place throughout the production process. All the production sites have obtained certification except for the C. OTHER LEGAL RISKS Cristalina plant in Brazil, which began operations in 2011 and will Bonduelle’s sales and industrial activities are not significantly shortly start this process. A number of audits have been carried out dependent upon other companies, customers or suppliers, and the at the sites by both internal and external Auditors on the basis of the Group has the assets it needs to for its activities. various standards. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no other government, court or arbitration proceedings pending or threatened C. NATURAL RESOURCES that might have, or that have had, over the past 12 months, a material Continuous efforts are devoted to the optimization of natural effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company and/ resources and environmental protection, focusing on the following or the Group, apart from those mentioned in the notes to the areas: consolidated financial statements. 1 reducing consumption of water and energy; 1 improving wastewater treatment equipment and plants; 4.2.4 Industrial and environmental 1 continuing the industrial and green waste management policy. risks The energy targets and policy for 2011-2012 have been extended to the new facilities at Cristalina (Brazil). Bonduelle’s activities are regulated by numerous provisions concerning water, air, soil and waste. Bonduelle’s industrial facilities ensure that water is returned in pristine condition to the natural environment: The Group’s risk management policy seeks above all to: 1 18 bio-waste treatment plants; 1 ensure the quality and safety of its food products by effectively managing the agricultural and industrial processes; 1 5 agricultural fertilizer systems (after pre-treatment); 1 reduce to the greatest extent possible the adverse consequences 1 10 systems for pre-treatment before discharge into external of its activities on the environment and on people. systems; 1 1 biogas plant at Nagykőrös in Hungary. A. AGRICULTURE To make its energy consumption even more efficient, Bonduelle has continued: Agriculture provides the major share of commodities required to make the Group’s products. To ensure the quality of its products and 1 the Frugal Factory project targeting the minimum amount of energy protect the environment, Bonduelle has adopted a sourcing charter required for vegetable processing; that fixes criteria for selecting agricultural land and crop management, which farmers working with the Group must apply. * Hazard analysis critical control point. 88 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Review of the ﬁnancial year Risk management 4 1 research into the production and use of alternative energies such The Group’s insurance strategy is based on two main principles: as biogas, either from the methanation of industrial effluent or from a methanation project including by-products of corn; ■ RISK ASSESSMENT 1 its packaging-reduction projects. The Insurance unit of the Group Finance Department is responsible for identifying and assessing all risks, in close cooperation with the operating entities. 4.2.5 Hedging of non-ﬁnancial risks The scope and amounts of insurance coverage are set at Group level, Three strategic objectives have been set for the Company by the based on objectives defined by Bonduelle’s Executive Management. shareholder, the stability of which contributes to a long-term approach: The insurance programs are negotiated by the Group’s Insurance sustainability, independence and the individual development of our Department and placed with top tier insurance companies. employees. The primary objective of the non-financial risk management policy is ■ TRANSFER OF RISK to protect the Group’s strategic assets. The broad strategic guidelines Global comprehensive programs have been set in place to transfer governing capital expenditure on industrial assets, the development major risks with potentially significant strategic and financial impacts of our processes, and the recruitment and training of our workforce to the insurance market: all take continuous account of this objective of safeguarding our industrial, financial and human resources. 1 in light of the geographical dispersion and the size of our production facilities and deductible levels, all direct property damage risk has The aim of this approach is to limit industrial or other risks such as been transferred; those mentioned above to which the Group is naturally exposed. 1 for other risks, policies have been put in place to the extent permitted by the insurance and reinsurance markets. Other insurance programs covering less significant risks have also been taken out. 4 The main programs are: Risk Deductible (in euros) Insurer Losses – Business interruption €80,000 to €200,000 depending on the site Allianz/RSA Public liability No deductible Chartis Contamination and brand image €76,000 HDI Credit risk 90% coverage Atradius Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 89 4 Review of the ﬁnancial year 90 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5.1 Consolidated income 5.4 Consolidated statement statement AFR 92 of changes in equity AFR 95 5.2 Consolidated statement 5.5 Notes to the annual of ﬁnancial position AFR 93 consolidated ﬁnancial Assets 93 statements AFR 96 Liabilities 93 5.6 Statutory Auditors’ report 5.3 Consolidated statement on the consolidated of cash ﬂows AFR 94 ﬁnancial statements AFR 148 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 91 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated income statement 5.1 Consolidated income statement (in thousands of euros) Notes At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Revenue 5 1,725,998 1,766,951 Purchases and external charges 6 (1,232,881) (1,274,203) Employee benefits expense 7 (336,999) (334,148) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (70,189) (71,937) Other operating income 8 41,657 60,457 Other operating expenses 8 (46,904) (46,195) Gain/loss on sale of consolidated equity investments (1) 0 Current operating income 80,681 100,926 Non-recurring items 9 (11,737) (2,749) Operating proﬁt 68,944 98,177 Net borrowing costs (29,465) (27,092) Other finance income and costs 5,811 (3,383) Net ﬁnancial expense 10 (23,654) (30,475) Share of net income from associates 58 (1,655) Proﬁt before tax 45,348 66,047 Income tax 11 (14,685) (18,325) NET INCOME 30,663 47,722 1 Attributable to owners of the Company 30,436 46,705 1 Attributable to non-controlling interests 227 1,017 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE 12 3.94 6.25 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 12 3.94 6.25 ■ Gains and losses recognized directly in equity (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Net income for the period 30,663 47,722 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to P&L (5,558) 1,348 Cash flow hedge 5,010 (3,209) Translation adjustments (8,843) 3,399 Tax effects (1,725) 1,158 Items that may not be reclassiﬁed subsequently to P&L 564 (2,170) Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans 945 (3,259) Tax effects (381) 1,089 Income and expenses recognized directly in equity (4,994) (821) TOTAL RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSES 25,669 46,901 Attributable to owners of the Company 25,568 46,007 Attributable to non-controlling interests 101 894 92 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position 5 5.2 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position Assets (in thousands of euros) Notes At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Non-current assets 730,049 810,910 Other intangible assets 13 33,603 34,731 Goodwill 14 189,425 211,005 Property, plant and equipment 15 469,273 511,275 Investments in associates 8,371 10,620 Other non-current financial assets 17 9,619 19,481 Deferred tax liabilities 11 12,368 14,704 Other non-current assets 16 7,390 9,094 Current assets 966,770 930,955 Inventories and work-in-progress 18 495,299 569,804 Trade and other receivables 19 329,126 322,339 Tax receivables 18,396 3,993 Other current assets 16 5,579 7,934 Other current financial assets 16 6,982 7,944 Cash and cash equivalents 21 111,389 18,941 TOTAL ASSETS 1,696,819 1,741,865 Liabilities (in thousands of euros) Notes At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 5 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 467,929 487,516 Share capital 56,000 56,000 Additional paid-in capital 22,545 22,545 Consolidated reserves 389,384 408,971 Non-controlling interests 1.B 15,845 16,229 Equity 483,774 503,745 Non-current liabilities 566,348 509,554 Financial liabilities 21 482,096 437,255 Employee benefit obligations 22 8,464 13,395 Other non-current provisions 24 38,005 25,102 Deferred tax liabilities 11 23,093 19,820 Other non-current liabilities 16 14,690 13,982 Current liabilities 646,697 728,566 Current financial liabilities 21 132,832 212,576 Current provisions 24 1,560 1,838 Trade and other payables 25 506,415 507,434 Tax payables 2,167 1,282 Other current liabilities 16 3,724 5,436 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,696,819 1,741,865 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 93 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 5.3 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Net income 30,663 47,722 Share of net income from associates (58) 1,655 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 70,808 55,739 Other non-cash sources (jobs) 6,622 8,943 Taxes paid (20,200) (21,133) Income tax expense 14,685 18,325 Accrued interest 651 (1,194) Cash ﬂow 103,172 110,057 Change in working capital requirement 45,870 (12,149) Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 149,041 97,908 Acquisitions of consolidated companies, net of cash and cash equivalents (2,904) (72,652) Disposals of consolidated companies, net of cash and cash equivalents disposed of 345 0 Impact of changes in method (11) (3) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment (96,898) (71,356) Acquisitions of financial assets (250) (21) Disposals of property, plant and equipment and financial assets 11,743 6,547 Net change in loans and other non-current financial assets (316) (121) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (88,291) (137,605) Capital increase 0 0 (Acquisition) disposal of treasury shares (3,122) (16,279) Increase (Decrease) in non-current financial liabilities 126,417 195 Increase (Decrease) in current financial liabilities (87,872) (22,105) Dividends paid to Group and minority shareholders (11,915) (11,653) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities 23,508 (49,842) Impact of exchange rate changes (571) (2,908) Change in cash and cash equivalents 83,687 (92,448) Cash and cash equivalents – opening balance 27,702 111,389 Cash and cash equivalents – closing balance 111,389 18,941 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 83,687 (92,448) 94 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity 5 5.4 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity NonActuarial attributable controlIn gains TransAccuto owners ling number Share and Treasury lation mulated of the inteTotal of shares capital Premiums losses shares reserves income Company rests equity Equity at July 1, 2010 8,000,000 56,000 22,545 (2,103) (9,697) 8,438 384,900 460,085 17,102 477,187 Income recognized directly through equity 0 0 608 0 (8,760) 3,285 (4,867) (126) (4,994) Net income at 06/30/2011 30,436 30,436 227 30,663 Share purchase options 418 418 0 418 Puts on non-controlling interests 277 277 (294) (17) Changes in scope of consolidation (2,568) (2,568) (771) (3,339) Treasury Shares (3,007) 0 (3,007) 0 (3,007) Other (1,127) (1,127) (96) (1,223) Dividends paid 1.50 (11,717) (11,717) (198) (11,915) Equity at June 30, 2011 8,000,000 56,000 22,545 (1,495) (12,704) (322) 403,904 467,929 15,845 483,774 Equity at July 1, 2011 8,000,000 56,000 22,545 (1,495) (12,704) (322) 403,904 467,929 15,845 483,774 Income recognized directly through equity 0 0 (2,103) 0 3,455 (2,051) (698) (123) (821) Net income at 06/30/2012 46,705 46,705 1,017 47,722 5 Share purchase options 469 469 0 469 Puts on non-controlling interests 342 342 (582) (240) Changes in scope ofconsolidation 0 0 0 0 Treasury Shares (16,282) 0 (16,282) 0 (16,282) Other 656 656 73 729 Dividends paid 1.50 (11,605) (11,605) 0 (11,605) EQUITY AT JUNE 30, 2012 8,000,000 56,000 22,545 (3,598) (28,985) 3,134 438,421 487,516 16,229 503,745 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 95 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements CONTENTS NOTE 1 Preparation methods 96 NOTE 17 Other non-current financial assets 124 NOTE 2 Accounting principles 99 NOTE 18 Inventories and work-in-progress 125 NOTE 3 Management of financial risks 105 NOTE 19 Trade and other receivables 125 NOTE 4 Changes in the scope of consolidation 106 NOTE 20 Derivative financial instruments 126 NOTE 5 Segment reporting 108 NOTE 21 Net debt 130 NOTE 6 Purchases and external charges 110 NOTE 22 Employee benefit obligations 137 NOTE 7 Remuneration and headcount 110 NOTE 23 Share-based payments 139 NOTE 8 Other operating income and expenses 111 NOTE 9 Non-recurring items 111 NOTE 24 Other provisions 141 NOTE 10 Net financial result 112 NOTE 25 Trade and other payables 141 NOTE 11 Income tax 114 NOTE 26 Statutory Auditors’ fees 142 NOTE 12 Earnings per share 115 NOTE 27 Contingent liabilities 143 NOTE 13 Other intangible assets 116 NOTE 28 Risks and disputes 143 NOTE 14 Goodwill 117 NOTE 29 Transactions with related parties 144 NOTE 15 Property, plant and equipment 118 NOTE 30 Events after the reporting date 145 NOTE 16 Presentation of financial assets and liabilities by category 120 NOTE 31 List of Group companies 146 1 The amendment to IFRS 7 on disclosures relating to transfers of NOTE 1 financial assets, applicable to accounting periods starting on or after July 1, 2011; Preparation methods 1 The amendment to IAS 1 on the presentation of other items of The consolidated financial statements of the Bonduelle Group comprehensive income (OCI), applicable to accounting periods and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) for the 2011-2012 financial year starting on or after July 1, 2012, adopted early; have been prepared in accordance with the “IFRS” (International 1 The annual improvements to IFRS, applicable to accounting Financial Reporting Standards) published by the IASB (International periods starting on or after January 1, 2011: Accounting Standards Board), and whose adoption ruling has been • IFRS 1 on changes in accounting methods during the year of published in the official journal of the European Union. first-time adoption, on revaluation as deemed cost and on use of deemed cost for regulated companies, ■ STANDARDS, UPDATES AND • IFRS 7 on improving disclosures about financial instruments, INTERPRETATIONS FIRST APPLICABLE • IAS 1 on the clarification of the statement of changes in equity, TO THE 2011-2012 FINANCIAL YEAR: • IAS 34 on significant events and transactions. 1 The amendment to IFRIC 14 relating to prepayments of a minimum funding requirement, applicable to accounting periods starting on or after January 1, 2011; 1 The amendment to IAS 24 on related parties, applicable to accounting periods starting on or after January 1, 2011; 96 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ STANDARDS, UPDATES AND 1 rapidly bring the Cecab kolkhoze up to maximum vegetableINTERPRETATIONS NOT YET APPLICABLE growing capacity by increasing the production capacity of the AND THAT HAVE NOT BEEN APPLIED Timachevsk plant; IN ADVANCE BY THE GROUP: 1 engage clear synergies (logistics, etc.) resulting from the The respective impacts of these standards is currently undergoing geographical proximity of the two agro-industrial plants, both of appraisal. which are in Krasnodar Krai (province of Kuban in south-west 1 Amendment to IAS 19, “Employee benefits”, on changes to the Russia.) accounting treatment of past-service costs in the event of a plan amendment, applicable to accounting periods starting on or after Acquisition of Allens frozen vegetables sites in the United States January 1, 2013. On March 30, 2012, the Bonduelle Group subsidiary, Bonduelle Group North America, purchased three processing plants and A. Information regarding the Group a packaging center for frozen vegetables belonging to the American ﬁrm Allens. Bonduelle SCA is a French limited partnership (société en commandite The transaction, which consists of the purchase of the Group’s par action) that is listed in Compartment B of Euronext. Bonduelle assets, concerns four of Allens’ five frozen vegetable production is a market leader in processed vegetables both within and outside facilities – Bergen, Oakfield, Brockport (New York State) and Fairwater Europe. The Company operates in three business segments: canned, (Wisconsin) – safeguarding the jobs of 400 permanent employees. frozen and fresh vegetables (prepared and fresh-cut.) In 2011 the Allens Group’s sales of frozen vegetables represented a The Management Board approved the consolidated financial volume of around 150,000 metric tons in the US, split 40% Consumer, statements in accordance with IFRS and authorized the publication 25% Food Service and 35% Industrial sales. of the approved financial statements closed on June 30, 2012, which will be submitted for approval at the Shareholders’ Meeting on Prior to this, Bonduelle North America, whose head office is in December 6, 2012. Montreal and which is the leader in canned and frozen vegetables in Canada in both private labels and its own brands (Bonduelle, Arctic Gardens, etc.) exported 30% of its production to the United States, ■ HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR mainly as frozen produce via the Food Service distribution networks. This acquisition will not only allow it to support sales growth, but Disposal of the branded frozen food business and will also be advantageous in terms of exchange rate risks (better creation of a production joint venture in Spain balance between production and US dollar sales) and the spreading In July 2011, the Bonduelle and Ardo Groups decided to set up a of climate-related risks. joint venture to supply the Findus brand in Spain and Portugal, with which it had signed an exclusive production agreement. As part of this project, Bonduelle sold its Frudesa and Salto brands to Findus. Through this partnership, and thanks to the synergies generated, Acquisition of Kelet-Food assets in Hungary On May 31, 2012, the Group acquired assets from Kelet-Food, 5 a Hungarian canning factory with a capacity of 25,000 to 30,000 Bonduelle and Ardo aim to create a competitive producer of frozen metric tons. vegetables. Kelet-Food, located in Nyiregyhaza, north-east of Budapest, Acquisition of Coubanskie Conservi in Russia produces canned sweet corn and peas, which it sells under private labels at national and local level. On March 30, 2012, the Bonduelle Group purchased the agroindustrial and commercial assets of the French co-operative Bonduelle Group has had production facilities in Hungary for 20 years, group Cecab in Russia and in the countries of the Commonwealth producing 130,000 metric tons of canned food in the country – mostly of Independent States (CIS.) sweet corn and peas – at two production facilities, both located in the south of the country: Nagykőrös, acquired in 1992, and Békéscsaba, Operating in Russia and Central and Eastern Europe since the midacquired in 2002. 1990s, Bonduelle is the leader on the canned vegetables sector in this region. The Kelet-Food plant will enable Bonduelle to supply its booming Central European markets. It is located in a different production area This acquisition by Bonduelle aims to: from the Group’s other two Hungarian plants, which will improve the 1 take over the commercial assets of the Cecab group in Russia, spread of agricultural risks. namely sales of canned vegetables under the D’Aucy and Globus brands; Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 97 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements Signing of a Revolving Credit Facility amounting The France Champignon company, the share capital of which is to 300 million euros made up of members’ shares, is fully consolidated (55.58%). The On July 3, 2012, the Bonduelle Group announced the signing of a By-laws set out the rules applicable to the management of these Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) for 300 million euros with a five-year members’ shares. Thus, these shares are subscribed for according term and bullet repayment, maturing in June 2017. to the activity level of the cooperative members under a ten-year commitment extended by tacit renewal for periods of five years. This line of credit, largely oversubscribed, is an agreement with an international banking pool comprising seven international financial This share capital is likely to vary according to an approval procedure groups. submitted to the Board of Directors. It may not be reduced below a ceiling amount equal to three-quarters of the highest amount of Bond issue for 145 million euros capital noted at the Shareholders’ Meeting. On September 10, 2012, the Bonduelle Group issued a bond for the Given the specific nature of agricultural cooperatives, By-laws and amount of 145 million euros in the form of a private placement. the way in which the cooperative works, the Group considers that, The operation was subscribed by a number of European institutional for the classification of members’ shares, a number of criteria do not investors – insurance companies and mutual insurers – and offers a permit the application of IFRIC 2 on the reclassification of members’ 6.5 year maturity (March 2019) and a 3.83% coupon. shares as financial liabilities, in particular: This operation supplements the signing of the Revolving Credit 1 capital-intensive activity requiring a significant commitment from Facility (RCF) for 300 million euros and provides the Bonduelle members over the long-term; Group with the long-term resources to support the three acquisitions 1 By-laws determining capital distribution via a procedure; and announced in the first half of 2012 and to anticipate the refinancing of the bond element of the 2007 and 2009 Redeemable Equity-Warrant 1 no significant capital distribution observed historically. Bonds (OBSAAR.) Consequently, non-controlling interests in the co-operative are The operation undertaken by the Bonduelle Group is the first private recognized in equity under the category of non-controlling interests. bond placement on the European market by a medium-sized, nonThe three Gelagri companies are accounted for using the equity rated French company. method. The percentage of control and ownership is equal to the holding of the preferred shares issued by the three companies. All consolidated Group companies closed their annual financial B. Consolidation methods statements on June 30, 2012, with the exception of the following The consolidated financial statements fully consolidate the financial companies: Bonduelle Kuban, Coubanskie Conservi, Bonduelle do statements of all subsidiaries controlled either directly or indirectly Brasil, Majak Khudiaky Cherkassy Oblast, SCA des Hureaux, SCA by the Group. The Group considers that it has exclusive control of Champignonnières de Dampierre, Ultra Congelados de la Ribera a company when it is in a position to influence the operational and and the companies within the Gelagri Group, all of which were financial policies of the Company, regardless of its percentage of consolidated on the basis of their accounting data at June 30, 2012. ownership. Accordingly, certain companies are fully consolidated A company is included within the consolidation scope as of the date even though the Group holds a percentage of the share capital on which the Company first acquires control or notable influence, and equal to or less than 50%. Full consolidation allows recognition of is deconsolidated as of the date on which the Company first loses all assets, liabilities and income statement items of the companies control or notable influence. concerned, after elimination of all intercompany transactions and earnings, with the portion of income and equity attributable to Group All income and expenses related to subsidiaries acquired or disposed companies (“owners of the Company”) distinguished from the portion of during the financial year are recognized in the consolidated income concerning the interests of other shareholders (“non-controlling statement with effect from the acquisition date or until disposal. interests.”) All companies over which Bonduelle does not exercise All transactions between consolidated companies and intercompany exclusive control yet still exerts notable influence or joint control are income (including dividends) are eliminated. accounted for using the equity method. Soleal is fully consolidated (37%) as the company is legally controlled by Bonduelle and, from a contractual and financial standpoint, Soleal’s sole intercompany customer is Bonduelle Conserve International (BCI.) 98 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 C. Segment reporting E. Business combinations Segment data is reported on the basis of the operating segments All business combinations have been recognized using the used for internal reporting purposes. This is referred to as the acquisition method since July 1, 2009 in accordance with standard “management approach.” IFRS 3 (revised) (Business Combinations), and according to IFRS 3 for acquisitions made before this date. The two operating segments are the European Area and Outside European Area. According to this method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value, notwithstanding Bonduelle’s European Area segment is made up of its subsidiaries in the exceptions specified in IFRS 3R. France, Germany, Italy, the Iberian Peninsula, the Benelux countries and Central Europe. For all combinations formed after July 1, 2009, the extra costs associated with the acquisition are recognized in expenses. Bonduelle’s Outside European Area segment is made up of its subsidiaries in Eastern Europe, the Mercosur, North America and its Similarly, from July 1, 2009, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree Export activities. (minority interest) can either be measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s These segments are based on the Bonduelle Group’s managerial identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (IFRS 3 2004), or organization. at its fair value (referred to as the “full goodwill” method.) This option The primary indicators published are those used by the Executive is available on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Management. Revenue, amortization and impairment of non-current The difference between the cost of acquisition of the shares and the assets, current operating income and operating profit are presented by fair value of the acquired share of identifiable assets and liabilities on geographical region. Revenue is also presented by operating segment. the acquisition date is recognized in goodwill. Statement of financial position information (non-current assets, If the cost of an acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets current assets, non-current liabilities, current liabilities) is broken of the acquiree, the negative goodwill is recognized directly in profit down by geographical region. Only goodwill and brands are broken and loss. down by both geographical region and by operating segment. The goodwill analysis is finalized during the assessment period, i.e. 12 months from the takeover date. D. Translation of transactions denominated in foreign currencies and the ﬁnancial statements of companies outside the euro zone NOTE 2 ■ TRANSLATION OF TRANSACTIONS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES Accounting principles 5 Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are valued using the The consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2012 are presented exchange rates applicable on the transaction dates. All receivables in thousands of euros, and reflect the financial position of the and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies recognized in the Company and its subsidiaries (hereafter referred to as “the Group”). statement of financial position at the end of the period are valued at the closing rates. All foreign exchange gains and losses generated They have been prepared on the basis of historical costs, with the by the translation of transactions denominated in foreign currencies exception of the assets and liabilities discussed below, which are are included under the finance income and finance costs headings of recognized at fair value. the income statement, except for those on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies or other instruments used to hedge long-term equity investments in that same currency, which are included on the A. Intangible assets line “Accumulated translation adjustments” of consolidated equity. ■ GOODWILL When shares are acquired in companies that are either fully ■ TRANSLATION OF THE FINANCIAL consolidated or accounted for using the equity method, the cost STATEMENTS OF COMPANIES OUTSIDE of acquiring the shares is allocated to the assets, liabilities and THE EURO ZONE contingent liabilities acquired measured at their fair value. Any The statement of financial positions of companies with a functional difference between the acquisition cost and the Group’s share in the currency other than the euro are translated into euros at the official fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired closing rate, and their income statements are translated into euros using represents goodwill. These differences are presented on the asset the average exchange rate (excluding hyperinflation) for each currency side of the consolidated statement of financial position under during the period. The exchange differences resulting from the application “Goodwill” for fully-consolidated companies and under “Investments of these various foreign exchange rates are included on the line in associates” for companies accounted for using the equity method. “Accumulated translation adjustments” in consolidated equity until such Goodwill relating to non-French companies is recognized in the time as the foreign holdings to which they pertain are sold or liquidated. functional currency of the Company acquired. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 99 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements Negative goodwill is recognized immediately in the income statement Cash generating units are combinations of subsidiaries that belong as a non-recurring item. to the same business segment and that generate cash flows that are clearly distinct from those generated by other CGUs. The cash flows used to calculate values in use are taken from the CGUs’ five-year ■ OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS strategic plans. All separately identifiable brands acquired whose useful life is A 1% growth rate is used to extrapolate the predicted cash flows considered to be indefinite are recognized in the consolidated beyond the five-year period included in the strategic plans. statement of financial position under the heading “Other intangible assets.” These cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax rate, on the basis of a weighted average cost of capital (WACC = 6.53%) calculated using Licenses, patents and any other intangible assets acquired are the market data available for Bonduelle and its business segments. recognized at their acquisition cost under “Other intangible assets” in the consolidated statement of financial position. They are amortized The WACC is calculated based on a target debt of 40% and a riskon a straight-line basis in accordance with their projected useful life. free rate of 2.98% (10-year Bund.) The Group uses the following operating segments to monitor its CGUs for the two geographical operating segments: European Area ■ DEVELOPMENT COSTS and Outside European Area. All development costs must be capitalized as intangible assets when For the European Area the Company can prove that they will generate future economic benefits and their costs can be identified. 1 canned and frozen vegetables; Development costs for software used within the Group are carried 1 fresh vegetables. as assets in the statement of financial position when it is probable For the Outside European Area that these expenses will generate future economic benefits. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected useful 1 canned and frozen vegetables in North America; life of the software, which may be between one and five years. All 1 canned and frozen vegetables in Eastern Europe. other software acquisition and development costs are immediately The fair value less all related selling costs corresponds to the amount recognized as expenses. that could be obtained by selling the asset (or group of assets) under arm’s length conditions, less all costs related directly to the disposal ■ MONITORING OF BRAND VALUES of the asset(s). The main factors used to assess the indefinite nature of the useful life The carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to each operating of the brands were their market positioning in terms of sales volume, segment is shown in Note 5. brand awareness, and their expected long-term profitability. These values are not amortized but undergo an annual impairment B. Property, plant and equipment test, in accordance with IAS 36, which includes the monitoring of the indicators cited above. Property, plant and equipment are recorded on the statement of financial position at their cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. The gross value of property, plant and equipment ■ MONITORING OF GOODWILL VALUES corresponds to their purchase or production cost. It is never The carrying amount of goodwill is tested for impairment at least remeasured. Purchase or production costs include, where applicable, once a year; all other intangible assets are tested when other events all costs related to the dismantling or refurbishing of production sites. and conditions suggest that they are likely to have experienced a Borrowing costs are not included in the costs of non-current assets. loss of value. An impairment loss is recognized when the recoverable Non-current assets held through finance leases are recognized as amount of the intangible assets becomes less than their net carrying assets on the statement of financial position at the lower of the amount. discounted value of the future minimum payments or the market Any impairment is allocated first to the goodwill allocated to the cash value when the contract transfers to the Group, in substance, most generating unit (“CGU”), and then as a reduction of the net carrying of the risks related to the ownership of the asset. The level of risk amount of each asset within the CGU. transferred is assessed by analyzing the terms of the contract. The financial liability arising from the acquisition of the asset is recorded The recoverable amount of intangible assets corresponds to the in the consolidated statement of financial position. greater of the fair value less all related selling costs and their value in use. The value in use is calculated on the basis of the discounted Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis based on purchase projected cash flows of the cash generating unit (“CGU”) to which the cost, less any residual value, from the date on which the asset is intangible assets tested belong. 100 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ready to be placed in service. With the exception of certain special and not designated as held for trading or available for sale. These cases, residual values are zero. assets are initially measured at fair value, and subsequently stated at their amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. The Useful lives are reviewed periodically, particularly in the case of fair value of short term, non-interest-bearing receivables is equal to decisions to move production sites. the value of the original invoice, unless the effective interest rate has 1 Buildings: 10 to 40 years; a material impact. 1 Plant & equipment, office equipment: 5 to 15 years; These assets are tested for impairment if there is any evidence of 1 Other intangible assets: 3 to 10 years. a loss of value. Impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is greater than the estimated recoverable amount. Where circumstances or events indicate that the value of a fixed asset may have declined, the Group examines the recoverable amount of Loans to affiliates, other loans and receivables and trade receivables the asset (or group of assets to which it belongs.) are included in this category, under financial assets and trade receivables. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less disposal costs and its value in use. Value in use is estimated by As part of its financing strategy, the Group occasionally sells its trade discounting the expected future cash flows of the asset (or group of receivables. These sales are carried out on non-recourse basis. All assets to which it belongs) within the conditions of use planned by risks are transferred to the Company purchasing the receivable. the Group. Impairment is recognized when the recoverable amount of Accordingly, the receivables sold are no longer recognized among a fixed asset falls below its net carrying amount. balance sheet assets. ■ 3. HELD-TO-MATURITY ASSETS C. Financial assets Held-to-maturity assets are financial assets, other than loans IAS 39 requires financial assets to be classified in one of the following and receivables, with fixed maturities and fixed or determinable four categories: payments, which the Group intends and is able to hold to maturity. 1 financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (including These assets are initially recognized at fair value, and subsequently derivative assets); stated at their amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. They are tested for impairment if there is any evidence of loss of 1 loans and receivables; value. Impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is greater than 1 held-to-maturity assets; the estimated recoverable amount. 1 available-for-sale assets. Held-to-maturity investments are recorded under financial assets. Bonduelle held no such assets at year-end. These categories are used to determine the accounting treatment applied to these assets. The classification is determined by the Group on the day the asset is ■ 4. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE ASSETS 5 initially recognized, on the basis of the Group’s objective in acquiring Available-for-sale assets are financial assets that cannot be classified the assets. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recorded on in any of the aforementioned categories. They are measured at the transaction date, which is the date on which the Group commits fair value. Any unrealized gains or losses are recognized through to the purchase or sale of the asset. shareholders’ equity until such time as they are sold. However, when there is objective evidence of the impairment of an available-for-sale asset, the accumulated loss is recognized through profit or loss. ■ 1. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS Durable impairment recognized on the variable income securities These consist of financial assets held by the Group with a view cannot be reversed at a subsequent reporting date. to generating a short-term gain, or any financial assets voluntarily For listed securities, fair value corresponds to market price. classified in this category. They are measured at their fair value, and For unlisted securities, it is calculated by using recent transactions all changes are recognized in the income statement. Classified under as benchmarks, or using a valuation technique based on reliable and cash equivalents within the Group’s current assets, these financial observable market data. However, when it is not possible to provide instruments include, where applicable, units or shares in money a reasonable estimate of the fair value of a security, it is measured market funds and derivative assets. at its historical cost. These assets are subsequently tested for impairment to determine whether recovery is possible. This category ■ 2. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES includes primarily non-consolidated investments and securities that do not meet any of the other definitions of financial assets. They are Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed recorded under financial assets. or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 101 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements D. Financial liabilities IFRS 7.27A distinguishes three levels of methods for determining fair value: Financial liabilities include: 1 Level 1: quoted prices on an active market for similar instruments 1 bonds; with no adjustment; 1 accrued interest not yet due; 1 Level 2: fair value determined based on data observable either directly (such as a price) or indirectly (calculated based on another 1 outstandings on finance leases; price), but other than a quoted price on an active market as stated 1 borrowings and bank lines; under level 1; 1 derivative liabilities. 1 Level 3: fair value determined based on unobservable market data. Financial liabilities are measured and recognized at their amortized The method used by Bonduelle is level 2. Moreover, the market data cost using the effective interest rate method. They are recognized at used in the valuation models includes central bank fixings and data the settlement date. supplied by platforms such as Reuters. In accordance with IAS 39 regarding accounting policies for fair value hedging, bonds, which were swapped at the time they were issued, were marked to market. Changes in the fair value of the debt and F. Inventories the associated derivatives are recognized through profit or loss for Materials inventories are measured at their weighted average unit the period. cost. Finished goods inventories are measured at their production cost, which includes the cost of purchasing the materials used and all direct and indirect production costs (including fixed production E. Derivative ﬁnancial instruments costs.) The Group uses over-the-counter derivatives to manage exposure Borrowing costs are not included in the inventory cost. Impairment is to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Group Policy precludes deemed necessary in the following cases: employees from engaging in speculative transactions on the financial markets. 1 for commodities when the current market price is lower than the inventory value; In accordance with IAS 39, financial derivatives are recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value. 1 for finished goods and commodities sold as-is, each time the probable net realizable value is lower than the production or 1 If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge for assets or purchase cost. liabilities recognized in the consolidated statement of financial The amount of impairment required to bring inventory to its net position, changes in the fair value of both the derivative and the realizable value and all inventory losses are recognized as expenses underlying hedged item are recognized through profit or loss for for the period during which the impairment or loss occurred. The sum the same period. of any recoveries of inventory impairment resulting from an increase 1 If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the change in the net realizable value is recognized as a reduction in the amount in the value of the effective portion of the derivative is recognized of inventories recognized in expenses in the period during which the in equity. It is recognized through profit or loss when the hedged recovery was made. item is also recognized through profit or loss. A change in the value Intercompany margins are eliminated. of the ineffective portion of the derivative is, however, recognized immediately through profit or loss. 1 If the derivative is designated as a hedge of a net investment in G. Treasury shares foreign operations, the change in the fair value of the effective portion of the derivative is recognized directly through equity. Bonduelle’s shares held by the Company are recognized as a Amounts recognized in this manner are taken to income only reduction of consolidated equity, on the line “Treasury shares”, for an when the investment is sold. The ineffective portion is recognized amount corresponding to their cost. Any funds generated by the sale immediately through profit or loss. of treasury shares are applied directly as an increase of shareholders’ equity, and therefore any gains or losses on disposal do not impact 1 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for the net income for the year. use of hedge accounting are recognized directly through profit or loss for the period. They are listed as “Hedges not eligible for IFRS hedge accounting.” Derivatives are recognized at the transaction date. 102 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 H. Cash and cash equivalents Deferred taxes are recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their value for tax Cash assets consist of all investments with original maturities equal purposes, with the exception of goodwill. Under the liability method, to or less than three months and that can be disposed of immediately. deferred taxes are calculated on the basis of the income tax rate These investments are measured at their market value. expected for the financial year during which the asset will be realized or the liability settled, and are classified among non-current assets The elements that make up cash and cash equivalents are cash and liabilities. Impacts of changes in tax rates from one year to the in bank current accounts and units or shares in short-term money next are recognized in the net income of the financial year during market funds or redeemable medium-term notes, of which the risk of which the change is recognized. Deferred taxes pertaining to items a change in value is deemed negligible. recognized directly in shareholders’ equity are also recognized in shareholders’ equity. I. Investment grants Total deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences and tax loss and credit carryforwards must not exceed the estimated value Investment grants are included under “Other non-current liabilities” of the tax that may be recovered. The latter is assessed at the end of in the statement of financial position and “Other operating income” each financial year, based on earnings forecasts for the tax entities in the income statement. Recoveries are recognized using the same concerned. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. depreciation schedule as that of the non-current assets whose acquisition they financed. All deferred taxes are recognized through profit or loss on the income statement, except those generated by items that are allocated directly to equity. In this case, the deferred taxes are also allocated J. Taxes to equity. This is the case in particular for deferred taxes on brands, when the expected tax rate has just been modified. Income tax expense corresponds to the current tax payable by each consolidated tax entity, adjusted for deferred taxes. In France, Bonduelle SCA is head of the tax consolidation group K. Retirement, termination and that includes Bonduelle SAS, Bonduelle Conserve International SAS, providence commitments Bonduelle Surgelé International SAS, Bonduelle Development SAS, The Group provides its employees with either defined contribution or Champiloire SAS, Bonduelle Frais Traiteur SAS, Bonduelle Frais defined benefit plans. France SA, SCI Revoisson and Bonduelle Traiteur International SAS, SAS Champignonnières des Roches, SA Champignonnières de la The Group’s main obligations under its defined benefit programs Vienne, SAS Champiland and SAS Euromycel. consist of termination benefits and long service awards in France, retirement plans in Germany, retirement benefits in Italy and a pension All current taxes in respect of the period are classified in current liabilities insofar as they have not been settled. Any overpayments of income taxes are classified among balance sheet assets as current fund in the Netherlands. 5 receivables. Breakdown of the various plans: France Germany Italy Netherlands Termination benefits Type of plan and long-service awards Retirement plans Termination plans Pension funds Discount rate 3.50% 3.50% 3.50% 3.50% Return on plan assets 3.50% N/A N/A 3.50% Future salary increase 2.50% 1.75% N/A 2.50% Retirement age 63 years 65 years 62 years 65 years Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 103 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements The Group does not have any obligations for future medical benefits. M. Revenue The same discount rate (3.50%) is used to calculate Bonduelle’s obligations under the various plans. It was determined based on AARevenue is recognized when the essential part of the risks and rated bond yields of private issuers in the eurozone. The rate of salary benefits associated with the ownership of the goods have been inflation presented is an average rate, calculated specifically for each transferred to the buyer. plan. Revenue is recognized net of any discounts or rebates accorded The expected rates of return on plan assets are based on historical to clients and any costs related to co-marketing or referencing performances, current and long-term projections and the profile of agreements, or concerning occasional promotional campaigns the assets in the investment fund. invoiced by distributors. In accordance with IAS 19, “Employee Benefits”, the projected unit credit method is used to calculate pension and other post-retirement N. Other current operating proﬁt and benefits under the defined benefit plans, using assumptions about salary inflation, employee turnover, retirement age and life expectancy. expenses The corresponding actuarial liabilities are recognized either as This line includes other income and expense items not directly related contributions paid to insurance companies or in the form of provisions. to the Group’s business. The primary actuarial assumptions used to calculate these liabilities were: O. Non-Recurring Items 1 factors for employee turnover and life expectancy; Non-recurring items comprise significant items that cannot be 1 retirement age: 62 in Italy, 65 in Germany and the Netherlands and considered as inherent to the Group’s operational activity due to 63 in France. their nature and non-habitual character. They include mainly negative The Bonduelle Group decided to recognize all actuarial gains goodwill, impairment of intangible assets (including goodwill) from and losses in accordance with the option defined by IAS 19 consolidated shareholdings, restructuring and reorganization costs, from January 1, 2006: the so-called SORIE option (Statement of acquisition costs, and the impacts of changes in estimates. Recognized Income and Expense) consists of booking all actuarial gains and losses generated during the year directly to equity. Actuarial gains and losses are generated by inter-period changes in P. Share-based payments the actuarial assumptions used to calculate the value of the liabilities Share purchase options and free shares granted to employees are and the assets, and by differences between the market conditions measured at their fair value on the allocation date. The fair value of actually observed and those originally assumed. the options is calculated using the Black & Scholes option pricing Similarly, the lines “Impact of discounting” and “Projected return on model, on the basis of assumptions determined by the Executive plan assets” are recognized through net financial expense. Management. This value is recognized in the income statement for the period during which employee’s exercise rights become vested, Under the defined contribution plans, the Group’s only obligation is to with the offsetting entry consisting of an equivalent increase in pay the required premium, which is recognized as a period expense. shareholders’ equity. All expenses recognized in relation to options that expire prior to becoming exercisable are reversed in the income statement for the period during which they expire. L. Other non-current and current provisions Provisions are established for clearly identifiable risks and expenses Q. Basic earnings per share and diluted whose timing or amount is uncertain, when an obligation to a third earnings per share party actually exists and it is certain or probable that this obligation Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income will result in an outflow of resources without receiving at least attributable to owners of the Company by the average number of equivalent consideration. shares in issue during the financial year. In the case of restructuring, an obligation is recognized once its To calculate diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number implementation has begun or a detailed plan has been drawn of shares is adjusted to reflect the impact of the conversion of any up that has, to a sufficiently clear extent, created a well-founded convertible instruments into common shares. expectation on the part of the persons in question that the Company will implement the restructuring. 104 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 R. Assets and liabilities held for sale and regularly reviewed by the Internal Audit Department and the Statutory Auditors. At meetings held regularly with the Chief Financial Officer operations discontinued, sold or in and the Manager of Finance and Treasury, the Group’s Executive the process of being sold Management validates, on the basis of a report published monthly, the implementation of previously authorized management strategies. Assets and liabilities held for sale, i.e. immediately available for disposal and whose disposal is highly probable, are presented on In a rapidly changing global economic environment, characterized by separate lines of the consolidated statement of financial position market volatility and changes in financial techniques, the role of the of the period during which the decision to sell was taken. The Group Finance and Treasury Department is to: consolidated statements of financial positions of previous periods are 1 ensure optimum and sufficient funding to finance the development not restated. Sale is said to be highly probable when a plan for the and growth of the Group’s activities; and sale of the asset (or group of assets) held for sale has been drawn up by the Executive Management and an active search for an acquirer 1 identify, evaluate and hedge all financial risks in close collaboration has been initiated. with the operations teams. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount The objective is to minimize, at the lowest possible cost, the impact or fair value, less any selling costs, and are no longer depreciated. of financial market fluctuations on the Group’s income statement, in order to reduce the capital allocation required to manage these Furthermore, net income and cash flow from discontinued operations financial risks. or operations that have been sold or are in the process of being sold are presented respectively on a separate line of the income statement The Group prohibits the taking of speculative positions. and the statement of cash flows, for all of the periods presented. A. Liquidity risk S. Use of estimates The Group Finance Department is responsible for maintaining As part of the normal preparation of the consolidated financial sufficient liquidity at all times. It accomplishes this by efficiently statements, the calculation of certain financial data requires the managing the Group’s cash balances and ensuring that the maturity use of assumptions, estimates and assessments. This is especially and legal conditions of the financing obtained are appropriate. In true for the measurement of intangible assets, deferred taxes on tax particular, it arranges confirmed lines of credit to maximize the loss carryforwards and the calculation of the amount of provisions flexibility of the Group’s financing (see Note 21 of the notes to the for risks and charges or provisions for employee benefit and sales consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2012.) commitments. These assumptions, estimates and assessments are The Company specifically reviewed its liquidity risk and considers based on information and positions existing at the date on which the that it is able to meet its future payments. financial statements were prepared, which may prove, after the fact, to be different from the actual figures. B. Market risks 5 T. Reclassiﬁcations ■ 1. CURRENCY RISK The presentation of certain items in the financial statements pertaining Risks related to changes in foreign exchange rates to prior years may have been modified to make it compliant with the The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in euros, accounting principles adopted for the most recent period presented. and in 2011-2012 72% of revenue and 36% of operating profit were No significant reclassifications were made during the financial year. denominated in euros. The share of assets, liabilities, sales and earnings denominated in other currencies – essentially the Polish zloty, Hungarian forint, Russian ruble and US and Canadian dollars – fluctuates continuously. NOTE 3 This means that the Group is affected by fluctuations in the value of these currencies relative to the euro when they are translated into euros in the consolidated financial statements. For example, when Management of ﬁnancial risks the euro appreciates against these currencies it reduces the earnings The Group has established an organization that provides for contribution from those subsidiaries whose financial statements are centralized management of all of its liquidity, currency, interest rate denominated in these currencies. and counterparty credit risks. The Finance Department has assigned All sales and expenses of Group subsidiaries are generally expressed the Group Finance and Treasury Department responsibility for risk in their local currency, with the exception of imports, exports and management, and provided it with all of the expertise and tools financial transactions covered by centralized and systematic foreign needed to participate in the various financial markets as effectively currency hedges, where the type of exposure means that it can and safely as possible. The organization and procedures utilized are Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 105 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements be hedged: Bonduelle therefore believes that its local exposure to ■ 5. COMMODITY RISK currency fluctuations, after hedging, is limited. The Bonduelle Group has always favored the best agricultural lands The Group’s international growth strategy contributes to increasing and the geographical diversification of its sourcing regions when the weight of non euro-denominated activities in revenue, operating deciding where to locate its production facilities, in order to reduce profit and consolidated net income. the climate-related risks inherent to all farming activities. There is, moreover, no organized market for the agricultural Hedging policies for currency risk commodities purchased by the Bonduelle Group. Changes in the The Group seeks to hedge, on a budgeted annual basis, all risks prices of agricultural commodities quoted on a market do, however, relating to the activities of its subsidiaries denominated in a currency have a more or less significant impact on the Group’s purchase prices, other than their functional currency and the risks relating to the net depending on the agricultural alternatives available to producers. In assets of some subsidiaries operating in countries whose functional order to ensure long-term relationships with its vegetable suppliers, currency is not the euro. Bonduelle holds annual negotiations with producers’ associations, The Group uses over-the-counter financial instruments only to hedge well in advance of the harvest, that set the producer’s net margin the financial risks generated by its production and sales activities. All per hectare. Bonduelle is therefore obliged to adjust its selling prices hedges entered into must comply with the objectives and procedures to reflect the results of its vegetable purchasing negotiations, which established by the Bonduelle Group’s Executive Management. These vary between sourcing regions. transactions are centralized within the Group Finance and Treasury Department. The Group’s policy regarding fluctuations in foreign exchange C. Equity management rates consists of periodically calculating its net exposure to foreign The Bonduelle Group always ensures that its financial structure currencies and using financial derivatives to reduce this risk. remains optimal by respecting the equilibrium between its net debt The Group makes use above all of forward foreign exchange and its equity, and by maintaining a consistent dividend policy. This contracts, foreign currency swaps and options entered into with is intended to keep the cost of capital to a minimum, to maximize highly-rated bank counterparties. Details of the portfolio appear share price and dividend growth for the shareholders and to maintain in Note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements at sufficient financial flexibility to take advantage of any opportunities June 30, 2012. that may arise. At June 30, 2012, the Group had equity of 503.7 million euros, on ■ 2. INTEREST RATE RISK the basis of which the Supervisory Board proposed a dividend of 1.50 euros per share. The interest rate management policy is coordinated, controlled and handled centrally, with the aim of protecting future cash flows and reducing the volatility of finance costs. The Group uses various instruments available on the market, especially interest rate options and swaps. Details of the portfolio appear in Note 20 of the notes to NOTE 4 the consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2012. Changes in the scope of consolidation ■ 3. CREDIT RISK 1. France In light of the high credit quality of the Group’s principal counterparties and the wide dispersion of its customers throughout the world, The following mergers took place on March 31, 2012 (applied especially in the retail grocery sector, the Group considers that it does retroactively to July 1, 2011): not have a significant exposure to credit risk. 1 Bonduelle Sud Europe and Bonduelle Conserve International; and Given the high liquidity of the Group’s trade and related receivables, 1 Bonduelle Conserve International and Champiloire SAS. the fair value of these assets is considered to be equal to their carrying amount. The new entity is renamed Bonduelle Conserve International. These operations had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. ■ 4. COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK In its dealings in financial assets in general and any cash balances, the Group works only with highly-rated bank counterparties. Any cash surpluses are generally managed in short-term interest-bearing deposits. 106 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 2. Entry into the consolidation scope After receiving the approval of the Russian competition authorities (FAS), Bonduelle took full effective control of Coubanskie Conservi ■ ACQUISITIONS IN RUSSIA on 03/30/2012. In Russia, the transaction finalized by the Bonduelle Group with the The price paid breaks down as follows: French co-operative group Cecab relates to the Timachevsk plant, Cash: 20,158 thousand euros. located close to Bonduelle’s plant in Novotitarovskaya (Krasnodar Krai, in south-west Russia.) The fair value and cash flows arising from the acquisition of Coubanskie Conservi are as follows: Carrying amount before Fair value of net assets (in thousands of euros) acquisition 04/01/2012 acquired 04/01/2012 Non-current assets 28,106 24,474 Current assets 13,104 12,332 Non-current liabilities 27,260 27,864 Current liabilities 465 566 Total net assets acquired (B) 13,486 8,375 Goodwill (A-B) 11,783 Purchase cost (A) 20,158 Cash and cash equivalents 2,118 Net cash used for the acquisition of Coubanskie Conservi 18,040 The goodwill calculation was provisional at 06/30/2012. ■ ACQUISITIONS IN HUNGARY At 06/30/2012: After receiving the approval of the Hungarian competition authorities, The revenue amount since the acquisition date included in the the Bonduelle Group purchased the production assets of Kelet-Food consolidated financial statement of comprehensive income was not and took effective control of Com Foods on May 31, 2012. significant, whilst the operating income was around zero. Concurrently with this transaction, Bonduelle purchased the Globus brand The price paid breaks down as follows: Cash: 6,952 thousand euros. 5 from Cecab for a fair value of one million five hundred thousand euros. The fair value and cash flows arising from the acquisition of the Kelet-Food assets and Com Food are as follows: Carrying amount before Fair value of net assets (in thousands of euros) acquisition 06/01/2012 acquired 06/01/2012 Non-current assets 4,057 3,791 Current assets 2,289 2,289 Non-current liabilities 113 5,270 Current liabilities 1,623 1,623 Total net assets acquired (B) 4,610 (811) Goodwill (A-B) 7,763 Purchase cost (A) 6,952 Cash and cash equivalents 582 Net cash used for the acquisition of Kelet-Food 6,370 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 107 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements The goodwill calculation was provisional at 06/30/2012. ■ ASSET PURCHASES IN THE US At 06/30/2012: The fair value of the frozen food assets (industrial facilities and The revenue amount since the acquisition date included in the inventories) purchased from Allens on March 30, 2012 totaled 49,815 consolidated financial statement of comprehensive income was not thousand euros and corresponds to the price paid. significant, whilst the operating income was around zero. Of these assets, the cash acquired totaled 2,824 thousand euros. Consequently, the net cash used totaled 46,991 thousand euros. NOTE 5 Segment reporting Outside European Total (in thousands of euros) European Area Area Eliminations at 06/30/2011 Income Statement Revenue 1,302,795 428,011 (4,808) 1,725,998 Inter-segment sales (4,808) 0 4,808 0 TOTAL 1,297,987 428,011 0 1,725,998 Depreciation, amortization and impairment (54,532) (15,656) (70,189) Current operating income 30,867 49,814 80,681 Operating profit 19,130 49,814 68,944 Statement of ﬁnancial position Non-current assets 543,858 186,191 730,049 o.w. Property, plant and equipment 341,803 127,469 469,273 o.w. Net investments in tangible and intangible assets 78,655 18,242 96,898 o.w. Goodwill 142,624 46,802 189,425 o.w. Brands 20,215 2,304 22,519 Current assets 794,659 172,112 966,770 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED ASSETS 1,338,516 358,303 1,696,819 Equity 483,774 Non-current liabilities 437,521 128,827 566,348 o.w. Financial liabilities 482,096 Current liabilities 545,290 101,407 646,697 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED LIABILITIES 1,338,516 358,303 1,696,819 108 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 Outside Total (in thousands of euros) European Area European Area Eliminations at 06/30/2012 Income Statement Revenue 1,286,301 487,375 (6,725) 1,766,951 Inter-segment sales (6,725) 6,725 0 TOTAL 1,279,576 487,375 0 1,766,951 Depreciation, amortization and impairment (54,097) (17,839) (71,937) Current operating income 45,714 55,212 100,926 Operating profit 44,503 53,674 98,177 Statement of ﬁnancial position Non-current assets 564,258 246,652 810,910 o.w. Property, plant and equipment 340,133 171,142 511,275 o.w. Net investments in tangible and intangible assets 53,564 17,792 71,356 o.w. Goodwill 149,802 61,203 211,005 o.w. Brands 20,215 4,069 24,284 Current assets 669,564 261,391 930,955 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED ASSETS 1,233,822 508,043 1,741,865 Equity 503,745 Non-current liabilities 382,106 127,448 509,554 o.w. Financial liabilities 437,255 Current liabilities 541,525 187,041 728,566 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED LIABILITIES 1,233,822 508,043 1,741,865 ■ Information by segment 5 Total (in thousands of euros) Canned/Frozen Fresh Other at 06/30/2011 Income statement Revenue – excluding intercompany 1,347,912 378,086 1,725,998 TOTAL 1,347,912 378,086 1,725,998 Statement of ﬁnancial position Goodwill 115,639 72,923 863 189,425 Brands 22,519 22,519 Total (in thousands of euros) Canned/Frozen Fresh Other at 06/30/2012 Income statement Revenue – excluding intercompany 1,385,927 381,024 1,766,951 TOTAL 1,385,927 381,024 1,766,951 Statement of ﬁnancial position Goodwill 137,219 72,923 863 211,005 Brands 24,284 24,284 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 109 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements ■ Information by geographical region At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 France 628,686 36% 642,944 36% North America 284,633 16% 315,289 18% Germany 213,150 12% 212,564 12% Italy 185,898 11% 185,519 10% Eastern Europe (1) 115,702 7% 130,343 7% Benelux 80,624 5% 79,816 5% (2) Central Europe 73,265 5% 82,923 5% Iberian peninsula 82,377 4% 45,130 3% Other 61,664 4% 72,423 4% TOTAL REVENUE 1,725,998 100% 1,766,951 100% (1) Russia + CIS countries. (2) Eastern Bloc countries now in the European Union. NOTE 6 Purchases and external charges (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Purchases of goods and other supplies (816,047) (893,183) Production in inventory (15,848) 8,394 Changes in inventories of goods and other supplies (700) 20,053 Other external charges (400,285) (409,467) TOTAL PURCHASES AND EXTERNAL CHARGES (1,232,881) (1,274,203) NOTE 7 Remuneration and headcount (in thousands of euros and number of employees) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Employee benefits expense for consolidated companies (336,999) (334,148) Average annual workforce 9,650 8,973 Employees with long-term employment contracts * 7,248 6,449 * Does not include the workforce from acquisitions, which stood at 668 employees on long-term contracts at June 30, 2012. 110 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 8 Other operating income and expenses (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Operating services 3,796 6,266 Recoveries of provisions and impairment 17,002 24,555 Other operating income 20,859 29,635 TOTAL OTHER OPERATING INCOME 41,657 60,457 (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Taxes and duties (20,319) (22,490) Provisions and impairment (14,481) (12,715) Other operating expenses (12,103) (10,989) TOTAL OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (46,904) (46,195) NOTE 9 Non-recurring items (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Disposals of non-operational property assets 5,692 5 Reorganization and restructuring costs (17,428) (1,456) Acquisition costs (1,293) TOTAL NON-RECURRING ITEMS (11,737) (2,749) Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 111 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 10 Net ﬁnancial result Bonduelle had -30.5 million euros in net finance costs during the year ended June 30, 2012, compared with -23.7 million euros the previous year. (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Cost of net debt A (29,465) (27,092) Cash and cash equivalents 687 666 Interest expense (at effective interest rate) (29,250) (27,644) Gains and losses on liabilities covered by fair value hedges 24,025 (22,672) Gains and losses on fair value hedging derivatives (24,926) 22,558 Other ﬁnance income and costs B 5,811 (3,383) Foreign exchange gain (loss) 2,654 (1,142) Ineffective portion of cash flow hedges (76) (312) Net gain (loss) on derivatives ineligible for hedge accounting (foreign currency & interest rate risk) 3,881 (948) Other finance costs (648) (981) NET FINANCIAL RESULT A+B (23,654) (30,475) Cost of net debt, the main component of financial expense, fell Finally, the interest rate, calculated on the Group’s average debt in from -29.5 million euros at June 30, 2011 to -27.1 million euros at all currencies and restated to account for IFRS effects, amounted to June 30, 2012. 3.39% compared to 3.81% the previous year, down 42 bps. It was made up of both interest paid at the effective interest The Group’s foreign exchange income, meanwhile, stands at rate (-27.6 million euros), income from cash (+0.7 million euros) -1.6 million euros, corresponding entirely to income from foreign and the gains and losses on debt covered by fair value hedges currency hedges operated on flows related to commercial activities (-22.7 million euros) being mostly offset by gains and losses on fair in foreign currencies (breaking down as follows: foreign exchange value hedging derivatives (+22.6 million euros). loss -1.1 million euros, ineffective portion of cash flow hedges -0.3 million euros and loss on derivatives ineligible for hedge The loss on fair value debt was mainly due to the rise in the dollar accounting 0.2 million euros .) against the euro between last year and this, which had a negative impact on the carrying amount of the debt in US dollars (USPP.) As required by IFRS 7, the Group performed sensitivity analyses to As this debt was fully hedged against exchange rate fluctuations, measure its exposure to material changes in interest and foreign there was zero effect on the income statement and the remainder exchange rates. (-0.1 million euros) was related to the impact of interest rate The scope of the interest rate sensitivity analyses included all financial fluctuations. instruments, both debt and derivatives. The analyses were made The fall in the cost of net debt was due mainly to a sharp drop in assuming a uniform shift of +/-50 bp in all yield curve maturities at the interest rates over the year, especially in the second half. In managing reporting date. The market values of the instruments were obtained its exposure to interest rate risks, the Group kept part of its floatingfrom the valuation platforms used by the Finance Department, and rate debt (see Note 21), which allowed it to benefit greatly from this market data are populated using real-time information systems reduction. (Reuters, etc.) 112 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ Analysis of interest rate sensitivity Change in interest rates +50 bps -50 bps Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on (in thousands of euros) Equity Income Equity Income Interest on debt 0 (3,592) 0 3,592 Mark-to-market valuation of debt 0 5,182 0 (5,380) Debt 0 1,591 0 (1,788) Finance income from interest rate derivatives 0 1,058 0 (1,058) Mark-to-market valuation of interest rate derivatives 2,027 (3,570) (2,049) 3,670 Interest rate derivatives 2,027 (2,512) (2,049) 2,612 TOTAL 2,027 (921) (2,049) 824 The same valuation methods used to measure interest rate sensitivity liabilities, hedges can extend beyond one year though they must not (information systems and valuation platforms, etc.) are used to exceed the present limit of six years, with the exception of hedges measure the Group’s exposure to changes in the currencies it uses for on the USPP bond issued in 2010, for which the hedges run until business and financing purposes (USD, HUF, CAD, RUB, PLN, etc.). the bond matures (2022). In this case, the flows (intermediate and The scope includes all balance sheet liabilities and receivables, those final) of hedging instruments run concurrently to the flows of the portions of trade-related flows expected to be generated during the underlying hedged instruments and their impacts are offset in the period hedged, and all derivative instruments used to hedge foreign income statement every quarter or half-year period according to the currency exposures. defined flow exchange schedules. In accordance with IFRS 7 §23, it is specified that, since this For the methods used to prepare the currency fluctuation sensitivity consists primarily of hedges of trading flows denominated in foreign calculations, a variation of +/-5% in the euro against the main currencies, the flows hedged and the associated hedging instruments currencies has been applied. generally mature in less than one year. In the case of longer assets or ■ Analysis of sensitivity to changes in exchange rates (excluding subsidiaries’ net equity) 5 Change in exchange rates +5% change in the euro -5% change in the euro against currency against currency Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on (in thousands of euros) Equity Income Equity Income HUF/EUR 628 (725) (608) 753 USD/EUR 0 190 0 (10) PLN/EUR 35 (32) (31) 35 RUB/EUR 0 (76) 84 USD/CAD 3 0 (3) 0 Other (6) (108) 6 122 TOTAL 659 (750) (636) 983 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 113 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 11 Income tax 1. Analysis of net income tax expense Total income tax expenses are analyzed in the following manner: At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Average tax rate: 32.45% 27.07% 2. Reconciliation of income tax and proﬁt before tax (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 % At 06/30/2012 % Net income attributable to owners of the Company 30,436 46,705 Non-controlling interests 227 1,017 Share of net income from associates 58 (1,655) Income tax expense 14,685 18,325 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 45,290 67,702 Theoretical tax expense 15,593 34.4% 24,441 36.1% Reconciliation: Permanent differences (2,726) -6.0% (1,194) -1.8% Difference in tax rates (outside of France) (4,452) -9.8% (9,775) -14.4% Impact of tax loss carryforwards and other 6,269 13.8% 4,853 7.2% ACTUAL INCOME TAX EXPENSE 14,685 32.4% 18,325 27.1% 3. Deferred taxes (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Provisions and non-current assets 8,724 4,351 Margin in inventory 1,285 677 Tax loss carryforwards * 7,148 10,803 Accelerated depreciation and regulated provisions (27,991) (25,154) Other ** 109 4,207 NET DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (10,725) (5,116) * Due to income-generating prospect for the companies concerned. ** Variation in tax due to restatements of ﬁnancial instruments. The tax loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax asset has been recorded, amounted to 116.2 million euros at June 30, 2012, compared with 128.2 million euros at June 30, 2011. 114 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ Change in net deferred tax assets (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 OPENING (14,725) (10,725) Translation adjustments 542 (1,093) Acquisition and disposals of subsidiaries 143 2,345 Taxes recognized in the income statement 5,515 2,808 Taxes recognized directly through equity (2,200) 1,549 CLOSING (10,725) (5,116) NOTE 12 Earnings per share A dividend of 1.50 euros per share will be proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting. At 06/30/2012, the share capital of BSCA was comprised of 8 million shares with a par value of 7 euros per share. (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Net income attributable to owners of the Company 30,436 46,705 Number of shares used to calculate: 1 Basic earnings per share 7,723,769 7,478,190 1 Diluted earnings per share 7,723,769 7,478,190 Earnings per share (in euros) 1 Basic 3.94 6.25 5 1 Diluted 3.94 6.25 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 115 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 13 Other intangible assets Analysis of changes in gross carrying amounts and impairment: Acquisitions Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2010 or charges or recovery Other (1) At 06/30/2011 Gross carrying amount Trademarks, patents and licenses 33,681 5 (8,015) (449) 25,222 Software 46,657 1,823 (1,546) 1,044 47,977 Other 4,183 3 (37) (561) 3,588 Property, plant and equipment under construction 674 629 0 (689) 613 85,195 2,460 (9,599) (656) 77,400 Amortization and impairment Trademarks, patents and licenses 2,055 173 (15) (46) 2,166 Software 37,986 4,169 (1,546) (42) 40,568 Other 1,016 252 (37) (167) 1,064 41,057 4,595 (1,598) (256) 43,798 Net carrying amount Trademarks, patents and licenses 31,626 23,055 Software 8,670 7,409 Other 3,168 2,524 Property, plant and equipment under construction 674 613 44,138 33,603 Acquisitions Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 or charges or recovery Other (1) At 06/30/2012 Gross carrying amount Trademarks, patents and licenses (2) 25,222 1,646 (30) 82 26,920 Software 47,977 1,675 (27) 47 49,672 Other 3,588 0 (0) 366 3,954 Property, plant and equipment under construction 613 1,317 0 (606) 1,324 77,400 4,637 (57) (111) 81,870 Amortization and impairment Trademarks, patents and licenses 2,166 77 (30) (25) 2,187 Software 40,568 3,316 (25) (244) 43,615 Other 1,064 219 0 54 1,337 43,798 3,612 (55) (216) 47,138 Net carrying amount Trademarks, patents and licenses 23,055 24,733 Software 7,409 6,057 Other 2,524 2,617 Property, plant and equipment under construction 613 1,324 33,603 34,731 (1) Change in scope, translation adjustments and transfers between lines. (2) Carrying amounts of trademarks are as follows (in millions of euros): Cassegrain (20,215), Arctic Gardens (2,569), Globus (1,500). 116 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 14 Goodwill Analysis of changes in goodwill: Acquisitions Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2010 or charges or recovery Other (2) At 06/30/2011 GROSS CARRYING AMOUNT 192,406 0 0 (2,981) 189,425 Impairment 0 0 0 0 0 NET CARRYING AMOUNT 192,406 0 0 (2,981) 189,425 Acquisition Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 or charge (1) or recovery Other (2) At 06/30/2012 GROSS CARRYING AMOUNT 189,425 19,546 0 2,036 211,007 Impairment 0 0 0 0 0 NET CARRYING AMOUNT 189,425 19,546 0 2,034 211,005 (1) The increase corresponds to goodwill from acquisitions made during the year: Coubanskie Conservi (11,783), Corn Food (7,763). (2) Translation adjustments. 5 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 117 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 15 Property, plant and equipment Analysis of changes in gross carrying amounts and impairment: Acquisitions Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2010 or charges or recovery Other (1) At 06/30/2011 Gross carrying amount Land 52,974 413 (1,453) 276 52,209 Buildings 376,763 12,082 (6,976) 18,678 400,547 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 733,401 22,264 (22,559) 31,623 764,730 Other 56,382 3,720 (7,393) 1,098 53,806 Property, plant and equipment under construction 58,608 42,425 (206) (67,956) 32,871 1,278,127 80,904 (38,586) (16,281) 1,304,164 Amortization Land 9,308 690 (180) (30) 9,788 Buildings 228,984 15,425 (4,007) (492) 239,909 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 505,271 48,671 (18,393) (2,839) 532,710 Other 43,550 4,384 (5,576) 586 42,944 Property, plant and equipment under construction 0 0 787,113 69,169 (28,156) (2,776) 825,351 Impairment Land 460 116 0 0 576 Buildings 4,631 (1,758) (39) (1,081) 1,754 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 11,520 (5,075) (1) (132) 6,312 Other 191 (163) 0 28 Property, plant and equipment under construction 3,660 245 (40) (2,994) 871 20,462 (6,635) (80) (4,207) 9,540 Net carrying amount Land 43,205 41,846 Buildings 143,148 158,884 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 216,610 225,709 Other 12,641 10,834 Property, plant and equipment under construction 54,948 32,000 470,552 469,273 (1) Including the disposal of Naturalmente for a gross carrying amount of -€1,617 thousand and +€408 thousand in depreciation. The rest consists mainly of translation adjustments and transfers between lines. The gross and net carrying amount of assets acquired or reﬁnanced under ﬁnance leases totaled €60.1 and €11 million respectively at June 30, 2011, compared to €59.3 and €13.8 million respectively at June 30, 2010. 118 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 Acquisitions Sale, disposal (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 or charges or recovery Other (1) At 06/30/2012 Gross carrying amount Land 52,209 459 (827) 3,509 55,350 Buildings 400,547 11,459 (5,273) 37,063 443,795 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 764,730 22,603 (32,377) 34,822 789,779 Other 53,806 4,700 (4,792) 9,302 63,017 Property, plant and equipment under construction 32,871 37,622 (3,189) (31,852) 35,451 1,304,164 76,843 (46,459) 52,844 1,387,393 Amortization Land 9,788 585 (113) 32 10,293 Buildings 239,909 16,816 (3,126) 5,993 259,592 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 532,710 48,713 (26,961) (3,228) 551,233 Other 42,944 3,797 (5,570) 5,776 46,946 Property, plant and equipment under construction 0 0 0 0 0 825,351 69,911 (35,770) 8,572 868,064 Impairment Land Buildings 576 1,754 (51) (34) 0 0 0 0 525 1,720 5 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 6,312 (1,162) 0 (0) 5,149 Other 28 (1) (28) 0 1 Property, plant and equipment under construction 871 (18) (2,994) 2,800 659 9,540 (1,264) (3,022) 2,800 8,054 Net carrying amount Land 41,846 44,532 Buildings 158,884 182,483 Industrial plant, tools and equipment 225,709 233,397 Other 10,834 16,071 Property, plant and equipment under construction 32,000 34,792 469,273 511,275 (1) i.e. a net carrying amount of €41.5 million due mainly to changes in scope. Coubanskie Conservi (+€22.3 million), Allens (+€13.8 million), Corn Food (€+2.6 million), UCR (-€3.7 million). The remainder consists mainly of translation adjustments and transfers between lines. The gross and net carrying amount of assets acquired or reﬁnanced under ﬁnance leases totaled €50.9 and €9.0 million respectively at June 30, 2012, compared with €60.1 and €11.0 million at June 30, 2011. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 119 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 16 Presentation of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities by category ■ At 06/30/2011 Financial assets within the scope Assets of application of IAS 39 excluded on ﬁnancial instruments from the scope of Value on application statement Fair value Fair value of IAS 39 of ﬁnancial Loans & through through on ﬁnancial (in thousands of euros) position Fair value receivables equity income instruments Non-current assets Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 9,620 9,620 4,696 314 4,610 Participating interests 451 451 451 Derivative financial instruments 4,924 4,924 314 4,610 Other non-current financial assets 4,245 4,245 4,245 Other non-current assets 7,390 7,390 7,390 0 Other non-current receivables 7,390 7,390 7,390 Prepaid expenses 0 0 0 Current assets Trade & other receivables 329,126 329,126 329,126 Other current assets 5,579 5,579 672 4,907 Non-consolidated loans and receivables 663 663 663 Prepaid expenses 4,907 4,907 4,907 Other assets 9 9 9 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 6,982 6,982 2,781 4,201 Marketable securities and other investments 0 Cash and cash equivalents 111,389 111,389 111,389 120 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 Financial assets within the scope Liabilities of application of IAS 39 excluded on ﬁnancial instruments from the scope of Value on application statement Fair value Fair value of IAS 39 of ﬁnancial Amortized through through on ﬁnancial (in thousands of euros) position Fair value cost equity income instruments Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 482,096 474,834 465,032 3,297 12,607 Debt excluding derivatives 463,717 456,455 465,032 (1,314) Derivative financial instruments 18,379 18,379 3,297 15,082 Other non-current liabilities 14,690 14,690 961 13,729 Investment grants 13,729 13,729 13,729 Miscellaneous debts 961 961 961 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 506,415 506,415 506,415 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 132,832 133,275 121,784 3,184 7,864 Debt excluding derivatives 117,095 117,538 121,784 (4,689) Current derivative financial instruments 15,737 15,737 3,184 12,553 Other current liabilities Prepaid income and other accrual 3,724 3,724 3,724 5 accounts 3,724 3,724 3,724 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 121 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements ■ At 06/30/2012 Financial assets within the scope Assets of application of IAS 39 excluded on ﬁnancial instruments from the scope of Value on application statement Fair value Fair value of IAS 39 of ﬁnancial Loans & through through on ﬁnancial (in thousands of euros) position Fair value receivables equity income instruments Non-current assets Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 19,482 19,482 4,984 177 14,321 Participating interests 408 408 408 Derivative financial instruments 14,498 14,498 177 14,321 Other non-current financial assets 4,576 4,576 4,576 Other non-current assets 9,094 9,094 8,612 482 Other non-current receivables 8,612 8,612 8,612 Prepaid expenses 482 482 482 Current assets Trade & other receivables 322,339 322,339 322,339 Other current assets 7,934 7,934 565 7,369 Non-consolidated loans and receivables 556 556 556 Prepaid expenses 7,369 7,369 7,369 Other assets 9 9 9 Derivative ﬁnancial instruments 7,944 7,944 2,491 5,453 Marketable securities and other investments 0 Cash and cash equivalents 18,941 18,941 18,941 122 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 Financial assets within the scope Liabilities of application of IAS 39 excluded on ﬁnancial instruments from the scope of Value on application statement Fair value Fair value of IAS 39 of ﬁnancial Amortized through through on ﬁnancial (in thousands of euros) position Fair value cost equity income instruments Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 437,255 438,967 413,028 6,687 29,530 Debt excluding derivatives 426,678 428,390 413,028 25,640 Derivative financial instruments 10,577 10,577 6,687 3,890 Other non-current liabilities 665 665 665 Investment grants Miscellaneous debts 665 665 665 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 507,434 507,434 507,434 Current ﬁnancial liabilities 212,576 213,326 204,409 835 7,332 Debt excluding derivatives 205,085 205,835 204,409 676 Current derivative financial instruments 7,491 7,491 835 6,656 Other current liabilities 5,436 5,436 5,436 Prepaid income and other accrual accounts 5,436 5,436 5,436 5 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 123 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 17 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets Analysis of changes in gross carrying amounts and impairment: Disposals Acquisitions or (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2010 or charges recoveries Other At 06/30/2011 Gross carrying amount (2) Participating interests (1) 1,596 3,136 (1) (3,032) 1,699 Derivative financial instruments 9,601 0 (4,677) 0 4,924 Other non-current financial assets 4,238 890 (458) (234) 4,436 15,436 4,027 (5,136) (3,266) 11,060 Impairment Participating interests (1) 1,225 23 0 0 1,248 Other non-current financial assets 192 0 0 0 192 1,418 23 0 0 1,441 Net carrying amount Participating interests (1) 371 3,113 (1) (3,032) 451 Derivative financial instruments 9,601 0 (4,677) 0 4,924 Other non-current financial assets 4,046 890 (458) (234) 4,244 14,018 4,004 (5,136) (3,266) 9,619 Disposals Acquisitions or (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 or charges recoveries Other (3) At 06/30/2012 Gross carrying amount (2) Participating interests (1) 1,698 20 0 (213) 1,505 Derivative financial instruments 4,924 0 0 9,574 14,498 Other non-current financial assets 4,436 949 (413) (154) 4,818 11,060 969 (413) 9,207 20,822 Impairment Participating interests (1) 1,248 0 (150) 0 1,098 Other non-current financial assets 192 0 0 50 243 1,441 0 (150) 50 1,341 Net carrying amount Participating interests (1) 451 20 150 (213) 408 Derivative financial instruments 4,924 0 0 9,574 14,498 Other non-current financial assets 4,244 949 (413) (205) 4,576 9,619 969 (263) 9,157 19,482 (1) This heading represents the carrying amount of the main holdings of companies that are not consolidated by the Group. (2) The valuation principles are set out in Note 2. (3) Restatements and fair value of derivative ﬁnancial instruments. 124 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 18 Inventories and work-in-progress Net Net Gross carrying Gross carrying carrying amount at carrying amount at (in thousands of euros) amount Provisions 06/30/2011 amount Provisions 06/30/2012 Materials and packaging 142,718 (2,833) 139,886 157,114 (2,539) 154,575 Finished goods 370,713 (15,299) 355,414 431,280 (16,051) 415,229 513,431 (18,131) 495,299 588,395 (18,590) 569,804 ■ Analysis of provisions for impairment of inventories and work-in-progress At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Materials and packaging Opening balance (3,595) (2,833) Additions (249) (500) Recoveries 958 785 Translation adjustments and other 53 8 CLOSING BALANCE (2,833) (2,539) Finished goods Opening balance (17,269) (15,299) Additions (1,174) (8,843) Recoveries Translation adjustments and other 2,873 272 8,191 (101) 5 CLOSING BALANCE (15,299) (16,051) NOTE 19 Trade and other receivables Analysis of trade and other receivables: Net Net Gross carrying Gross carrying carrying amount at carrying amount at (in thousands of euros) amount Provisions 06/30/2011 amount Provisions 06/30/2012 Trade receivables 228,465 (8,410) 220,055 233,637 (6,705) 226,931 Tax and social security receivables 62,887 0 62,887 55,435 0 55,435 Other receivables 46,914 (731) 46,184 40,397 (424) 39,973 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 338,267 (9,141) 329,126 329,469 (7,130) 322,339 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 125 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements ■ Change in impairment of trade and other receivables (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Trade receivables Opening balance (10,653) (8,410) Additions (4,084) (2,694) Recoveries 6,182 4,852 Translation adjustments and other 145 (452) CLOSING BALANCE (8,410) (6,705) Other receivables: Opening balance (574) (731) Additions (313) 0 Recoveries 148 299 Translation adjustments and other 8 7 CLOSING BALANCE (731) (424) ■ Maturity analysis of trade and other receivables (net carrying amounts) (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Not yet due 184,428 198,416 Past due 1 less than 30 days 32,347 22,555 1 between 30 and 90 days 2,390 4,296 1 more than 90 days 890 1,664 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 220,055 226,931 ■ CASH FLOW HEDGES NOTE 20 In July 2007 and April 2009, the Group also issued two variable-rate bonds with redeemable share subscription and/or purchase warrants Derivative ﬁnancial instruments (OBSAAR), the first for €150 million and the second for €140 million . The Group uses over-the-counter derivatives to manage exposure Bonduelle then hedged a portion of the debt using options and swap to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Group Policy precludes contracts. As the effectiveness of the hedging relationship has been employees from engaging in speculative transactions on the financial validated using prospective tests, all changes in fair value of these markets. instruments are booked directly to equity. The same applies to the hedging instrument converting a USD fixed-rate into a euro fixed-rate on the USPP issue carried out in Interest rate derivatives August 2010. ■ FAIR VALUE HEDGES The Group issued three fixed-rate bonds, which were partly swapped ■ HEDGES INELIGIBLE FOR HEDGE to variable-rate at the time the bonds were issued. These swaps meet ACCOUNTING UNDER IFRS the criteria required for fair value hedge accounting under IAS 39. The Group’s debt also includes bonds swapped into a variable The underlying debt and swaps are recognized in the statement of interest rate. The Group is therefore exposed to increases in euro financial position at their market value. interest rates. To hedge this risk, the Group has set in place tunneltype options, or caps, that protect it against any significant rise in the 126 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 interest rates. However, as this tunnel is used to hedge debt that was which the debt was issued, and on the date of issue had a fair value swapped from the outset, none of these derivatives qualify for hedge of -4.4 million euros. As this is a hedge of future cash flows, this accounting of future cash flows within the meaning of IAS 39. They amount was initially recognized in shareholders’ equity. It is gradually have accordingly been classified in held-for-trading instruments, and transferred to profit or loss on each repayment of the borrowing. all changes in their fair value are taken into profit or loss for the period. Thus, as the financing matured during the year, the final amortization of 876 thousand euros was recognized in June. As in previous years, the Group introduced foreign currency and Foreign currency derivatives interest rate hedges on intra-group financing covering the needs of ■ FAIR VALUE HEDGES some of its subsidiaries located outside of the euro zone (Canada, Russia, Brazil and Hungary.) This intra-group financing has been the In 2010, the Group issued a bond in USD. Therefore, the Group is subject of full and systematic hedging of the foreign exchange risk, exposed to changes in the value of this debt produced by changes so that changes in the underlying value (loan/intra-group borrowings in the EUR/USD exchange rate. Derivative instruments, forward in currencies) are fully offset by changes in inverse values of the currency contracts and cross currency swaps, qualifying for hedge hedging item. Typically, cross currency swaps or futures sales are accounting under IAS 39, have been introduced to hedge 100% of used for this hedging. the residual par value of this risk. Cross currency swaps also encompass an interest rate component in the hedging. When it involves hedging changes in the value of future ■ CASH FLOW HEDGES cash flows by freezing them using a fixed rate, this hedging is eligible Nearly all of the Group’s sales are in euros. However, in certain for cash flow hedge treatment; changes in value are then recorded countries, the Group may issue invoices denominated in foreign in equity, then recycled in profit and loss as and when hedged flows currencies, mostly the US dollar, Canadian dollar, Hungarian forint, occur. Russian ruble and Polish zloty. The Group publishes its financial statements in euros, and changes in the value of these currencies ■ HEDGES INELIGIBLE FOR HEDGE against the euro may impact consolidated net income. To limit the ACCOUNTING UNDER IFRS sensitivity of its earnings to changes in exchange rates, the Group introduces cash flow hedges using foreign currency forwards and Some of the derivatives introduced by the Group to hedge future options. cash flows do not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. These consist mainly of out-of-the-money options. Furthermore, the cross currency swap introduced to hedge the 150 million USD bond in 2000 was entered into prior to the date on 5 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 127 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements ■ Derivatives at 06/30/2011 Market value Carrying amount (in thousands of euros) Notional Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives (A) Cash flow hedges 411,362 314 5,548 314 5,548 Fair value hedges (swaps) 230,712 4,871 2,202 4,871 2,202 Hedges ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS 123,610 1,415 2,205 1,415 2,205 including forward contracts: Basis swaps 75,000 1,415 657 1,415 657 including options: Caps 125,000 0 0 0 0 including options: Floors (76,390) 0 1,548 0 1,548 Current portion 2,554 4,471 Non-current portion 4,045 5,484 Foreign currency derivatives (B) Cash flow hedges 103,438 2,781 932 2,781 932 including forward contracts 73,733 2,537 932 2,537 932 including options 29,706 244 0 244 0 Fair value hedges (forward contracts) 136,661 1,099 22,298 1,099 22,298 Hedges ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS 48,842 1,427 931 1,427 931 including forward contracts 37,241 1,194 314 1,194 314 including options 11,601 233 617 233 617 Current portion 4,427 11,266 Non-current portion 879 12,895 TOTAL DERIVATIVES (A+B) Current portion 6,982 15,737 Non-current portion 4,924 18,379 128 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ Derivatives at 06/30/2012 Market value Carrying amount (in thousands of euros) Notional Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives (A) Cash flow hedges 313,624 177 7,469 177 7,469 Fair value hedges (swaps) 244,782 13,468 30 13,468 30 Hedges ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS (9,890) 35 3,716 35 3,716 including forward contracts: Basis swaps 7,500 0 1,139 0 1,139 including options: Caps 25,000 35 0 35 0 including options: Floors (42,390) 0 2,577 0 2,577 Current portion 1,537 4,506 Non-current portion 12,143 6,710 Foreign currency derivatives (B) Cash flow hedges 61,546 2,491 53 2,491 53 including forward contracts 47,723 1,660 53 1,660 53 including options 13,823 830 0 830 0 Fair value hedges (forward contracts) 246,651 4,837 5,698 4,837 5,419 Hedges ineligible for hedge accounting under IFRS 94,197 1,434 1,380 1,434 1,380 including forward contracts 88,042 1,434 1,078 1,434 1,078 including options 6,155 0 302 0 302 Current portion 6,406 2,985 Non-current portion 2,355 3,867 TOTAL DERIVATIVES (A+B) Current portion 7,944 7,491 5 Non-current portion 14,498 10,577 ■ Group’s net currency position at less than one year * (excluding exposure on subsidiaries’ net equity) 06/30/2011 (in thousands of euros) USD/EUR HUF/EUR USD/CAD RUB/EUR OTHER Net position before hedging 125,719 37,304 (10,724) (14,718) (3,098) Net position after hedging 869 (552) (120) (134) 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) USD/EUR HUF/EUR USD/CAD RUB/EUR PLN/EUR OTHER Net position before hedging 126,812 (42,953) (15,886) 1,588 (1,667) 2,710 Net position after hedging (2,675) 11,270 0 1,588 569 814 * Positions longer than one year are now fully hedged. = Company is exposed to a decrease in the value of the currency. + = Company is exposed to an increase in the value of the currency. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 129 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 21 Net debt 1. Analysis by type of debt ■ At 06/30/2011 (in thousands of euros) Par value < 6 months < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Bonds 259,453 26,084 77,747 132,229 236,060 OBSAAR (see 2.) 290,000 45,777 239,091 284,868 Finance leases 7,332 484 484 4,613 1,751 7,332 Other bank borrowings 31,253 25,840 752 4,661 31,253 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 3,744 59 59 3,626 3,744 Accrued interest 4,485 4,485 4,485 Current bank lines 13,070 13,070 13,070 Total gross debt before derivatives 609,336 43,938 73,156 329,738 133,980 580,812 Derivatives – Liabilities 2,524 13,213 3,599 14,779 34,116 o.w. derivatives hedging a debt in a fair value hedge 9,585 14,779 24,364 o.w. other derivatives 2,524 3,628 3,599 0 9,752 Total gross debt after fair value of derivatives 46,462 86,369 333,337 148,759 614,928 Derivatives – Assets 4,333 2,649 4,178 746 11,906 o.w. derivatives hedging a debt in a fair value hedge 264 2,985 746 3,995 o.w. other derivatives 4,333 2,385 1,193 7,911 Securities Cash 111,389 111,389 111,389 Total cash and cash equivalents 111,389 115,722 2,649 4,178 746 123,295 TOTAL NET DEBT (69,260) 83,720 329,160 148,013 491,633 Total net debt before derivatives (67,451) 73,156 329,738 133,980 469,423 130 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ At 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) Par value < 6 months < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Bonds 228,235 4,736 15,764 84,293 135,890 240,683 OBSAAR (see 2.) 243,334 45,796 194,504 240,300 Finance leases 5,476 557 557 2,888 1,473 5,476 Other bank borrowings 81,839 78,269 3,570 81,839 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 4,137 39 39 4,059 4,137 Accrued interest 3,678 3,678 3,678 Current bank lines 55,650 55,650 55,650 Total gross debt before derivatives 622,348 142,929 62,156 289,315 137,363 631,763 Derivatives – Liabilities 1,141 6,350 10,576 0 18,067 o.w. derivatives hedging a debt in a fair value hedge o.w. other derivatives 1,141 6,350 10,576 18,067 Total gross debt after fair value of derivatives 144,070 68,506 299,890 137,363 649,830 Derivatives – Assets 2,801 5,143 5,432 9,066 22,442 o.w. derivatives hedging a debt in a fair value hedge 361 936 5,188 8,888 15,373 o.w. other derivatives 2,440 4,207 244 178 7,069 Securities Cash 18,941 18,941 18,941 Total cash and cash equivalents 18,941 21,742 5,143 5,432 9,066 41,383 TOTAL NET DEBT Total net debt before derivatives 122,328 123,988 63,364 62,156 294,458 289,315 128,297 137,363 608,447 612,822 5 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 131 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 2. Analysis of OBSAAR bonds by component (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Option portion recognized in equity * 8,680 8,680 1 including OBSAAR 2007 5,475 5,475 1 including OBSAAR 2009 3,205 3,205 Borrowings and ﬁnancial liabilities 284,868 240,300 1 including OBSAAR 2007 147,538 148,709 1 including OBSAAR 2009 137,330 91,592 * Analysis of impact of portion of OBSAAR recognized in equity: OBSAAR 2007 OBSAAR 2009 Gross – debt impact 5,475 3,205 Deferred tax liabilities (1,976) (1,157) Share of issuing costs (27) (24) Net – equity impact 3,563 2,077 Gross value includes: 1 OBSAAR 2007: 750,000 BSAAR at 7.3 euros = 5,475 thousand euros; 1 OBSAAR 2009: 699,999 BSAAR at 4.58 euros = 3,205 thousand euros. 3. Analysis of net debt by interest rate excluding derivatives (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Net debt excluding derivatives 469,423 612,822 Before interest rate hedging Fixed rate 282,874 335,813 Floating rate 186,549 277,009 After interest rate hedging Fixed rate 341,987 397,643 Floating rate * 127,436 215,179 Including capped ﬂoating rate 150,395 45,316 * Net of cash. 132 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 4. Analysis of net debt by foreign currency excluding derivatives (-) = cash balance 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 EUR * 293,517 425,498 USD 3,231 14,335 CAD 120,659 92,875 HUF 32,992 43,000 RUB 0 12,950 BRL 3,910 7,583 PLN 14,723 16,581 OTHER 392 TOTAL 535,479 612,822 * Net of cash. 5. Gross debt * (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Opening balance 601,014 614,928 Increase 128,378 82,258 Repayment, decreases (88,708) (104,972) Changes in scope 0 25,364 Changes in fair value (17,178) 25,066 Translation adjustments CLOSING BALANCE (8,578) 614,928 7,187 649,830 5 * Including derivatives instruments. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 133 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 6. Market value of Financial Assets and Liabilities other than Derivatives At 06/30/2011 (in thousands of euros) Par value Market value Carrying amount Liabilities Debt Bonds 259,453 256,013 236,060 OBSAAR 290,000 284,868 284,868 Bank borrowings 38,585 38,585 38,585 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 3,744 3,744 3,744 Accrued interest 4,485 4,485 4,485 Current bank lines 13,070 13,070 13,070 TOTAL 609,336 600,765 580,812 Including debt covered by fair value hedges 202,311 186,750 Including debt covered by cash flow hedges 306,923 306,923 Assets Securities Cash 111,389 111,389 111,389 TOTAL 111,389 111,389 111,389 For all other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities other than derivatives, both the market value and the carrying amount are equal to the par value. At 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) Par value Market value Carrying amount Liabilities Debt Bonds 228,235 256,207 240,683 OBSAAR 243,334 240,300 240,300 Bank borrowings 87,314 87,314 87,314 Other borrowings and financial liabilities 4,137 4,137 4,137 Accrued interest 3,678 3,678 3,678 Current bank lines 55,650 55,650 55,650 TOTAL 622,348 647,287 631,763 Including debt covered by fair value hedges 202,468 186,790 Including debt covered by cash flow hedges 307,047 307,774 Assets Cash 18,941 18,941 18,941 TOTAL 18,941 18,941 18,941 For all other ﬁnancial assets and liabilities other than derivatives, both the market value and the carrying amount are equal to the par value. 134 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 7. Analysis of bond issues ■ At June 30, 2012 < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Total Notional Maturity amount Currency Par value Interest * Par value Interest * Par value Interest * Par value Interest * Public issues Public placements 2016 25,000 EUR 5,000 1,132 20,000 2,012 0 0 25,000 3,144 2017 75,000 EUR 15,000 3,113 60,000 6,225 0 0 75,000 9,338 2022 145,000 USD 0 7,308 0 29,232 145,000 25,562 145,000 62,102 2022 15,175 EUR 0 723 0 2,894 15,175 2,535 15,175 6,153 OBSAAR 2007 2013 150,000 EUR 0 350 150,000 64 0 0 150,000 414 OBSAAR 2009 2014 140,000 EUR 46,667 1,243 46,667 584 0 0 93,333 1,827 * Amounts expressed before interest rate hedging; ﬂoating-rate interest is calculated with reference to the forward Euribor rate of June 30, 2012. These issues are subject to financial covenants, including an early ■ RCF redemption clause in the event Bonduelle should default on any of The Bonduelle Group issued a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) in its financial liabilities (cross default) and if the following ratios are not June 2012. met: This bond has the following characteristics: 1 non-current debt must not exceed 60% of long-term capital; 1 Currency: Euro; 1 consolidated current assets must be at least equal to 1.1x consolidated current liabilities. 1 Par value: 300,000,000; These covenants are calculated half yearly. At June 30, 2012, the 1 Date of issue: June 26, 2012; Group complied with these covenants. 1 Maturity: June 26, 2017; 1 Amortization: bullet; 5 8. Liquidity 1 Seniority: pari passu; On June 26, 2012, the Group signed a new Revolving Credit Facility 1 Covenants package: (RCF) for 300 million euros with a five-year term and bullet repayment. Early redemption clause in the event Bonduelle should default • This line of credit, put in place by an international pool of seven on any of its financial liabilities (cross default), banks, allows the Group to address the bond component of the • Long-term debt/long-term equity ratio < 0.60, OBSAAR 2007 and 2009 repayments due in 2012 and 2013, whilst • Current assets/current liabilities ratio > 1.1. also enabling it to finance the acquisitions made in 2012 (Allens’ frozen food plants in the US, canned vegetable plants of Globus in Russia and Kelet-Food in Hungary.) ■ USPP At June 30, 2012, the Group had several confirmed bank credit lines In August 2010, the Bonduelle Group carried out a private bond issue with maturities of under two years and one RCF. in the United States (USPP.) This new transaction brings the amount of confirmed bank lines This bond has the following characteristics: to 541 million euros (236 million euros at June 30, 2011), of which First tranche: 76 million euros had been drawn at June 30, 2012 (27 million euros at June 30, 2011.) 1 Currency: USD; 1 Par value: USD 145,000,000; 1 Date of issue: August 03, 2010; 1 Maturity: August 03, 2022; 1 Amortization: over the last five years in equal tranches of 29 million US dollars; Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 135 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1 Dollar coupon rate: 5.04% annually, half-yearly payments; 1 consolidated current assets must be at least equal to 1.1x consolidated current liabilities. 1 Seniority: pari passu. And encompassing an early redemption clause in the event Bonduelle Second tranche: should default on any of its financial liabilities (cross default) and if the 1 Currency: euro; ratios are not met. 1 Par value: 15,174,505 euros (Equal to USD 20,000,000); These covenants are calculated half yearly. At June 30, 2012, the 1 Date of issue: September 02, 2010; Group complied with these covenants. 1 Maturity: September 02, 2022; 1 Amortization: over the last five years in equal tranches of ■ OBSAAR 3.04 million euros; In 2007 and in 2009, the Group issued bonds with redeemable share subscription and/or purchase warrants (OBSAAR.) The tables below 1 Dollar coupon rate: 4.70% annually, half-yearly payments; present a summary comparison for the main terms and conditions of 1 Seniority: pari passu. these operations. These issues are subject to financial covenants, including: 1 non-current debt must not exceed 60% of long-term capital; ■ Main terms and conditions of the OBSAAR bonds: OBSAAR 2007 OBSAAR 2009 Total issue 150,000,000 Euros 139,999,800 Euros Maturity 7 years July 24, 2013 5 years, amortizing April 6, 2014 Coupon rate 3-month Euribor – 0.3350% 3-month Euribor + 0.686% Long-term debt/(Long-term equity) <= 60% Consolidated current assets/ Covenants None Consolidated current liabilities > = 1.1 The bonds are traded on the Euronext Paris exchange. They are listed separately from the BSAAR warrants. ISIN CODE Listing FR0010490904 FR0010734483 ■ Main terms and conditions of the BSAAR warrants BSAAR 2007 BSAAR 2009 Total issue originally 750,000 699,999 Exercise price 113.75 Euros 80 Euros Term 8 years 7 years Exercise period From July 23, 2010 to July 24, 2015 From April 07, 2011 to April 08, 2016 On Euronext ISIN code: FR On Euronext ISIN code: Listing 0010490912 FR 0010734509 As part of the simplified public exchange offer (OPES) carried out in 2009 at the same time as the issuing of an OBSAAR bond, the holders of BSAAR 2007 warrants added their warrants to the OPES, thus bringing the number of BSAAR 2007 warrants still in circulation to 18,018. 136 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 22 2. Deﬁned beneﬁt plans The Group also has contractual obligations to pay termination and Employee beneﬁt obligations retirement benefits, which are estimated using the projected unit credit method. 1. Deﬁned contribution plans The Bonduelle Group decided to recognize the actuarial gains/losses The Group creates retirement plans for its employees, in accordance against equity using the SORIE (Statement of Recognized Income with the laws and customs of the countries in which Group companies and Expense) option provided by IAS 19. operate. The liabilities correspond to contributions due. The amount The plans are set out in Note 2.K. totaled 26,939 thousand euros at June 30, 2012, compared to 27,598 thousand euros at June 30, 2011. The change in the financial position of the defined benefit plans is as follows: (in thousands of euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Income Statement: Retirement expense Cost of services rendered during the year 1,091 1,202 Impact of discounting 998 1,205 Projected return on plan assets (547) (537) Projected return on reimbursement rights 0 0 Amortization of the cost of past services 69 277 (Gains)/losses on plan reduction (102) 0 (Gains)/losses on plan liquidation 0 0 RETIREMENT (INCOME) EXPENSE RECOGNIZED 1,509 2,148 (in thousands of euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Change in the present value of the obligation 5 Present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at July 1 23,478 25,440 Cost of services rendered during the year 1,091 1,202 Impact of discounting 998 1,205 Employee contributions 46 80 Plan modification 3,995 Plan reduction (102) Plan liquidation 0 Business combination 0 Disposal of operations (1,138) Benefits paid (2,025) (913) Actuarial (gains)/losses related to experience differences 98 (119) Actuarial (gains)/losses related to changes in assumptions (1,001) 4,473 PRESENT VALUE OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JUNE 30 25,440 31,368 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 137 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements (in thousands of euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value of plan assets at July 1 13,066 13,083 Projected return on plan assets 547 537 Employer contributions 237 208 Employee contributions 46 80 Plan liquidation Business combination Disposal of operations Benefits paid (833) (677) Actuarial (gains)/losses related to experience differences 20 1,095 FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT JUNE 30 13,083 14,327 (in thousands of euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Reconciliation with amount recognized in statement of ﬁnancial position Net ﬁnancial position: surplus/(deﬁcit) (12,357) (17,042) Unrecognized past service costs (1) 3,926 3,648 Impact of the limiting of surpluses (IAS 19 #58 asset ceiling) (28) (28) (Provision) at June 30 (8,459) (13,421) NET ASSETS AT JUNE 30 0 0 (in thousands of euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Actuarial gains and losses Actuarial (gains)/losses generated at July 1 3,106 2,182 Actuarial (gains)/losses generated between July 1 and June 30 (923) 3,259 2010/2011 2011/2012 Changes in carrying amounts recognized during the year Net opening (liability) asset (10,439) (8,459) Retirement (expense) income (1,509) (2,148) Benefits paid by the employer 1,192 236 Contributions paid by the employer 237 208 Combination/disposal of operations 1,138 0 Actuarial differences recognized in equity 923 (3,259) NET CLOSING (LIABILITY) ASSET (8,459) (13,421) For the actuarial assumptions at year end, refer to Note 2.K. (1) Change in the scale used under the collective agreement in France. The impact (€3,648 thousand) is recycled in proﬁt and loss over the residual life of the plan. The assets managed by financial institutions to cover the Group’s termination benefit obligations are matched to general assets. 138 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 23 Share-based payments The Bonduelle SCA Management Board is authorized to grant Bonduelle stock options and free shares to certain of the Group’s directors and officers. The allocation of free shares depends on the economic performance of the cash flow expressed as a percentage of consolidated Group revenue achieved in the second financial year ending after the allocation date. ■ Description of stock option plans Plan 12 Plan 13 Plan 14 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 12/06/2007 12/06/2007 12/03/2009 Date of Management Board meeting 04/16/2008 05/25/2009 06/24/2010 Initial number of shares allocated 43,500 74,050 49,450 1 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of Bonduelle SAS and legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, General Partner of Bonduelle SCA 4,600 9,400 8,500 1 Including number of shares granted to the Executive Committee 16,700 34,500 20,750 Number of shares canceled (1) (2,300) (4,200) (400) Total number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased 41,200 69,850 49,050 Start of option exercise period 04/17/2012 05/26/2013 06/25/2014 Date of expiration 04/16/2013 05/25/2014 06/24/2016 Subscription price 72.00 57.08 76.44 Number of shares subscribed at June 30, 2012 0 0 0 Plan 15 Plan 16 5 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 12/03/2009 12/03/2009 Date of Management Board meeting 12/07/2010 12/15/2011 Initial number of shares allocated 47,200 51,900 1 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of Bonduelle SAS and legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, General Partner of Bonduelle SCA 8,000 5,900 1 Including number of shares granted to the Executive Committee 21,900 5,400 (1) Number of shares canceled (200) (200) Total number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased 47,000 51,700 Start of option exercise period 12/08/2014 12/16/2015 Date of expiration 12/07/2016 12/15/2017 Subscription price 63.61 62.90 Number of shares subscribed at June 30, 2012 0 0 (1) Cancellations correspond to shares granted to employees who left the Group before the start of the exercise period. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 139 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements ■ Description of free share allocation plans Plan 1 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 12/02/2010 Date of Management Board meeting 01/04/2012 Initial number of shares allocated 1,260 1 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, Chairman of Bonduelle SAS and legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, General Partner of Bonduelle SCA 660 1 Including number of shares granted to the Executive Committee 600 Total number of free shares allocated 1,260 Effective allocation date (2) 01/04/2014 Date of first possible transfer 01/04/2016 Number of shares subscribed at June 30, 2012 0 (2) The allocation of free shares depends on the economic performance of the cash ﬂow expressed as a percentage of consolidated Group revenue achieved in the second ﬁnancial year ending after the allocation date. ■ Valuation of stock option and free share allocation plans As stated in Note 2.P, share purchase options and free shares granted to employees are recognized at their fair value on the grant date, based on assumptions made by the Executive Management. The options and free shares granted in 2011 and 2012 were valued on the basis of the following assumptions: At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Options Options Free shares Risk-free interest rate 1.91% 1.94% 2.00% Expected life 4 years 4 years 2 years Expected volatility 22.03% 24.01% Illiquidity discount 3.58% Expected dividend rate 2.02% 2.04% 2.04% Expected volatility is estimated using the historical approach. This consists of calculating the standard deviation of the daily returns on the shares over the period preceding the date on which the stock options were granted and equal to the average life of the options, i.e. five years. The after tax charge for the period in respect of IFRS 2 was 469 thousand euros. 140 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 24 Other provisions Uses Reversals unused (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 Charges used amounts Other (1) 06/30/2012 Sales related risks 1,260 517 (5) (309) (8) 1,455 (2) Tax-related risks 4,150 897 (30) (218) 115 4,914 Employee-related risks 6,510 2,206 (1,843) (3,081) (12) 3,779 Restructuring and reorganization 17,302 10 (9,648) (1,036) 0 6,628 (3) Other risks 10,342 2,282 (5,774) (2,039) 5,353 10,164 39,565 5,913 (17,301) (6,683) 5,447 26,940 (in thousands of euros) Current Non-current 06/30/2012 Sales related risks 0 1,455 1,455 (2) Tax-related risks 688 4,226 4,914 Employee-related risks 1,080 2,699 3,779 Restructuring and reorganization 0 6,628 6,628 (3) Other risks 70 10,094 10,164 1,838 25,102 26,940 (1) Entry of Corn Food into the scope of consolidation (5,503 thousand euros), translation adjustments and transfers between lines. (2) Provisions for tax-related risks relate to tax audits that are presently being conducted, which are provisioned in light of the Group’s analysis of the cases. (3) Provisions for other risks consist essentially of production-related risks and charges. 5 NOTE 25 Trade and other payables (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Trade payables 364,897 351,912 Amounts payable for acquisition of assets 18,798 26,699 Tax and social security payables 97,489 99,944 Other payables 25,232 28,879 TOTAL TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 506,415 507,434 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 141 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 26 Statutory Auditors’ fees The following table presents a detailed analysis of the total fees paid by the Group to its Statutory Auditors for the services rendered during financial years 2010-2011 and 2011-2012. Mazars Deloitte & Associés Total 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 2010/2011 2011/2012 (in thousands of euros) Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % Audit Statutory Auditors, certification, examination of the individual and consolidated financial statements 1 Issuer 165 18% 193 22% 131 16% 167 18% 296 17% 360 20% 1 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 706 77% 622 70% 697 84% 776 82% 1,404 80% 1,398 76% Other audit duties and services directly related to Independent Statutory Auditor mandate 1 Issuer 1 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 22 3% 2 0% 0 0% 24 1% Sub-total 871 95% 837 95% 828 100% 945 100% 1,700 97% 1,782 98% Other services provided by the audit networks to fully consolidated subsidiaries 1 Legal, tax, human resources 47 5% 46 5% 2 0% 0 0% 49 2.8% 46 2% 1 Other Sub-total 47 5% 46 5% 2 0% 0 0% 49 2.8% 46 2% TOTAL FEES 918 100% 883 100% 830 100% 945 100% 1,749 100% 1,828 100% 142 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 NOTE 27 Contingent liabilities (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Commitments given Guarantees and security deposits given (net of uses) 23,770 20,896 Commitments received Guarantees and security deposits received (net of uses) 569 1,047 The change in our commitments corresponds to the hedge of our current activities. Operating leases 06/30/2017 (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2012 06/30/2013 06/30/2014 60/30/2015 06/30/2016 and after Commitments under operating leases 14,227 14,431 3,240 2,929 1,944 1,891 Environment NOTE 28 None of the Group’s activities generates any major environmental liabilities. Risks and disputes The Group occasionally incurs refurbishing costs on closed Bonduelle is subject to various legal and arbitration proceedings production facilities. and disputes in the normal course of its business. Bonduelle is also Greenhouse gases: In the absence of a defined IFRS accounting subject to certain claims and/or lawsuits which fall outside the scope policy, greenhouse gas quotas are not recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Bonduelle complies with the 355,115 TEQ CO2 of the ordinary course of its business, the most significant of which are summarized below. 5 emissions quota assigned to it for 2008-2012. For 2011, the volume The amount of provisions made is based on Bonduelle’s assessment of emissions submitted to quotas totaled 47,045 TEQ CO2, under of the level of risk on a case-by-case basis, and depends on its European system accounting. assessment of the basis for the claims, the stage of the proceedings and/or disputes and the arguments in its defense and is subject to checks by the Statutory Auditors, it being specified that the Individual training right (DIF) occurrence of events during proceedings may lead to a reappraisal of the risk at any moment. The Group’s French companies accrued a total of 406,249 training hours under the terms of the French individual training right (DIF) system and 403,615 training hours have not been used. Competition The European Commission launched an inquiry pursuant to Article 20-4 of Regulation 1/2003 EC, with the goal of identifying the existence of anti-competitive practices between companies growing and selling mushrooms. The Bonduelle Group, via the wholly-owned company Champiloire SAS and its subsidiaries, has been processing and marketing mushrooms since acquiring France Champignon in April 2010. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 143 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements In the first half of 2012, therefore, the Bonduelle Group and some of NOTE 29 its competitors were subject to inspections and information requests by the European Commission. The Bonduelle Group provided all elements at its disposal, bearing in Transactions with related parties mind that the period to which the inquiry related began in 2006 and thus for the most part pre-dated the Group’s acquisition of France Subsidiaries and associates Champignon. The list of the Group’s subsidiaries and associates is provided in Note 31. Consequently, the Bonduelle Group contacted the previous shareholder All transactions between the parent company and its subsidiaries with regard to the inquiry and, as a precautionary measure, exercised and among the subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation. the liability guarantee granted when the sale was made. The Group’s transactions with the associates (equity accounted At this stage of the inquiry, the Bonduelle Group has not been notified companies) Huerta Gama and Bonduelle Espagnola were not material. of any complaints. No schedule can be determined with respect to For the companies Gelagri, OP OASI and Ultra Congelados de le the inquiry procedure. No provisions for any contingent liability were Ribera, recognized using the equity method, the main transactions recognized during the year, in accordance with IFRS accounting carried out, as well as their receivables and debts are the following: principles. At 06/30/2012 Ultra Congelados (in thousands of euros) Gelagri OP OASI de la Ribera Statement of ﬁnancial position Trade receivables 2,635 2,118 1,470 Suppliers 1,574 13,147 1,800 Income Statement Sales 15,849 7,304 3,004 Purchases (9,148) (76,737) (6,167) Transactions with other related parties were not material. Compensation of the directors and Corporate Ofﬁcers Executive Management and control ■ SHORT-TERM BENEFITS bodies 1 The compensation of the Management Board is determined They consist of the following organizations: according to Article 17 of the Company By-laws, in respect of which 570,000 euros were paid for the financial year 2011-2012; 1. The Management Board, Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS; 1 The members of the Supervisory Board have for their part received 2. The Supervisory Board consists of 8 members; 30,000 euros in directors’ fees for the 2011-2012 financial year. 3. The Executive Committee consists of 12 members. This compensation is fixed by the Shareholders’ Meeting; The current account with Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS has 2,040 1 Gross compensation paid to the Executive Committee thousand euros credit. The compensation paid to directors is fixed by the Remuneration There are no other significant commitments to the latter. Committee. The variable portion of compensation is based on the future performance of the Group and its subsidiaries, in particular, as measured by the increase in revenue, net income attributable to owners of the Company, and return on capital employed. (in euros) 2010/2011 2011/2012 Gross compensation paid to the whole Executive Committee 4,006,635 4,009,449 144 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 ■ POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS NOTE 30 The Group has established a supplementary, defined contribution pension plan (Article 83-plan), which is paid for to a significant extent by the beneficiaries concerned, with the Group paying the remainder. Events after the reporting date The Company contribution in respect of this plan in financial year Other than the refinancing transactions listed under Highlights of the 2011-2012 was not material. year, there are no events after the reporting date to be noted. ■ OTHER LONG-TERM BENEFITS None ■ EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT TERMINATION BENEFIT These benefits comprise a termination benefit and long service awards available to all employees in respect of the collective agreements linked to their employment contracts. For the 20112012 financial year, they represent a total of 650,000 euros for the members of the Executive Committee. ■ PAYMENT IN SHARES a) Stock option plans previously allocated. The stock option plans allocated to members of the Executive Committee with respect to previous stock option plans are described in Note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. b) Company stock option allocations for the financial year for all members of the Executive Committee are described in Note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. c) Options exercised by all the members of the Executive Committee. No stock options were exercised in the 2011-2012 financial year. There were no acquisitions or disposals by the Company of its own 5 shares with a view to a sale to its employees, other than the exercise of stock options. The Bonduelle Group has adopted the principles of the Afep-Medef code regarding compensation. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 145 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 31 List of Group companies Analysis of Group companies by consolidation method: % voting rights % holding % voting rights 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 06/30/2012 1. FULL CONSOLIDATION France Bonduelle SAS 100% 100% 100% Champiloire SAS 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Sud Europe SNC (Incorporated by SA Champiloire) 100% Sud Ouest Alliance – Soleal SAS (1) 36.95% 100% 36.95% Bonduelle Frais Traiteur SAS 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Frais France SA 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Traiteur International SAS 100% 100% 100% Revoisson SCI 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Surgelé International SAS 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Development SAS 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Conserve International SAS. (Incorporated by SA Champiloire) 100% Bonduelle Conserve International SAS (formerly SA Champiloire) 100% 100% 100% SCA Champignonnières de Dampierre 64.92% 64.92% 64.92% SCA Cultures France Champignon 100% 100% 100% SAS Champignonnières des Roches 100% 100% 100% SCA Champignonnières de l’Est 100% 100% 100% SAS Champignonnières de la Vienne 100% 100% 100% SCA Champignonnières de Rou Marson 100% 100% 100% SCA des Champignonnières du Moulin 100% 100% 100% SCA Culture de la Vienne 100% 100% 100% SAS Champiland 100% 100% 100% SAS Euromycel 100% 100% 100% France Champignon 55.58% 55.58% 55.58% GIE Champifor 89.57% 89.57% 89.57% SCA des Hureaux 65% 65% 65% Rest of the world Bonduelle Northern Europe, Belgium 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Nederland, Netherlands 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Deutschland GmbH, Germany 100% 100% 100% B.F.P. GmbH, Germany 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Österreich, Austria 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Nordic, Denmark 100% 100% 100% (1) See Note 1. 146 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5 % voting rights % holding % voting rights 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 06/30/2012 Bonduelle Great Britain, UK 100% 100% 100% BUKH Limited, UK 100% 100% Bonduelle Italia, Italy 100% 100% 100% Agricola Lombarda, Italy 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Iberica SAU, Spain 100% 100% 100% BF Agricola 4G, Spain 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Portugal, Portugal 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Polska, Poland 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Ceska Republika, Czech Republic 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Central Europe, Hungary 100% 100% 100% BDV Hungary Trading, Hungary 100% 100% 100% Corn Foods, Hungary 100% 100% Bonduelle Kuban, Russia 95% 95% 95% Coubanskie Conservi Russia, Russia 100% 100% Maiak Khudiaky Cherkassy Oblast, Ukraine 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Incorporated, USA 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle USA Inc., USA 100% 100% Bonduelle US Holding, USA 100% 100% Bonduelle Argentina, Argentina 100% 100% 100% Primeurop Argentina, Argentina 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Do Brasil Produtos Alimenticios, Brazil 100% 100% 100% Bonduelle Canada Inc, Canada Bonduelle Ontario Inc, Canada 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 5 Terricole Inc, Canada 100% 100% 100% 2. EQUITY METHOD France Gelagri France (1) 35.50% 35.50% 35.50% (1) Gelagri Bretagne 35.50% 35.50% 35.50% Rest of the world OP OASI, Italy 35.00% 35.00% 35.00% Huerta Gama S.C. , Spain 20% 14.29% 14.29% Gelagri Iberica, Spain (1) (formerly Gelagri Industrial) 35.50% 35.50% 35.50% Ultra Congelados de la Ribera 50% 50% 50% Bonduelle Espagnola 50% 50% 50% (1) See Note 1. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 147 5 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Dear shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Shareholders’ Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended June 30, 2012 on: 1 the audit of the consolidated financial statements of Bonduelle, as appended to this report; 1 the justification of our assessments; 1 the specific check stipulated by law. These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Management Board. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. I. Opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves examining, using sample testing techniques or by means of other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall financial statements presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion the consolidated financial statements, with regard to International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in the European Union, give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial situation and earnings of the Company and all entities included within the consolidation scope. II. Justiﬁcation of assessments In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code regarding the basis of our opinion, we bring to your attention the following points: 1 Notes 2-A, 2-J, 11-3 and 14 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements set out the method used by the Group to value goodwill, other intangible assets with an indefinite life and deferred tax assets, methods that involve estimations. We have notably verified the appropriateness of this method and have assessed the assumptions on which those estimates were based, reviewed the calculations made by the Group and examined the procedures used for the approval of these estimates by the Executive Management; 1 Notes 2-L and 24 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements set out the method used by the Group regarding the valuation of the current and non-current provisions, a method that involves estimations.Our work consisted of assessing the data and the assumptions on which those estimates were based, reviewing the calculations made by the Group, comparing the accounting estimates used in previous years with the corresponding actual charges to the provisions and examining the procedures used for the approval of these estimates by the Executive Management. These assessments were performed as part of our audit approach for the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and therefore contributed to the expression of our opinion expressed in the first part of this report. III. Speciﬁc check We also carried out, in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices in France, a specific check provided for by law on the information relating to the Group provided in the management report. We have no matters to report on their fair presentation and conformity with the consolidated financial statements. Lille, October 1, 2012 The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés MAZARS Jean-Yves MORISSET Cécile FONTAINE 148 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Eterner Solutioneste 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements 6.1 Income statement AFR 150 6.6 Five-year ﬁnancial summary 173 6.2 Statement of ﬁnancial 6.7 Statutory Auditors’ report position AFR 151 on the annual ﬁnancial Assets 151 statements AFR 174 Liabilities 151 6.8 Special report of 6.3 Statement of cash ﬂows AFR 152 the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and commitments 176 6.4 Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements AFR 153 6.5 Information regarding subsidiaries and afﬁliates AFR 172 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 149 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Income statement 6.1 Income statement 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) 12 months 12 months Revenue excluding tax Recoveries of depreciation, amortization and provisions and capitalized costs 1,261 203 Other operating income 1 2 Operating income 1,263 204 Other purchases and external charges 2,018 1,192 Taxes and duties 2 23 Charge in provisions for risks and expenses 984 203 Other charges 24 30 Operating expenses 3,027 1,449 Operating results (1,765) (1,244) Loss transferred Finance income from subsidiaries and affiliates 29,980 5,169 Income from other non-current securities and receivables Other interest and similar income 19 20 Income from interest on the OBSAAR 3,430 4,178 Recoveries of provisions and capitalized costs Net gain on disposals of securities Finance income 33,429 9,366 Charges to provisions on financial assets 120 Interest and similar expenses. 61 90 Expenses from interest on the OBSAAR 3,430 4,176 Finance costs 3,491 4,386 Net ﬁnance income Note 9 29,938 4,980 Current income 28,173 3,736 On revenue transactions 169 31 On capital transactions 239 26 Recoveries of provisions and capitalized costs 18 Non-recurring income Note 10 408 74 On revenue transactions 215 29 On capital transactions 64 30 Non-recurring charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions 55 67 Non-recurring expenses Note 11 333 127 Non-recurring income 74 (53) Income tax Note 13 (3,732) 3,626 NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 31,979 57 150 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Statement of ﬁnancial position 6 6.2 Statement of ﬁnancial position Assets 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Amortization (in thousands of euros) Net Gross & provisions Net Property, plant and equipment Note 2 18 28 10 17 Land 12 12 12 Buildings 6 16 10 6 Non-current ﬁnancial assets Note 3 638,869 607,928 101 607,827 Investments 333,762 333,762 333,762 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 291,067 243,846 243,846 Other non-current securities held 14,040 30,319 101 30,218 Loans Other non-current financial assets Non-current assets 638,887 607,955 111 607,844 Receivables 17,242 5,256 5,256 Trade and related receivables Other receivables Note 4 17,242 5,256 5,256 Securities Note 5 4,755 4,755 19 4,736 Cash 1 1 Prepaid expenses Note 4 28 36 36 Current assets 22,025 10,047 19 10,028 TOTAL ASSETS 660,913 618,002 130 617,872 Liabilities 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) Before distribution Before distribution Equity Note 6 340,108 328,560 Share capital 56,000 56,000 Additional paid-in capital 22,545 22,545 Reserves Revaluation surplus 947 947 6 Legal reserve 5,600 5,600 Regulated reserves Other reserves 50,353 50,353 Retained earnings 172,683 193,058 Net income for the period 31,979 57 Provisions for risks and expenses Note 7 25,205 32,140 Debt 295,600 257,173 Convertible bonds Note 8 290,000 243,334 Bank borrowings and other liabilities to banks Note 8 1 1 Other borrowings and financial liabilities Note 8 930 435 Trade and related payables Note 8 164 170 Tax and social security payables Note 8 291 3 Other payables Note 8 4,215 13,231 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 660,913 617,872 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 151 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Statement of cash ﬂows 6.3 Statement of cash ﬂows 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 (in thousands of euros) 12 months 12 months Operating activities Net income for the period 31,979 57 Depreciation and amortization 1 Allocations to/recoveries of provisions for risks and expenses 761 252 Allocations to provisions on non-current financial assets 120 Allocations to provisions for tax 5,383 6,682 Gross cash ﬂows from operating activities 38,122 7,112 Gains on disposals of assets Cash ﬂows from operating activities 38,122 7,112 Change in trade and other receivables (16,103) 11,987 Change in provisions for risks and expense Change in trade and other payables (7,774) 8,734 Change in accrued interest on borrowings 403 (495) Change in working capital requirements (23,473) 20,226 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) operating activities 14,649 27,338 Investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (6) Acquisitions of non-current financial assets (10,657) (21,194) Disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Disposals or repayments of non-current financial assets. 5,232 52,136 Net cash ﬂows from (used in) investing activities (5,431) 30,942 Financing activities Dividends (11,733) (11,613) Dividends to be paid Capital increase New borrowings (including bank lines) 0 Repayments of borrowings (46,666) Net cash ﬂows from (used in) ﬁnancing activities (11,733) (58,279) CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (2,515) 1 Cash and cash equivalents – closing balance 4,755 4,756 Cash and cash equivalents – opening balance 7,270 4,755 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (2,515) 1 152 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 6.4 Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements CONTENTS NOTE1 Activity of the Company 153 NOTE 11 Non-recurring expenses 161 NOTE2 Property, plant and equipment 156 NOTE 12 Information regarding related parties NOTE 3 Non-current financial assets 156 and investments 162 NOTE 4 Status of receivables 157 NOTE 13 Tax breakdown 162 NOTE 5 Securities 158 NOTE 14 Tax consolidation 163 NOTE 6 Equity 159 NOTE 15 Deferred taxes 164 NOTE 7 Provisions for risks and expenses 159 NOTE 16 Directors’ compensation 164 NOTE 8 Debt 160 NOTE 17 Off-balance sheet commitments 169 NOTE 9 Net finance income 160 NOTE 18 Information regarding stock option NOTE 10 Non-recurring income 161 and free share plans 170 The general accounting conventions have been applied in NOTE1 accordance with the principle of prudence and the following underlying assumptions: Activity of the Company 1 going-concern assumption; Bonduelle SCA is a financial holding company, whose corporate 1 consistency of accounting methods; purpose is to: 1 matching principle; 1 acquire and manage all types of securities, acquire equity or and compliance with general rules governing the preparation and other interests in commercial, industrial, financial, investment and presentation of annual financial statements. agricultural companies and operations; Most items in the statement of financial position are measured using 1 provide access to financial markets to raise the funds needed to the historical cost method. develop the Group’s activities. Bonduelle SCA is the consolidating company of the Bonduelle Group. The main rules and methods used were the following: 6 Highlights Change in methods No notable change in methods was applied over the period. 1. The Company received a dividend of 5,169,025 euros dated January 6, 2012 from its subsidiary Bonduelle SAS. 2. On April 10, 2012, Bonduelle SCA redeemed the first tranche of the Property, plant and equipment 2009 OBSAAR for 46,666,200 euros. Property, plant and equipment are recognized at acquisition or contribution costs. Accounting policies and valuation Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method; the normal methods useful life assumed for buildings is ten years. The statement of financial position and income statement are presented in accordance with the provisions of French law. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 153 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements Non-current ﬁnancial assets Translation of foreign currency items ■ PARTICIPATING INTERESTS All receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates and other long-term translated at the closing rate for the financial year. Any differences investments are carried at cost. arising from changes in exchange rates are recognized in “translation adjustments” in the statement of financial position. A provision for impairment is recognized if the value in use is lower than the carrying amount. The value in use of such investments is determined on the basis of various items such as net assets, the Securities existence of unrealized capital gains and earnings forecasts approved by the Executive Management. ■ TREASURY SHARES ALLOCATED TO STOCK OPTION PLANS Treasury shares are recorded: ■ TREASURY SHARES 1 at purchase price, if acquired to be allocated directly to the cover French Accounting Regulations Commission (CRC) Standard 2008of stock option plans; 15 of December 4, 2008 was applied. The standard concerns the accounting treatment for stock option and share subscription plans 1 at net carrying amount on the date they are allocated by the and the granting of free shares to employees. Management Board to cover stock option plans, if these shares had been acquired previously or were taken from treasury shares Therefore, treasury shares acquired are now recorded on the basis recorded in non-current securities held. of their intended use, either in non-current securities held or in securities. The shares are allocated into separate sub-categories based on the likelihood of the stock options being exercised by beneficiaries, in Treasury shares held under liquidity contracts or for the purpose of light of the average market share price for the previous month. use in acquisitions are classified under non-current financial assets. Shares allocated to stock option plans that are likely to be exercised Treasury shares allocated to the coverage of stock option plans are are the object of an expense accrued to liabilities if the exercise reclassified into securities at their net carrying amount on the date price is lower than the carrying amount. The probability of an option they are allocated by the Management Board. being exercised is evaluated on a plan-by-plan basis, in light of the conditions of each plan. ■ TREASURY SHARES HELD UNDER THE The total value of this future expense is spread evenly over the vesting TERMS OF A LIQUIDITY CONTRACT AND period. The corresponding expense is recorded under net operating FOR USE IN MAKING ACQUISITIONS profit in the Section “charge in provisions for risks and expenses”. Treasury shares held under the terms of a liquidity contract or for use This provision is offset by the recognition of an accrued income in the in making acquisitions are recognized at purchase price. same amount under the Group company accounts in respect of the At the close of the financial year, impairment is recognized if the workforce beneficiaries. average market share price for the previous month is lower than the The costs incurred are invoiced according to the same rules. They average price paid to purchase the shares held as treasury shares as are recorded under net operating profit in the Section “transfer of well as those allocated to stock option plans which are not expected capitalized costs”. to be exercised. Treasury shares allocated to stock option plans that are unlikely to be exercised by employees are written down if, at the reporting date, Receivables the average market share price for the previous month is lower than the average price of all the treasury shares that are unlikely to be Receivables are recognized at their face value. A provision is set exercised and of all shares not initially allocated to the cover of a aside, if needed, to cover any risk of default. specific stock option plan. All of these methods are compliant with the French General Chart of Accounts (PCG) 99-03 as modified by French Accounting Regulations Provisions for risks and expenses Committee Standard 2008-15 of December 4, 2008. Provisions are assessed by the Executive Management to take account of the Company’s actual obligations (legal or implied), ■ OTHER SECURITIES in compliance with French accounting policies and notably the provisions of the French Accounting Regulations Committee’s (CRC) Securities are recognized at cost. Standard 2000-06 regarding liabilities. Any disputes are evaluated A provision for impairment is recognized if the value in use is lower on the basis of the claims made by third parties, which are revised, than the carrying amount. if applicable, on the basis of the defensive actions taken by the Company. 154 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 Bonds 2. In early April 2009, the Company issued a 140 million euros OBSAAR bond, represented by 233,333 bonds with a par value 1.In early July 2007, the Company issued a 150 million euro bond of 600 euros. These bonds are listed on Euronext Paris. Each with redeemable share subscription and/or purchase warrants bond was accompanied by three detachable redeemable share (OBSAAR), represented by 150,000 bonds with a par value of subscription and/or purchase warrants (BSAAR), making a total of 1,000 euros. These bonds are listed on Euronext Paris. Each 699,999 BSAAR. bond was accompanied by five detachable redeemable share Each 2009 BSAAR gives the holder the right to subscribe for or subscription and/or purchase warrants (BSAAR), making a total of purchase one share of the Company, with immediate dividend 750,000 BSAAR. Since March 27, 2009, the 2007 BSAAR have rights, at a price of 80 euros. been listed on Euronext Paris. The 2009 BSAAR may be exercised any time between April 7, 2011 Each BSAAR gives the holder the right to subscribe for or purchase and April 8, 2016, inclusive. They will then expire ipso jure. The one share of the Company, with immediate dividend rights, at a Company may, at its own initiative, provide either new or existing price of 113.75 euros. The BSAAR may be exercised any time shares in exchange for these BSAAR. between July 23, 2010 and July 24, 2014, inclusive. They will then expire ipso jure. The Company may, at its own initiative, provide During the 2011-2012 financial year, 37 2009 BSAAR were either new or existing shares in exchange for these BSAAR. exercised at a price of 80 euros. They were exchanged for 37 existing shares in the Company. In early April 2009, the Company launched a simplified public exchange offer to exchange one 2007 BSAAR for one 2009 BSAAR There are now a total of 1,431,879 of the 2009 BSAAR outstanding. under the same terms and conditions as the 2009 BSAAR Since October 8, 2010, the 2009 BSAAR have been listed on referenced below. Euronext Paris. In a simplified public exchange offer, 731,967 of the 2007 BSAAR If all 1,431,879 of the 2009 BSAAR still outstanding were to were exchanged for 2009 BSAAR. be exchanged via the subscription of new shares, a total of During the 2011-2012 financial year, no 2007 BSAAR were 1,431,879 Bonduelle shares with a par value of seven euros exercised. would be created, representing a total share capital increase of 10,023,153 euros, equivalent to 17.90% of the Company’s current In all, 18,018 of the 2007 BSAAR remain outstanding. share capital. If all 18,018 of the 2007 BSAAR still outstanding were to These two bonds were issued to cover the financing needs of the be exchanged via the subscription of new shares, a total Bonduelle SAS subsidiary, which received the full proceeds of of 18,018 Bonduelle shares with a par value of seven euros the issue. The resulting loan to the subsidiary is recorded in nonwould be created, representing a total share capital increase of current financial assets. 126,126 euros, equivalent to 0.23% of the Company’s current share capital. Interest paid and accrued, totaling 4,176 thousand euros, is passed on to Bonduelle SAS. 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 155 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE2 Property, plant and equipment Analysis of changes in gross carrying amount and accumulated depreciation: Acquisitions Mergers and Disposals or (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 or charges contributions recoveries At 06/30/2012 Gross carrying amount Land 12 12 Buildings 15 15 27 27 Amortization Land Buildings 9 9 9 9 Net carrying amount Land 12 12 Buildings 6 6 18 18 NOTE 3 Non-current ﬁnancial assets Analysis of changes in gross carrying amounts and provisions: Gross carrying Redemptions, Gross carrying amount at reclassiﬁcation amount at (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 Acquisitions Disposals and others 06/30/2012 Participating interests 333,762 333,762 Bonduelle SAS 333,762 333,762 Other non-current receivables 291,067 (60) (47,161) 243,846 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates Bonduelle SAS (1) 290,930 (47,161) 243,768 Other 138 (60) 78 Other non-current ﬁnancial assets Loans Treasury shares held: 1 under a liquidity contract 151 4,967 (4,912) 206 1 in relation to an acquisition 13,889 16,227 (3) 30,113 638,870 21,194 (4,974) (47,161) 607,928 (1) Bond issued 07/25/2007, transferred to Bonduelle SAS and with bullet redemption on 07/24/2013. Bond issued 04/06/2009, transferred to Bonduelle SAS and redeemable in three equal installments on 04/06/2012, 04/06/2013 and 04/06/2014 (See Note 8). 156 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 Gross carrying Net carrying amount at Provisions at amount at (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2012 06/30/2012 Charges Recoveries 06/30/2012 Participating interests 333,762 333,762 (1) Other non-current receivables 243,846 243,846 Other non-current financial assets Treasury shares held: 1 under a liquidity contract 206 1 205 1 in relation to an acquisition 30,113 100 30,013 60, 928 101 607,827 Value at year-end: Treasury shares 29,480 (1) Bond issued 07/25/2007, transferred to Bonduelle SAS and with bullet redemption on 07/24/2013. Bond issued 04/06/2009, transferred to Bonduelle SAS and redeemable in three equal installments on 04/06/2012, 04/06/2013 and 04/06/2014. (See Note 8). (in number of shares) At 06/30/2011 Increase Decrease Reclassiﬁcation At 06/30/2012 Treasury shares held: 1 under a liquidity contract 2,175 73,838 72,913 3,100 1 in relation to an acquisition 192,310 244,691 37 436,964 194,485 318,529 72,950 440,064 Average price of transactions over the period €66.54 €67.37 NOTE 4 Status of receivables (in thousands of euros) Gross value Up to one year More than one year Current assets 6 Other client receivables o.w. accrued income Group and associates o.w. accrued income Government – taxes and duties 4,067 4,067 Other – Receivables from suppliers 2 2 Group and associates Other – Miscellaneous receivables (1) 1,186 1,186 Other – Prepaid expenses 36 36 5,291 5,291 (1) Stock options: billing of expenses related to exercise of options to Bonduelle Group companies (see Note 18). Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 157 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE 5 Securities (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Treasury shares held for stock options 4,755 4,755 Impairment of treasury shares held for stock options (19) 4,755 4,736 Value at year-end: Treasury shares held for stock options 5,617 5,476 (in number of shares) At 06/30/2011 Increase Decrease Reclassiﬁcation At 06/30/2012 502.1: Treasury shares held for stock options to be granted to employees and allocated to specific plans 502.2: Treasury shares held for stock options available to be allocated to employees 81,746 81,746 TOTAL NUMBER 81,746 81,746 (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 Increase Decrease Reclassiﬁcation (1) At 06/30/2012 502.1: Treasury shares held for stock options to be granted to employees and allocated to specific plans 502.2: Treasury shares held for stock options available to be allocated to employees 4,755 4,755 TOTAL AMOUNT 4,755 4,755 (1) Treasury shares expected to be exercised are reclassiﬁed at the net carrying amount. Any impairments applied are not restated in net income. ■ Impairment of treasury shares (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 Increase Decrease Reclassiﬁcation (1) At 06/30/2012 502.1: Treasury shares held for stock options to be granted to employees and allocated to specific plans 502.2: Treasury shares held for stock options available to be allocated to employees 19 19 TOTAL AMOUNT 19 19 (1) Treasury shares expected to be exercised are reclassiﬁed at the net carrying amount. Any impairments applied are not restated in net income. 158 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 6 Equity Allocation Net (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 income 2010-2011 Change At 06/30/2012 Share capital 56,000 56,000 Additional paid-in capital 22,545 22,545 Revaluation surplus 947 947 Legal reserve 5,600 5,600 Regulated reserves Other reserves 50,353 50,353 Retained earnings 172,683 20,374 193,058 Net income for the period 06/30/2011 31,979 (31,979) 06/30/2012 57 57 Dividends 11,605 340,108 57 328,560 Dividends of 320 thousand euros and 11,285 thousand euros were paid to the General Partner and the other shareholders, respectively. Share capital At 06/30/2012, the share capital was comprised of 8,000,000 shares with a par value of 7 euros per share: 1 3,572,163 common shares; 1 4,427,837 shares with double voting rights. The 8,000,000 shares comprising the Company’s share capital represent 11,906,027 voting rights. NOTE 7 Provisions for risks and expenses 6 Recoveries (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 Charges Used Unused At 06/30/2012 Provisions for risk on treasury shares held for stock options 984 203 1,186 (1) Provision for taxes – Tax consolidation 23,699 8,383 1,966 30,116 Provision for taxes – Tax audit 523 782 468 837 25,205 9,368 2,434 32,140 (1) The provision for taxes is related to the use of the tax loss carryforwards of the companies in the tax consolidation group. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 159 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE 8 Debt 06/30/2012 > 1 year and (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2011 Gross value Up to 1 year < 5 years Borrowings (1) 290,930 243,768 47,101 196,667 Bank lines 1 1 1 Trade and related payables (2) 164 170 170 Tax and social security payables 291 3 3 Other payables 4,215 13,231 13,231 295,600 257,173 60,506 196,667 (1) On 07/25/2007, BONDUELLE SCA issued a six-year 150 million euros adjustable rate OBSAAR bond loan, redeemable in one bullet repayment on 07/24/2013. On 04/06/2009, BONDUELLE SCA issued a five-year 140 million euros adjustable rate OBSAAR bond loan, redeemable in three equal installments on 04/06/2012, 04/06/2013 and 04/06/2014. These bonds were issued to cover the financing needs of the Bonduelle SAS subsidiary. The resulting loans to the subsidiary are recorded in non-current ﬁnancial assets (see Note 3). (2) Trade payables are payable in under 30 days. NOTE 9 Net ﬁnance income (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Finance income Finance income from subsidiaries and affiliates 1 Bonduelle SAS 29,980 5,169 1 Income from loans 29,980 5,169 Income from other non-current securities and receivables Interest income on the OBSAAR (1) 3,430 4,178 Recoveries of provisions and capitalized costs (2) Other interest and similar income 19 20 Net gain on disposals of securities 33,429 9,366 Finance costs Depreciation, amortization and provisions (2) 120 Interest and similar expenses 61 90 Expenses from interest on the OBSAAR 3,430 4,176 3,491 4,386 NET FINANCE INCOME 29,938 4,980 (1) Interest paid and accrued is passed on to Bonduelle SAS. (2) Mainly provision for impairment of treasury shares. 160 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 10 Non-recurring income (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Non-recurring income on revenue transactions 1 Fines – Tax audit recoveries 169 31 Non-recurring income on capital transactions 1 Income from disposals of property, plant and equipment 1 Income from disposals of non-current financial assets (profit on treasury shares) 239 26 Recoveries of provisions for risks and expenses 18 TOTAL NON-RECURRING INCOME 408 74 NOTE 11 Non-recurring expenses (in thousands of euros) At 06/30/2011 At 06/30/2012 Non-recurring income on revenue transactions 1 Fines – Tax audit 215 29 Non-recurring income on capital transactions 1 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 1 Disposals of non-current financial assets (loss on treasury shares) 64 30 1 Disposals of participating interests Provisions for risks and expenses 1 Provision for fines – tax audit 55 67 Non-recurring charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions Total non-recurring expenses TOTAL NON-RECURRING INCOME (LOSS) 334 74 127 (53) 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 161 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE 12 Information regarding related parties and investments Amount concerning related parties With which the Company Item Related has a capital relationship Investments: 1 gross carrying amount 333,762 1 net carrying amount 333,762 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 243,768 Other receivables 1,186 Other payables 13,216 Operating liabilities 2 Finance income from subsidiaries and affiliates Finance income 9,366 Finance costs 90 NOTE 13 Tax breakdown Non-recurring (in thousands of euros) Current income income Total Proﬁt before tax 3,736 (53) 3,683 Theoretical income tax Tax credit Total theoretical income tax Impact of tax consolidation 3,056 Provision for taxes (6,682) Total income tax expense (3,626) NET INCOME AFTER TAXES 57 162 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 NOTE 14 Tax consolidation Bonduelle SCA is the head of a tax consolidation group that includes: Name Address Bonduelle SAS La Woestyne – 59173 Renescure Bonduelle Conserve International La Woestyne – 59173 Renescure Bonduelle Surgele International La Woestyne – 59173 Renescure Bonduelle Development SAS La Woestyne – 59173 Renescure Bonduelle Frais Traiteur La Woestyne – 59173 RENESCURE Bonduelle Frais France 90, rue André Citroën – 69740 Genas Bonduelle Traiteur International 67 route de Concarneau BP 27 – 29140 Rosporden SAS Champiloire Chantemerle – Bagneux – 49400 Saumur Revoisson SCI 38 Rue de l’Avenir – 69740 Genas Euromycel SAS Chantemerle – Bagneux – 49400 Saumur Champignonnieres des Roches SAS Chantemerle – Bagneux – 49400 Saumur Champignonnieres de la Vienne SAS Chantemerle – Bagneux – 49400 Saumur Champiland SAS 390 Rue Joseph Lacoste – 40990 Herm Under the terms of the tax consolidation agreement, the following method is used to allocate income tax to each of the consolidated companies: 1 each company pays Bonduelle SCA an amount equal to the tax they would have paid on their earnings and/or net long-term capital gains had they been taxed on a standalone basis, after deducting all tax credits to which the consolidated companies would have been entitled had they not been consolidated; 1 on a standalone basis, Bonduelle SCA did not incur any income tax for the financial year ended 06/30/2012. Furthermore, Bonduelle SCA has no tax loss carryforwards from previous financial years. Taxable income of the consolidation group The taxable income for the tax consolidation group as a whole amounts to -10,693,843 euros. 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 163 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE 15 Deferred taxes Amount Income tax Income tax due (33.33% statutory rate) Total additions None Prepaid tax on (33.33% statutory rate) Temporarily non-deductible expenses (to be deducted the following year) Temporarily non-deductible expenses (to be deducted in subsequent years) Total reductions None Tax loss carryforwards Net deferred taxes NET DEFERRED TAXES NONE NOTE 16 Directors’ compensation ■ Table 1: Summary of the compensation and of the options and shares allocated to each director and Corporate Officer (in euros) FY 2010-2011 FY 2011-2012 Christophe Bonduelle * Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA Compensation due for the financial year (details provided in table 2) 551,000 570,000 Valuation of options granted during the financial year (details provided in table 4) 93,280 64,546 Valuation of performance-related options granted during the financial year (details provided in table 6) _ _ TOTAL 644,280 634,546 * Bonduelle SCA does not have any employees. The compensation is due under the terms of the corporate functions for Bonduelle SAS. No compensation is given in respect of the role of Legal Representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA. 164 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 ■ Table 2: Summary of compensation of each director and Corporate Officer of the issuer FY 2010-2011 FY 2011-2012 (in euros) Amount due Amount paid Amount due Amount paid Christophe Bonduelle Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA Fixed compensation: 1 under employment contract 0 0 0 0 1 for corporate functions 546,198 546,198 565,859 565,859 Variable compensation (1) 197,000 97,000 Not calculated Not applicable Non-recurring compensation Directors’ fees Benefits in kind: automobile 4,802 4,692 4,141 4,141 TOTAL 748,000 647,890 570,000 570,000 (1) The variable compensation components are determined by the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the publication of the present document and are based on the performance of revenue and proﬁtability. 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 165 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements ■ Table 3: Directors’ fees and other compensation received by directors and Corporate Officers Amount paid during Amount paid during Corporate Ofﬁcers (in euros) FY 2010-2011 FY 2011-2012 Élisabeth MINARD Directors’ fees 200 1,900 Other compensation Louis BONDUELLE Directors’ fees 1,300 1,600 Other compensation Daniel BRACQUART Directors’ fees 5,700 6,600 Other compensation 4,000 4,000 Olivier CAVROIS Directors’ fees 1,100 0 Other compensation André CRESPEL Directors’ fees 5,700 6,600 Other compensation Stanislas DALLE Directors’ fees 1,500 1,600 Other compensation Isabelle DANJOU Directors’ fees 1,500 1,900 Other compensation Jean GUEGUEN Directors’ fees 1,500 1,900 Other compensation Yves TACK Directors’ fees 5,700 6,600 Other compensation Matthieu DURIEZ Directors’ fees 0 300 Other compensation Marie-France TISSEAU Directors’ fees 0 1,100 Other compensation Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS Directors’ fees Other compensation * 1,457,500 760,900 TOTAL 1,481,700 791,000 * The compensation of the Management Board is established by Article 17 of the Company’s By-laws and comprises two components: 1 an amount equal to 1.5% of the Group’s share of the consolidated net income of the previous ﬁnancial year; 1 additional compensation equal to 1% of the Group’s share of the consolidated net income of the previous ﬁnancial year, when the latter exceeds 1.5% of total net consolidated revenue. Compensation is to be paid in 12 equal monthly payments. 166 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 ■ Table 4: Share subscription or purchase options granted during the financial year to each director and Corporate Officer by the issuer and any other Group company Valuation of options according to the method used for the consolidated Number of Name of director Type of option ﬁnancial options granted or Corporate No. and date (purchase or statements during the Exercise price Exercise Ofﬁcer of plan subscription) (in euros) ﬁnancial year (in euros) period Christophe No. 16 12/2015 Bonduelle Date: 12/15/2011 Purchase 64,546 5,900 62.90 12/2017 TOTAL 64,546 5,900 ■ Table 5: Share subscription or purchase options exercised during the financial year by each director and Corporate Officer Number of options exercised during the Exercise price Name of director or Corporate Ofﬁcer No. and date of plan ﬁnancial year (in euros) No. 11 0 83.30 Christophe Bonduelle Date: 05/04/2007 No. 12 0 72.00 Christophe Bonduelle Date: 04/16/2008 TOTAL 0 A minimum of 10% of the shares resulting from the exercise of stock options must be retained. ■ Table 6: Performance shares granted to each director and Corporate Officer during the financial year Valuation of Number the shares of according to Performance shares granted shares the method by the Shareholders’ Meeting granted used for the during the ﬁnancial year to each director and Corporate Ofﬁcer by the issuer and any other Group No. and date of during the ﬁnancial consolidated ﬁnancial statements Acquisition Availability Performance 6 company (nominative list) plan year (in euros) date date conditions No. 1 (1) Christophe Bonduelle Date:01/04/2012 660 7,079 01/04/2012 01/04/2016 TOTAL 660 7,079 (1) The granting of free shares is dependent on the ﬁnancial performance of cash ﬂow expressed as a % of Group consolidated revenue in the second ﬁnancial year following the allocation date. ■ Table 7: Performance shares granted to each director or Corporate Officer that are now available Number of shares that Performance shares that are now available for each director No. and date became available during Acquisition or Corporate Ofﬁcer of plan the ﬁnancial year conditions TOTAL NONE A minimum of 10% of any newly-available performance shares must be retained. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 167 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements ■ Table 8: Historical information regarding grants of share subscription or purchase options Information regarding subscription or purchase options Plans 12 to 16 and free share plan Date of Shareholders’ Meeting no. 1 Date of Board of Directors or Management Board meeting, as applicable Total number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased Number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased by: Director or Corporate Ofﬁcer Christophe Bonduelle Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle, Manager of Bonduelle SCA See Note 23 of the notes Start of option exercise period to the annual Date of expiration consolidated ﬁnancial statements Subscription or purchase price Exercise conditions (when the plan has several portions) Number of shares subscribed or purchased at June 30, 2012 (most recent date) Cumulative number of share subscription or purchase options cancelled or expired Number of share subscription or purchase options remaining at the close of the financial year ■ Table 9: Ten largest employee share subscription or purchase options granted, other than to directors or Corporate Officers, and options exercised by them Total number of options allocated/shares subscribed or purchased Options granted during the financial year by the issuer and by any company included in the scope of allocation of options, to the ten employees of the issuer and of any company included in that scope, who were granted the greatest number of options. 19,300 Options held on the issuer and the companies referred to above, exercised, during the financial year, by the ten employees of the issuer and of those companies who were granted the greatest number of options. 0 168 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 ■ Table 10 Indemnities or beneﬁts due or likely to be due for termination of Indemnities appointment or related to a Employment Supplementary change in current non-competition contract (1) retirement plans (2) function (3) clause Directors Corporate Ofﬁcers Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Christophe Bonduelle Legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA, Chairman of Bonduelle SAS X X X X (4) Appointment starts Appointment ends (4) (1) In compliance with Afep-Medef recommendations, Mr. Christophe Bonduelle’s employment contract with Bonduelle SAS was suspended with effect from 12/31/2009. (2) The Group has established a supplementary, deﬁned contribution pension plan (Article 83-plan), which is paid for to a signiﬁcant extent by the beneﬁciaries concerned, with the Group paying the remainder. The Group contribution in respect of this plan in ﬁnancial year 2011-2012 was not material. (3) Equal to two years’ compensation, including compensation relating to the non-competition clause. Bonduelle SAS employees are granted termination beneﬁts and long service awards. In the case of Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, these beneﬁts amount to 301,531 euros. (4) Open-ended appointment. NOTE 17 Off-balance sheet commitments At 06/30/2012 None 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 169 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements NOTE 18 Information regarding stock option and free share plans A. Stock option plans Plan No. 11 Plan No. 12 Plan No. 13 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 06/09/2005 12/06/2007 12/06/2007 Date of Management Board meeting 05/04/2007 04/16/2008 05/25/2009 Initial number of shares allocated 9,226 43,500 74,050 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA 4,600 9,400 (1) Number of shares cancelled (9,226) (2,300) (4,200) Total number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased 41,200 69,850 Start of option exercise period 05/05/2011 04/17/2012 05/26/2013 Date of expiration 05/04/2012 04/16/2013 05/25/2014 Subscription price 83.30 72.00 57.08 Share price (basis for employer contribution to stock option plans) 16.57 11.75 NUMBER OF SHARES SUBSCRIBED AT 06/30/2012 0 0 0 Plan No. 14 Plan No. 15 Plan No. 16 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 12/03/2009 12/03/2009 12/03/2009 Date of Management Board meeting 06/24/2010 12/07/2010 12/15/2011 Initial number of shares allocated 49,450 47,200 51,900 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA 8,500 8,000 5,900 (1) Number of shares cancelled (400) (200) (200) Total number of shares that may be subscribed or purchased 49,050 47,000 51,700 Start of option exercise period 06/25/2014 12/08/2014 12/16/2015 Date of expiration 06/24/2016 12/07/2016 12/15/2017 Subscription price 76.44 63.61 62.90 Share price (basis for employer contribution to stock option plans) 12.73 11.66 10.94 NUMBER OF SHARES SUBSCRIBED AT 06/30/2012 0 0 0 (1) Cancellations represent shares allocated to persons who have left the Group prior to the exercise period or that had not been subscribed to by the time the plan expired. 170 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Notes to the annual separate ﬁnancial statements 6 B. Free share plans Plan No. 1 Date of Shareholders’ Meeting: 12/02/2010 Date of Management Board meeting 01/04/2012 Initial number of shares allocated 1,260 Including number of shares granted to Mr. Christophe Bonduelle, legal representative of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA 660 Including number of shares granted to the Executive Committee 600 Total number of free shares allocated 1,260 Date allocation effective (2) 01/04/2012 Date from which shares can be sold 01/04/2016 Share price (basis for employer contribution to stock option plans) 42.90 Number of shares subscribed at 06/30/2012 0 (2) The granting of free shares is dependent on the ﬁnancial performance of cash ﬂow expressed as a % of consolidated revenue in the second ﬁnancial year following the allocation date. C. Other information on the stock ■ B. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES option plans A provision for risks and expenses was recorded at the end of the financial year, on 06/30/2012, in the amount of 1,186,000 euros (plans 13, 15, 16) and free share allocations. ■ A. EXPENSE RECOGNIZED DURING THE This provision is covered by an accrued income in the same amount FINANCIAL YEAR AND FROM THE recorded under miscellaneous receivables (see Notes 1 and 4). PREVIOUS FINANCIAL YEAR This accrued income corresponds to the amount that will be passed The profit and loss made on stock options are recorded under net onto the subsidiaries whose employees are beneficiaries of stock non-recurring income. options from the options exercised under the plans concerned. No options were exercised in 2011-2012. Options exercised in respect of the previous financial year generated ■ C. DETAILS OF ACCOUNT 502 – TREASURY a profit of 191,000 euros. SHARES All relevant information is provided in Note 5. 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 171 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Information regarding subsidiaries and afﬁliates 6.5 Information regarding subsidiaries and afﬁliates Equity Carrying amount Net Diviother than of shares income dends share for the received capital most by the and net Share of Loans Revenue recent Company No. of income capital made by Guaexcluding ﬁnanduring shares CurShare for the held the comrantees tax for the cial the ﬁnanCompanies held rency capital (1) period (1) (in %) Gross Net pany given period year cial year A. Holdings with a gross value higher than 1% of the parent’s share capital 1. Subsidiaries (>50% held) Bonduelle SAS 2,067,610 EURO 206,761 239,193 100 333,762 333,762 30,991 41,841 2. Stake held between 10% and 50% B. Holdings with a gross value under 1% of the parent’s share capital 1. French subsidiaries 2. Non-French subsidiaries 3. Participating interests in French companies (1) In the Company’s local currency. 172 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Five-year ﬁnancial summary 6 6.6 Five-year ﬁnancial summary (in thousands of euros) 06/30/2008 06/30/2009 06/30/2010 06/30/2011 06/30/2012 Financial position at year-end Share capital 56,000 56,000 56,000 56,000 56,000 Number of shares issued 8,000,000 8,000,000 8,000,000 8,000,000 8,000,000 Total income from operations Revenues of subsidiaries 82,316 10,000 29,980 5,169 Revenue excluding tax Income before tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions 80,454 7,318 (178) 28,025 4,056 Income tax (2,483) (3,717) (219) (3,732) 3,626 Employee profit-sharing Income after tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provision 81,833 6,521 4,585 31,979 57 Dividends paid 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 Income from operations per share (in euros) Income after tax, employee profit-sharing and depreciation, but before amortization and provisions 10.37 1.38 0.01 3.97 0.05 Income after tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation amortization and provisions 10.23 0.82 0.57 4.00 0.01 Dividend paid per share 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 (1) (1) Proposal submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting. Allocation of net income And to approve the payment of a dividend, in respect of financial year 2011-2012, of 1.50 euros per share; the entire amount thus distributed The Management Board asks the Shareholders’ Meeting to allocate the qualifies for the 40% tax credit referred to in Article 158-3-2 of the 56,997.38 euros in net income for the period in the following manner: French General Tax Code. 1 Net income for the year 56,997.38 euros The dividend will be paid on January 8, 2013. 6 1 Retained earnings 193,057,728.07 euros 1 Distributable income 193,114,725.45 euros 1 Allocation to the General Partner 569.97 euros 1 Dividend to the shareholders 12,000,000.00 euros 1 Retained earnings 181,114,155.48 euros Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 173 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the annual ﬁnancial statements 6.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the annual ﬁnancial statements Dear shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Shareholders’ Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended June 30, 2012 on: 1 the audit of the accompanying annual financial statements of Bonduelle, as attached to this report; 1 the justification of our assessments; 1 the specific checks and information required by law. These annual financial statements have been approved by the Management Board. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 1. Opinion on the annual ﬁnancial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, using sample testing techniques or by means of other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the annual financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall financial statements presentation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the annual financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial situation of the Company for the past year, and of the results of its operations for the year then ended, in accordance with the accounting rules and principles applicable in France. 2. Justiﬁcation of assessments In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code regarding the basis of our opinion, we bring to your attention the following points: Accounting estimates 1 Note 1 of the Notes to the financial statements explains the method used by the Company to measure the value of non-current financial assets, a method based on estimates; We have notably verified the appropriateness of this method and have, as needed, assessed the data and the assumptions on which those estimates were based, reviewed the calculations made by the Company and examined the procedures used for the approval of these estimates by the Company’s Executive Management. 1 Note 1 of the Notes to the financial statements also explains the method used by the Company to value its provisions for risks and expenses, a method based on estimates; Our work consisted of assessing the data and the assumptions on which those estimates were based, reviewing the calculations made by the Company, comparing the accounting estimates used in previous years with the corresponding actual charges to the provisions and examining the procedures used for the approval of these estimates by the Company’s Executive Management. These assessments were performed as part of our audit approach for the annual financial statements taken as a whole and therefore contributed to the expression of our opinion expressed in the first part of this report. 174 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Separate ﬁnancial statements Statutory Auditors’ report on the annual ﬁnancial statements 6 3. Speciﬁc checks and information We also carried out, in accordance with generally accepted French auditing practices, a specific check provided for by law. We have no observation to make on the fair presentation and the conformity with the annual financial statements of the information given in the Management Board’s report and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial situation and the annual financial statements. Regarding the information provided pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code on the compensation and benefits paid to the Corporate Officers, we checked their conformity with the financial statements or with the data used to draw up these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information gathered by your Company from the companies controlling your Company or controlled by it. Based on our review, we certify the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have ensured that the required information regarding the identity of holders of the Company’s share capital has been properly disclosed in the Management Board’s report. Lille, October 17, 2012 The Statutory Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Cécile FONTAINE Jean-Yves MORISSET 6 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 175 6 Separate ﬁnancial statements Special report of the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and commitments 6.8 Special report of the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and commitments Dear shareholders, In our capacity as the Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on regulated agreements and commitments. Our duty is to inform you, based on the information provided to us, of the terms and conditions of the agreements and commitments of which we were notified or which we may have discovered during our audit. It is not our role to determine whether they are beneficial or appropriate or to ascertain whether other regulated agreements and commitments exist. Pursuant to Article R. 226-2 of the French Commercial Code, it is your responsibility to assess the benefits arising from these regulated agreements and commitments with a view to approving them. Moreover, it is our duty, where applicable, to inform you of the disclosures pursuant to Article R. 226-2 of the French Commercial Code relative to the implementation, during the year just ended, of the agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed our work in accordance with the professional standards of the French National Company of Statutory Auditors (CNCC). Those standards consisted of verifying that the information provided to us is consistent with the underlying documents from which it was extracted. Agreements and commitments submitted for approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting We hereby inform you that we were not notified of any agreements or commitments authorized during the financial year to be submitted for approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 226-10 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting Pursuant to Article R. 226-2 of the French Commercial Code, we were informed that the following agreements and commitments, already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting during previous financial years, were implemented during the financial year just ended. ■ BONDUELLE SCA’S GUARANTEE OF A BOND ISSUE BY BONDUELLE SAS Companies involved: Bonduelle SAS, for which Bonduelle SCA directly or indirectly holds over 10% of the voting rights and Pierre & Benoît Bonduelle SAS, Manager of Bonduelle SCA and Chief Executive Officer of Bonduelle SAS. Nature, object and terms: On August 3 and September 2, 2010, Bonduelle SAS issued a 12-year bond in the United States, by private placement, in two tranches, in the total amount of 165 million US dollars. Bonduelle SCA stood surety for this bond issue. This surety is non-interest bearing. Lille, October 17, 2012 The Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Mazars Jean-Yves MORISSET Cécile FONTAINE 176 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on 7 the Company and the share capital 7.1 Information regarding 7.4 Description of the share the share capital AFR 178 repurchase program 190 7.1.1 Historical information on the share capital 178 7.4.1 Analysis by intended use of treasury shares 7.1.2 Amount of the share capital 178 held at August 31, 2012 190 7.1.3 Powers and authorizations granted to the 7.4.2 New share repurchase program 190 Management Board 178 7.1.4 Potential share capital 186 7.5 General information regarding the Company 191 7.2 Shareholder structure AFR 187 7.2.1 Analysis of share capital and voting rights 187 7.2.2 Code of Ethics 188 7.2.3 Shareholders’ agreements 188 7.3 Bonduelle share and dividend information 189 7.3.1 Share price performance 189 7.3.2 Dividends 189 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 177 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7.1 Information regarding the share capital 7.1.1 Historical information on the share capital Additional Successive Total no. Year Transaction Par value paid-in capital amounts of shares At 01/01/1993 307,392,400 439,132 (in francs) 1995 Repurchase of 68,068 shares (47,467,600) (95,295,200) 259,744,800 371,064 1997 Capitalization of reserves and increase in par value from FFR 700 to FFR 760 22,263,840 282,008,640 371,064 Division of par value from FFR 760 to FFR 40 282,008,640 7,050,216 Integration of Financière Bonduelle Dalle and issue of 146,325 new shares 5,853,000 6,303,103 287,861,640 7,196,541 Contribution of Bonduelle SA shares by the Bonduelle Valeurs fund 10,372,880 14,938,800 298,234,520 7,455,863 Contribution of Bonduelle SA shares by employees and others 7,142,720 10,675,640 305,647,240 7,641,181 1998 Issue of 358,819 shares 14,352,760 30,499,615 320,000,000 8,000,000 (in euros) 2001 Capitalization of FFR 47,335,920 from additional paid-in capital into share capital, in line with the conversion to the euro 56,000,000 8,000,000 2005 Capital increase following the merger with Montecourt 2,068,948 17,269,806,14 58,068,948 8,295,564 2005 Cancellation of the Company’s shares received under the terms of the merger with Montecourt (2,068,948) (17,269,806,14) 56,000,000 8,000,000 7.1.2 Amount of the share capital DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL BY THE The share capital is set at 56,000,000 euros. CAPITALIZATION OF RESERVES, NET INCOME AND/OR ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL It is divided into 8,000,000 common shares with a par value of 7 euros The Shareholders’ Meeting, ruling under the conditions of quorum per share, all of the same category and fully paid up. and majority required for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, after reviewing the report of the Management Board and in accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-129-2 and L. 225-130 of the 7.1.3 Powers and authorizations French Commercial Code: granted to the Management 1) Authorizes the Management Board to increase the share capital of the Company, through one or more transactions, at such times Board and using the methods it so chooses, by capitalizing reserves, ■ AUTHORIZED AND UNISSUED CAPITAL net income, additional paid-in capital or other amounts whose capitalization is authorized; or by issuing shares or granting free The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting shares or increasing the par value of the existing common shares; of December 2, 2010 granted the Management Board the following or by a combination of these two method. powers and authorizations: 178 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7 2) Decides that if the Management Board uses this authorization, in In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-130 of the French Code, the securities to be issued may confer rights to common Commercial Code, to increase the share capital of the Company shares of any company which directly or indirectly owns more than by granting free shares, rights to fractional shares cannot be traded half of the Company’s capital or in which the company directly or nor transferred, and the corresponding shares shall be sold; any indirectly owns more than half of the capital; proceeds from such sales will be allocated to the holders of these 2. Grants this authorization for twenty-six months as from the date of rights within the period provided for by law. this Shareholders’ Meeting. 3) Grants this authorization for twenty-six months as from the date of 3. Decides to set, as follows, the total aggregate amount of shares this Shareholders’ Meeting. that may be issued under this authorization granted to the 4) Decides that the maximum aggregate par value of the new shares Management Board: that may be issued under this authorization shall be 17,500,000 • the total aggregate par value of shares that may be issued by euros, excluding any additional shares that may be issued to virtue of this authorization may not exceed 17,500,000 euros, safeguard the interests of holders of securities giving access to equity, as stipulated by law. • the approved ceiling does not include the total par value of additional shares that may be issued, in compliance with the This ceiling is independent of all other ceilings provided for by the law, to safeguard the interests of holders of securities giving other resolutions submitted to this Shareholders’ Meeting. access to equity. It is independent of all other ceilings provided 5) Grants full powers to the Management Board to implement this for by the other resolutions submitted to this Shareholders’ resolution and, generally, to perform all measures and necessary Meeting. formalities to successfully conclude each capital increase, to 4. If the Management Board decides to use this authorization in formally acknowledge it and to amend the By-laws appropriately. connection with the issues described in 1/, above: 6) Duly notes that this authorization immediately cancels and a) decides that the issue or issues of common shares or securities replaces any previous authorizations with the same purpose. giving access to equity shall be reserved in priority to shareholders who may subscribe for shares as of right; DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD TO ISSUE COMMON SHARES AND/OR b) decides that in the event that existing shareholders do not SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO EQUITY AND/ subscribe to a sufficient number of new shares as of right and, if OR GIVING RIGHTS TO ALLOCATIONS OF DEBT appropriate, using their oversubscription right, to account for the SECURITIES, WITH PREEMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION entire issue referred to in a), the Management Board may have RIGHTS MAINTAINED recourse to the following options: The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the limit the amount of the issue to the amount of the Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors subscriptions, provided that it reaches three-quarters of the and in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial issue decided upon, Code and notably Article L. 225-129-2 thereof: freely distribute all or part of the unsubscribed shares, 1. Authorizes the Management Board to issue, in one or more offer to the public all or part of the unsubscribed shares. transactions, in amounts and at such times it chooses, in either 5. Decides that the Management Board shall, within the limits defined euros, or in foreign currencies, or in any other unit composed of a above, be vested with all powers necessary to, notably, set the basket of currencies: terms and conditions of the issue(s), record, where necessary, the resulting increase(s) in capital, amend the By-laws accordingly, • common shares, charge on its own initiative the expenses of the capital increase(s) • and/or securities giving present or future access, at any time or to the corresponding premiums and deduct from such premiums on a fixed date, to common shares of the Company whether by the amounts needed to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation the new amount of share capital after each increase, and in general of a warrant or any other means, undertake everything that is required in such matters; • and/or securities giving rights to allocations of debt securities. 6. Duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the previous authorization with the same purpose. 7 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 179 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE MANAGEMENT 6. Decides that, in the event shares are issued in payment for BOARD TO ISSUE COMMON SHARES AND/OR shares contributed in connection with a public exchange SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO EQUITY AND/ offer, the Management Board shall, within the limits fixed in OR GIVING RIGHTS TO ALLOCATIONS OF DEBT Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial Code and within the SECURITIES, WITH SUSPENSION OF PREEMPTIVE limits established above, be vested with all powers necessary to SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS BY PUBLIC OFFERING determine the list of shares contributed within the framework of the The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the exchange offer, set the conditions of the issue and the proportions Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors in which shares shall be exchanged, as well as, when necessary, and in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial the amount of cash to be paid for the difference, and determine the Code and notably Article L. 225-136 thereof: terms and conditions of the issue. 1. Authorizes the Management Board to issue, in one or more 7. Decides that in the event that existing shareholders do not transactions, for the amounts and at the times it so chooses, subscribe to a sufficient number of common shares or securities on the French market and/or on international financial markets, giving access to equity to account for the entire issue, the through an offer to the public, in euros, foreign currencies or units Management Board may have recourse to the following options: composed of a basket of currencies: • limit the amount of the issue to the amount of the subscriptions, • common shares, provided that it reaches three-quarters of the issue decided • and/or securities giving present or future access, at any time or upon, on a fixed date, to common shares of the Company whether by freely distribute all or part of the unsubscribed shares. • subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation 8. Decides that the Management Board shall, within the limits defined of a warrant or any other means, above, be vested with all powers necessary to, notably, set the • and/or securities giving rights to allocations of debt securities. terms and conditions of the issue(s), record, where necessary, the These securities may be issued in payment for shares contributed resulting increase(s) in capital, amend the By-laws accordingly, to the Company in connection with public exchange offers for charge on its own initiative the expenses of the capital increase(s) shares in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-148 of to the corresponding premiums and deduct from such premiums the French Commercial Code. the amounts needed to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new amount of share capital after each increase, and in general In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial undertake everything that is required in such matters; Code, the securities to be issued may confer rights to common shares of any company which directly or indirectly owns more than 9. Duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the half of the Company’s capital or in which the Company directly or previous authorization with the same purpose. indirectly owns more than half of the capital; DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE MANAGEMENT 2. Grants this authorization for twenty-six months as from the date of BOARD TO ISSUE COMMON SHARES AND/OR this Shareholders’ Meeting. SECURITIES GIVING ACCESS TO EQUITY AND/ 3. The total aggregate par value of shares that may be issued by OR GIVING RIGHTS TO ALLOCATIONS OF DEBT SECURITIES, WITH SUSPENSION OF PREEMPTIVE virtue of this authorization may not exceed 17,500,000 euros. SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS BY PRIVATE PLACEMENT This amount shall be included in the ceiling imposed on capital The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the increases established in the thirteenth resolution (the following Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors resolution). and in accordance with the provisions of the French Commercial 4. Decides to suspend the preemptive subscription rights of existing Code and notably Article L. 225-136 thereof: shareholders to the common shares and securities giving access to 1. Authorizes the Management Board to issue, in one or more equity covered by this resolution, while granting the Management transactions, for the amounts and at the times it so chooses, Board the authority to confer on shareholders preferential rights, on the French market and/or on international financial markets, as stipulated by law. through an offering of the type indicated in Item II of Article L. 4115. Decides that the amount reverting or that shall revert to the 2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, in euros, foreign Company for each of the common shares issued by virtue of this currencies or units composed of a basket of currencies: authorization, after taking into account, in the case of the issue of common shares, • straight stock warrants, the price of said warrants, will be at least • and/or securities giving present or future access, at any time or equal to the minimum price stipulated by the applicable laws and on a fixed date, to common shares of the Company whether by regulations at the time the Management Board implements this subscription, conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation authorization. of a warrant or any other means, • and/or securities giving rights to allocations of debt securities. In accordance with Article L. 228-93 of the French Commercial Code, the securities to be issued may confer rights to common 180 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7 shares of any company which directly or indirectly owns more than 1 the weighted average price of the Company share on the NYSE half of the Company’s capital or in which the Company directly or Euronext Paris market, observed at the last three (3) trading days indirectly owns more than half of the capital; preceding the issue with a maximum discount of 15%. 2. Grants this authorization for twenty-six months as from the date of AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE AMOUNT this Shareholders’ Meeting; OF AN ISSUE IF IT IS OVERSUBSCRIBED 3. The aggregate par value of common shares that may be issued by For each issue decided upon in application of the eleventh, twelfth virtue of this authorization may not exceed 17,500,000 euros, and and thirteenth resolutions (delegation of authority to increase the will moreover be limited to 20% of share capital per year. share capital with or without preemptive rights by public offering or This amount shall be included in the ceiling imposed on capital private placement), the number of securities to be issued may be increases established in the twelfth resolution (the previous increased under the conditions stipulated by Article L. 225-135-1 resolution); of the French Commercial Code and within the limit of the ceilings set by the Shareholders’ Meeting, where the Management Board 4. Decides to suspend the preemptive subscription rights of existing observes excess demand. shareholders to the common shares and securities giving access to equity covered by this resolution. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE MANAGEMENT 5. Decides that the amount reverting or that shall revert to the BOARD TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL OF THE Company for each of the common shares issued by virtue of this COMPANY BY ISSUING SHARES RESERVED FOR PARTICIPANTS IN A COMPANY SAVINGS PLAN, IN authorization, after taking into account, in the case of the issue of APPLICATION OF ARTICLE L. 3332-18 ET SEQ. OF THE straight stock warrants, the price of said warrants, will be at least FRENCH LABOR CODE equal to the minimum price stipulated by the applicable laws and The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the regulations at the time the Management Board implements this Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors, authorization. and in accordance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-129-6 and 6. Decides that the Management Board shall, within the limits defined L. 225-138-1 of the French Commercial Code and L. 3332-18 et seq. above, be vested with all powers necessary to, notably, set the of the French Labor Code: terms and conditions of the issue(s), record, where necessary, the 1. Authorizes the Management Board, if it considers it appropriate, resulting increase(s) in capital, amend the By-laws accordingly, at its sole initiative, to increase the share capital in one or more charge on its own initiative the expenses of the capital increase(s) transactions by issuing common shares for cash and, when to the corresponding premiums and deduct from such premiums applicable, through bonus issues of common shares or other the amounts needed to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of securities conferring rights to the share capital reserved to the new amount of share capital after each increase, and in general employees (and Managers) of the Company (and of companies undertake everything that is required in such matters. related to it, within the meaning of Article L. 225-180 of the French 7. Duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the Commercial Code) participating in a PEE company savings plan. previous authorization with the same purpose. 2. Cancels in favor of these persons the preemptive right to subscribe DETERMINATION OF THE METHODS USED TO SET for shares that may be issued by virtue of this authorization. THE SUBSCRIPTION PRICE IN THE EVENT OF A 3. Grants this authorization for 26 months from the date of this SUSPENSION OF PREEMPTIVE SUBSCRIPTION RIGHTS Shareholders’ Meeting. WITHIN THE CURRENT LIMIT OF 10% OF SHARE CAPITAL 4. Limits the aggregate amount of the capital increase(s) under The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the this authorization to 3% of the share capital on the date the Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Management Board decides to proceed with such capital Auditors and in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225increase(s), this amount being independent of all other ceilings 136-1, paragraph 2, of the French Commercial Code, authorizes provided for under authorizations to increase the share capital of the Management Board, which decides upon an issue of common the Company. shares or securities giving access to equity in application of the 5. Decides that the price of shares to be issued, by virtue of item 1/ twelfth and thirteenth resolutions, to waive, within the limit of 10% of share capital per year, the price setting conditions stipulated by the aforementioned resolutions and to set the issue price of the capital of this authorization, may not be more than 20% (or 30% when the vesting period provided for by the plan in accordance with Articles L. 3332-25 and L. 3332-26 of the French Labor Code is 7 shares available for issue according to the following methods: greater than or equal to ten years) below the average opening The issue price of the capital shares available for immediate or price of the share on the 20 trading days preceding the decision deferred issue may not fall below either of the following, according to of the Management Board concerning the capital increase and the the choice of the Management Board: corresponding issue, nor greater than this average. 1 the average closing price of the Company share on the NYSE 6. Duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the Euronext Paris market, observed over a maximum period of six previous authorization with the same purpose. (6) months preceding the issue; The Management Board may decide whether or not to implement this authorization, and to perform all measures and necessary formalities. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 181 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 1 Decides that the validity of the options cannot exceed seven years, of December 8, 2011 granted the Management Board the following from the date they are granted; authorization: 1 Decides that the beneficiaries of these bonus allocations can only be: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO BE GIVEN TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD TO INCREASE THE SHARE • employees, or certain employees, or certain categories of CAPITAL WITHIN A LIMIT OF 10% FOR THE PURPOSE employees, of Bonduelle, and if applicable, companies or OF COMPENSATING IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS OF groups affiliated to it within the meaning of Article L. 225-180 of SHARES OR OTHER SECURITIES. the French Commercial Code, or The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the reports of the • Corporate Officers, within the meaning of Article L. 225-185 of Management Board and the Statutory Auditors and in accordance the French Commercial Code; with Article L. 225-147 of the French Commercial Code: 1 The total number of options that may be granted by the 1. Authorizes the Management Board, based on the report of the Management Board under this delegation of authority cannot Statutory Auditors, to issue common shares or securities granting give entitlement to subscribe for or purchase a number of shares access to common shares for the purpose of compensating in-kind exceeding 3% of the share capital existing on the day the first contributions granted to the Company and consisting of capital allocation of options is granted; securities or securities granting access to the share capital where the provisions of Article L. 225-148 of the French Commercial 1 Decides that the subscription and/or purchase price of shares by Code do not apply. the beneficiaries will be set on the day that the options are granted by the Management Board, and cannot be lower than 95% of 2. Grants this authorization for twenty-six months as from the date of the average closing price of the share over the 20 trading days this Shareholders’ Meeting. preceding the day the options are granted; 3. Decides that the aggregate par value of common shares that may 1 Decides that no options can be granted: be issued by virtue of this authorization may not exceed 10% of the share capital on the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, this • on the six trading days preceding and following the date on amount being independent of all other ceilings provided for under which the consolidated financial statements are published, authorizations to increase the share capital of the Company. • in the period between the date on which the Company’s corporate bodies become aware of information that, if made 4. Grants the Management Board all powers necessary to evaluate public, would have a material impact on the Company’s share the contributions, to decide on the resulting capital increase, to price, and the day following 10 trading days from when this record it, to charge, if applicable, the expenses arising from the information is published, capital increase to the corresponding premiums and deduct from such premiums the amounts necessary to increase the legal • in the 20 trading days after the ex-dividend date or following a reserve to one tenth of the new amount of share capital after each capital increase; increase, to make the related modification to the By-laws, and in 1 Duly notes that this authorization includes, for the beneficiaries general, to undertake everything that is required in such matters. of the options, the express waiver by shareholders to their 5. Duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the preemptive rights in relation to shares that will be issued as options previous authorization with the same purpose. are exercised; 1 Delegates all necessary powers to the Management Board to set the conditions and procedures for granting and exercising options, ■ STOCK SUBSCRIPTION AND/OR PURCHASE and in particular, to: OPTIONS • set the conditions in which the options will be granted and The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting approve the list or the categories of beneficiaries as described of December 3, 2009 granted the Management Board the following below; set, where necessary, the seniority conditions to be met authorization: by the beneficiaries; decide on the conditions under which the The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the price and number of shares will have to be adjusted, notably Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors: with regard to the circumstances described in Articles R. 225137 to R. 225-142 of the French Commercial Code, 1 Authorizes the Management Board, pursuant to the provisions of Articles L. 225-177 to L. 225-185 of the French Commercial • set the period(s) in which the options can be exercised, Code, to grant in one or more transactions, to the beneficiaries • suspend, temporarily, the exercise of options during a maximum mentioned below, stock options granting entitlement to subscribe period of three months in the event of financial transactions for new shares of the Company to be issued in a capital increase involving the exercise of a right attached to the shares, or to purchase existing shares of the Company arising from share • implement or organize all actions and formalities to formalize repurchases carried out under the conditions provided for in law; the capital increase(s) that may, where necessary, be carried out 1 Grants this authorization for 38 months from the date of this under the authorization included in this resolution; amend the Shareholders’ Meeting; By-laws accordingly; and generally undertake everything that is required, 182 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7 • at its sole discretion, and if deemed appropriate, charge the 1 determine the impact on the rights of beneficiaries of transactions expenses arising from capital increases to the corresponding affecting the share capital or that may affect the value of the shares premiums and deduct from such premiums the amounts granted and carried out during the acquisition and holding periods necessary to increase the legal reserve to one tenth of the new and, in consequence, modify or adjust, if necessary, the number of amount of share capital after each increase, free shares issued to safeguard the rights of beneficiaries; • duly notes that this authorization cancels and replaces the 1 where necessary: previous authorization with the same purpose granted by the • determine the existence of sufficient reserves and, for each Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting bonus issue, transfer to a special restricted reserve account the of December 6, 2007 in the tenth resolution submitted to the amounts necessary for the payment of the new shares to be Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. granted, • decide, when appropriate, to increase the capital through ■ FREE SHARE GRANTS the capitalization of reserves, additional paid-in capital or net The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting income corresponding to the issue of free shares, of December 2, 2010 granted the Management Board the following • acquire the requisite number of shares under a share repurchase authorization: program to be allocated to the free shares, The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the • undertake all useful measures to ensure that beneficiaries Management Board and the special report of the Statutory Auditors, comply with the obligation to hold their shares, authorizes the Management Board to carry out, in one or more and, generally, perform all acts required by this authorization • transactions and in compliance with Articles L. 225-197-1 and under all existing laws and regulations. L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code, bonus issues of This authorization constitutes the ipso jure waiver by existing existing common shares of the Company, or of shares to be issued, shareholders of their preemptive rights to subscribe to any new for the benefit of: shares issued by capitalization of reserves, additional paid-in capital 1 members of the personnel of the Company or companies directly and net income. or indirectly affiliated to it within the meaning of Article L. 225-197This authorization is granted for 38 months from the date of this 2 of the French Commercial Code; Shareholders’ Meeting. This authorization cancels and replaces the 1 and/or Corporate Officers, within the meaning of Article L. 225previous authorization with the same purpose. 197-1 of the French Commercial Code. The total number of free shares granted cannot exceed 3% of the ■ CANCELLATION OF SHARES share capital existing on the date of the first allocation decided by the Management Board. The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of December 8, 2011 granted the Management Board the following The allocation of shares to beneficiaries shall become fully vested authorization: after a vesting period, the duration of which shall be set by the Management Board. It may not be less than two years and the The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the reports of the beneficiaries must keep these shares for a period set by the Management Board and the Statutory Auditors: Management Board. The duration of the period in which the shares 1) Authorizes the Management Board, at its sole initiative, to cancel, are held cannot be less than two years, beginning on the date on in one or more transactions, up to the limit of 10% of the share which the granting of said shares is fully vested. capital on the day the cancellation decision is made, less any Nonetheless, the Shareholders’ Meeting authorizes the Management shares cancelled in the previous 24 months, the shares that the Board, insofar as the vesting period for all or part of one or more Company holds or may hold following share repurchases carried allocations would be at least four years, to impose no holding period out pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, for the shares in question. and to reduce the share capital by the corresponding amount, in accordance with the laws and regulations in force; By exception, these grants shall be considered to be fully vested prior to the end of the vesting period in the event that the beneficiary falls 2. Grants this authorization for 24 months from the date of this under the classification of long-term disability within the second and third categories provided for in Article L. 341-4 of the French Social Security Code. Shareholders’ Meeting, i.e. until December 7, 2013; 3. Authorizes the Management Board to take all the measures 7 necessary to implement such share cancellations and The Management Board is granted full powers to: corresponding capital reductions, to amend the By-laws accordingly and to carry out all the related formalities. 1 set the conditions and, where necessary, the criteria for granting free shares; 1 determine the identity of the beneficiaries and the number of shares allocated to each of them; Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 183 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital ■ SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM in particular with respect to employee profit sharing through a company savings plan [PEE] or free share grants; The Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of December 8, 2011 granted the Management Board the following 1 provide coverage for securities giving rights to allocations of authorization: Company shares in accordance with applicable regulations; The Shareholders’ Meeting, after reviewing the report of the 1 cancel any shares purchased, subject to the approval of the ninth Management Board, authorizes the latter, for a period of 18 months, resolution to be submitted to the Extraordinary Shareholders’ in accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Meeting. Commercial Code, to purchase, in one or more transactions and at These share purchases may be made using all available methods, such times as it chooses, shares in the Company within the limit of including block purchases, and at such times as the Management 10% of the shares comprising the share capital, where applicable Board chooses. adjusted to take account of any capital increases or reductions that may take place while the program is in effect. These transactions may notably be carried out during public offerings, in accordance with Article 232-15 of the General Regulations of This authorization cancels and replaces the authorization granted to the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) if the offer is settled the Management Board by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary entirely in cash and if the repurchases are carried out in pursuit of the Shareholders’ Meeting of December 2, 2010 in its ninth resolution execution of the current program and if they are not likely to cause submitted to the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. the offer to fail. The share purchases may be made to: The Company reserves the right to use options or derivative 1 ensure secondary market trading or liquidity for Bonduelle instruments in accordance with all applicable regulations. shares through an investment service provider on the basis of a The maximum purchase price is set at 120 euros per share. In the liquidity contract consistent with the Code of Ethics of the French event of a share capital transaction, in particular a stock split, reverse Association of Financial Market Professionals (AMAFI), which is split or granting of free shares, the above-referenced amount shall recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF); be adjusted accordingly (multiplier equal to the ratio of the pre1 hold the repurchased shares for subsequent use in exchange or as transaction number of shares comprising the share capital and the payment for possible Company acquisitions; shares purchased for number of post-transaction shares). this purpose may not exceed 5% of the Company’s share capital; The maximum transaction amount is therefore set at 96,000,000 euros. 1 provide coverage for stock option plans and other types of The Shareholders’ Meeting gives the Management Board full powers share allocations to employees and/or Corporate Officers of the to carry out such transactions, determine the terms and methods, Group in accordance with legally prescribed terms and methods, enter into all agreements and carry out all necessary formalities. ■ DELEGATIONS/AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED TO THE MANAGEMENT BOARD FOR CAPITAL INCREASES Authorization Use term granted during Use to the previous during the Management Date of ﬁnancial ﬁnancial Nature of the resolution Date of GM Board expiration Observation years year Delegation of authority to the Management Board to increase the share capital by the capitalization of reserves, net income and/or additional paid-in capital. Maximum of €17.5 million in par value, i.e. 12/02/2010 2.5 million shares (i.e. 31.25% of the share capital). (10th resolution) 26 months 02/01/2013 Delegation of authority to the Management Board to issue common shares and/or securities giving access to equity and/or giving rights to allocations of debt securities, with preemptive subscription rights maintained. Maximum of €17.5 million in par value, i.e. 12/02/2010 2.5 million shares (i.e. 31.25% of the share capital). (11th resolution) 26 months 02/01/2013 184 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7 Authorization Use term granted during Use to the previous during the Management Date of ﬁnancial ﬁnancial Nature of the resolution Date of GM Board expiration Observation years year Delegation of authority to the Management Board to issue common shares and/or securities giving access to equity and/or giving rights to allocations of debt securities, with suspension of preemptive subscription rights by public offering. Maximum of €17.5 million in par value, i.e. 2.5 million shares (i.e. 31.25% of the share capital). 12/02/2010 Common ceiling with delegation that follows. (12th resolution) 26 months 02/01/2013 Delegation of authority to the Management Board to issue common shares and/or securities giving access to equity and/or giving rights to allocations of debt securities, with suspension of preemptive subscription rights by private placement. Maximum of €17.5 million in par value, i.e. 2.5 million shares (i.e. 31.25% of the share capital). Maximum of 20% of the share capital per year. Common ceiling with delegation that 12/02/2010 precedes it. (13th resolution) 26 months 02/01/2013 Delegation of authority to the Management Board to increase the share capital by issuing common shares or securities granting access to the share capital within the limit of 10% of the share capital for the purpose of compensating in-kind contributions of shares 12/08/2011 or other securities. (10th resolution) 26 months 02/08/2014 Delegation of authority to the Management Board to increase the share capital of the Company by issuing shares reserved for participants in a company savings plan, in application of Article L. 3332-18 of the French Labor Code. Maximum of 3% of the amount of the share 12/02/2010 capital. (16th resolution) 26 months 02/01/2013 Authorization granted to the Management Board for the purpose of allocating shares free of charge to employees and/or certain Corporate Officers. Maximum of 3% of the amount of the share 12/02/2010 capital. (17th resolution) 38 months 02/01/2014 0.00016 (1) Authorization to the Management Board to grant options for the subscription and/ 7 or purchase of shares to employees and/or certain Corporate Officers. Maximum of 3% of the amount of the share 12/03/2009 capital. (14th resolution) 38 months 02/02/2013 0.0065 (2) (1) Corresponding to 1,260 free shares, i.e. 0.016% of the share capital. (2) Corresponding to 51,900 share subscription options, i.e. 0.65% of the share capital. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 185 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Information regarding the share capital 7.1.4 Potential share capital Bonduelle shares with a par value of seven euros would be created, representing a total share capital increase of 126,126 1. In early July 2007, the Company issued a 150 million euro bond euros, equivalent to 0.23% of the Company’s current share capital. with redeemable share subscription and/or purchase warrants 2. In early April 2009, the Company issued a 140 million euros (OBSAAR), represented by 150,000 bonds with a par value of OBSAAR bond, represented by 233,333 bonds with a par value 1,000 euros. These bonds are listed on Euronext Paris. Each of 600 euros. These bonds are listed on Euronext Paris. Each bond was accompanied by five detachable redeemable share bond was accompanied by three detachable redeemable share subscription and/or purchase warrants (BSAAR), making a total of subscription and/or purchase warrants (BSAAR), making a total of 750,000 BSAAR. Since March 27, 2009, the BSAAR have been 699,999 BSAAR. listed on Euronext Paris. Each 2009 BSAAR gives the holder the right to subscribe for or Each BSAAR gives the holder the right to subscribe for or purchase purchase one share of the Company, with immediate dividend one share of the Company, with immediate dividend rights, at a rights, at a price of 80 euros. price of 113.75 euros. The BSAAR may be exercised any time between July 23, 2010 and July 24, 2014, inclusive. They will then The 2009 BSAAR may be exercised any time between April 7, 2011 expire ipso jure. The Company may, at its own initiative, provide and April 8, 2016, inclusive. They will then expire ipso jure. The either new or existing shares in exchange for these BSAAR. Company may, at its own initiative, provide either new or existing shares in exchange for these BSAAR. In early April 2009, the Company launched a simplified public exchange offer to exchange one 2007 BSAAR for one 2009 During the 2011-2012 financial year, 37 2009 BSAAR were BSAAR under the same terms and conditions as the 2009 BSAAR exercised at a price of 80 euros. 37 existing shares in the Company referenced below. were used in the transaction. In a simplified public exchange offer, 731,967 of the 2007 BSAAR There are now a total of 1,431,879 of the 2009 BSAAR outstanding. were exchanged for 2009 BSAAR. Since October 8, 2010, the 2009 BSAAR have been listed on During the 2011-2012 financial year, no 2007 BSAAR were Euronext Paris. exercised. If all of the 2009 BSAAR were to be exchanged via the subscription In all, 18,018 of the 2007 BSAAR remain outstanding. of new shares, a total of 1,431,879 Bonduelle shares with a par value of seven euros would be created, representing a total share If all 18,018 of the 2007 BSAAR still outstanding were to be capital increase of 10,023,153 euros, equivalent to 17.90% of the exchanged via the subscription of new shares, a total of 18,018 Company’s current share capital. ■ Convertible instruments outstanding at the date of this registration document Maximum potential Maximum no. of shares dilutive effect Convertible instruments that may be issued (as a % of the share capital) 18,018 2007 BSAAR 18,018 0.23% 1,431,879 2009 BSAAR 1,431,879 17.90% TOTAL 1,449,897 18.12% 186 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Shareholder structure 7 7.2 Shareholder structure 7.2.1 Analysis of share capital and voting rights ■ At June 30, 2010 2010 Number of shares % Voting rights % La Plaine (1) 1,788,976 22.36% 3,577,952 29.58% Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS 421,259 5.27% 744,727 6.16% General Partner 2,210,235 27.63% 4,322,679 35.74% Other Bonduelle family members 2,006,766 25.08% 3,950,113 32.66% Employees 258,849 3.24% 476,493 3.94% Treasury shares 236,079 2.95% Free float 3,288,071 41.10% 3,346,927 27.67% TOTAL 8,000,000 100.00% 12,096,212 100.00% (1) La Plaine is 53.3% held by the General Partner, Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, and its sole purpose is to act as the holding company for the shares of Bonduelle SCA. ■ At June 30, 2011 2011 Number of shares % Voting rights % La Plaine (1) 1,788,976 22.36% 3,577,952 29.45% Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS 421,259 5.27% 829,858 6.83% General Partner 2,210,235 27.63% 4,407,810 36.28% Other Bonduelle family members 2,020,112 25.25% 3,958,621 32.58% Employees 279,603 3.50% 510,475 4.20% Treasury shares 276,231 3.45% Free float 3,213,819 40.17% 3,213,819 26.94% TOTAL 8,000,000 100.00% 12,147,402 100.00% (1) La Plaine is 53.3% held by the General Partner, Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, and its sole purpose is to act as the holding company for the shares of Bonduelle SCA. 7 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 187 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Shareholder structure ■ At June 30, 2012 2012 Number of shares % Voting rights % La Plaine (1) 1,788,976 22.36% 3,577,952 30.05% Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS 421,259 5.27% 837,858 7.04% General Partner 2,210,235 27.63% 4,415,810 37.09% Other Bonduelle family members 1,973,246 24.67% 3,866,877 32.48% Employees 277,332 3.47% 521,274 4.38% Treasury shares 521,810 6.52% Free float 3,017,377 37.72% 3,102,066 26.05% TOTAL 8,000,000 100.00% 11,906,027 100.00% (1) La Plaine is 53.3% held by the General Partner, Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS, and its sole purpose is to act as the holding company for the shares of Bonduelle SCA. As far as the Company is aware, no other shareholder currently owns, ■ AGREEMENTS BETWEEN SHAREHOLDERS directly or indirectly, solely or jointly, more than 5% of the share In addition to these escrow commitments, a first lock-up agreement capital or voting rights. was signed on May 26, 1998 by 101 family shareholders “with the No significant changes in the shareholder base took place between the purpose of creating a stable and long-lasting core shareholding”. end of the financial year and the date this document was established. Under this agreement, the signatories undertook to hold a portion of The Company is controlled as described above. Nevertheless, the their shares for ten years. This agreement expired on May 25, 2008. Company believes there is no risk that control will be carried out in A second agreement was entered into by 137 family shareholders an improper manner. with the purpose of stabilizing the volume of shares traded on the market, ensuring continuity in the Company’s management and maintaining the undertaking to cooperate in a partnership and oversee its administration (affectio societatis) by the family shareholding group. 7.2.2 Code of Ethics This agreement was signed on March 27, 1998 for five years and has In line with its values, the Bonduelle Group put in place governance subsequently been renewed every year; each party to the agreement rules many years ago, and in 2008 adopted the principles of the may withdraw from the agreement one year prior to each renewal date. Afep-Medef corporate governance code. In this area, and in line with In its meeting of July 1, 1998, the French Financial Markets Council the recommendations of the AMF, in September 2011, the Group (CMF) considered that under the provisions of the agreement when implemented a Code of Ethics aimed at preventing insider trading, considered together or separately, the signatories were acting in which is available at www.bonduelle.com. concert. A third agreement, pursuing the same objectives as the March 27, 1998 agreement but with modifications made to certain provisions, was set 7.2.3 Shareholders’ agreements in place in 2008 for an initial period of five years, renewable every year upon the expiration of that period. Each party may withdraw from the agreement one year prior to each renewal date. In the absence of any ■ ESCROW AGREEMENT signatories to the third agreement or a renunciation of membership, the March 27, 1998 agreement remains in effect. Bonduelle is a French limited partnership with shares (société en commandite par actions, or SCA). In light of these agreements, the joint action observed by the French Financial Markets Council accounted for 48.98% of the Company’s The General Partner is “Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS”, a French share capital and 64% of the 11,906,027 voting rights. simplified joint stock company whose shares are held directly by three families. The SAS, represented by its Chairman Christophe Bonduelle, is the ■ DUTREIL AGREEMENT Manager of Bonduelle SCA. Bonduelle informs its shareholders that, pursuant to the adoption In accordance with Article 14.3 of the By-laws of Bonduelle SCA, of the economic initiative law (known as the Dutreil Act) in 2003, at least 1,520,000 inchoate rights, or 760,000 Bonduelle shares Bonduelle SCA concluded a six-year lock-up agreement for all of (with beneficial ownership or bare ownership rights, or both), were its shareholdings in Bonduelle SAS. This agreement was renewed in deposited in escrow on behalf of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS. December 2011. As provided for by law, Bonduelle SCA shareholders These escrowed shares represent 9.5% of the share capital. may adhere to this agreement and benefit from its provisions. 188 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital Bonduelle share and dividend information 7 7.3 Bonduelle share and dividend information 7.3.1 Share price performance ■ Performance of Bonduelle shares relative to the CAC 40 and CAC Mid & Small indices (base 100, July 2011) 115 Bonduelle CAC 40 105 CAC Mid & Small 95 85 75 65 11 11 11 11 11 11 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 3/ /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 /0 07 08 09 10 11 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 ■ Stock market data 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 2011/2012 High (in euros) 72.44 88.88 74.27 74.86 Low (in euros) 49.02 53.5 58.43 58.83 Share price (in euros) 55.75 74.26 69.35 66.41 Market capitalization at June 30 (in millions of euros) 446 594 554.8 531.28 Average monthly trading volume 150,544 181,894 182,870 107,917 Summary sheet Reuters code: BOND.PA Bloomberg code: BON FP Market: Euronext Paris Shares outstanding: 8,000,000 Market segment: Euronext French stocks Indices: CAC Mid & Small Type: Compartment B Eligible for: deferred settlement service (SRD) ISIN code: FR0000063935 7.3.2 Dividends The following dividends were paid during the previous five financial years: 7 (in euros) 2006/2007 2007/2008 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 Dividend per share (eligible for tax credit) 1.35 1.50 1.50 1.50 1.50 Total dividend paid (in thousands of euros) 10,800 12,000 12,000 12,000 12,000 The Company will pay out a limited proportion of its net income each year, so that it can finance its investments and external growth. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 189 7 Information on the Company and the share capital Description of the share repurchase program 7.4 Description of the share repurchase program In accordance with the provisions of Article 241-2 of the General 1 Maximum purchase price: 120 euros; Regulations of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) and 1 Maximum value of the program: 96,000,000 euros; Commission Regulation (EC) 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003, the purpose of this description is to describe the goals of and 1 Methods used: share purchases, disposals and transfers may methods used to carry out the Company’s program to repurchase be made using all available methods, in an established market its own stock. This program will be submitted for the authorization or over the counter, including block sales and purchases, it being of the Shareholders’ Meeting of December 6, 2012. The notice of the specified that the proposed resolution submitted to the vote of the meeting is to be published in the BALO of October 31, 2012. shareholders does not restrict the portion of the program that may be carried out using block purchases. These transactions may notably be carried out during public offerings, in accordance with Article 232-15 of the General 7.4.1 Analysis by intended use Regulations of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) if the of treasury shares held at offer is settled entirely in cash and if the repurchases are carried August 31, 2012: out in pursuit of the execution of the current program and if they are not likely to cause the offer to fail. Number of shares held directly or indirectly: 520,233 shares representing 6.50% of the share capital. 1 Intended uses: • ensure secondary market trading or liquidity for Bonduelle Number of shares held by intended use: shares through an investment service provider on the basis of 1 ensure liquidity of Bonduelle shares under AMAFI-compliant a liquidity contract consistent with the Code of Ethics of the liquidity contract: 1,523; French Association of Financial Market Professionals (AMAFI), 1 acquisitions: 400,000; which is recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF), 1 coverage for stock option plans and other types of share allocations • hold the repurchased shares for subsequent use in exchange to employees: 118,710; or as payment for possible corporate acquisitions; shares 1 coverage of securities conferring rights to receive Company purchased for this purpose may not exceed 5% of the shares: 0; Company’s share capital, 1 cancellation: 0. • provide coverage for stock option plans and other types of share allocations to employees and/or Corporate Officers of the Group in accordance with legally prescribed terms and methods, in particular with respect to employee profit sharing 7.4.2 New share repurchase through a company savings plan [PEE] or free share grants, program • provide coverage for securities giving rights to allocations of Company shares in accordance with applicable regulations, 1 Authorization of the program: Shareholders’ Meeting of December 6, 2012; • cancel any shares purchased, in accordance with the approval granted by the ninth resolution of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ 1 Securities involved: common shares; Meeting of December 8, 2011; 1 Maximum portion of share capital that may be repurchased: 1 Term of the program: 18 months, from the December 6, 2012 10% (or 800,000 shares at present) it being specified that this limit Shareholders’ Meeting, i.e. through to June 5, 2014. shall be evaluated on the repurchase date to reflect any capital increases or decreases during the term of the program. The This document is available on the Company’s website www. number of shares taken into account for the calculation of this limit bonduelle.com, and on request from SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE – Service corresponds to the number of shares purchased, less the number aux émetteurs (Issuer Department) – BP 81236, 32 rue du Champ of shares sold under the liquidity contract during the program; de Tir, 44312 Nantes Cedex 03 – France, which is responsible for providing custodial services for our Company. 1 As the Company may not hold more than 10% of its own share capital, in light of the number of shares already held (520,233, or It is also included in the registration document. 6.50% of the share capital), the maximum number of shares that For further information: may be purchased shall not exceed 279,767 (i.e. 3.50% of the Tel: +33 (0)3 20 43 60 60 capital), subject to the sale or cancellation of some or all of the ﬁnance@bonduelle.com shares already held; 190 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company 7 7.5 General information regarding the Company Legal name Corporate purpose (Article 2 of the By-laws) Bonduelle The purpose of the Company, in France and in all countries is: 1 owning and managing securities and ownership rights issued by any French or foreign company; Registered ofﬁce 1 entering into any financial and industrial investments; La Woestyne 1 managing companies; and 59173 – Renescure 1 more generally, entering into any transactions that may contribute to its development. Tel: +33 (0)3 28 42 60 60 The Company may enter into any transaction compatible with, related to and/or contributing to the above purpose. Administrative head ofﬁce Rue Nicolas Appert Corporate documents concerning BP 30173 the last three ﬁnancial years 59653 – Villeneuve-d’Ascq The By-laws, financial statements and reports, minutes of Shareholders’ Meetings and other corporate documents are available at the Company’s registered and administrative head offices. Business structure Bonduelle is a French limited partnership with shares (société en commandite par actions), governed by the French Commercial Code. Distribution of earnings (Article 25 of the By-laws) The Shareholders’ Meeting approves the accounts for the financial Date of incorporation and term year just ended, and where applicable, the consolidated accounts, and notes whether there is any distributable income. The Company was established on January 19, 1972 for a period of 99 years expiring on January 18, 2071, except in the event of early Within the limit of its distributable income, the Company pays the liquidation or extension. General Partner 1% of the net income of the year. If income available for distribution for a period is not sufficient to pay all or part of the above percentage of earnings due to the General Partner, such amount will be carried forward and payable the Corporate registration number following year or in future years until fully paid off. The Company is registered in the DUNKERQUE Register of Trade Amounts payable to the General Partner will be paid at times and and Companies (RCS) under number 447 250 044. Its APE industry code is: 6420 Z locations indicated by the Management Board within nine months following the close of the financial year. 7 After payment of amounts due to the General Partner, shareholders are entitled to the balance of income available for distribution. The appropriation of this income is decided by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Financial year Meeting upon a motion by the General Partner. From July 1 to June 30 each year. Upon a motion by the Supervisory Board, the Shareholders’ Meeting may grant shareholders the choice of receiving all or part of the Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 191 7 Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company dividends or interim dividends in cash or shares, as provided for of the Supervisory Board or, if the latter is not available, by the under law. Management Board. Upon a motion by the Supervisory Board, the Shareholders’ Meeting Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, ruling under the may elect to deduct amounts it deems appropriate from the balance conditions prescribed by law, exercise their functions in accordance of the earnings reverting to shareholders as retained earnings for with the law. shareholders or allocate such amounts to one or more non-interestExcept for the appointment and dismissal of members of the bearing extraordinary, general or special reserves, to which the Supervisory Board, the appointment and dismissal of Independent General Partners, in this capacity, shall have no rights. Auditors and the approval of regulated agreements, no decision of the Upon a motion by the General Partner, such reserve or reserves may, Shareholders’ Meetings will be valid unless it is approved in writing by a decision of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, be distributed by the General Partner no later than the end of the Shareholders’ to shareholders or allocated to fully or partially redeem the shares. Meeting that approved said decision. Fully redeemed shares are replaced by dividend-bearing shares The Company’s Management Board has full powers to record such that confer the same rights as existing shares except the right to approval, and shall append the document manifesting such approval redemption of capital. to the minutes of the Shareholders’ Meeting in question. Such reserve or reserves may also be capitalized. Dividends are payable at the times and in the places determined by the Management Board, within a maximum period of nine months Share ownership – Disclosure of from the end of the financial year, unless this period is extended by court order. holdings exceeding speciﬁc thresholds (Article 11 of the By-laws) Any natural person or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, who Shareholders’ Meetings acquires a number of shares or voting rights representing more than one (Article 23 of the By-laws) of the thresholds established by law, must comply with the disclosure provisions provided for by that law within the allotted time period. This Shareholders’ Meetings are called according to the legally prescribed same disclosure is also required each time the ownership of share conditions. capital and/or voting rights falls below one of the statutory thresholds. Shareholders’ Meetings are to be held at the Company’s registered Moreover, any natural person or legal entity, acting alone or in concert, office, or any other place mentioned in the notice convening the who acquires or ceases to hold, in any manner, a number of shares Shareholders’ Meeting. equal to 2% or 4% of the share capital or voting rights, is required to notify the Company, within 15 days after each of the aforementioned The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is subject to the thresholds has been crossed, of its total holdings of shares and/or shareholder or his designated intermediary being registered on the other securities giving access to the share capital, and all attached third business day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting at midnight, voting rights. For the purposes of applying this obligation under the Paris time, either in the Company’s shareholder register or in the By-laws, the shareholding thresholds are calculated under the same bearer securities register maintained by the authorized intermediary. conditions as the statutory shareholding thresholds. Any persons invited by the Management Board or by the Chairman Failure to comply with this obligation under the By-laws will result in a of the Supervisory Board are also allowed to attend Shareholders’ loss of voting rights for those undisclosed shares exceeding the Meetings. aforementioned thresholds in any Shareholders’ Meeting held until two The General Partner is represented by one of its legal representatives years have elapsed from the date on which the situation is rectified (1). or by any person, who may or may not be a shareholder, mandated For more information on share ownership: see table 1.1.9 “Analysis of by one of the latter. share capital and voting rights”. Shareholders who take part in meetings through videoconferencing or other telecommunications media enabling their identification and permitted under the conditions stipulated by applicable laws and regulations shall be considered to be present in the calculation of the Double voting rights (Article 12 of the By-laws) quorum and majority, provided the Management Board elects to use Holders of fully paid-up shares registered in the name of the holder such means of participation prior to sending the notice convening the for more than three years shall be entitled to double voting rights. Shareholders’ Meeting. Double voting rights shall apply at all Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings are presided over by the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Meetings. Supervisory Board or, if the latter is not available, the Vice Chairman (1) A proposal will be made to the next Shareholders’ Meeting, specifying that the removal of voting rights in the event of the failure to disclose holdings exceeding statutory thresholds shall not apply where there is a request, contained in the meeting minutes, by one or more shareholders holding at least 5% of the share capital. 192 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company 7 The legal provisions concerning double voting rights are set out Management Board (Article 15 of the By-laws) below: The Company is managed and administrated by one or more 1 in the event of a capital increase by capitalization of reserves, net income or additional paid-in capital, double voting rights may be Managers, who may be General Partners or not affiliated with the granted, on issue, to registered shares allocated free of charge Company. If there is more than one Manager, all provisions of the to a shareholder holding existing shares which confer this right present By-laws concerning the “Manager” shall be applicable to (Article L. 225-123 of the French Commercial Code); each of them, acting as a group or separately. The Manager may be a natural person or a legal entity, including the 1 any share converted into a bearer share or whose ownership is transferred loses the double voting rights assigned in application General Partner itself. of Article L. 225-123. However, the transfer of shares as a result Managers who are a natural person are appointed for a period of of inheritance, liquidation of a community of assets between three years, expiring at the end of the annual Ordinary Shareholders’ spouses or inter vivos gifts to a spouse or relative whose degree Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the second of relationship is sufficiently close, does not result in the loss of financial year following the one during which the Manager was entitlement to the right acquired, provided that the qualification appointed. Managers who are a legal entity are appointed for an period mentioned in Article L. 225-123 is met. Unless otherwise indeterminate period. stipulated in the Company’s By-laws, the same shall apply to During the term of the Company, the General Partner has sole the assignment of double voting rights in the event of a transfer authority to appoint the Manager(s). following a merger or split involving a company that holds shares in the Company; The Manager’s functions shall end subsequent to his/her/its death, permanent disability, interdiction, court-ordered reorganization or 1 a merger or split of the Company shall have no effect on the double liquidation, dismissal or resignation, or on his/her 75th birthday. voting rights that may be exercised within the beneficiary company or companies, provided that this is established in the latter’s ByThe Company shall not be dissolved in the event that the functions of laws (Article L. 225-124 of the French Commercial Code). a Manager are terminated, regardless of the reason. Any Manager wishing to resign must provide the General Partner and the Supervisory Board with at least six months’ prior notice, by certified mail, unless the General Partner authorizes a shorter period Separation of voting rights between after evaluating the reasoned opinion of the Supervisory Board. the usufructuary and the bare owner The General Partner is responsible for ordering the dismissal of any (Article 12 of the By-laws) Manager. The By-laws currently provide that, unless there is an agreement notified to the Company, where there is a separation of ownership rights, voting rights shall belong to the bare owner, except in the case Powers of the Management Board of collective decisions relating to the appropriation of income, when voting rights shall belong to the usufructuary. (Article 16 of the By-laws) However, holders of shares where there is a separation of ownership rights may agree between themselves how to assign the voting ■ RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES rights for Shareholders’ Meetings. In this event, they must make their agreement known to the Company by certified letter with return The Management Board has full powers to act in the Company’s name receipt sent to the registered office and addressed to the Management under any circumstances. It exercises these powers within the limits of Board. The Company shall be required to respect this agreement for the Company’s corporate purpose and any powers granted explicitly by all collective decisions made after one month has elapsed following law to the Supervisory Board and to the Shareholders’ Meeting. the initial presentation of the certified letter with return receipt, with the postmark being taken as proof of the date of initial presentation. ■ RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN PARTNERS Notwithstanding the provisions set out above, the bare owner has the Insofar as relationships between the Company’s partners are right to participate in all collective decisions of shareholders. concerned, the Management Board has full powers to take all managerial actions in the interest of the Company and in compliance 7 with the powers granted by the present By-laws to the General Identiﬁcation of bearer shares Partner in the article entitled “RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE GENERAL PARTNER” and to the Supervisory Board in the article (Article 9 of the By-laws) entitled “POWERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD.” The Company is authorized to take advantage of the provisions of Articles L. 228-2 and L. 228-3 of the French Commercial Code ■ DELEGATION OF POWERS governing commercial ventures concerning the identification of holders of securities conferring present or future voting rights at The Management Board may grant, at its sole discretion, all Shareholders’ Meetings. delegations of powers that it deems necessary for the proper running of the Company and the Group. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 193 7 Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company With the approval of the General Partner, it may grant general limited General Partner may, at any time, propose the appointment of one or or unlimited powers to one or more of the Company’s Managers, who more new members of the Supervisory Board. are then given the title of Chief Executive Officer. A third of the Supervisory Board members are re-appointed every three years at an annual Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. Every appointment, whether it be in replacement of an existing member of Remuneration of the Management the Supervisory Board or not, is valid through the next renewal of the Supervisory Board membership in question. Board (Article 17 of the By-laws) No one may be appointed member of the Supervisory Board if, having The annual gross compensation in accordance with these By-laws of exceeded the age of 75, his or her appointment would increase to the Management Board is made up of two components: more than one-third the proportion of Supervisory Board members 1 an amount equal to 1.5% of the Group’s share of the consolidated who have already exceeded this age. net income of the previous financial year; The members of the Supervisory Board may be dismissed by decision 1 additional compensation equal to 1% of the Group’s share of the of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting only at the joint suggestion for consolidated net income of the previous financial year, when the just cause of the General Partner and the Supervisory Board. latter exceeds 1.5% of total net consolidated revenue. In the event that one or more members of the Supervisory Board Compensation is to be paid in 12 equal monthly payments. should die or resign, the Supervisory Board may appoint a temporary replacement within three months from the date on which the vacancy This compensation is split equally among the Managers, unless they is created. have agreed otherwise. Should no more than two members of the Supervisory Board If one or more Managers are legal entities, all compensation shall be remain active, the active member(s), or, if not, the Manager or the split equally among this or these legal entity Managers, unless they Independent Auditor(s), must immediately convene an Ordinary have agreed otherwise. Shareholders’ Meeting in order to fill the vacant memberships. Any additional compensation paid to the Management Board must be approved by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, with the approval of the General Partner. Deliberations of the Supervisory Board (Article 19 of the By-laws) Supervisory Board From among its members, the Supervisory Board appoints a Chairman, who must be a natural person, and a Vice Chairman. (Article 18 of the By-laws) It also appoints a Secretary, who is not required to be a member of The Company has a Supervisory Board comprising between 3 and the Supervisory Board. 18 members selected from among the shareholders who do not qualify as General Partners, who are not the legal representative of In the absence of the Chairman, his functions are performed by the the General Partner, nor the Manager of Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle Vice Chairman. SAS. The Supervisory Board is convened by either its Chairman or by The members of the Supervisory Board may be natural persons or the Management Board, as often as required in the interest of the legal entities. Company and at least twice per year, in the registered office or any other place indicated in the meeting notice. When they are appointed, legal entities must appoint a permanent representative, who is subject to the same conditions and obligations Meeting notices are distributed by all means serving as valid proof and has the same responsibilities as if he were a member of the for commercial purposes, at least seven working days prior to the Supervisory Board in his own right, notwithstanding the joint liability meeting. This time requirement may be reduced subject to the of the legal entity that he represents. This person is appointed unanimous approval of the Chairman or the Vice Chairman of the permanent representative for as long as the term of appointment of Supervisory Board, the General Partner and the Manager. the legal entity that he represents. Any member of the Supervisory Board may, by all means serving If the legal entity revokes the mandate of its representative, it must as valid proof for commercial purposes, give proxy to one of his notify the Company of such revocation, immediately, by certified mail, colleagues to represent him at a meeting of the Supervisory Board. as well as of the identity of its new permanent representative. The No member may hold more than one proxy during a single meeting. same shall apply in the event of the death, resignation or prolonged These provisions also apply to the permanent representative of a inability to serve of the permanent representative. legal entity member of the Supervisory Board. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed and their The Supervisory Board may only deliberate if at least half of its mandates renewed by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. The members are present or represented. 194 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company 7 Decisions require a majority of the votes of the members present Compensation of the Supervisory or represented. However, the Supervisory Board may approve or reject any new wording of certain clauses of the By-laws proposed Board (Article 21 of the By-laws) by the General Partner only by a three-quarters majority of its On the recommendation of the General Partner, the Supervisory Board members present or represented, in compliance with the stipulations may be allocated annual compensation in respect of directors’ fees, of the article entitled “RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE the amount of which is determined by the Ordinary Shareholders’ GENERAL PARTNER”. Meeting and remains unaltered until such time as the Shareholders’ The Rules of Procedure may establish that all members of the Meeting shall decide otherwise. Supervisory Board that participate in the meeting by means of The Supervisory Board divides these directors’ fees among its videoconferencing or telecommunications are considered present members in the proportions that it deems appropriate. for the purposes of calculating the quorum and the majority, within the conditions established by all laws and regulations applicable to French corporations (sociétés anonymes). The Manager must be invited to and may participate in the meetings Changes to shareholder rights of the Supervisory Board, although he may not cast a vote. The rights of shareholders may be modified under the conditions The deliberations of the Supervisory Board are recorded in minutes provided for in the applicable regulations. maintained in a special initialed register, and signed by the Chairman and the Secretary. Group timeline and history Powers of the Supervisory Board (Article 20 of the By-laws) ■ 1853-1926 ORIGINS: BIRTH OF A LEGEND The Supervisory Board is responsible for the permanent control of Bonduelle was founded by two men, Louis Bonduelle-Dalle (1802the management of the Company. It is therefore vested with the same 1880) and Louis Lesaffre-Roussel (1802-1869), both of whom came powers as the Independent Auditors, and is provided at the same from farming families in the North of France. time as the latter with the same documents. Also, the Management Board must provide the Supervisory Board, at least once per year, In 1853, the two men decided to build a grain and juniper distillery in with a detailed review of the operations of the Company. Marquette-lez-Lille. The Supervisory Board may make suggestions to the Management In 1862, they bought a farm in Renescure which they converted into Board regarding all questions of general interest to the Bonduelle a grain alcohol distillery. Group and regarding the allocation of income proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting. ■ 1926-1946 The Supervisory Board approves or rejects any new wording CANNING BUSINESS TAKES OFF of certain clauses of the By-laws proposed by the General Partner, in compliance with the stipulations of the article entitled In 1926, they installed their first pea sheller and autoclaves in the “RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF THE GENERAL PARTNER”. family farm at Woestyne. Every year at the annual Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the Bonduelle started canning 20 hectares of peas, corresponding to Supervisory Board presents the shareholders with a report in which annual production of approximately 120 metric tons. it signals any irregularities or inaccuracies observed in the financial In 1936, they expanded the farm to 230 hectares, and the canning statements for the year and comments on the management of the plant also grew considerably. Company. This report is placed, along with the statement of financial position ■ 1947-1962 and the inventory (1), at the disposal of the shareholders, who may consult it at the Company’s registered office once the Shareholders’ Meeting has been convened. FROM COTTAGE INDUSTRY TO THRIVING INDUSTRY: A BRAND ATTENTIVE TO CONSUMER NEEDS 7 Business recovered quickly after the war. It broke away from the sales The Supervisory Board may convene a Shareholders’ Meeting as network of La Rochefortaise, which had been marketing its products many times as it deems appropriate. until then, and launched its own brand. The functions of the Supervisory Board do not impinge in any way In 1957, Bonduelle decided to can a mixture of peas and carrots. This upon those of the Management Board, and do not engender any was a first for the canning industry, and established the Company’s liability for any acts of management or their consequences. commercial success. (1) A proposal will be made to the next Shareholders’ Meeting to delete the reference to the inventory, as it is no longer necessary to make this available to shareholders following the simpliﬁcation of the law of May 17, 2011. Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 195 7 Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company ■ 1963-1974 Italy’s number two in the fresh-cut range. In June 1999, Bonduelle’s SHARP EXPANSION fresh-cut vegetables appeared on Italian supermarket shelves. In 1968, the Company applied a new technology to create frozen In the spring of 1998, the Group was listed on the Second Marché of vegetables, which would become a great success. the Paris Stock Exchange. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, several European subsidiaries are In November 1999, Bonduelle took part in the vegetable canning created: in Germany (1969), Italy (1972) and the United Kingdom industry consolidation in France by acquiring the assets of Avril/Cirio (1973). Subsidiaries in other countries soon followed. France (French distributor brands). By 1973, more than half of Bonduelle’s revenues were generated To raise its profile, Bonduelle decided to sponsor the construction of outside France. a multi-hull yacht in October 1999 and chose skipper Jean Le Cam from Brittany to compete in sailing races. The values in this sport are a perfect fit for Bonduelle: naturalness, well-being, technology and ■ 1975-1984 vitality. PERIOD OF EXPANSION: BEYOND PICARDY Bonduelle embarked on a business development drive that took it ■ 2000 TO THE PRESENT to the south west of France, the Oise department north of Paris and A NEW ERA BEGINS then Belgium. This geographical expansion led the Company to invest in two new 2000 sectors: corn and mushrooms. 1 Organization of the Group into a federation of five subsidiaries; In 1980, Bonduelle acquired Marie-Thumas, the largest vegetable 1 Takeover of Cielo e Campo (fresh foods, Italy), already a partner canning company in Belgium and a leading brand in this market for since 1998; 100 years. 1 Creation of Bonduelle Frische (fresh foods, Germany). In 1983, Bonduelle optimized its production capacity, with 350,000 metric tons of canned foods and 9,000 metric tons of frozen 2001 foods, truly confirming its position as the leading European company 1 Acquisition of Frudesa and its frozen foods plant in Benimodo in the processed vegetable sector. (Spain); 1 Merger of Cielo e Campo/Ortobell (Italian fresh foods market leader), ■ 1985-1993 which contributed its two plants in San Paolo d’Argon (Bergamo), and Battipaglia (Salerno), which was under construction. CONQUERING EUROPE Creation of subsidiaries in Spain (1986) and Portugal (1988). 2003 At the end of 1989, Bonduelle acquired Cassegrain. 1 Acquisition of Vita, the market leader in fresh-cut vegetables in Germany and its plants at Reutlingen and Wanzleben; The Group started expanding into Eastern Europe, marketing its products in the former East Germany, the Czech Republic and, 1 150th anniversary; beginning in 1992, Poland. 1 Acquisition of the Békéscsaba plant in Hungary; In 1986, the Renescure and Bordères plants obtained ISO 9002 1 Acquisition of Michel Caugant – Creation of a sixth subsidiary; certification, followed soon after by the Group’s other production 1 Sports sponsorship: launch of the program to build a single-hull sites. boat to compete in the Vendee Globe Challenge in 2004. ■ 1994-1999 2004 1 Krasnodar plant opens in Russia. GROWTH 2005-2006 In 1995, the Bonduelle brand adopted a new visual identity that was a symbol of renewal: a shining sun and a band of greenery that Bonduelle Surgelé International (BSI), the Bonduelle Group subsidiary conjured up nature, pleasure, and well-being, specialized in frozen vegetables in Europe, acquired Unilever’s frozen food business (excluding ice cream) in Spain. Bonduelle opened a sales subsidiary in Brazil in 1994, followed by one in Argentina in 1996. 2006-2007 Bonduelle extended its expertise to include a new technology: CONQUERING NORTH AMERICA prepared fresh vegetables. It acquired a majority stake in Salade In June 2006, the Bonduelle Group acquired a minority shareholding Minute. in Aliments Carrière. Aliments Carrière is the leading producer of In 1998, the Bonduelle brand expanded into the fresh foods market canned and frozen vegetables in Canada, with a market share of in France and signed a partnership agreement with Cielo e Campo, more than 70%. 196 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Information on the Company and the share capital General information regarding the Company 7 Aliments Carrière, a privately held company, had 985 employees. Its 2010-2011 registered office is located in Saint Denis de Richelieu, in Quebec. OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL, FROZEN FOOD PARTNERSHIP It operates seven vegetable processing facilities, including four in Quebec and three in Ontario. Industrial operations and commercial development in Brazil The Group has had a presence in Brazil since the mid-1990s, in both Its sales for the financial year ended April 30, 2006 amounted to canned and frozen vegetables, mainly through the use of imported nearly 300 million Canadian dollars (210 million euros), of which 40% products, and enjoys good market shares and strong recognition. from canned goods (Canada) and 60% from frozen goods (Canada; USA). The industrial operations in Brazil, which began in September 2010, include the construction of a canning plant (primarily for peas and Most (60%) of the company’s revenues are generated through sales corn) in the Brasilia region. This region enjoys clement weather to retail grocery customers. conditions that greatly extend the annual growing period, thereby In July 2006, taking advantage of the strength of the euro, Bonduelle reducing capital requirements (production facilities and inventory increased its minority interest in Aliments Carrière to 23%. carrying costs). Intended during an initial phase to supply the very large local market 2007-2008 at competitive prices, this project has a target of capturing 10% of On July 12, 2007, the Bonduelle Group acquired those interests it did the market within three to five years, and will also enable the Group not already own in the Canadian canned and frozen vegetable leader, to supply other South American markets. providing Bonduelle with a long-term North American presence. Marketing of local products commenced in November 2010, with 2008-2009 production having begun in September 2010. On September 15, 2008, the Bonduelle Group entered into an alliance Bonduelle and Ardo create a production joint venture in Spain with Gelagri, a subsidiary of the Coopagri Bretagne cooperative, to On April 6, 2011, the Bonduelle Group announced the creation of pool the two groups’ industrial and sales activities in the private label a production joint venture (50:50) in Spain, with leading European frozen sector in Europe. frozen vegetable player Ardo. The Group made a joint announcement Bonduelle holds a 35.5% stake in the new entity, which became with Ardo regarding the sale of the Frudesa and Salto brands in Spain effective on April 1, 2009. to Lion Capital, owner of the Findus brand (excluding Italy). In November 2008, Bonduelle acquired La Corbeille, a Belgian The two transactions were completed on July 1, 2011, and were producer and distributor of canned vegetables that focuses on the aimed at fostering consolidation in the frozen food market. Bonduelle private label sector in Northern Europe. launched this consolidation strategy in 2009 with the creation of a first joint venture with the Triskalia Cooperative group in Gelagri, 2009-2010 and this second operation will improve the competitiveness of the BONDUELLE, EUROPEAN LEADER IN PROCESSED MUSHROOMS Benimodo plant, which was added to this joint venture. Acquisition of France Champignon 2011-2012 During the year, the Group acquired the France Champignon group. THREE ACQUISITIONS THAT WILL ENHANCE THE GROUP’S INTERNATIOThis Group is Europe’s leading producer of processed mushrooms NAL SCOPE (revenue of around 200 million euros). In the second half of 2011-2012, the Group announced three France Champignon produces and sells mushrooms in all formats acquisitions, in Hungary, Russia and the United States. (canned, fresh, pasteurized and dried) and of all kinds (white In Hungary and Russia, the acquisitions of production assets from mushrooms and wild mushrooms) in Europe. Kelet-Food and the commercial and agro-industrial assets of Cecab This acquisition will generate a number of commercial, industrial and will secure the supply of high-growth markets in Central and Eastern administrative synergies with the Bonduelle Group. The Bonduelle Europe, by strengthening the Group’s commercial presence in these Group’s track record in rapidly integrating its acquisitions and the regions. lower capital requirements of this business will very quickly boost In the United States, the acquisition of the Allens frozen business Group profitability and its return on capital employed. will enable the subsidiary Bonduelle North America to expand its presence in the country, and to become a key player in the frozen food sector in North America. 7 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 197 7 Information on the Company and the share capital 198 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com 8 Additional information 8.1 Person responsible 8.4 Cross-reference tables 203 for the registration Registration document cross-reference table 203 document and the annual Annual financial report cross-reference table 205 ﬁnancial report AFR 200 Management report cross-reference table 206 Person responsible for information 200 Table of compliance of the Corporate Social Declaration of the person responsible 200 Responsibility Report with Global Reporting Initiative requirements 209 Certificate confirming the achievement 8.2 Statutory Auditors 201 of B+ level 217 8.3 Documents available to shareholders and the general public 202 Contact 202 Financial releases schedule 202 Items in the annual financial report are identified in the contents using the AFR symbol Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 199 8 Additional information Person responsible for the registration document and the annual ﬁnancial report 8.1 Person responsible for the registration document and the annual ﬁnancial report Person responsible for information In accordance with Article 28 of European (EC) Regulation 809/2004, the following items are included by reference in this registration The Manager: The Company “Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS,” document: whose registered office is at “La Woestyne” in the town of Renescure 1 the report of the accounting firms Mazars and Deloitte & Associés (59173), represented by its Chairman Mr. Christophe Bonduelle. on the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended June 30, 2011 and the corresponding historical data found in the financial report included in registration document no. D. 11Declaration of the person responsible 0953, which was filed with the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) on October 25, 2011; I hereby declare that, after taking every reasonable measure to this 1 the report of the accounting firms Mazars and Deloitte & Associés end, the information contained in this registration document is, to the on the consolidated financial statements for the financial year best of my knowledge, accurate and does not include any omissions ended June 30, 2010, containing one observation, and the that would change its meaning. corresponding historical data found in the financial report included I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial in registration document no. D. 10-0805, which was filed with the statements have been prepared in compliance with all applicable French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) on October 27, 2010. accounting standards and provide a true and fair view of the assets, The Statutory Auditors have provided me with a letter of completion financial position and earnings of the Company and all entities of work in which they indicate that they have audited the information included within its scope of consolidation, and that the information relating to the financial position and the financial statements contained in the management report, the various Sections of which presented in this document, as well as to the document as a whole. are set out in the cross-reference table on pages 206 to 208, presents a true and fair view of trends in the revenues, earnings and financial October 25, 2012 position of the Company and all companies included within its scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the primary risks and The Manager uncertainties to which they are exposed. Pierre et Benoît Bonduelle SAS The historical financial information presented in this document has Represented by its Chairman, Mr. Christophe Bonduelle been the object of a Statutory Auditors’ report, found on page 148. 200 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Statutory Auditors 8 8.2 Statutory Auditors French law requires a permanent legal control by two independent Bonduelle SCA’s Statutory Auditors are: Statutory Auditors. The main objective of this audit is to check that Mazars the financial statements are consistent, accurate and present a fair view. Represented by Cécile Fontaine, 61 rue Henri Regnault – 92400 Courbevoie The Statutory Auditors are appointed by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting for a renewable period of six financial years. Substitute: Denis Grison, 61 rue Henri Regnault – 92400 Courbevoie Deloitte & Associés Represented by Jean-Yves Morisset, 67 rue de Luxembourg – 59777 Euralille Substitute: BEAS, 7/9 Villa Houssay – 92200 Neuilly-Sur-Seine The two Auditors are legally and financially independent from each other. They were appointed by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of December 7, 2006, and their terms will run through the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the financial year ending June 30, 2012. 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 201 8 Additional information Documents available to shareholders and the general public 8.3 Documents available to shareholders and the general public The Bonduelle Group provides its shareholders and the general public Financial releases schedule with several sources of information. The review of operations and sustainable development report, published in French and English, 1 for financial year 2011-2012 reviews the highlights of the year and sets out the Group’s strategy, 12/06/2012 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as well as providing a detailed business review for each subsidiary. It also provides information on the activities carried out in relation to 1 for financial year 20121/2013 corporate social and environmental responsibility. These reports, and 11/06/2012 First quarter revenue the registration document, which sets out all of the annual financial statements, can be viewed and downloaded from the “Finance” 02/05/2013 First half revenue Section on www.bonduelle.com This website also provides real02/28/2013 First half results time share price information and access to all data pertaining to the 05/02/2013 Third quarter revenue Group’s current situation. 08/06/2013 Net revenue for the year Since 1998, an annual letter to shareholders has provided a summary of key financial information and recent events concerning the 10/03/2013 Annual results Group and its subsidiaries, especially as regards the latest product 12/05/2013 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting launches. This newsletter is now sent to all shareholders (both bearer and registered) based on the most recent update of the shareholder register. It can be downloaded in French or English from the “Finance” Section of the Bonduelle website. The Group’s management also meets with investors at news briefings and individual presentations, both in France and elsewhere. The schedule of meetings is available on the website www.bonduelle.com (http://www.bonduelle.com/fr/finance/espace-actionnaire/roadshows.html). Contact Bonduelle Group Finance Department Rue Nicolas Appert – BP 30173 59653 Villeneuve-d’Ascq Cedex France Tel.: +33 (0)3 20 43 60 60 Fax: +33 (0)3 20 43 60 00 e-mail: finance@bonduelle.com Find out more: www.bonduelle.com 202 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 8.4 Cross-reference tables Registration document cross-reference table In accordance with EC regulation no. 809/2004 Page no. Chapter no. 1. Persons responsible 1.1 Persons responsible for the information 200 8 1.2 Declaration by those responsible 200 8 2. Statutory Auditors 2.1 Names and addresses 201 8 2.2 Any changes NA 3. Selected ﬁnancial information 3.1 Historical financial information 4-5 1 3.2 Interim financial information NA 4. Risk factors 86-89 4 5. Information about the issuer 5.1 History and development of the Company 5.1.1 Name of the issuer 191 7 5.1.2 Registration 191 7 5.1.3 Date and length of incorporation 191 7 5.1.4 Registered office 191 7 5.1.5 Important events or developments in the Company 195-197 1,2 5.2 Investments 7, 17, 20-21, 38, 81-82 4 6. Business overview 6.1 Principal activities 6.1.1 Operations and principal activities 8-9, 12-13, 15-21 1 6.1.2 New products 20 1 6.2 Principal markets 10-11 1 6.3 Exceptional events NA 6.4 Dependency of the issuer 88 4 6.5 Competitive position 17-21 1 7. Organizational structure 7.1 Summary description of the Group 14 1 7.2 List of major subsidiaries 146-147 5 8. Property, plant and equipment 8.1 Major existing or planned property, plant and equipment 13, 116 1, 5 8.2 Environmental issues 36-41 2 9. Financial position and income 9.1 Financial position 81-83 4 9.2 Operating results 6, 8-9, 80-84 1, 4 10. Treasury and capital resources 10.1 Information on share capital 81-82 4 10.2 Cash flow 81-82 4 10.3 Financing terms 81-83, 130-136 4, 5 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital NA 10.5 Sources of financing 130-136 5 11. Research and development, patents, licenses 9, 18, 20, 54, 81 1, 2, 4 12. 12.1 Trend information Main trends since the end of the last financial year 7, 84 1, 4 8 12.2 Events liable to have a material impact on the Group’s outlook 84 4 13. Proﬁt forecasts or estimates NA Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 203 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables Page no. Chapter no. 14. Administrative, management and supervisory bodies, Executive Management 14.1 Information on members of the administrative and management bodies 63-70 3 14.2 Administrative, management and Executive Management conflicts of interest 70 3 15. Remuneration and beneﬁts 15.1 Remuneration paid and benefits in kind 164-168 6 15.2 Provisions for pensions and other benefits 145 5 16. Administrative and management bodies’ practices 16.1 Expiration date of current terms of office 65-67 3 16.2 Service agreements 71 3 16.3 Information on the Audit and Remuneration Committees 72-74 3 16.4 Compliance with applicable corporate governance standards 72 3 17. Employees 17.1 Number of employees 48-49 2 17.2 Profit-sharing and stock options 168, 170-171 6 17.3 Agreements providing for employee stock ownership 181-182 7 18. Major shareholders 18.1 Shareholding structure 62, 187-188 3, 7 18.2 Multiple voting rights 192-193 7 18.3 Control of the issuer 187-188 7 18.4 Shareholder agreements 188 7 19. Related-party transactions 144 5 20. Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets ﬁnancial position and earnings 20.1 Historical financial information 91-175 5,6 20.2 Pro forma financial information NA 20.3 Financial statements 91-148 5 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4.1 Declarations 200 8 20.5 Date of last financial information 92 5 20.6 Interim and other financial information NA 20.7 Dividend distribution policy 173, 189 6, 7 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings NA 20.9 Significant change in financial or trading position 145 5 21. Additional information 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Issued and authorized share capital 178 7 21.1.2 Other shares NA 21.1.3 Treasury shares 85 4 21.1.4 Securities 132, 135-136, 186 5, 7 21.1.5 Acquisition terms 178-186, 188 7 21.1.6 Options and agreements 178-186, 188 7 21.1.7 Historical information on the share capital 178 7 21.2. Memorandum of association and By-laws 21.2.1 Company purpose 191 7 21.2.2 Provisions with respect to management and control bodies 193-194 7 21.2.3 Share rights and privileges 192-193 7 21.2.4 Changes to shareholders’ rights 195 7 21.2.5 Shareholders’ Meetings 192 7 21.2.6 Provisions relating to a change in control NA 21.2.7 Shareholding thresholds 192 7 21.2.8 Conditions governing changes to the By-laws NA 22. Signiﬁcant contracts 15 1 23. Information from third parties, statements by experts and declarations of interest 23.1. Statements by experts 23.2 Other statements NA 24. Documents available to the public 202 8 25. Information on investments 146-147 5 204 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 Annual ﬁnancial report cross-reference table Pursuant to Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Commercial Code Page no. Chapter no. 1. Management report 1 analysis of the change in revenue 4-5, 15-21, 80-84 1,4 1 analysis of results 80-84 4 1 analysis of the financial position 80-84 4 1 primary risks and uncertainties 86-89 4 1 key indicators regarding environmental and employee-related issues 24-60 2 1 capital structure and items that may have an impact in the event of a public takeover offer 178-188 7 1 Company purchases of treasury shares 85 4 2. Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 92-147 5 3. Separate ﬁnancial statements 150-173 6 4. Statutory Auditors’ reports on the separate and consolidated ﬁnancial statements 148, 174-175 5, 6 5. Statutory Auditors’ fees 142 5 6. Report of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board on the corporate governance structure, the preparation and organization of the work of the Board and on the internal control and risk management procedures 72-76 3 7. Statutory Auditors’ report on the report of the Chairman of the Board 77-78 3 8. Declaration by natural persons taking responsibility for the annual ﬁnancial report 200 8 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 205 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables Management report cross-reference table Reference texts Comments on the ﬁnancial year Page no. Chapter no. French L. 225-100, Objective and exhaustive analysis of the development of the 4-5, 15-21, 1, 4 Commercial L. 225-100-2, business, earnings and financial position of the Company 80-84 Code L. 232-1, L. 233-6 and the Group and L. 233-26 French L. 225-100 and Key non-financial performance indicators relevant to the 24-60 2 Commercial L. 225-100-2 specific activity conducted by the Company Code French L. 233-6 Significant investments made during the financial year in Commercial companies whose registered office is located on French Code territory French L. 232-1 and Significant events occurring between the financial year-end 82-84 4 Commercial L. 233-26 and publication of the report Code French L. 232-1 and Foreseeable development of the position of the Company 7, 84 1, 4 Commercial L. 233-26 and the Group Code French Tax 243 bis Dividends paid out for the last three financial years and 189 7 Code amount of income distributed for the same years eligible for the 40% deduction Group presentation items French L. 225-100 and Description of the primary risks and uncertainties to which 86-89 4 Commercial L. 225-100-2 the Company is exposed Code French L. 225-100 and Use of financial instruments by the Company: financial risk 86-87 4 Commercial L. 225-100-2 management objectives and policy Code French L. 225-100 and Company’s exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk 87 4 Commercial L. 225-100-2 and cash flow risk Code French L. 225-102-1, Social and environmental consequence of the Company’s 24-60 2 Commercial L. 225-102-2 and activities (including “Seveso” facilities) Code R. 225-104 French L. 232-1 Research and development activities 9, 18, 20, 1, 2, 4 Commercial 54, 81 Code Items pertaining to corporate governance French L. 225-102-1 List of all positions held in other companies by Corporate 65-70 3 Commercial Officers of the Company during the financial year Code French L. 225-102-1 Total remuneration and benefits of any kind paid during the 164-170 6 Commercial financial year to each Corporate Officer Code French L. 225-102-1 Any and all commitments that the Company has made to 169 6 Commercial the benefit of its Corporate Officers, which correspond to Code remuneration, compensation or benefits owed or likely to be owed as a result of taking up, leaving or changing functions or following such events French L. 225-184 Options granted, subscribed to or purchased during the 167-168 6 Commercial financial year by Corporate Officers and each of the first Code ten employees who are not Corporate Officers, and options granted to all beneficiary employees, by category 206 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 Reference texts Comments on the ﬁnancial year Page no. Chapter no. French L. 225-185 Conditions for options being exercised or held by directors 167 6 Commercial and Corporate Officers Code French L. 225-197-1 Holding conditions of free shares allocated to directors and 167 6 Commercial Corporate Officers Code French L. 621-18-2 Transactions on Company shares by directors and persons Monetary connected with them and Financial Code, Information on the Company and the Company’s share capital French L. 225-100-3 Rules governing the appointment and replacement of 194 7 Commercial members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Board, Code and the amendment of the Company’s By-laws French L. 225-100-3 Powers of the Board of Directors or the Executive Board, in 178-185, 195 7 Commercial particular share issuance and repurchase Code French L. 225-211 Details of purchases and sales of treasury shares during the 85 4 Commercial financial year Code French R. 228-90 Any adjustments for shares giving access to equity in the Commercial case of share repurchases and financial transactions Code French L. 225-100 Summary of outstanding delegations of authority voted by 184-185 7 Commercial the Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors or the Code Executive Board for capital increases French L. 225-100-3 and Structure and development of the Company’s share capital 178 7 Commercial L. 233-13 Code French L. 225-100-3 Restrictions on the exercise of voting rights and transfers 188 7 Commercial of shares provided for in Company By-laws or contractual Code clauses brought to the attention of the Company French L. 225-100-3 Direct or indirect participating interests in the capital of the 187-188 7 Commercial Company of which it is aware Code French L. 225-102 Status of employee shareholding in Company share capital 84, 188 4, 7 Commercial on the last day of the financial year and proportion of share Code capital represented by shares held by employees under the company savings plan and by employees and former employees under mutual funds French L. 225-100-3 Owners of any securities conferring special rights of control Commercial and description of these Code French L. 225-100-3 Systems of control provided for by any employee share Commercial scheme where the control rights are not exercised by the Code employees French L. 225-100-3 Agreements between shareholders of which the Company 188 7 Commercial is aware and which may give rise to restrictions on share Code transfers and voting rights French L. 225-100-3 Agreements concluded by the Company that are amended Commercial or cease to apply in the event of a change in the ownership Code of the Company, unless this disclosure would seriously harm its interests (except where there is a legal obligation of disclosure) 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 207 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables Reference texts Comments on the ﬁnancial year Page no. Chapter no. French L. 225-100-3 Agreements providing for the payment of indemnities to 169 6 Commercial employees or members of the Board of Directors or the Code Executive Board in the event of resignation, or of dismissal without just cause, or of termination of employment as a consequence of a public takeover offer French L. 464-2 Injunctions or financial penalties as a result of anti88 4 Commercial competitive practices Code Items pertaining to ﬁnancial statements French L. 232-6 Any changes in the presentation of financial statements or in 96, 153 5, 6 Commercial the evaluation methods used Code French R. 225-102 Company income over the last five financial years 173 6 Commercial Code 208 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 Table of compliance of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report with Global Reporting Initiative requirements ● : full indicator ◗ : partial indicator GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior ● 1.2 Message from the Executive Management 6 decision-maker of the organization 2.1 Introduction 24 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks ● 1.3 Corporate strategy and policies 8 and opportunities 4.2.4 Industrial and environmental risks 86 Proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization ● 7.5 General information regarding 191 the Company 2.2 Primary brands, products ● 1.7 Our activities 15 and/or services 2.3 Operational structure of ● 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated 146 the organization financial statements – Note 31 List of Group companies 2.4 Location of organization’s ● 7.5 General information regarding the 191 headquarters Company 2.5 Number of countries in which the ● 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 12-13 organization operates 2.6 Nature of capital and legal form ● 7.5 General information regarding the 191 Company 2.7 Markets in which the organization ● 1.7 Our activities 15 operates 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 1.7 Our activities 15 5 Consolidated financial statements 91 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated financial 110 statements – Note 7 Remuneration and headcount 2.9 Significant changes ● 1.7.1 Highlights 15 2.10 Awards received ● 1.7.1 Highlights – Prizes won by the Bonduelle 16 Group Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 3.2 Date of most recent previous ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 report (if any) 3.3. Reporting cycle ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 3.4 Contact point for questions on ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 the report 3.5 Process for defining report ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 3.6 content Scope of the report ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 8 3.7 Statement of any specific ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 209 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 and the bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes ● 2.6.1 Reporting 57 3.12 Table identifying the location ● Cross-reference table 209 of the standard disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice ● Limited assurance report 59 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance and commitments 4.1 Governance structure of ● 3.1 Administrative, management and 62 the organization supervisory bodies 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 65 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of ● 3.1 Administrative, management and 62 the highest governance body is supervisory bodies also an executive officer 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 65 4.3 Independent and/or ● 3.2 Information regarding Corporate Officers 65 non-executive directors 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 and employees to provide 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 recommendations or direction to the Board of Directors 8.3 Documents available to shareholders and 202 the public 4.5 Link between compensation and ● 5.5 Notes to the annual consolidated financial 144 the organization’s performance statements Note 29 Transactions with related parties 6.4 Notes to the annual separate financial 164 statements Note 16 Compensation of the directors 4.6 Processes put in place by the ● 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 Board of Directors to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Conflicts of interest involving the Management 70 Board and the Supervisory Board 4.7 Process for determining the ● 3.5 Report of the Chairman of the 72 composition of the governing Supervisory Board bodies and committees 4.8 Internally developed statements ● 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 of mission or values, codes of 2.2.5 Guide to environmental responsibility 34 conduct, and principles 2.2.6 Sourcing charter 34 210 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number 4.9 Procedures of the governing ● 2.1 Introduction 24 bodies for overseeing the 2.2.2 Governance 25 organization’s identification and management of economic, 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 environmental, and social 3.1 Administrative, management and 62 performance supervisory bodies 4.10 Processes for evaluating ● 3.4 Report of the Supervisory Board 71 the Board of Directors’ own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how ● Internal control and risk management 74 the precautionary approach or procedures principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed charters, Global Compact 31 principles and other initiatives 4.13 Memberships of associations ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 and/or national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups linked Conditions of dialog with ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 with the organization stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and Conditions of dialog with ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 selection of stakeholders with stakeholders whom to engage 4.16 Type of partnership with 1 Conditions of dialog with ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 stakeholders stakeholders 1 Support, partnership or sponsorship actions with stakeholders 4.17 Key topics and concerns that Conditions of dialog with ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 have been raised through stakeholders stakeholder engagement Managerial approach Supply ● 2.5 Product responsibility 51 2.3.1 Supporting agriculture upstream 33 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 34 Economy ● 1.1 Key Group Figures 4 1.5 Bonduelle around the world 12 2.2.2 Governance objectives 2012-2013 25 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and 45 civil society Environment Company organization regarding ● 2.3 Environmental commitments 35 environmental issues 2.2.2 Governance objectives 2012-2013 25 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 211 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number Employment 1 Work time organization ● 2.2.2 Governance objectives 2012-2013 25 1 Social dialog organization 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and 45 1 Summary of collective civil society agreements 1 Health conditions at work 1 Safety at work 1 Agreements with unions regarding health and safety at work Human rights ● 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 Society ● 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 2.4 Commitments to social responsibility and 45 civil society Product responsibility ● 2.5 Product responsibility 53 Economy EC1 Direct economic value generated 1 Territorial, economic and social ◗ Consolidated financial statements 91 and distributed impact of the Company’s activity on neighboring or local populations 1 Relations with interested people or organizations, particularly associations working for social integration, teaching institutions, associations working for the protection of the environment, consumer groups, residents’ groups and partnership actions or sponsorship EC3 Coverage of the organization’s ● K. Retirement, termination and medical 103 financial obligations to employees insurance benefits EC4 Significant financial assistance ● Investment grants 103 received from government Consolidated financial statements 121 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion 1 Inclusion of environmental and ◗ Purchasing policy with inbuilt environmental 51 of spending on locally-based social issues in purchasing and social criteria suppliers policy 2.5.1 Quality: a priority 53 1 Territorial, economic and social impact of the Company’s activity on neighboring or local populations 1 Importance of sub-contracting and inclusion of CSR in relationships with suppliers and sub-contractors EC9 Understanding and describing Territorial, economic and social ◗ Social dialog 46 significant indirect economic impact of the Company’s activity 2.4.2 Commitment to civil society 51 impacts on employment and regional development 212 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or Consumption of commodities and ◗ Packaging 43 volume. measures to improve efficiency in use EN3 Direct energy consumption by Energy consumption, measures to ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 42 primary energy source improve energy efficiency and use Indicators of renewable sources of energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Energy consumption, measures to ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 43 primary source improve energy efficiency and use of renewable sources of energy EN5 Energy saved due to Energy consumption, measures to ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources Energy 37 conservation and efficiency improve energy efficiency and use efficiency improvements of renewable sources of energy EN6 Initiatives to provide energyEnergy consumption, measures to ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 39-40 efficient or renewable-energy improve energy efficiency and use Reduction in consumption of virgin based products and services of renewable sources of energy resources and development of renewable energies EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources Energy 37 energy consumption and efficiency reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water consumption and supply ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 42 of water according to local Indicators requirements EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Measures to protect or develop ● 2.3.1 Supporting agriculture upstream 35 future plans for managing impacts biodiversity on biodiversity Sharing best practices to promote 51 developments in cultivation methods EN16 Total direct and indirect Greenhouse gas emissions ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 43 greenhouse gas emissions by Indicators weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 43 gas emissions Indicators EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Adjustment to consequences of ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 41 gas emissions and reductions climate change 2.3.3 Optimizing transport 44 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Measures to prevent, reduce or ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 43 substances repair emissions into the air, water Indicators and earth that seriously impact on the environment EN21 Total water discharge by quality Measures to prevent, reduce or ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 42 and destination repair emissions into the air, water Indicators and earth that seriously impact on the environment EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Measures to prevent, recycle and ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 42 disposal method dispose of waste Indicators 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 213 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Adjustment to consequences of ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 39 environmental impacts of climate change Indicators products and services Comments on the financial year, Guide to 84 environmental responsibility for products and environmental labeling EN30 Total environmental protection Resources dedicated to ● 2.3.2 Preservation of natural resources 38-39expenditures and investments by preventing environmental risks Indicators 43 type and pollution Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks, unless this information could cause serious damage to the Company in current litigation proceedings Human Resources LA1 Total workforce Total workforce and breakdown by ● 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 48-49 gender, age and geographical area LA2 Employee turnover Hiring and lay-offs ● 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 49-50 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Remuneration and development ● K. Retirement, termination and medical 103 employees insurance benefits LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Frequency rate and severity ● 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 50 diseases, lost days, and rates for work-related accidents absenteeism and work-related illnesses; absenteeism LA10 Average hours of training per year Total number of training hours ◗ 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 50 LA 12 Percentage of employees Training policies implemented ● 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 51 receiving regular performance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance 1 Measures to promote gender ● 3.5 Report of the Chairman of the 72 bodies and breakdown of equality; Supervisory Board employees 1 Measures to promote the Diversity 47-48 inclusion and employment of people with disabilities; 2.4.1 Social responsibility Indicators 49 1 Anti-discrimination policy Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of Actions in favor of human rights ◗ 2.4.2 Purchasing policy including 51 significant investment agreements environmental and social criteria that include human rights clauses 214 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number HR4 Total number of incidents of Promotion of and compliance ● Diversity 47 discrimination with the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization relative to eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HR5 Operations and significant 1 Inclusion of environmental and ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 suppliers identified in which social issues in purchasing 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 the right to exercise freedom policy of association and collective 1 Promotion of and compliance Social dialog 46 bargaining may be violated with the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization relative to freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining HR6 Operations and significant 1 Inclusion of environmental and ● Ethics charter 31 suppliers identified as having social issues in purchasing Human rights 48 significant risk for incidents of policy child labor 1 Promotion of and compliance with the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization relative to the effective abolition of child labor HR7 Operations and significant 1 Inclusion of environmental and ● Ethics charter 31 suppliers identified as having social issues in purchasing significant risk for incidents of policy Human rights 48 forced or compulsory labor 1 Promotion of and compliance with the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization relative to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Society SO1 Program for communities. Territorial, economic and social ● 2.5.5 Promotion of better eating habits: the 55 impact of the Company’s Louis Bonduelle Foundation activity on neighboring or local 2.4.2 Commitment to civil society – changing 52 populations eating habits FP4 Programs or practices to promote ● 1.7.4 Bonduelle Food 18-19 healthy lifestyles Service Promoting healthy eating habits locally 52 and internationally 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional 54 quality 2.5.5 Promotion of better eating habits: the 55 Louis Bonduelle Foundation SO5 Public policy positions and ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 lobbying 2.2.4 Ethics charter 31 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind ● 2.2.3 Dialog with stakeholders 28 contributions to political parties 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 215 8 Additional information Cross-reference tables GRI index Food Sector Supplement Correspondence with Degree of Art. 225 Grenelle 2 compliance GRI 3.1 reference Page GRI 3.1 (for information) with GRI 3.1 in the registration document number Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Fair practices: measures to ● 2.5.1 Quality: a priority 53 and safety impacts of products promote the health and safety of 2.5.2 Product composition and nutritional 54 and services are assessed for consumers quality improvement 2.5.4 Indicators 55 FP5 Percentage of production volume Fair practices: Measures to ● 1.3.3 Food safety 8 manufactured in sites certified by promote the health and safety of 2.5.1 Quality: a priority 53 an independent third party consumers 2.5.4 Indicators 55 PR3 Type of product and service ● 2.2.5 Guide to environmental responsibility, 34 information required by to incorporate environmental and social procedures criteria throughout the product life cycle 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 54 FP8 Policies and practices on ● 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 54 communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional Bonduelle trials environmental labeling 84 information PR5 Practices related to customer ◗ 2.5.3 Consumer information and satisfaction 52 satisfaction 216 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Additional information Cross-reference tables 8 Certiﬁcate conﬁrming the achievement of B+ level 8 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 217 218 Bonduelle / Registration document 2011-2012 www.bonduelle.com Photo credits: Barbara Grossmann et Cyrille Desombre. Rue Nicolas Appert – BP 30173 59653 Villeneuve-d’Ascq Cedex France Tel.: +33 (0)3 20 43 60 60 Fax: +33 (0)3 20 43 60 00 www.bonduelle.com
