Barentszplein 7 1013 NJ Amsterdam The Netherlands +31 (0)20 686 81 11 info@aidenvironment.org www.aidenvironment.org Rabobank 39.38.14.416 CoC 412 080 24 VAT NL00 94.16.250.B01 To our Stakeholders Date 8 March 2013 Subject Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Dear Stakeholder, I am pleased to confirm that Aidenvironment reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Peter de Haan Director Aidenvironment 1/1 Communication on Progress Date: 8 March 2013 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Relevance of human rights for Aidenvironment Aidenvironment is a non-profit consultancy, which advises, supports and encourages decision makers and opinion leaders in realizing their ambitions for sustainability. We work with companies, Governments and civil society organizations worldwide on a wide range of environmental, social and economic issues. We have a profound knowledge and broad experience in the field of human rights, labour conditions, gender, health and safety, land rights, indigenous peoples and community rights, socio-cultural conditions and developments. The different aspects of human rights are fully integrated into our daily consultancy work and numerous assignments on sustainable value chains and (environmental) assessments. Aidenvironment respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) across her activities and through the relationships with third parties associated with those activities, such as business partners, clients, entities in the value chain, civil society organizations and State agents. Policies The respect for human rights is integrated in both the internal and external operations of the organization. Internally, the Human Resource policy describes clearly the rights and obligations of the employees and management. In addition, the quality management protocol is used to maintain and further optimize the integration of human rights into the organization’s activities. Externally, our code of conduct encompasses the rules of engagement for potential and actual clients, as well as for suppliers. Furthermore, our work is based on: • The UN Global Compact Principles • The IFC Performance Standards • The Equator Principles • The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) • The Organisation for Economic Corporation and Development (OECD) standards • International conventions and standards such as the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Ramsar Convention, the World Heritage Convention, the International Bill of Rights and the ILO standards • The UN Human Rights & Business Framework • The UN Framework on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol 1/4 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Aidenvironment respects and protects human rights in her daily operations. It is recognized that this responsibility extends beyond the organizations own activities and includes relationships with business partners, suppliers, and other non-State and State entities that are associated with Aidenvironment’s activities. Internally, the Human Resource policy is being used as the guideline for these processes. In 2012, Aidenvironment has further developed the Human Resource Policy and supporting procedures. During staff meetings, the employees have been made aware of these. In the first quarter of 2013, these new procedures have been implemented. Externally, the code of conduct of Aidenvironment describes how human rights should be safeguarded in regard of relationships with clients and partners. The board of Aidenvironment is tasked with supervising the integrity of both the internal and externally related activities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Aidenvironment has not received any complaint from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Furthermore, our organization has been active in promoting human rights within the activities of our business partners and clients by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote human rights. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees (30), an external audit on human rights performance is not required. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Aidenvironment’s revised Human Resource policy describes all required labour rights, including nondiscrimination and equal opportunities, the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well as conditions of employment and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc). Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Aidenvironment revised its Human Resource Policy in line with the UN Global Compact Principles. Specific procedures that have been further developed are: the internal grievance mechanisms (for employees); and the institutionalization of an in house counseling procedure, if required by an 2/4 employee. Furthermore, Aidenvironment reviewed the procedures for personal development to enhance organizational growth. As a result, organizational competences have been developed that describe the required competences at different levels of seniority. Secondly, the guidelines and format for personal development plans have been updated. Through teamwork on assignments, Aidenvironment facilitates employees in receiving on-the-job training, but also offers opportunities to participate in training activities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Aidenvironment has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Furthermore, our organization has been active in promoting labour rights within the activities of our business partners and clients by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote labour rights. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees (30), an external audit on labour rights performance is not required. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. In the environmental management plan, Aidenvironment has outlined a clear course of action in order to reduce the negative impacts of our organizations’ actions on the environment. Here, the conservation of natural resources, emissions of pollutants, environmental hazards and the conditions of a safe working environment are being described. The aim of the environmental management strategy is to continuously improve the environmental performance of the organization. The environmental management is part of Aidenvironment’s daily practice. It is felt that it is integrated in the organizational structure and planning of activities, the responsibilities, practices and procedures. Furthermore, environmental management is central to the processes and resources used within the organization as well as in the development, implementation and review of our environmental policy. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. The Environmental Management System (EMS) is built to both guide and monitor the environmental performance of the organization. The EMS is a continuous cycle of planning, implementation, reviewing and improving environmental performance. It is based upon national, EU and other relevant legislation, the principles of sustainable procurement and waste reduction. Examples of how Aidenvironment reduces the negative environmental impacts are the procurement of goods and office supplies that bear certifications such as EKO, FSC, Max Havelaar, among others. Waste is prevented through recycling efforts, while paper, water and energy is saved through raising the awareness of the employees. As from mid 2012, Aidenvironment will move to a more environmental friendly building 3/4 in terms of energy consumption. Furthermore, the organization stimulates the use of public transport and/or bicycles while carbon emissions for flights are being compensated. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The environmental performance is measured through setting responsibilities, objectives, operational procedures, training needs, monitoring and communication systems. All of these factors are taken into consideration during the internal monitoring efforts and audits. The results are communicated and when necessary awareness programs for employees initiated. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. There are strict guidelines for personnel on how to act in case of bribery or extortion. Integrity is a vital part in the Human Resource policy as well as the Code of Conduct of Aidenvironment. The personnel of Aidenvironment cannot accept any form of corruption. Therefore, neither employees nor members of the management team accept remuneration outside of the agreed quotation unless it is formally agreed upon. The organization does not engage with business partners and clients with a track record of corruption. Nevertheless, in our line of work we often work with companies with a negative track record. We only work with those organizations to improve their performance on these issues. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Aidenvironment has a thorough anti-corruption policy, based on the international standards. The organization only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Should an assignment move in a direction that is inconsistent with our vision and mission, we discuss this with the client and, if necessary, withdraw from the assignment. Furthermore, employees are not permitted to accept payment for recommending the services of third parties to a client. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, Aidenvironment’s Code of Conduct requires us to take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. 4/4
