United Nations Global Compact Australian Postal Corporation Communication on Progress October 2013 Contents Page 1 Overview of Australia Post and the United Nations Communication on Progress 3 Human Rights Principles 6 Labour Principles 10 Environment Principles 13 Anti Corruption Principle Overview Who we are • The service be reasonably accessible to all Australians wherever they reside; and Australia Post is one of the oldest continually operating organisations in Australia, and we have • The performance standards for the service been serving the Australian community for more reasonably meet the social, industrial and than 200 years. Throughout our proud history, we commercial needs of the community. have provided an essential community service to At Australia Post, everything we do can have social, the Australian people. The notion of community environmental and economic impacts. Australians service is ingrained in the daily operations of trust us with the delivery of their essential products our business. It isn’t peripheral to what we do. and services every day, and our retail footprint Community service is our core business. places us at the heart of communities across This year, Australia Post handled 4.6 billion items of the country. As such, it is important that our mail. We delivered these letters and parcels to 11.2 people represent Australia Post in an ethical way million delivery points across Australia. With more by conducting business with integrity, honesty, than 4,400 outlets across the nation we are the fairness and in compliance with all relevant laws, largest retail network in Australia. We have more regulations, codes and corporate policies and than 32,000 employees who reflect the diversity of procedures so that we continue to be a trusted the broader Australian community and an indirect Australian organisation. When we demonstrate workforce of another 10,000 plus, who work as ethical behaviour, we show respect for each other, Australia Post licensees, franchisees, agents and our customers and the community. mail delivery contractors. The Australia Post ‘Our Ethics’ booklet was Australia Post is a government business enterprise launched in 2009, detailing the minimum ethical and the Australian Government is our sole standards of expected behaviour that help guide shareholder. As a business that is literally owned us through possible ethical dilemmas and dealings by the Australian community, we believe that with customers, suppliers, the corporation and responsibly and carefully balancing our economic, each other. social and environmental considerations will allow In 2011, ‘Our Ethics’ booklet was refreshed us to build a sustainable business and continue to to incorporate our Culture Pillars of Safety, connect Australians into the future. Accountability, Customer Focus and Speed of We are governed by the Australian Postal Action. Our Culture Pillars are our core beliefs and Corporation Act 1989 and pursuant to that Act create a shared understanding of how we do things we have both community service and commercial at Australia Post. All Australia Post employees are obligations. accountable for demonstrating our Culture Pillars in their daily work to help make Australia Post a Australia Post’s community service obligations are better place to work and ensure a strong future for set out in s27 of the Australia Postal Corporation our organisation. Act 1989 which requires that: When people ask our employees what it is like to • The corporation provides a letter service for both work at Australia Post, they are able to describe domestic and international letter traffic; the behaviours within the Culture Pillars. We always put safely first, take accountability for • The service be available at a single uniform rate our actions, remain focused on delivery and within Australia for standard letters; exceptional service to our customers and seek to deliver timely outcomes. 1 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Overview Some of the key treaties that we adhere to which About this Communication on align to our commitments to the United Nations Progress Global Compact are: In July 2010, Australia Post became a signatory • Universal Declaration of Human Rights to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship • International Covenant on Civil and Political initiative. Rights We are fully committed to implementing and • Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of aligning our business operations with the ten the Crime of Genocide principles that address human rights, labour, • Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, environment and anti-corruption. Inhuman and Degrading Treatment or This Communication on Progress outlines our Punishment commitment to each of the ten UNGC principles • Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness over the last year. The majority of information included in this Communication on Progress is • Convention relating to the Status of Stateless based on Australia Post’s Annual Report 2013. Persons We also use the GRI G3.1 reporting guidelines and produce an integrated Annual and Sustainability • Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees Report to a B+ application level. • Slavery Convention of 1926 • Supplementary Convention on Slavery • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Rights at Work • Convention on the Rights of the Child • Convention on the Political Rights of Women • International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination • Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women • Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 2 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Human Rights Principle 1: Principle 2: Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure they are not the protection of international proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights. Our commitment organisations, (such as other postal agencies and logistics companies), in our overall supply chain. Australia Post is committed to both supporting Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires all suppliers and respecting the protection of internationally to adhere to key areas of corporate governance proclaimed human rights and making sure we are and ethical business management practices, which not complicit in human rights abuses. We do this respect and protect the rights of employees and through ensuring we operate in accordance with all local communities. the human rights international treaties to which the Australian Government is a signatory. Policies and processes to support We demonstrate our commitment to protection of our commitment human rights in the workforce through a number of policies, processes and initiatives such as The rights of our employees are protected through our Equal Employment Policies and initiatives. a number of policies and processes. Australia Under the Equal Employment Opportunity Post’s ‘Our Ethics’ booklet describe the behaviour (Commonwealth Authorities) Act 1987, Australia expected of everyone while employed by, or Post annually reports on our workforce profile, engaged with, Australia Post, both in Australia diversity strategy and performance against four and overseas. All new employees receive a copy diversity indicators: gender, Indigenous Australians, of the booklet and must comply with the expected people with disability and people from culturally standards of compliance and behaviour. and linguistically diverse backgrounds. We are proud of the contribution our diverse workforce of A number of other key policies and procedures that 136 nationalities speaking more than 65 languages protect our employees’ human rights include: makes to our business. • Our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy We also focus on ensuring a safe working • Our Diversity and Inclusion Policy environment for our people. Having our people operate in a safe environment is critical to our • Our Work Health and Safety Policy success and is a key business priority. We continue to remain committed to our goal of zero injuries • Our Work Health and Management System: and zero tolerance of unsafe acts in the workplace. Framework and Standards As a business that is primarily based in Australia, • Our Incident Notification Policy and Procedures Australia Post does not directly operate in areas considered at high risk of human rights abuses, • Occupational Health and Safety Risk however we use the services of international Assessments and the Control Strategy Policy 3 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Human Rights We continue to support the inclusion of people with linguistically diverse workforce through the a disability and Indigenous Australians with specific delivery of English language and numeracy goals and targets in our Accessibility Action Plan programs. and Reconciliation Action Plan. • Improved gender diversity in our leadership. Our procurement program also supports and This year we invested in delivering best practice respects the protection of internationally initiatives aimed at supporting the development proclaimed human rights. Potential and current and advancement of our female employees. suppliers are informed of our commitment to We continued to make further progress in the human rights, and the Supplier Code of Conduct representation of women in our management outlines Australia Post’s expectation that a supplier and executive roles. Women now make up understands and complies with our human rights 35.9 per cent of management positions and standards within their business practices. 33.3 per cent of executive positions. • Partnered with UN Women Australia as the Key achievements national retailer for International Women’s Day • The launch of our first Accessibility Action merchandise. Australia Post raised $31,000 Plan coincided with the International Day of to provide critical services for women who are People with Disability on 3 December 2012. The experiencing domestic violence. Accessibility Action Plan commits Australia Post • This year we saw a decline in the number to taking a lead role in improving accessibility of workplace injuries – the result of three for all Australians with disability. The Plan has years of activity focussed on improving our 12 key objectives with supporting actions aimed safety culture. We achieved a reduction in our at improving disability access for our three core incident frequency rate recording 1.9 incidents stakeholder groups – our people, our customers and the community. People with disability per 100 full-time employees (down from 2.5 on represent 7.1 per cent of Australia Post’s the previous year’s result). Another significant workforce. achievement was reducing our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate to 8.2 (down from 11.5 from the • The launch of our second Reconciliation Action previous year). Although there were marked Plan. The plan aims to improve the social and improvements in our safety performance this economic wellbeing of Indigenous Australians year, tragically we lost two employees in vehicle through the provision of employment and accidents in September and October 2012. development opportunities, strong community The loss of these valued team members was a relationships and enhanced understanding of reminder for all our employees of the constant Indigenous values and culture. With over 500 vigilance required to improve our workplace Indigenous employees and trainees, Indigenous safety culture. employees make up 1.6 per cent of the workforce. • Safety Coalitions began operating across our Post Operations Network this year. • We partnered with the Scanlon Foundation to These Coalitions comprise Health and Safety support the building of a more socially inclusive Representatives, Safety Champions and leaders Australia. In addition, Australia Post supports at all levels of the organisation who gather and the skills development of our culturally and share ideas about safety, gain feedback on safety programs and develop local action plans. 4 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Human Rights • We refreshed our Safety Observation • An unconscious bias program for our Senior Feedback program which encourages our Leaders to promote a more inclusive culture. people to recognise and discuss opportunities to behave in a safer way and reduce exposure to • Development of a new Cultural and hazards. The program involves managers and Linguistically Diverse Strategy to improve supervisors spending two hours with each postie engagement and ongoing employment – on and off the road – providing them with prospects of our people. feedback on specific work behaviours to help • Continued focus on managing the safety them ride more safely. risks around motorcycle delivery and manual • We developed a Safety Leadership program to handling. give leaders the skills to create safe workplaces • Making our leaders more accountable for safety and put safety first in all decision making. throughout our operational network. • We introduced improved wet weather gear for • Increasing the level and quality of conversations our posties to provide greater protection against between our people about safety. the elements and keep them safe on roads and footpaths. The “fit for purpose” clothing provides • Improving our incident management processes. body armour in the shoulders, elbows and knees for our motorcycle riders. Further information • In our retail business, we introduced prestart safety checks and monthly Team Safety Time • More information can be found in our Annual discussions to keep safety top of mind. These Report here two initiatives have helped maintain a safe working environment and reduce the number of • More information about ‘Our Ethics’ booklet can slips, trips and falls in our outlets. be found here • Our Accessibility Action Plan can be found here Key actions for the year ahead • Our Reconciliation Action plan can be found here • Continued implementation of the Diversity and Inclusion Strategy to support the building • Our Equal Employment Opportunity Report can of a diverse and inclusive workplace free of be found here. discrimination. • Implementation of the Accessibility Action Plan. • Development and implementation of third Reconciliation Action Plan. • Implementation of development initiatives for our female employees to further improve our gender diversity in our leadership. • Implementation of flexible work practices. 5 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Labour Principle 3: Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should uphold the elimination association and the effective recognition of all forms of forced and compulsory of the right to collective bargaining. labour. Principle 5: Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the effective Businesses should uphold the elimination abolition of child labour. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment Policies and processes to support our commitment Australia Post plays an important role in the lives of our 32,000 employees and the lives of more We make expected behaviours regarding the than 10,000 people who make up our indirect treatment of others clear and easy to understand workforce. At Australia Post, our people come from in the booklet, ‘Our Ethics’ which requires as a 136 different nations and speak more than 65 baseline that everyone treats others, whether a languages. We are committed to developing the co-worker, customer, contractor or supplier, with skills, careers and leadership opportunities of our courtesy and respect at all times. We support diverse workforce to help Australia Post meet the these principles through Australia Post’s challenges of the future. We also seek to provide Culture Pillars. our people with an environment free from any prejudice, discrimination, harassment or bullying, We continue to encourage and celebrate our regardless of individual beliefs, associations or diverse and inclusive workforce where differences political views. We have a number of policies, are valued and respected, and which reflects the objectives and targets in place that enable us to customers we support and the communities we live create a fair and open workplace that supports in. We do this through our Diversity and Inclusion and respects freedom of association and the right Policy and our Equal Employment Opportunity to collective bargaining. Policy which promote and celebrate our differences and protect employees from prejudice. We also Australia Post actively works towards ensuring have a Harassment, Discrimination and Bullying our people are treated with courtesy and (HDB) Policy which applies to our workforce respect and are able to work in an environment together with anybody acting as an official that encourages them to speak up and share representative of Australia Post. The HDB Policy opinions, while also listening to and respecting expressly protects an employee from harassment colleagues. Our goal is also to eliminate all forms or discrimination because of their personal of discrimination. These messages are made clear association, political belief and/or their union or in ‘Our Ethics’ booklet, where we promote a culture employer association activity, among others. in which employees celebrate differences of belief, In addition, our Supplier Code of Conduct expects opinion, perspective and culture. all suppliers to demonstrate a commitment to 6 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Labour human rights and fair employment practices in them of their right to participate in discussions accordance with existing international standards, individually or collectively and to be represented such as the United Nations Universal Declaration by their union, and were encouraged to ‘have of Human Rights, the International Labour their say’ by Australia Post Managing Director & Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Rights CEO, Ahmed Fahour. at Work and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Our Supplier Code of Conduct • The success of Australia Post’s promotion of requires suppliers to disclose any documented our employees’ freedom to express their views policies relating to child labour and seeks to was evident in the record level of employee understand the screening and auditing of products engagement during this time (73.4 per cent) and or services supplied to Australia Post. the high level of involvement in the Agreement process, with 131 queries responded to by the dedicated information and hotline service Key achievements provided to staff, 3600 flyers, brochures and materials distributed to employees on the • This year Australia Post worked collaboratively collective bargaining process and finally, with employees and their representative unions 75 per cent of those employees voting for the to negotiate the Australia Post Enterprise Agreement, voting for its approval. Agreement 2013, upholding the United Nations Global Compact principle of ‘freedom of • The new Enterprise Agreement continues association and the right to collective bargaining’. Australia Post’s commitment to the recognition The Agreement has provided certainty of terms of freedom of association, expressly providing and conditions for our 32,000 award covered that Australia Post recognises the role unions employees and was the result of listening closely play in the workplace and the right of union to our people and their unions to understand their delegates to represent union members. Further, concerns. The Agreement provides employees the Agreement provides authorised union with stability to 31 December 2016. delegates with paid leave to undertake dispute resolution training that may enhance their ability • Throughout the negotiation process, Australia to represent the interests of their members and Post engaged with a number of unions their understanding of the Enterprise Agreement. representing our employees including The In addition, Australia Post has developed Communications Union (CEPU)/Communication and adopted ‘Guidelines on role, rights, Workers Union (CWU), Community and Public responsibilities and support for union delegates’ Sector Union (CPSU), and Transport Workers which recognises the valuable role they play for Union (TWU); adopting clear bargaining protocols many employees. intended to promote respectful and efficient negotiations and to ensure the promotion of • Australia Post meets our commitments to the collective bargaining, freedom of association United Nations Global Compact Principle 5, and respect for all views expressed. A series of ‘uphold the effective abolition of child labour’ Union Summits were held to engage with the through a number of policies and processes. unions and provide them with an understanding Our comprehensive ‘Our Ethics’ booklet clearly of our business and key objectives, so that we defines the standards of behaviour expected could work together to reach an appropriate from our people and our business partners and agreement for the benefit of our employees. ensures we operate ethically in purchasing goods Further, Australia Post actively communicated and services, and in conducting business with with our employees early and often, advising suppliers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct expects 7 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Labour all suppliers to demonstrate a commitment to understanding of Indigenous values and human rights, fair employment practices and culture. With over 500 Indigenous employees environmental responsibility in accordance with and trainees, Indigenous employees make up existing international standards, such as the 1.6 per cent of the workforce. United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the • We partnered with the Scanlon Foundation Rights of the Child. to support the building of a more socially inclusive Australia. In addition, Australia • At Australia Post we value the broad range Post supports the skills development of our of ideas, experiences, skills and leadership culturally and linguistically diverse workforce styles our culturally diverse workforce provides through the delivery of English language and us. We uphold the United Nations Global numeracy programs. Compact Principle 6 which is ‘the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment • We also improved gender diversity in our and occupation’ through a number of policies, leadership. This year we invested in delivering practices and initiatives. Under the Equal best practice initiatives aimed at supporting Opportunity (Commonwealth Authorities) Act the development and advancement of our 1987, Australia Post is required to report on an female employees. Our female leaders annual basis on our workforce profile, diversity now make up 35.9 per cent of management strategy and performance against four diversity positions and 33.3 per cent of executive indicators: gender, Indigenous Australians, positions. We also recorded an increase in the people with a disability and people from engagement levels of our female employees culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds. to 81 per cent. Some of the key initiatives that contributed to promoting more women into • Improving our diversity continued to be a priority leadership roles this year included: in 2012–13 and we introduced a number of key initiatives including: – the tenprogram – A new mentoring program for our high potential female • The launch of our first Accessibility Action talent at the executive level that supports Plan which coincided with the International their development and fosters a mentoring Day of People with Disability on 3 December culture. 2012. The Action Plan commits Australia Post to taking a lead role in improving accessibility – Xplore – A leadership and career for all Australians with disability. The Plan development program for our female has 12 key objectives with supporting actions managers. Results from the program show aimed at improving disability access for our that almost 90 per cent of participants have three core stakeholder groups – our people, been promoted or are undertaking stretch our customers and the community. People projects or higher duties. with disability represent 7.1 per cent of Australia Post’s workforce. – my mentor program – This year we accepted our third intake of around 200 • The launch of our second Reconciliation award-level female employees into this Action Plan. The plan aims to improve the highly successful mentoring program. social and economic wellbeing of Indigenous Since it began in 2011 around 800 women Australians through the provision of have participated in the program. Since employment and development opportunities, participating, 57 per cent of program strong community relationships and enhanced graduates have been promoted or are undertaking higher duties. 8 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Labour • Australia Post is committed to preventing Further Information harassment, discrimination and bullying in the workplace and this continued to be a More information can be found in our Annual priority for the business over the last year. The Report here Harassment, Discrimination and Bullying (HDB) Policy has been renewed and updated. More information about ‘Our Ethics’ booklet can be found here • Australia Post also provided our people with access to an independently operated Our Accessibility Action Plan can be found here Whistleblower Hotline through which employees can report any concerns of Our Reconciliation Action plan can be found here discrimination anonymously to an external provider 24 hours a day. More information about our 2013 Enterprise Agreement can be found here Key Actions planned Our Equal Employment Opportunity Report can be found here. • To ensure ongoing communication and expression of views, the Australia Post Enterprise Agreement provides a consultation framework that promotes discussion between Australia Post and those Unions bound by the Agreement, including an established series of consultative forums at the national, state and local levels. Through these forums, as well as through ongoing dialogue with our unions and employees Australia Post continues to recognise and promote freedom of association. • Continued implementation of the Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and targets to support the building of a diverse and inclusive workplace free of discrimination. • Implementation of the Accessibility Action Plan. • Development and implementation of third Reconciliation Action Plan. • Expansion of a Sustainable Procurement Plan. 9 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Environment Principle 7: Principle 8: Principle 9: Businesses should Businesses should undertake Businesses should encourage support a precautionary initiatives to promote greater the development of diffusion approach to environmental environmental responsibility of environmentally friendly challenges. challenges. technologies. Our Commitment Policies and processes to support our commitment In connecting people and communities across the length and breadth of Australia, we recognise that Our approach to environmental sustainability, our operations have an impact on the environment which is outlined in our Environmental Sustainability and we are committed to understanding these Strategy, is broad and comprehensive. Our aim impacts and taking measures to reduce them. is to be recognised as a leader in environmental sustainability. We are focused on six key areas that Australia Post has long taken environmental aim to: sustainability seriously. In 1997 we established our environmental management system to measure • Develop best practice electricity and fuel our carbon emissions. In 2010 we introduced our management long-term carbon reduction strategy. Our carbon reduction strategy commitment is to achieve a • Develop environmental products and services of 25 per cent reduction of carbon emissions by 2020. commercial value The target is based on our carbon levels in 2000, and we have already reduced our carbon emissions • Integrate environmental considerations into by 9 per cent overall. “business as usual” activities We voluntarily participate in programs, such as • Comply with all applicable regulatory the Australian Packaging Covenant, and our requirements approach is underpinned by a robust environmental management system, which is aligned with the • Implement renewable or low carbon energy ISO14001 environmental standard that actively sources and processes monitors and manages our environmental impacts. • Engage our major stakeholder groups: In addition to our own environmental activities, government, community, customers and we enable the Australian community to actively employees. participate in national recycling programs by providing collection points for Cartridges for Planet Ark (printer cartridges) and Mobile Muster (mobile telephones) at our retail outlets across the country. 10 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Environment Our Environmental Policy reinforces our commitment Supplier Code of Conduct, Australia Post also and precautionary approach to environmental expects its suppliers to meet environmental sustainability. It also demonstrates our obligations. Specifically, the code requires that understanding that our actions are important to suppliers: our customers and our people, as well as our business outcomes. • Comply with all relevant local and national laws and regulations relating to the environment, We are committed to: • Conduct their business operations in a way • Driving a culture of continuous environmental that protects the environment, improvement with a focus on fuel and energy efficiency • Have an environmental management plan which takes responsibility for goods and • Actively pursuing renewable or lower carbon fuels services throughout their lifecycle and and energy sources minimises the impact of activities on the environment. • Understanding and managing our environmental risks with the goal of minimising or eliminating those risks Key achievements • Ensuring the environment is considered in In 2012–13 we saw a further 3 per cent reduction in our investment and corporate strategies, our carbon emissions. We have now achieved a total procurement and the products and services we 9 per cent improvement on our year 2000 emissions offer baseline, which puts us on track to achieve our 25 per cent reduction target by 2020. In the past • Actively working to minimise pollution, manage year, we have continued to deliver improvements in waste streams and address relevant biodiversity energy and fuel efficiency and further reductions in issues packaging and waste volumes. We have: • Engaging with our customers, employees • Completed 33 energy audits of our facilities, and shareholder on environmental issues and bringing the total number of audited facilities in transparently reporting on our environmental the past three years to 110. performance • Continued our National Energy Management • Complying with all applicable legal and Plan: regulatory requirements. – Since 2010, over AU$11m has been invested in To continually measure our commitments and our energy efficiency initiatives legal obligations, our environmental performance is monitored by the Australia Post Board Audit and – Undertaken air-conditioning and lighting Risk Committee. upgrades, introduced light sensors and skylights, as well as heating and cooling Environmental considerations are embedded system changes throughout our regular business activities. This is evident with environmental sustainability – This plan has now delivered annual energy considerations integrated into our business cases savings of 18,000 mWh and annual electricity as well as being key evaluation criterion in our savings of AU$3m. procurement process. In addition, through the 11 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Environment • We also trialled alternative fuels, including • Broaden engagement programs with key compressed natural gas and biofuel. stakeholders • We started introducing more fuel efficient • Increase involvement of employees in motorcycles and established plans to environmental activities replace the fleet. • Further integrate environmental considerations • In 2012–13 we had no significant environmental into key business processes. incidents, fines or prosecutions. In addition, Australia Post will continue to • We also continued our partnership with participate in an international benchmarking Planet Ark to collect and recycle used printer program run by the International Postal Corporation cartridges. This year we collected over 500,000 through which our environmental performance cartridges and related items for recycling which is measured against the most advanced postal diverted almost 141 tonnes of waste from landfill. administrations of the world. • We also continued our partnership with MobileMuster, which resulted in the collection Further Information of 43,000 used mobile phones, batteries and • More information can be found in our Annual chargers that were returned for recycling. Report here Key actions planned for 2014 • More information about our environmental policies and programs can be found here As we continue implementing our Environmental Sustainability Strategy, we remain focused on • More information about ‘Our Ethics’ booklet can reducing our carbon emissions. We recognise that be found here. exploring technology to find innovative solutions will be a key component of our future activities, as is building the involvement of our employees. We aim to: • Investigate alternative and renewable energy for our facilities • Focus on environmentally sustainable building designs • Explore low carbon alternative fuels for our transport fleet • Continue expanding our focus on packaging and environmental products for our customers 12 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our commitment Policies and processes to support our commitment We are committed to working against corruption in all its forms and Australia Post expects everyone We make unacceptable behaviours around bribery while employed by, or engaged with Australia Post and corruption clear to employees in ‘Our Ethics’ to adhere to all international agreements and booklet. Australian legislation. Australia Post’s renewed Fraud and Corruption Australia Post maintains a comprehensive system of Policy outlines Australia Post’s commitment corporate governance practices designed to provide that Australia Post does not tolerate fraudulent appropriate levels of disclosure and accountability. and corrupt conduct. The policy stipulates that the prevention of fraud and corruption is the These practices derive principally from the responsibility of all our people and that any provisions of the Australian Postal Corporation detected incident will be dealt with to the full extent Act 1989, the Commonwealth Authorities and of the HR Policy and where applicable the criminal Companies (CAC) Act 1997 and the Commonwealth law. Government Business Enterprise Governance and Oversight Guidelines (2011). With regard to procurement, the expectations and requirements of potential and current suppliers At Australia Post, everything we do has a social, around bribery and corruption are laid out in our environmental and economic impact. The Supplier Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code of Australian community trust us with the delivery of Conduct requires that all suppliers adhere to key their essential products and services every day, areas of corporate governance and ethical business and our retail footprint places us at the heart management practices. The Code outlines Australia of communities across the country. As such it’s Post’s expectation that all suppliers are expected important that our people represent Australia to ‘Comply with all local and national laws and Post in an ethical way by conducting business with regulations on bribery, corruption and prohibited integrity, honesty, fairness and in compliance with business practices’. all relevant laws, regulations, codes and corporate policies and procedures. The Probity Guidelines also apply to all procurement activities undertaken by our people or agents and contractors acting on behalf of Australia Post, irrespective of whether formal contractual arrangements have or have not been initiated and/ or established. 13 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post Anti Corruption Australia Post also has a Gifts, Benefits and Key actions planned Hospitality Policy section of the HR Manual. The purpose of the documents is to promote an ethical • Roll out of a communication strategy to embed approach to dealing with all stakeholders and the renewed Fraud & Corruption Policy across the to protect the reputation of Australia Post and enterprise. its people from real or perceived influence from suppliers. • Develop and implement business unit specific awareness program on fraud and corruption. Australia Post also has a Whistleblower Policy and a process which provides a 24 hour service that is • Re alignment of the assurance program covering independently managed by an external provider. the prevention, detection and response to incidents of fraud and corruption in line with the Australia Post has a robust assurance program new Fraud & Corruption Policy. covering the prevention, detection and response to incidents of fraud and corruption. This is supported by ongoing assessment, design and implementation Further Information of effective controls. • More information about our commitment to Governance can be found in our Annual Report Key achievements • Further information about our commitment to • Renewed Fraud & Corruption Policy. This Policy Governance can also be found here remains central to how Australia Post manages risk and clearly outlines our commitment to • More information about ‘Our Ethics’ booklet can driving out fraud and corruption. be found here. 14 | United Nations Global Compact – 2013 Australia Post
