2012 1 Contents I. Social and societal actions .................................................................................................................... 3 1.1 Promoting diversity and equal opportunities at work ............................................................ 3 1.2 Valeo designated Top Employer 2012..................................................................................... 3 1.3 Measures promoting the employment and integration of people with disabilities ............... 4 1.4 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agreement signed with the European social partners 5 1.5 Set-up of an Ethics and Compliance Department ................................................................... 5 II. Environmental actions......................................................................................................................... 7 2.1. Identification of environmental issues ......................................................................................... 7 2.2. Assessment for 2010-2012 period and 2013-2015 objectives ..................................................... 7 2.3. Implementation of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework .......................................... 9 2.4. Further implementation of biodiversity issues in all the sites ..................................................... 9 III. General information ......................................................................................................................... 10 2 I. Social and societal actions 1.1 Promoting diversity and equal opportunities at work Convinced of the benefits that a broader diversity would bring in terms of leadership, talent, and markets at all levels of the Company and within every profession, Valeo created a diversity think tank in late 2011. In 2012, it chose to make diversity one of the key priorities of its Human Resources policy. Diversity is not only a social responsibility issue; it is also a vital means of boosting competencies, creativity and performance. A diverse workforce has a competitive edge allowing it to capture top performers across the globe. A Diversity Committee was set up on the initiative of General Management, chaired by the Group HR Vice-President. The Committee’s work focuses on four initiatives: (i) gender, (ii) disability, (iii) generational, and (iv) cultural issues. Four employees of different nationality, gender, position and age, have been given responsibility for these initiatives and to build improvement proposals in each area concerned. In the last quarter of 2012, the Group also decided to launch a diversity awareness and training initiative for employees in the form of various e-learning modules. To improve and standardize communication on these issues, Valeo has designed a Diversity logo, highlighting its four priorities: (i) gender, (ii) disability, (iii) generational, and (iv) cultural issues. 1.2 Valeo designated Top Employer 2012 Valeo received the Top Employer 2012 label for France and Europe areas. The Top Employer label is given by the CRF institute and awarded the company excellence in Human Resources management. Valeo competence is awarded on several human resources performance criteria such as wages policy, training and intern mobility. Indeed, in 2012, Valeo trained more than 80% of its employees and selected 3 over 4 jobs offers internally. The “Well-being at work” program and the operational excellence have also been key elements for the label attribution. Valeo also received the Top Employer label 2012 in China and Brazil. Valeo is a company within the human being is at the heart of its concern and this label rewards this strategy. 3 1.3 Measures promoting the employment and integration of people with disabilities When it revised its Code of Ethics in 2005, Valeo reaffirmed its commitment to promoting respect for human dignity and value in the workplace as well as equal rights for all workers. Accordingly, the Group participates in programs promoting the employment and integration of workers with disabilities. On May 29, 2012, Group management and representative trade organizations at France Group level signed an agreement to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities. This three-year agreement was approved by administration bodies on July 25, 2012, with retroactive effect from January 1. It is part of the Group’s continuous efforts in the field of corporate social responsibility. Amid a tough competitive environment in France, and given fast-paced changes in manufacturing processes and products, Group companies took several different measures aimed at hiring and retaining people with disabilities and work hand-in-hand with organizations promoting protective working environments for the disabled. The Group’s French entities have designed and rolled out a large number of practical initiatives (reorganization of work stations, flexi-time arrangements, disability training, etc.) to improve employment conditions for those with disabilities over the long term. They also forged a close relationship with sheltered employment providers and organizations that help disabled people back into work (établissements et services d’aide par le travail – ESAT). In 2011, there were 228 ESAT individual units (232 in 2010), however, only 181 (156 in 2010) were included in the calculation of the employment rate due to their legal cap. Valeo intends to continue pool and step up the different initiatives promoting employment for those with disabilities, while respecting the specific characteristics and constraints of each of its entities in France. It will also look to encourage bottom-up local initiatives. In connection with this agreement on disability, a large-scale awareness campaign was launched to help change attitudes and bring another perspective on disability. A film was made featuring interviews of employees with disabilities, helping to embed disability issues within the Group’s corporate culture. The film is expected to be broadcast in the first half of 2013. The film sets out to highlight the competencies and knowhow of those with disabilities rather than focus on the disability itself. In order to increase the proportion of disabled employees in the workforce over the long term, the Group has set itself a number of targets:  continue with its active policy of hiring people with disabilities;  maintain disabled workers in employment and develop their tasks;  improve their integration and training;  adapt their jobs to new technologies;  talk openly about disability and raise the awareness of all stakeholders;  step up collaboration with the sheltered sector. 4 This disability policy will be rolled out to the 29 countries within its reporting scope as from 2013. 1.4 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agreement signed with the European social partners Fundamental issues are taken up in Valeo’s corporate social responsibility policy. This policy was strengthened by the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agreement signed on July 10, 2012 between Group management and the Committee members of its European Works Council. The purpose of this agreement is to ensure that an appropriate labor framework is in place to accompany the Group’s international expansion, in line with its principles of responsibility, Code of Ethics and sustainable development policy. The agreement also seeks to promote labor and environmental practices which go beyond legal and regulatory obligations, by:  giving due consideration to people’s health and safety issues when thinking about new capital investments;  making one-to-one employee meetings a common practice in order to encourage skills development and adaptation;  in the event of changes in the economic and industrial environment impacting its workforce, anticipating how employees will be impacted by strategic decisions taken, through informative meetings with employee representative bodies, and ensuring that adequate assistance is provided to those affected, in line with the best industry practices in the local market concerned. 1.5 Set-up of an Ethics and Compliance Department Ethics and integrity are core values for Valeo. In 2012, the Valeo Group introduced a compliance initiative, building on its Code of Ethics and the culture of integrity that characterizes it. The Code of Ethics, which has been in place since 1997 and was renewed in 2005, is signed by every Valeo employee and is one of the cornerstones on which the Group has been built throughout the world. An Ethics and Compliance Department was set up in 2012 on the initiative of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, which established a detailed, precise and comprehensive initiative that aimed both to train and increase awareness among its senior managers and employees of the risks related to corruption and anticompetitive practices, and to instruct them on how to reduce these risks. All of the Group’s entities, all of its businesses, all of its employees, and all of its stakeholders throughout the world are involved in the compliance program. Valeo, and the management teams in particular, are focused on compliance and on making these new programs and practices a top priority. Ethics and compliance also comes under the remit of the Audit and Risks Committee. 5 This initiative is led by the Ethics and Compliance Department and draws upon the Group’s clear internal rules prohibiting illegal practices, defining the framework for acceptable conduct regarding business relationships and alliances, and establishing the authorization conditions for certain practices. Wherever possible they are adapted to take into account local legal restrictions and the culture specific to each country. This localized approach was taken in order to increase the adoption of the rules by employees. These rules are accompanied by resources to improve understanding of their use and implementation. Valeo’s employees have access to handbooks, definitions, examples and guidelines through the Ethics & Compliance intranet portal, which can be consulted at any time. In view of the diversity of Valeo’s employees, these training sessions can be delivered locally in 15 different languages, while e-learning classes are available in 13 different languages. These sessions are specifically tailored to the automobile industry and feature a large range of examples and case studies to provide as many employees as possible with effective training in both theory and practice. 6 II. Environmental actions 2.1. Identification of environmental issues Grenelle Powertrain Thermal Comfort and Visibility Valeo Services theme Systems Systems Driving Systems Business Group Business Group Assistance Business Systems Group Business Group Organization  ISO 14001 certification and policy  Regulatory compliance Sustainable  Energy  Water and  Energy  Water and Packaging use of Consumption Energy consumption energy consumption resources consumption consumption  Packaging consumption Emissions and  VOC  Managements  VOC  VOC pollution emissions* of refrigerants emissions* emissions*  Management of chlorinated solvents Waste  Production of  Reuse of waste management waste Climate  Indirect GHG  Direct and  GHG emissions* change emissions* Indirect GHG related to the emissions* transportation of goods *VOC: Volatile organic compound: VOCs are composed of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen and are readily found as atmospheric gases *GHG emissions: Greenhouse gas: gases which absorb infrared rays emitted by the Earth’s surface and contributing to the greenhouse effect. 2.2. Assessment for 2010-2012 period and 2013-2015 objectives Assessment of environmental performance for 2010-2012 As part of its Environmental Action Plan for 2010-2012, the Risk Insurance Environment department set ambitious quantified targets based on the performances of sites in 2009. In 2012, the Group substantially exceeded its targets in respect of water and energy consumption. It significantly improved its performance in terms of consumption of packaging materials, direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, and deployment of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 management systems, while nevertheless missing its targets. With regard to waste management, Valeo will have to make considerable efforts to reverse the trend during the next three year plan. 7 Legend of the “status” of the desired outcome: ∎∎ Target exceeded by more than 5%. ∎ Target achieved ∎ Improvement of indicator but target not achieved ∎ Deterioration of indicator Objective Unit 2012 Target 2012 Result Status (Base : 2009) (Base : 2009) Environmental performance of sites Reduction in energy consumption MWh/€m -10% -18% Reduction in water consumption cu.m/€m -7% -32% Reduction in packaging materials Kg/€m -15% -3% consumption Waste management : Reduction in waste production Metric tons/€m -15% +13% Waste recovery rate % +15% -3% Carbon emissions Reduction of direct and indirect Metric t -10% -9% greenhouse gas emissions CO2/€m Environmental and occupational health and safety certification ISO 14001 certification % of sites 100% 96% OHSAS 18001 certification % of sites 100% 88% Environmental objectives for 2013-2015 period: Theme 2013 – 2015 objectives (Base : 2012) Target Unit Sustainable use Reduction in water consumption -10% cu.m/sales of resources Reduction in energy consumption -10% kWh/sales Reduction in packaging materials consumption -7% metric t/sales Production of Reduction in the production of hazardous and non-7% metric t/sales waste hazardous waste Carbon Reduction of direct and indirect greenhouse gas -10% metric t CO2/sales emissions emissions Management ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification 100% % of sites systems ISO 50001 certification (energy management) 10% % of sites Note : for new sites, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification to be obtained within three years of entry into the Group Biodiversity Promotion of local biodiversity initiatives 8 Suppliers and Reinforcement of performance-evaluation criteria and service providers environmental compliance of the Group’s subcontractors, suppliers and services providers 2.3. Implementation of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework In 2012, Valeo reported CSR indicators based on the GRI (version G) framework to set-up its reporting. Valeo is doing so to get a better visibility for its stakeholders and to compare its CSR performance with the other industry actors. Valeo created a GRI cross-reference table in his Referency Document in order to report all the indicators followed. Valeo obtained “C” grade for his reporting. 2.4. Further implementation of biodiversity issues in all the sites  Almost all of the land used by Valeo, i.e. 87% of its operating plants, is located in urban areas or areas zoned for industrial use. In addition, its activities are not liable to significantly alter ecological processes (no extraction or spraying, for instance). To understand its potential impacts more precisely, the Group conducts an annual inventory of sites located in or near (within 10 km) protected areas in respect of biodiversity. Twenty sites were accordingly identified in 2012, of which five in Brazil and nine in France. They include plants located in the vicinity of Natura 20001 areas or natural areas of ecological, flora and fauna interest (ZNIEFF2). The relevant sites take care to adhere to the requirements related to these constraints. For example, the Itatiba site (Brazil) is located along the Atibaia River, a preserved environmental zone. In conjunction with the competent Brazilian administration, Valeo has agreed to demolish buildings located within 50 meters of the river.  The precise identification of significant direct impacts on biodiversity is conducted across sites through their environmental analysis: this step is crucial in the implementation of an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system.  The Biodiversity Directive (internal) drafted in late 2011 was distributed to all sites in 2012. It lays down guidelines to regulate practices in terms of biodiversity conservation during the phases of selection, construction, operation and closure of plants. 1 All European natural sites, whether landor water-based, identified for the rarity or fragility of their wildlife or plant species and their habitat. http://ec.europa.eu/environment/nature/natura2000/ 2 French natural zone of interest for ecology, flora and fauna (Zone naturelle d’intérêt écologique, faunistique et floristique): an inventory program aiming at collecting exhaustive and up-to-date information on the natural environment, whether landor water-based, whose interest lies either in the balance or richness of the ecosystem, or in the presence of rare or endangered plant or animal species. 9 III. General information In 2012, and for the first time, Valeo worked with an independent verifier (audit firm Ernst&Young France). It enabled Valeo Group to have its social, societal and environmental data certified, and to obtain a limited assurance report. Based on their work, nothing irrelevant has come to their attention and they certify that the information is fairly presented, in accordance with the Guidelines. 10
