2013 United Nations Global Compact Communications on Progress Report Date Submitted: September 20, 2013 CONTENTS Letter from the CEO Despite Palestine’s major economic and political OUR YEAR IN REVIEW transitions in 2013 we at PADICO HOLDING, i. Letter from the CEO 3 as Palestine’s leading and diversified holding ii. Letter from the Sustainability and Corporate Communications Manager 4 company, have surpassed our financial as well as corporate social responsibility benchmarks OUR COMPANY for the 2012-2013 fiscal year. We have made 1.1 Company Overview 5 great strides in preserving our commitment to 1.2 Our Investment Strategy 5 the ten principles of the UN Global Compact 1.3 Update for the 2013 Fiscal Year 5 (UNGC), as our subsidiary and affiliate companies and project coordinators continue to find SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT IN THE ENVIRONMENT ways to build on its foundation. Most recent2.1 Nakheel Date Plantation 6 ly we led an effort to establish a local UNGC 2.2 Solid Waste Recycling and Waste Management 7 network by approaching and sending letters to 2.3 Water Treatment 7 Palestinian companies so as to encourage them 2.4 Jericho Gate 7 to sign on to the UNGC. In addition, we published and circulated an article in the local meCOMMUNITY AND SOCIAL INVESTMENTS dia about the campaign. 3.1 Tamayyaz 8 3.2 Al-Watani Awalan 9 We at PADICO HOLDING aim to develop estinian employment opportunities through the programs to integrate and advance the princiTamayyaz (“Excellence”) Program, which proOUR EMPLOYEES ples and the goals of the UNGC, which are tovides skills-based programs for third and fourth 4.1 Commitment to a Just Workplace 10 tally consistent with the collective Palestinian year university students in order to enhance their 4.2 Compliance and Labor Practices 10 aspiration to achieve an international standard readiness in the workforce. We continued to lead 4.3 Training and Enrichment 11 of human rights, labor rights, and environmenthe Al-Watani Awalan (“The National First”) in4.4 Safe Operating Environment 11 talism despite still being under occupation. Furitiative meant to revitalize Palestinian women’s 4.5 Maintaining Diversity 11 thermore, our group of companies strives to encooperatives through the buying of their national 4.6 Code of Business Conduct 12 sure anti-corruption in the Palestinian corporate products for the use of in our series of hotels in 4.7 Ethics 13 world through a transparent system of governPalestine. ance that is reflected in our operations among ANTI-CORRUPTION all of our subsidiaries and affiliates; and we still As we celebrate our 20th anniversary since our 5.1 Working Toward Better Corporate Governance 13 consider proposals for new models on ways to company’s foundation, we are also acknowl5.2 Working with the IFC to Improve Governance 14 strengthen these operations for future projects. edging 20 years of responsibility to our people, our environment, and the economy in this third COMMITMENT TO UNITED NATIONS IDEALS We have also gone on to strengthen our humanconsecutive year of submitting our COP to the 6.1 UNRWA Audiovisual Digitization Project 15 itarian and environmentally-friendly practices UNGC, thereby honoring the edicts of excepsince last year’s Communication on Progress tional humanitarian business practice, raising the (COP) through growing socially responsibar in Palestinian corporate social responsibility. ble initiatives within our companies including Nakheel Palestine of Agricultural Investment Sincerely, Company and Palestinian Solid Waste Recycling Company (TADWEER). We focused our Samir O. Hulileh, efforts on expanding just and sustainable PalChief Executive Officer 2| |3 Letter from the Sustainability and Corporate Communications Department OUR COMPANY 1.1 Company Overview “Commitment” is not a word we at PADICO HOLDING use lightly, nor is our endeavor to Palestine Investment and Development Ltd. (PADICO HOLDING) is a limited public shareholding uphold an international standard merely a percompany traded on the Palestine Exchange (PEX) with paid-in-capital of USD 250 million. Its sharefunctory stratagem. We hold each of our corholder base has grown from 710 shareholders in 1998 to around 10,000 shareholders in 2012, attractporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives to ing institutional investors and funds from the MENA region and from well-established international high scrutiny for effectiveness and efficiency, markets in Europe. Today, PADICO HOLDING has grown its portfolio of investments to include meticulously planning through spirited brainalmost every sector that is vital to nation building, with rewarding returns from these investments for storming sessions and primary research and shareholders. These sectors include telecommunications and services, tourism, real estate, infrastructhen implementing analyses by way of commuture, environment, agriculture, and industry. nity feedback. PADICO HOLDING’s founders and shareholders seek to be a source of inspiration for other investors Prosperity for the Palestinian people, first and and thereby ensure an ongoing commitment to nation-building. Although focused on Palestine and foremost, ensures our continuing financial its economic potential, PADICO HOLDING observes international standards and business practices, and business success. On the whole, PADICO benefits from the experience of founders from across the region, and remains focused in its determiHOLDING has shown considerable growth in nation to forge ahead in building a nation. recent fiscal quarters but that was only achieved through holistic and fully integrated strategies Above all, I would like to reiterate the Com1.2 Our Investment Strategy that sought to make genuine lasting social impany’s commitment to prioritizing socially pacts within the sectors they served. responsibly corporate investments. We strive PADICO HOLDING fulfills its mission and vision by managing a diverse portfolio of subsidiary and to maintain this initiative whenever we come affiliate companies on which the Company depends for income. Investing in and maintaining compaAs an established pioneering entity in the Palacross proposals for new projects, or even durnies that operate in a wide range of economic sectors has enabled the Company to thrive and become estinian private sector PADICO HOLDING has ing new decision-making processes in current the leading investment and development company in Palestine. a moral imperative to give back to Palestinian endeavors. Our decisions are not limited but are society wherever and whenever a social probguided by principles of responsible investment. PADICO HOLDING is unique compared to other Palestinian and international corporate entities lem arises: The Tamayyaz Program and the AlAt every turn, we ask ourselves: How will this for many reasons. It has the resources to invest in large-scale projects that assure sustainability in Watani Awalan initiative seek to curb the rising project or decision better impact our society? earnings and cash flows and it is guided by a diverse board of directors with significant experience unemployment rates among Palestinian college Therefore, we do not only see ourselves as a relevant to the many sectors in which the Company operates. PADICO HOLDING has also employed graduates and women, respectively. Initiatives collection of companies but also as a team of a long-term investment strategy since its establishment, premised on diversification and sustainability within the Nakheel Date Plantation and the upcommunity leaders with the hope of seeing that allow it to adapt to the challenging circumstances in Palestine. coming Jericho Gate project pre-empt environour investments grow through our continuing mental sustainability through water, land, and drive to succeed, our hard-work ethic, and the 1.3 Update for the 2013 Fiscal Year agricultural preservation measures. All of this is whole-hearted belief in corporate social redone through implementing contractual means sponsibility. PADICO HOLDING declared growth of 11.2% in pre-tax profits for the first half of 2013 reaching to set up socially and environmentally responsiUSD 14.23 million compared to USD 12.80 million for the same period in 2012. Consolidated net ble initiatives. PADICO HOLDING also works Sincerely, profit reached USD 13.74 million for the first half of 2013 recording an increase of 12.5%, compared in cooperation with other like-minded local to USD 12.21 million for the same period of 2012, while operational profits rose by 10.6% to reach businesses and entrepreneurs to build a positive Hiba Darwish USD 19.42 million in the first half of 2013 compared to USD 17.56 million in the first half of 2012. image of Palestine as a promising and economSustainability and Corporate ically viable country. Communications Manager 4| |5 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT IN THE ENVIRONMENT 2.2 Solid Waste Recycling and Waste Management 2.1 The Nakheel Date Plantation TADWEER was founded in 2010 as the first Palestinian company to offer specialized, environmentally sound solutions for solid waste recycling. The company has already established its first project in the city of Nablus. The project aims to provide appropriate solutions to reduce the environmental burden of household and commercial solid waste in Nablus. Municipal waste will be sorted into recyclable components such as plastic, steel and carton that will be used as input materials, while organic waste will be turned into compost. The project aims to provide appropriate solutions to municipalities and local councils for commerw cially sound and environmentally friendly sorting and disposal of household waste. Materials that can be used as raw inputs for products will be made available to factories. All infrastructure work for the project was completed and all production lines were installed at the end of 2012. Investment in the project is USD $3 million. In 2010, TADWEER acquired a 25% stake in “Al Kubra Solid Waste Management” company, which has established a solid waste management facility in Zahrat Al Finjan landfill in the city of Jenin. The facility’s recycling capacity amounts to 500 tons per day and actual operations commenced in 2011. Total investment in the project is around USD 2.8 million. PADICO HOLDING’s investments in the agricultural and industrial sectors amounted to USD 44.2 2.3 Water Treatment million, representing 8% percent of the company’s total investment portfolio at the end of 2012. PADICO HOLDING is planning to set up a tertiary wastewater treatment plant in the city of Jenin that One of the most important investments in agriculture, land cultivation, and greening is the Nakheel will provide water suitable for irrigation purposes. Approximately 3,000 cubic meters of wastewater Palestine for Agricultural Investment Company, which invested an additional USD 3 million in 2013 are currently discharged at the Jenin wastewater treatment plant on a daily basis. This quantity will incoming to a cumulative total of USD 14 million investment devoted to developing the Palestinian crease to 6,000 cubic meters/day, and finally amount to 16,000 cubic meters per day in coming years. date production industry, and to producing high quality dates that can be exported to foreign markets, The quantity discharged will be treated and reused for irrigating certain types of trees. The remaining especially those in Europe. sludge will be disposed in a safe and environmentally friendly manner according to Palestinian standards and specifications for treated effluent. The company has signed deals to purchase dates from local farmers, accordingly. Total production for this year is expected to exceed 600 tons. In 2013 the company succeeded in exporting dates to international markets including Russia, Turkey, Great Britain, America and Indonesia, and the company 2.4 Jericho Gate was awarded two gold stars in the Tasting Contest in Brussels. The Jericho Gate Real Estate Investment project is the first of its kind in Palestine and includes the In addtion, Nakheel Palestine’s palm plantations operate on an up-to-date, remotely controlled irridevelopment of a variety of tourist and entertainment facilities on an area of 3,000 dunams in the gation system. Each palm tree is irrigated on an as-needed basis, avoiding water waste. Agricultural southern entrance of the city of Jericho. PADICO HOLDING has completed the preliminary structurexperts work closely with the farmers, visiting their farms on a regular basis to provide them with al plans and is currently commissioning detailed structural plans, including roads and infrastructure. support and ensure optimal treatment of the crop as well as appropriate irrigation and fertilization. Preparatory work on the project is expected to start at the end of 2013 after obtaining official approval. The company is preparing a study on the socio-economic impact of the project on Jericho. Production achievements in 2012 include the farming of 20,200 palm trees using advanced water-efficient irrigation system with a total annual output production of 170 tons of dates. The production is The project also makes way for “Green Areas” located on 176 dunams, which comprise 6% of the expected to double this year’s output in 2013 and is projected to reach an annual output of 3000 tons total area of the project. Gardens, trees, and vegetation will be planted in open spaces and will be deby the year 2017. signed to preserve the natural ecosystem of the landscape. 6| |7 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL INVESTMENTS 3.1 Tamayyaz 3.1 Tamayyaz 3.2 Al-Watani Awalan PADICO HOLDING created AlWatani Awalan (“the National First”), an initiative designed to support Palestinian producers and crafts-people by establishing an agreement that Palestinian hotels affiliated with PADICO HOLDING must agree to purchase high quality products from local producers and women’s cooperatives instead of from foreign producers. PADICO HOLDING has decided to channel a heavy portion of the company’s community investThis is done in partnership with ments into the flagship Tamayyaz community development program. This initiative focuses on the the United Nations Development education skills gap, leadership skills, and entrepreneurship, and it engages all the stakeholders inProgram (UNDP), the Palestinian volved to their full potential. Ministry of Agriculture, and the Food and Agriculture Organization Tamayyaz (“Excellence”) is a multi disciplinary program that supplements Palestinian university curof the United Nations (FAO). ricula targeting exceptional fourth and third year university students. The program involved professional training programs, lectures on life skills by successful role models from different sectors, Al-Watani Awalan is tailored to field trips to private sector organizations for hands on experiences, cultivation of academic skills in support and empower women coselected disciplines such as math, science, engineering, and ICT with the purpose of tying in academic operatives in rural, remote, and training with real life skills needed by the job market, career guidance, and promotion of good citimarginalized areas. It promotes zenship and volunteering. domestic products, including traditional food, handicrafts, and glassThe curriculum also dictated that student participants attend communications and languages courses ware. with the aim of applying their credentials toward public policy making. Over the course of the program the student participants visited a variety of social welfare project locations in Palestine and were engaged with influential members of Palestinian civil society an opportunity that aims to empower students in the job market after they graduate. Student participants will try their role in public policy making by designing, planning, organizing and then ultimately holding a conference aimed at promoting action on social issues to members of the Palestinian public sector. The program included in its first phase 240 students from three universities, and has incorporated three more universities in its second phase, which will begin in October 2013. 8| |9 OUR EMPLOYEES 4.1 Commitment to a Just Workplace Our wages are considered highly competitive and the package of benefits we offer is designed to ensure employee satisfaction, wellness, and retention. We offer employees a comprehensive medical PADICO HOLDING is strongly committed to its and dental plan at no cost, a provident fund, a mechanism that hedges against currency fluctuations, employees, and continuously works to provide a and a bonus scheme in addition to many other benefits and discounts at partner businesses and orhealthy environment where employees can thrive, ganizations. We also comply with all the applicable national laws concerning pay, including overtime grow, and excel. Our company aims to achieve compensation. Finally, our Human Resources Unit ensures that all regulation in regards to working this objective through sound employment prachours and duties and breaks are completely satisfied. tices and active community engagement. The company and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates 4.3 Training and Enrichment abide by all the applicable Palestinian labor laws, which are in harmony with international labor PADICO HOLDING cares greatly about the professional and personal development of its employees. standards set by the International Labor OrganWe frequently offer training courses on topics ranging from computer and office management skills, ization (ILO). Particularly, PADICO HOLDING to communications, to finance and accounting, to courses in English language. Employees are often devotes special attention to the elimination of encouraged to take training programs in fields different from their own so that they can better undiscrimination with respect to employment and derstand other aspects of our business. Our company also hopes to promote our employees’ physical occupation, abolishing all forms of child labor wellbeing. and ensuring that all forms of compulsory or forced labor are eradicated. In the process of evaluating the Tamayyaz Program PADICO HOLDING endowed its Sustainability and Corporate Communications Manager for an Executive Education course at the Harvard Kennedy The Nakheel Date Plantation has increased emSchool so as to better analyze the program’s impact on student participants. ployment among Palestinian farmers in the Jericho area. Currently, the project employs 60 per4.4 Safe Operating Environment manent employees and during the date-harvest season, the number of employees rises to 120. Our Policies and Procedures manual illustrates our organization’s policies for operation and the proThe majority of these workers used to work in cedures necessary to fulfill those policies. It also serves as a guide to guarantee that our fundamental Israeli settlements where they were not entitled organizational processes are performed in a consistent manner that meets the organization’s needs. to the labour rights that are afforded to them now Moreover, the manual serves as a guide that provides existing and prospective employees with a clear through the Nakheel Date Plantation project. job description in order to better comprehend the expectations of a particular position or work assignment. This in turn ensures that employees are well-informed about their work duties, and are not re4.2 Compliance and Labor Practices quired to perform any responsibilities beyond those assigned to them, or that were not communicated to them prior to assuming a role in our company. PADICO HOLDING is highly regarded as an employer of choice in the Palestinian communi4.5 Maintaining Diversity ty. It employs more than 4000 employees directly and indirectly through subsidiary and affiliate Diversity is a key part of PADICO HOLDING’s identity and a major contributor to our success. Our companies. This is due to the way we conduct company fights all forms of discrimination in the workplace with respect to employment and hiring. business, as well as to the competitive compenWe recruit a diverse workforce that includes men and women, people of all ages, and diverse geosation packages and benefits we offer employees. graphic backgrounds. Our employees come from across all regions and cities in Palestine including the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. PADICO HOLDING also focuses on advancing the role of women in the workplace. 10 | |11 4.6 Code of Business Conduct • Leading by example, especially in supervisory roles, by setting the right tone and culture for compliance Integrity with applicable law. We believe that our reputation for integrity fairness and professionalism is essential to our long term suc• Being familiar with guidelines, manuals, handbooks cess. We respect the interests of all our stakeholders and best practices relating to their respective areas ( in particular shareholders, employees, investment of responsibility and implementing the measures and partners, service providers, media, government auapproaches prescribed diligently and to the best of thorities, regulators and political stakeholders) and of their ability. society as a whole. We are committed to fostering an open dialogue with our stakeholders based on fairness, • Reporting and violations or misconduct. professionalism and respect. Excellence Use of company’s assets and insider trading We are committed to achieving excellence by improving Our employees will not unduly benefit personally and challenging management practices and processes to from opportunities discovered through the use of cordeliver superior results to our stakeholders in an atmosporate property and/or priviliged information. Specifphere of openness, fairness and trust. ically our employees who have access to confidential information are not permitted to use or share that inPeople and Society formation for stock trading purposes or for any other We believe in ensuring a sustainable development appurpose except the conduct of the company’s business. proach, therefore we take account of environment and social issues in our business decisions and when managing Financial Integrity our resources and infrastructure . In terms of financial integrity, we are committed that financial statements shall properly document all as4.7 Ethics sets and liabilities, accurately reflect all transactions of the corporation in the financial books, records, cost At PADICO HOLDING, our code of ethics aims to clariaccounts and financial statements and be retained in fy the organization’s mission, values and principles, linkaccordance with the company’s policy and applicable ing them with standards of professional conduct. We belaw. lieve that this is crucial to ensuring integrity and creating a culture of compliance, respect, and harmony amongst Conflict of Interest our team members. All employees are required to review Directors and employees are expected to avoid conflict the corporate Code of Conduct in order to comprehend of interest between themselves and the company. The professional and ethical expectations associated with perconflict of interest can occur when the private interest forming their duties and responsibilities. of a director or an employee interferes in any way with the interests of the company as a whole, such as takPADICO HOLIDING’s code of conduct reflects the coveing actions or having interests that makes it difficult to nant that our company has made to uphold corporate valperform the work objectively and effectively. ues in dealing with matters such as our commitment to employees, standards for doing business, and our relationCompliance ship with the community. All of our staff, employees, and We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulamembers of the executive management are mandated to tions and polices. In particular each director and emconform to the principles outlined in the Code of Conduct, ployees is responsible for : and must ensure that business activities and work responsibilities are carried in a highly ethical manner. 12 | |13 ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITMENT TO 5.1 Working Toward Better Corporate Governance UNITED NATIONS IDEALS PADICO HOLDING adheres to a system of governance that guides all affairs of the Company, in6.1 UNRWA Audiovisual Digitization Project cluding the structure, functions and powers of the Board of Directors, the relationship with shareholders and the community, reporting and financial disclosures, social responsibility, and environmental In the vein of helping to sustain UN initiatives, PADICO HOLDING along with other Palestinian prisustainability. Restructuring completed in 2011 resulted in the formation of three principal holding vate sector institutions, contributed to funding the UNRWA Audiovisual Digitization Project in Gaza companies. This has simplified corporate structure, enhanced transparency and facilitated the impleand Amman. mentation of governance procedures. The goal of the project is to digitize, store, and disseminate more than 500,000 historical negatives, PADICO HOLDING sets an example among Palestinian companies in the field of corporate governprints, slides, films and videocassettes. Digitizing preserves the historical value of these materials and ance. The formation, functions, roles, and authority of the Board of Directors, the disclosure of finanmakes it easier to categorize. cial statements, publication of the annual report, news of Company activities and investment plans are all executed in accordance with the requirements of the Palestinian Capital Market Authority. PADIThe images themselves were taken by UNRWA photographers and their predecessors during the most CO HOLDING affirmed its commitment to principles of transparency and corporate governance by tumultuous moments of the 20th century including images of the Palestinian exodus, the ongoing signing the Code of Corporate Governance in Palestine. plight of the refugees, years of Arab-Israeli conflict, and portraits of important public and political PADICO HOLDING’s governance structure consists of a General Assembly (GA), which elects a figures. Board of Directors to represent the company’s shareholders. The GA also appoints a partner at a professional accounting firm to serve as an external auditor. This partner may manage PADICO HOLDThe primary materials are split into two locations: the Gaza portion and the Amman portion. The Gaza ING’s file for a maximum of five years, in accordance with international accounting standards. portion employs a team of young Palestinian film enthusiast and recent graduates who perform all digitizing and scanning on site, and therefore stand to gain valuable work experience as a result. The Amman portion has successfully transported all of its 413,503 negatives to the Danish Royal Library (DRL) in Copenhagen for digitization. A collection of films is also being digitized by the French InGeneral Assembly stitut national de l’audiovisuel (INA). Board of Directors Audit Committee The dissemination of these newly digitized materials will be handled through exhibitions in East Jerusalem and Ramallah as well as a traveling exhibition in UNRWAS’s past fields of operation and cities of political and cultural importance. A web-portal as well merchandising will be made available to the Executive Committee External Auditor Internal Auditor general public in the near future to further raise awareness. Legal Advisors Lastly, important original materials in the collection will be shown in the Palestinian Museum in Birzeit, Palestine. 5.2 Working with the IFC to Improve Governance In September 2012, PADICO HOLDING consigned an analysis of its corporate governance structure to the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the investment arm of the World Bank Group. The study of our company’s corporate governance structure included a comprehensive review of the elements of governance and transparency at PADICO, as well as the functions and powers of the Board of Directors, the company’s relationship with shareholders and the community, our reporting and disclosure standards, and the social and environmental sustainability of our projects. The IFC submitted its recommendations earlier this year to PADICO HOLDING’s Board of Directors who aim to develop a plan for implementation of those recommendations in the near future in order to further strengthen the current corporate governance structure. 14 | |15
