2013 Communication on Progress COP Mehr Gostar Tamin Daroo(MGTD) MGTD Foreign Trade Department MGTD 1/1/2013 Contents: Message of the CEO 3 Human Rights Principles 4 Labour Principles 5 Environmental Principles 6 Anti-Corruption Principles 7 2 Message from the CEO: I am pleased to confirm that MGTD reaffirms its integration of the Global Compact and its principles support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations into our business strategy, culture and daily Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, operations. We also commit to share this information Environment and Anti-Corruption. with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the Sincerely yours, Ali Babaie Managing Director 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Being committed to create an environment in which our employees and business partners respect to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and avoiding complicity in human rights abuses is our goal. We have already set up Code of Conduct in order to have a vivid policy and in this way we respect to available international conventions. Implementation To avoid any human rights violation, MGTD has taken the followings:  There is an internal communication system through which employees shall receive training emails which make them familiar with human rights issues and also they can be in direct contact with top management.  There is a poll box for submitting the complaints/suggestions which shall be revised by HR manager. Measurement of Outcomes There is an internal system and also monthly meetings in which employees and partners shall report back if there is any indifference in Code of Conduct, defined principles and guidelines. Any violation of human rights shall be documented by HR team, the responsible partner will be given a timeframe to address and resolve the issue. Senior management will audit all partners every six months to ensure that they are working with respect to the human rights. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals MGTD supports the labor conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced labor or child labor. In our company handbook, employee’s rights and responsibilities are completely stated. It also includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Implementation Direct email access to CEO /HR for each employee to submit his/her complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment. These complaints are revised by top management and discussed immediately. Each month also there is a day for thanking individuals who have made a specific contribution. All employees are ensured via company by the related responsible organization for their working life and health.(Medical Insurance) MGTD is a member of Iranian`s Import Organization(http://www.majmavaredat.ir/) and arrange its activities based on its rules. Measurement of Outcomes We run annual appraisals each year to identify personal development needs and training requirements and these are implemented as quickly as possible. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. 5 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals MGTD is committed to its environmental policy which emphasizes to act on a way which avoids any activity regarding harmful or negative impact on the environment. Implementation  We encourage internal and external communication via email, to detriment of paper.  Close connection with Paper center collecting.  We prefer to work with customer and suppliers who manufacture products which have minimum environmental impact.  Having filtered drinking water to reduce the plastic bottle usage.  We have planted more than 20 plants in our yard to help have a reduce air pollution.  Having Paper Bags instead of Plastic bags as our promotions bags.  We provide our personnel with free transportations to reduce private care usage and accordingly reduce air pollution.  Provide our scientific representatives with Tablets instead of Paper catalogues and leaflets for their presentations.  Usage of lower consumption lamps in the office. Measurement of Outcome MGTD`s paper bags became an index for the company, most of the importers use plastic bags for their goods. More than 300KG papers have been gathered for recycling center. Huge decrease in Electric usage of the company. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals We are strongly against any forms of corruption including bribery and extortion.”Honesty” which is the base for AntiCorruption, is one of our corporate `s value and based on that neither MGTD nor any of the personnel may offer promise, or receive any bribe. Implementation There is an internal checking system which shows the stream of all financial affairs. This system completely shows the amounts received and paid for each purpose and for each person. The system is under the finance control and will be checked by the CEO each month. There is another system which documented companies finance actions to pay all taxes related governmental financial affairs. Measurement of Outcome MGTD has an agreement with an external audit company to do internal audits at the end of each fiscal year. Such audits may clear any corrupt behavior or bribery and also show that the company has paid all related taxes to the government and no suspicious action in this regard is taken. 7
