SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA OUR APPROACH Bigger Picture Telstra 2013 Sustainability Reporting Series SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA CONTENTS Message from the Chairman and CEO 03 Sustainability scorecard 04 Sustainability highlights 2013 05 Our commitment and approach 06 Sustainability priorities 07 Stakeholder engagement 08 Key issues 09 Transparency and accountability 10 Our business About our sustainability Scope Telstra is Australia’s leading reporting Our sustainability reporting covers the telecommunications and information Our sustainability reporting comprises the 2012/13 financial year (1 July 2012 to services company, offering a full Bigger Picture Telstra 2013 Sustainability 30 June 2013) for Telstra Corporation range of communications services Reporting Series, our sustainability website Limited and Sensis Pty Ltd (Telstra) unless and competing in all telecommunications and a concise summary of our approach otherwise stated. Aside from Sensis, all markets. In Australia we provide and performance in our 2013 Annual other controlled entities are excluded. 15.1 million mobile services, 7.8 million Report. Through our reporting we aim fixed voice services and 2.8 million to provide information on sustainability Feedback retail fixed broadband services. Telstra’s issues relevant to our business and of We welcome your feedback on our international businesses include Hong importance to our stakeholders. sustainability reporting, approach Kong’s leading mobile operator CSL and performance. Please email us at New World, Telstra Global’s networks We develop our sustainability reporting sustainability@team.telstra.com and managed services business and with reference to industry and Telstra’s China-based search and sustainability standards including advertising businesses. the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Telecommunications Sector Supplement (pilot) and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Principles Standard 2008. This financial year we apply the GRI framework to application level B+. For more information visit www.telstra.com.au/sustainability Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 2 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Message from the Chairman and CEO Our industry is experiencing enormous using the latest technology, but they also Telstra people contributed more than change. In the last decade we have want to maintain control over personal 4,200 employee volunteer days, a seen tremendous growth in the use information. They want assurance that 200 per cent increase on the previous and application of information and their privacy and personal information are year. In December 2012, we launched communications technologies (ICT). protected and secure. It is a responsibility the Telstra Alumni program to help we take very seriously, and an area where connect former employees to one Our customers used as much mobile we know we need to do better. another and to Telstra with more data in the first half of 2013 as they did than 8,600 members at year end. in the previous two years combined, As a large telecommunications company and more than half of all Australians with a presence across Australia and We developed a new operating model now own a Smartphone. a growing international footprint, we and strategy for the Telstra Foundation recognise that our reputation and our to align key community investments with New communications technologies have long-term ability to prosper is dependent core customer digital inclusion programs. created a more connected and networked on how we respond to the changing Now squarely focussed on Everyone world, changing the way people live, social and environmental expectations Connected, the Foundation announced two work, learn, play, relate, organise and of our employees, customers, investors, flagship multi-year partnerships to help participate in society. This digital world regulators and the wider public. These ensure all Australians regardless of age, is helping to meet the challenges of expectations increasingly extend beyond disadvantage, location or ability enjoy healthcare and education in regional and our own domestic operations, into our the benefits of being connected to new remote locations, providing more effective overseas operations, supply chain, and communication technologies. The value disaster responses, and is increasingly relationships with business partners. As of the partnerships, with The Alannah and fundamental for full participation in a signatory to the United Nations Global Madeline Foundation and the National economic and community life. Compact, we are committed to supporting Centre of Indigenous Excellence, is That is why the main focus of our social its ten principles wherever we operate. $13 million over six years. and community investment is to ensure To help achieve this, building sustainability We completed significant research to that everyone, irrespective of age, income, thinking, behavior and practices into the inform a more proactive and strategic ability, location or disadvantage, has everyday work of our people is critical and approach to the environment. In the the ability to enjoy the benefits of being with a workforce of more than 37,000, we coming year, we will focus on our connected. Not only does this focus make are in a unique position to make a real efforts on three key areas – improving good business sense for Telstra, it enables difference. Our people want to be involved the energy efficiency of our operations, us to apply our technological expertise to in the social and environmental issues reducing environmental impact in our key social issues. affecting our business, society and the supply chain and developing greener At a time when climate change and communities in which they live and work products and services. the rising cost of energy are defining and we are committed to facilitating this. As well as enhancing employee Sustainability remains a key focus for global issues, we are also well placed the Board and management at Telstra. to use our technology to help Australia’s engagement, having our people actively governments, businesses and consumers involved in communities allows us to better to reduce energy consumption, costs and understand and respond to their unique carbon emissions. The rapid evolution communications needs and concerns. The in technology, combined with Telstra’s company’s involvement in helping to shape significant investment, puts us in a public policy on the issues that matter is a strong position to help realise a lowpart of our responsibility as a large, iconic carbon future. Australian company. The challenge for Telstra is to manage our PROGRESS carbon footprint as we meet increasing We are pleased with the progress demand for energy intensive technology, we have made on our sustainability such as data capacity and network storage. agenda this year. Catherine B Livingstone AO Chairman The scale and speed of technological Having established our Chief change and the integration of Sustainability Office last year, our aim this telecommunications in almost every year was to build performance momentum David I Thodey facet of our lives present challenges in in three key areas for sustainability – Chief Executive Officer maintaining privacy, internet security and employee involvement, digital inclusion cyber safety. We know our customers enjoy and environmental leadership. Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 3 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Sustainability scorecard Key performance indicator Objective 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Employee engagement 79 79 77 75 Score (%) Health and safety 1.32 1.36 1.32 1.30 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Gender equality 25 25 25 23 Percentage of women in executive management Volunteering during Telstra time 5,000 4,248 1,375 — Number of days Payroll giving 3.5 3.6 1.6 — Participation percentage Social and community investment Ongoing 231.0 239.8 248.0 Total ($ millions) investment Everyone Connected 10% increase 145,800 101,500 — Community programs (people impacted) Carbon emissions Minimise impact 1,633,712 1,676,925 1,659,714 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) Carbon emissions intensity 15% reduction 0.83 1.24 1.93 tCO2e per terabyte of data E-waste 14.3 tonnes 14.0 14.3 17.3 Mobile phones (tonnes collected) Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 4 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Sustainability HIGHLIGHTS 2013 Sustainability HIGHLIGHTS 2013 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OUR PEOPLE Our goal is to embed social and Conducting our business ethically Creating a great place to work environmental considerations into We’re committed to excellence in Telstra is one of the largest employers the heart of the business in ways corporate governance, transparency in Australia, with a total workforce of that create value for the company and accountability. more than 37,000 people. and our stakeholders. D  eveloped a Supplier Code E  mployee engagement 79% of Conduct up by 2 percentage points S  ent 15.4 million customers mobile 2  5% women in executive phone safety information via SMS management  upported Workforce program 2012 S $  1.3 million contributed to Disability Services Australia Award 285 charities via matched  mergency Alert System Project E payroll giving of the Year, Telecoms Industry World  ,248 days of community 4 Communications Awards volunteering  ignatory to the United Nations S I nvested $1,116 per employee on Global Compact since 2011 learning and development  eveloped an industry-first EME D  aunched the Telstra Alumni L consultation web portal for the Program for former Telstra community employees ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE COMMUNITY IMPACT Reducing our environmental impact Putting our customers at the centre Keeping our communities connected We’re focusing on operational We’re committed to helping our We use our technology, expertise, excellence, influencing our supply customers improve the ways in scale and presence across the chain and developing greener which they live and work. nation to make a positive community products and services. contribution. I ntroduced the Net Promoter C  arbon emissions intensity down System T  otal value of social and community by 33% Completed 10 million customer contributions $231 million 9  9% of our own e-waste recycled surveys  rovided digital literacy training P or reused Online transactions up 10 for 59,000 people 9  8% of national telephone percentage points to 40% 1  1,500 parents and high directories reused or recycled Telecommunications Industry school students at our cyber O  ffice, billing and printing paper Ombudsman Level 1 complaints safety seminars usage down by 24% fell by 8%  0,000 free calls from payphones 7 R  ecycled 14 tonnes of mobile Rewarding customer loyalty with our in disaster affected areas phones and accessories through THANKS program  842,000 – value of employee $ MobileMuster Focus on reducing reduce bill shock community volunteering E  stimated 72,724 tonnes of CO2e 3 million SMS and MMS messages $  5.8 million invested in emissions savings through project each month to customers exceeding communities through the initiatives 80% of their data plan Telstra Foundation A  cknowledgment of Traditional Owners of the Land installed in every Telstra store Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 5 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Our commitment AND APPROACH Sustainability remains a key focus of the Board and management at Telstra. Telstra’s commitment is to manage our APPROACH business well and to deliver an overall We undertake a formal and consultative positive impact for our customers, approach to ensure that we identify and employees, shareholders, the wider respond to key sustainability issues and community and the natural environment. opportunities that are important to our Our primary corporate business and our stakeholders. responsibilities are to: We seek to identify ways in which we s erve the needs of our customers can utilise our core telecommunications capabilities, assets, expertise, workforce i ncrease shareholder value and and national presence to contribute to protect shareholder interests the communities in which we operate. To do this, we work with our customers m  ake Telstra a great place to work and suppliers, engage our employees and p  rovide good stewardship of the develop partnerships with government and environment non-profit organisations. c  ontribute resources people, money, Governance of Telstra’s sustainability technology, products and services strategy and performance is provided by to support the communities in which the Telstra Sustainability Council, which is we operate chaired by the CEO and comprises Telstra’s Executive Leadership Team. Reports on a  dvance the national interest by sustainability progress are also regularly strengthening the capability of the provided to the CEO and the Telstra Board. nation’s telecommunications Telstra’s Chief Sustainability Officer proinfrastructure, and thereby providing vides strategic leadership for sustainability a strong foundation for economic and is responsible for the implementation growth, productivity improvement, of its approach and programs. sustainable prosperity and global competitive advantage. Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 6 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Sustainability priorities Our challenge is to bring alignment and focus to our sustainability activities and build performance and momentum. Our strategic ambition is to embed the Our three strategic sustainability Environmental leadership social and environmental into the heart of priorities reflect this ambition: We need to be more proactive and strategic the business in ways that create value for in our approach to the environment. We’re Employee involvement the company and our stakeholders. doing this by identifying and minimising We aim to make Telstra a great place the material environmental impacts of As Australia’s largest telecommunications to work, enhance our reputation our operations, working with our suppliers company, we’re in a unique position and strengthen the communities in to reduce the impacts of the products to make a difference to the lives of all which we operate by providing and services they provide to us, and Australians. This increasingly dynamic opportunities for our people to get considering the environment when we challenge is a source of innovation for involved with local communities develop our own products and services. our business and helps us to proactively through volunteering, community We also examine the environmental meet the changing expectations of our campaigns and workplace giving. impacts and benefits of information and stakeholders. Everyone Connected communication technologies. We aim to develop innovative business We believe that the more connected people offerings, reduce ecological impacts and are, the more opportunities they have. We build a reputation that reflects who we are want everyone to enjoy the benefits that and what we stand for as a company. Our new communication technologies can challenge is to bring alignment and focus bring regardless of age, income, ability to our sustainability activities and build or location. Our Everyone Connected performance and momentum. programs focus on making our products and services more accessible, enhancing digital literacy and cyber safety, and supporting technological innovation for social good. Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 7 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Stakeholder engagement As a company that connects with nearly every Australian in some way, we have a wide range of stakeholders. Our stakeholders are any group or KEY STAKEHOLDERS individual that influences, or is impacted by, Telstra’s operations and activities. We want our stakeholders to be advocates Communities S  hareholders and for Telstra, so we aim to develop quality Across the metropolitan, regional investment community relationships, with a focus on trust, and remote areas of Australia. Including institutional investors mutuality, commitment and satisfaction. Includes non-profit organisations. and sell-side analysts, and 1.4 million shareholders. We know that quality engagement with Customers our stakeholders helps us to keep Media Residential consumers, small to abreast of the changing social and medium enterprises, large companies Includes representatives from environmental expectations of business, and organisations, government and print, radio, TV, social and online media. and enhances innovation. consumer groups. We engage with our stakeholders in many Unions ways, including though surveys, websites, Employees Telstra engages with its relevant social media and market research. We Telstra’s workforce is large and employee trade unions CPSU, are also members of industry groups, we diverse with around 37,000 employees. CEPU, AMWU, APESMA. participate in networks and forums with a focus on issues relevant to our business, Government Suppliers and we have teams across the company At local, state and national levels, Telstra engages with around 8,000 that manage specific stakeholder groups. from ministers and leaders to suppliers each year with total spend As a company that connects with nearly department staff. around $6 billion. every Australian in some way, we have many stakeholders. Our key stakeholder Industry groups are identified below. You’ll find Including information and detailed information on the stakeholder communication technology (ICT) engagement we’ve undertaken with these and telecommunications specific groups this year throughout the Bigger associations. Picture Telstra 2013 Sustainability Reporting Series. Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 8 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Key issues VOLUNTEERING AND GIVING Our process to identify, prioritise ICT ENABLING ATTRACTING TALENT SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT AND EMPLOYEE TOWERS & HEALTH MOBILE PHONES, and respond to key sustainability challenges and opportunities is SUSTAINABLE DIGITAL LITERACY based on AccountAbility’s AA1000 RELATIONS AND GIVING VOLUNTEERING Principles Standard (2008). It includes: PROCUREMENT HEALTH r eviewing current and emerging SAFETY ACCESS sustainability issues impacting CYBER Telstra and the wider information and SAFETY & WELL BEING communications technology industry i dentifying the social, environmental WORKPLACE and ethical issues of concern to our DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION a stakeholders  ssessing our ability to address or IMPACT OF CUSTOMER influence the issues and seize the opportunities r anking issues according to their COMMUNITY EXPERIENCE importance to our stakeholders and INVESTMENT PRIVACY AND DATA PROTECTION ETHICS, VALUES AND GOVERNANCE significance to our business, including assessment of risk HUMAN RESOURCE USE, EQUALITY GENDER r eceiving feedback and having INDIGENOUS AUSTRALIANS constructive dialogue through ongoing engagement with key stakeholder groups. RIGHTS WASTE & E-WASTE DISASTER RELIEF AND RECOVERY This year, we commissioned the Australian Centre for Corporate CULTURE AND ENGAGEMENT Social Responsibility (ACCSR) to conduct a consultation with 25 of our ENERGY EFFICIENCY strategic stakeholders representing customers, suppliers, employees, community groups, the investment & CARBON EMISSIONS community, government and industry. We sought their views on our sustainability reporting and tested the validity of our identified material Detailed information about our approach sustainability issues. Their research to our key sustainability issues, our confirmed that our reporting does progress and performance for 2012/13 cover the key issues of concern to and our commitments for 2013/14 can be our stakeholders, and suggested that found in our Bigger Picture Telstra 2013 we could enhance our reporting by Sustainability Reporting Series chapters providing more context on how our – Responsible Business, Customer sustainability activities relate to Experience, Our People, Community Impact Telstra’s business strategy. and Environmental Impact. Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 9 SUSTAINABILITY AT TELSTRA Transparency and accountability We know that we build greater trust Assurance Voluntary sustainability with our stakeholders when we are initiatives We believe independent assurance transparent and accountable. demonstrates our commitment to To ensure continuous improvement Monitoring, measuring and reporting transparency and accountability. and to guide, benchmark or assess our on our approach and progress helps To provide greater confidence to our sustainability performance, we participate us to improve our performance. stakeholders in our reporting: in the following voluntary initiatives: B  anarra provides moderate Australian Packaging Covenant assurance to assess our adherence Carbon Disclosure Project to AccountAbility’s AA1000 principles. Dow Jones Sustainability Index Banarra’s assurance also includes evaluating the reliability of specified FTSE4Good sustainability performance information Global Reporting Initiative in the sustainability component United Nations Global Compact. of our 2013 Telstra Annual Report and in the Bigger Picture Telstra 2013 Sustainability Reporting Series, as well as a check against GRI G3 application level E  rnst & Young provides limited assurance, in accordance with the ISAE3000 standard, over environment data included in the 2013 Telstra Annual Report and Bigger Picture Telstra 2013 Sustainability Reporting Series. You can access these assurance statements at www.telstra.com.au/sustainability Bigger picture TELSTRA 2013 Sustainability ReporTing Series | 10
