2012 Registration Document Annual Financial Report 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Annual Financial Report This registration document has been filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 4, 2013, in accordance with article 212-13 of the General Regulations of the AMF. It may be used to endorse a financial operation in conjunction with a prospectus certified by the AMF. This document has been established by the Issuer, and is binding on its signatories. This is a free translation into English of the Registration Document issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 CSR’s governance 16 2.5 Optimising our business 2.1.1 An approach framed by broad operations’ environmental fundamental principles 16 2.1.2 Vision of CSR 18 performance 52 2.5.1 Managing environmental risks 52 2.1.3 CSR governance tools 19 2.5.2 Stores that are more economical and 2.1.4 A shared goal with our stakeholders 20 sustainable 53 2.2 Social responsibility 23 2.5.3 A more eco-friendly logistics chain 61 2.2.1 Carrefour’s men and women 23 2.2.2 Acting as a responsible employer 25 2.6 Carrefour: a local financial 2.2.3 Developping and rewarding player serving its communities 64 Carrefour’s men and women 33 2.6.1 Playing a dynamic role in employment and the local economy 64 2.3 Sustainable supplier 2.6.2 Serving communities 68 relationships 38 2.7 Assessment of performance 2.3.1 Ensuring our suppliers’ respect for human rights 38 and indicators 70 2.3.2 Supporting continuous improvement 2.7.1 Carrefour Group’s presence for Carrefour product suppliers 40 in the main SRI indices 70 2.7.2 Performance indicators 71 2.4 A product range for everyone 43 2.7.3 Reporting methodology for Sustainable 2.4.1 Translating the Group’s commitments Development indicators 73 into specifications 43 2.7.4 Statement attesting to disclosure 2.4.2 Promoting the emergence of of the social, environmental and responsible sectors 45 societal information and assurance 2.4.3 Carrefour Quality Lines: agricultural report of one of the Statutory Auditors products that uphold values 46 on a selection of this information 79 2.4.4 Meeting the expectations of all customers and consumers 47 2.4.5 Promoting responsible consumption 50 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 15 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance 2.1 CSR’s governance 2012 was characterised by a change in the governance of Corporate W the launch of a plan to combat waste; Social Responsibility (1) (CSR) instigated by Georges Plassat after he W use of the ISO 26000 standard as a benchmark for our CSR stepped into the role of Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. approach’s content; This reworking of its sustainable development strategy against a background of organisational change within the Group confirms W the inclusion of a CSR target in the variable portion of Executive Carrefour’s increased commitment to this issue. In practical terms, directors’ remuneration 5. it has resulted in a number of key management actions in 2012, including: W the creation of a dedicated Quality and Sustainable Development Committee; 2.1.1 AN APPROACH FRAMED BY BROAD FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES The Carrefour Group’s governance methods are described in Carrefour is committed to compliance with all of these principles, pages 84-133 of the Registration Document/management report. taking into account the local context and the regulations of the countries in which it operates. It also ensures that its suppliers comply with these same principles. 2.1.1.1 PRACTICES GUIDED BY FUNDAMENTAL TEXTS 2.1.1.2 MANAGING ETHICS WITHIN The Carrefour Group is committed to operating within a framework THE BUSINESS that respects human rights, and bases its actions on the adoption and promotion of fundamental international principles, including, In response to stakeholders’ increasing expectations regarding amongst others: transparency and ethics, the business’s ethical system was reviewed in detail in 2009, based on a Code of Professional Conduct and on W the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; Ethics Committees at Group and Country level. W the main Conventions of the International Labour Organization This approach is also involved in boosting internal control within (ILO) with regard to fundamental rights; Carrefour as formalised in the framework of Group rules, which W the OECD’s guiding principles; makes explicit reference to the Code of Professional Conduct and W the principles of the Global Compact, of which the Group has the Ethics Committees. been a member since 2001 5. (1) CSR: Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is the contribution made by businesses to Sustainable Development issues. For businesses, the approach involves taking the social and environmental impact of their activities into consideration so as to adopt the best practices possible and to thus help improve society and boost environmental protection. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance 2.1.1.3 CODE OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT The organisation, principles, roles and responsibilities of the Group Ethics Committee are defined in a Charter. The minutes of each The Carrefour Code of Professional Conduct, which was produced meeting are sent to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. following a benchmarking exercise on best practices, is based on a series of consultation sessions with various internal stakeholders. The Group has set up an Ethics Committee in each country in which It provides a simple, consistent joint frame of reference that sets out the Group’s values and commitments, set out in a concise, it operates in order to ensure a coherent, consistent approach across the business. 2 dedicated document featuring 10 principles that are applicable to The Country Ethics Committees are the local bodies in charge of all employees: strictly comply with the law, contribute to a safe, healthy working environment, make a commitment to diversity and working conditions that respect everyone’s needs, protect the monitoring compliance with the Group’s Code of Professional Conduct’s principles. They adapt the policies and broad guidelines 2 approved by the Group Ethics Committee. The composition of business’s assets and resources, guarantee the confidentiality of the business’s data, avoid conflicts of interest, reject any form of corruption, develop fair and transparent commercial practices, the Country Ethics Committees is defined by the Group Ethics Committee and must be strictly adhered to in all countries. Each Country Ethics Committee is composed of four members appointed 2 ensure reliable and accurate reporting and be an ambassador for by the Country Executive director: Carrefour. W Chief Human Resources and Organisation Officer; Its goal is to formalise both a framework within which the the Legal Affairs director, who also acts as secretary; 2 W Carrefour Group can carry out its business activities and ethical rules according to which all Group employees must perform their W the Risk Prevention director/manager; professional activities on a daily basis. W an Operations director. All Carrefour Group employees commit themselves to abiding by A single Ethics Committee handles the entire geographic and the Code and the principles it sets out with regard to actions and operational scope of the “vertical” operations (Carrefour Property behaviour. Executive directors are responsible for disseminating and financial services). Like the Country Ethics Committees, it is the Code and ensuring its implementation within their area of responsibility. It is backed by a series of questions that individuals should ask themselves so as to ensure Code compliance in their also composed of four members who are appointed by the director in charge of operations, with roles and responsibilities, principles 2 and governance identical to those of the Country Ethics Committees. day-to-day activities. They are responsible for issuing opinions on ethical questions Several aids have been developed and disseminated within the within their entity. Group as part of the roll-out of the Code of Professional Conduct, The organisation, composition, principles, roles and responsibilities including a booklet, posters, an implementation kit for managers and an area on the Carrefour intranet. of the Country Ethics Committees are defined in a Charter, and the minutes of each meeting are sent to the Risks & Compliance director. 2 The Code of Professional Conduct has also been translated into the The Country Ethics Committees rely on professional misconduct/ local languages of the various countries in which we operate. malpractice alert systems set up in most Group countries, in An e-learning course has been produced and initially rolled out accordance with local regulations. to all Group directors to support employees’ dissemination and assimilation of the Code of Professional Conduct’s principles. These systems operate both internally and externally to inform the Country Ethics Committee of any behaviour or situation that runs counter to Carrefour’s ethical principles. If such a situation does 2 arise, the Ethics Committee launches a detailed investigation and a 2.1.1.4 ETHICS COMMITTEES remedial action plan. The Group Ethics Committee functions as the body responsible for overseeing and assessing application of the principles set out in the Carrefour Code of Professional Conduct. It is chaired by the Chief Human Resources and Organisation 2.1.1.5 COMBATING CORRUPTION The rejection of corruption in any form is one of the 10 principles 2 Officer. Other members include the Secretary General, the Group set out in Carrefour’s Code of Professional Conduct, and, on this Legal director, the Executive director for Convenience Stores and basis, it is included in the Group’s various aids and tools, such as Promocash and the Risks and Compliance director. This committee its e-learning courses. ensures the dissemination and understanding of and compliance with the Code of Professional Conduct throughout the Group. It reviews and issues opinions on all ethical matters related to the way Carrefour joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2001 and is committed to compliance with the guiding principles of the OECD. These texts cover corporate ethics, including combating corruption. 2 in which Carrefour’s activities are managed. It monitors the proper functioning of the Country Ethics Committees and alert systems, As part of its efforts to strengthen its ethics commitments and to while guaranteeing the necessary conditions for their independence. share best practices, the Carrefour Group is also involved in the work of the Business in Society Commission in the French section of 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 17 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC France), with a specific In a further step, in 2012 the Group Ethics Committee launched the focus on anti-corruption efforts. Carrefour has also belonged to introduction of statements of independence for those involved in Transparency International (France) since 2009. the purchasing process 5. Furthermore, rejecting any form of corruption is one of the commitments signed by Carrefour Group suppliers through the Social and Ethical Charter, which is aimed at suppliers of Carrefour products, and the Ethical Charter, which is aimed at all other suppliers. 2.1.2 VISION OF CSR 2.1.2.1 VISION protection, ethics, local integration and the range of products and services on offer. Based on this assessment, the Carrefour Group is The Carrefour Group’s vision of a responsible business is one that now working on developing a comprehensive vision of the retailing boosts its own success while taking a commonsense approach business. The Group is working in conjunction with a panel of that benefits everyone, from customers to local communities, expert advisers and its stakeholders to define an ambitious, longneighbours, employees, investors and, more generally, society as a term position for each sustainable development issue it faces, which whole. Within this broad framework, Carrefour listens to whatever will be expressed in tangible terms through short-term local actions. its customers have to say so as to offer them high-quality products while gradually moving toward across-the-board sustainable The issues and challenges the Carrefour Group is working on are development. numerous, and include the social and environmental conditions under which products are manufactured; Carrefour’s relationship To ensure that this vision of social responsibility provides with its suppliers; reducing its environmental footprint and our customers with tangible benefits, the Group carried out a the nuisances associated with its transport activities and store fundamental review of its social-responsibility governance in operations; working conditions for employees, along with fair 2012. The Executive Management teams have been tasked with compensation that motivates their performance; promotion gaining an increasingly detailed understanding of their customers’ of responsible consumption; promotion of local employment; expectations and with working together at local level to implement integration into the local economic fabric; and sponsorship to an action plan. These short-term actions form part of a longsupport the communities in which we operate. term vision defined by General Management at the highest level. Going forward, our short-term actions and long-term vision will complement each other, with the former creating immediate value 2.1.2.3 PLAN TO COMBAT WASTE in line with its environment and the other setting our actions in a meaningful context. Reducing waste, a major social issue, should help cut the consumption of non-renewable resources and contribute to protecting the quality of life for the nine billion inhabitants that the world will have to 2.1.2.2 A CSR STRATEGY UNDERPINNED support by 2050. In order to achieve this, Carrefour drew up an BY THE ISO 26000 STANDARD ambitious waste-reduction plan in September 2012. In July 2012, an assessment of the Carrefour Group’s responsibilities The plan aims not only to cut expenditure, but also to involve was carried out on the basis of the seven central questions laid the Group’s customers and partners. Based on the principle of down in the ISO 26000 standard 5. The Group opted to use an subsidiarity, which underpins Carrefour’s organisational structure, international standard to ensure that its strategy was clear, Country Executive Management teams have produced their transparent and easily comparable. own action plans for 2013 within the general framework of the overall plan. They are also responsible for involving all managers The assessment is presented in the form of a diagram with seven and, through them, all Group employees. All Carrefour business branches, one for each of the seven central questions, and identifies functions are affected. all areas relating to the protection of human rights, environmental 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 18 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance 2.1.3 CSR GOVERNANCE TOOLS 2.1.3.1 DEDICATED SUSTAINABLE Human Resources), these coordinators are responsible for the DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT Carrefour’s sustainable development policy is a core part of operational roll-out of the sustainable development policy to reflect the local situation. They are also responsible for reporting 2 on the actions implemented within the BU. The Group Sustainable the highest level of the Group’s business and is supported by an organisational structure that serves all business functions, countries and banners. This ensures that it is rolled out to all employees. Development department coordinates this network of contacts through regular meetings with representatives in European countries and videoconferences with international coordinators 2 Organisation and mission (Latin America and Asia). These meetings enable discussions about policies established by the Group, major topical issues, best practices and indicators, most of which are reported on a quarterly basis. 2 The Carrefour Group created its Sustainable Development department in 2000. Since 2011, a Quality and Sustainable Development department has been responsible for both the 2.1.3.4 QUALITY AND SUSTAINABLE Sustainable Development department and the Quality department. Corporate Social Responsibility is managed by Carrefour’s General Secretary. He works in conjunction with the Sustainable DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE A Quality and Sustainable Development Committee was created 2 Development, Quality and Public Affairs departments and with the in November 2012 at the instigation of the Chairman and Chief Carrefour Foundation to implement policy within the Executive Executive Officer 5. Its aim is to develop a vision of Carrefour’s role Management teams. The Human Resources department has an within society and to ensure that everyone respects its fundamental Employee Relations department to deal with employee-related CSR positions. The Quality and Sustainable Development Committee is topics, in close cooperation with the General Secretary. The Sustainable Development department defines the Group’s social chaired by Carrefour’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and comprises the General Secretary, Group Communications director, Group Human Resources director, Group Merchandise director, 2 responsibility strategy, leads its deployment, initiates projects and therefore deals with matters at the business’s highest level. Its role Group Quality director and the director for Belgium. It represents an is to define long-term goals, consolidate results from the Executive essential means of integrating Corporate Social Responsibility into Management teams and disseminate best practices both internally the Group’s management. and externally. It maintains contact with the country management teams to ensure that actions agreed locally are aligned with Carrefour’s goals. The agenda for the committee’s first meeting included three major topics: social responsibility in the supply chain, combating waste and crisis management. 2 2.1.3.2 CSR’S INTEGRATION INTO ALL 2.1.3.5 A CSR TARGET IN VARIABLE BUSINESS FUNCTIONS The Group’s Quality and Sustainable Development department REMUNERATION A CSR target has been included in the variable portion of managers’ 2 works in close collaboration with the Group’s country-level remuneration since 2012. Last year’s assessment was based on operational and cross-functional departments: European Public employee commitment and reduced energy consumption. A CSR Affairs, Quality/Merchandise, Purchasing, Human Resources, element will again be included in individual objectives in 2013. Marketing, Communications, Assets and Logistics. All business lines These objectives will include a criterion on human resources are involved in implementing the Group’s Sustainable Development approach. The Group also calls on the support of scientists and outside experts to carry out its mission. management, which will be used to assess the extent to which managers are involved in their employees’ development and training, commitment and promotion of diversity. 2 2.1.3.3 IMPLEMENTATION IN COUNTRIES 2.1.3.6 CSR TRAINING FOR COMMITTED AND BANNERS The Sustainable Development department has local coordinators EMPLOYEES To encourage employee involvement, programmes aimed at raising 2 in the various countries to promote the Carrefour Group’s strategy awareness of sustainable development are offered on a regular basis. internationally. In cooperation with the Business Units’ operational and cross-functional departments (Quality, Assets, Logistics and 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 19 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance In 2012, Carrefour Property added three training courses to recycling waste, saving water and more, thus jointly saving energy its catalogue, designed to improve its employees’ skills in and cutting costs at head office. environmental areas: the environmental approach’s fundamental Working in partnership with the Akatu Institute, the main NGO principles, improving buildings’ energy performance and new environmental regulations 5. for responsible consumption, Carrefour Brazil has introduced a training programme aimed at store employees. The two main A special one-day training module was developed in 2009 for subjects addressed are rational consumption of natural resources all Supply Chain France teams to raise awareness and inform and the importance of sorting waste. employees of our sustainable development objectives and the In Argentina, the national corporate social responsibility actions to be taken in their business area to achieve them. Some programme Sumando Voluntades has aimed to raise awareness 85% of employees who have taken this training course said they were “very satisfied” with it 5. and motivate all employees at head office and in the stores to take action on environmental protection, nutrition and social integration In Italy, the in-house journal Noi Carrefour (We Are Carrefour) since 2009. deals with CSR-related topics on a regular basis. A story in the form The Sustainable Development Awards organised in France since of a cartoon strip also illustrates CSR topics as they are experienced 2009 have rewarded the best actions relating to sustainable by employees in their day-to-day work. development taken by stores and support teams. Participants include Italy continued its APE “We Like to Protect the Environment” not only teams from various stores (hypermarkets, supermarkets programme in 2012, following on from its launch in 2009. Aimed and convenience stores), but also from support functions (Supply at employees in Carrefour Italy’s head office, the programme raises Chain, Carrefour Property, Merchandise and Promocash) and head awareness amongst all employees about respecting and protecting offices. Four awards are presented – for Waste Management, Saving the environment through individual and collective actions. Everyone Resources, Responsible Consumption and Citizenship – following a can participate by taking the environmental actions suggested, vote by customers and consumers. such as turning off lights, electrical devices and office equipment, 2.1.4 A SHARED GOAL WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Carrefour engages in on-going dialogue with its stakeholders Carrefour’s stakeholders have been organised on a regular basis, through its Sustainable Development department at Group level with attendees including NGOs, customers, representatives of the and through the Business Units and stores at local level. Conducted French Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Agriculture, both upstream and downstream, this consultation identifies and agricultural (Carrefour Quality Line) producers, processed food anticipates stakeholders’ expectations to prevent risks, defuse suppliers and the rating agencies. The first consultation session, conflicts and exchange views, in order to identify pragmatic and on biodiversity, took place on January 25, 2013. The event gave effective solutions. Carrefour’s teams the opportunity to share a number of social-issue achievements, such as developing the offer and promoting the range of responsible products, responsible consumption amongst 2.1.4.1 CONSULTATION SESSIONS WITH consumers and the Group’s commitment to protecting biodiversity. CARREFOUR STAKEHOLDERS The consultations also help to support the emergence of new ways of taking action in partnership with the stakeholders concerned. As part of the assessment carried out in accordance with the ISO 26000 standard in July 2012, Carrefour updated its stakeholders’ They are also an opportunity for stakeholder representatives to put map and decided to set up a joint consultation body to ensure that their questions directly to Carrefour’s main senior managers and it listened to them 5 effectively and engaged in more meaningful experts. discussions. Since January 2013, consultation sessions with 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 20 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance 2.1.4.2 TRANSPARENCY WITH REGARD they are not strictly considered SRI funds, include environmental, TO THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY social or governance information in addition to purely financial data. Today, the assessment of a company’s performance by investors almost always includes an extra-financial aspect. Indeed, an Working closely with the Group’s Financial Communications assessment of the Company’s intangible value makes it possible to measure its ability to develop over the long term by taking into department, the Sustainable Development department responds to requests for interviews as well as occasional requests for information concerning policies and initiatives launched by the Group’s various 2 consideration regulatory changes, consumers’ expectations, image risk, resource availability, company governance and more. Although many investment firms have created Socially Responsible businesses. They also respond to questionnaires from the main rating agencies. 2 Investment (SRI) funds comprised only of companies that meet the criteria defined for such funds, most investment schemes, even if 2 2.1.4.3 SHARING VALUE INCOME Customers Carrefour’s sales excluding tax reached Partners €2,333 million Financial income Carrefour earned €81 million from its 2 €76,789 million Other miscellaneous income for Carrefour: financial and strategic investments in the (excluding customer loyalty programmes – income from financial companies, leasing form of interest and dividends. €662 million) in 2012. revenues and various other incomes. EXPENSES 2 Government Trade payables Employees and local communities Financial institutions Shareholders Carrefour spent €66,701 million on goods and services from suppliers. The Carrefour Group spent almost €7,566 million on its 364,969 employees Carrefour paid a total of Charges – mainly linked €1,058 million in taxes, to financial transactions including €543 million in corporate income tax. – were €964 million. The Carrefour Group paid: • €137 million in dividends to parent2 in 12 countries. This company shareholders. amount includes gross • €121 million to salaries, social security minority shareholders charges and benefits. in other Group companies. 2 2.1.4.4 SPECIAL PARTNERSHIPS resources, based on two main pillars: developing responsible supply WITH NGOS For over a decade, Carrefour has built long-term partnerships with chains for such products as timber, paper, soya, palm oil, pesticides, seafood and gold, and supporting and promoting responsible consumption amongst consumers. Since 2010, the WWF has 2 organisations that enable it to combine its own specialists’ skills helped Carrefour to formally establish its responsible supply policy with those of outside experts in order to work more effectively for forestry products, with a commitment charter that has been and constructively. Far from being a mere joint reflection exercise, distributed to suppliers (see page 44). The partnership with the WWF this cooperation has an operational impact: experts from NGOs contribute, alongside Carrefour employees, to developing and implementing the Group’s sustainable development policy. has also resulted in numerous initiatives to raise awareness amongst consumers, using various media including the Carrefour website, the “100% Committed” newsletter and such magazines as Kid’s Mag 2 Initially established in 1997 to protect forests, the partnership and Carrefour Kids. between Carrefour and WWF France has gradually expanded to include environmental issues related to the exploitation of natural 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 21 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR’s governance The partnership of almost 20 years between Carrefour and the 2.1.4.5 ACTIVE PARTICIPATION international trade-union federation Union Network International IN PUBLIC DEBATE (UNI) resulted in the May 2001 signing of an international agreement on respect for fundamental rights and the recommendations laid down in the guidelines produced by the International Labour Signing the European agreement on waste Organization (ILO), in particular in relation to trade-union freedoms Carrefour signed the REAP Forum commitments to combat waste and the right to collective negotiation. The agreement was renewed in December 2012 following a European consultation session; over in 2011 and applies in all countries where the Group operates. 20 European companies in the sector have signed the agreement Carrefour has also worked in partnership with the International to date. Federation of Human Rights (FIDH) since 1997 as part of The Group has made a commitment to conducting at least two its commitment to respect the basic rights laid down by the awareness-raising initiatives on food waste at European level by International Labour Organization. This cooperation has been 2014. These initiatives will focus primarily on: formalised through the creation of a joint association: INFANS. In W conducting at least two awareness-raising initiatives on food 2000, it was expressed in tangible terms through the development waste at national level by the end of June 2014; of a Social Charter binding Carrefour suppliers. Since 2002, INFANS has supported Carrefour’s prescriptive approach by participating W their main initiative will be to offer consumers: in the establishment of a system to ensure respect for the ILO’s advice on ways of reducing the food waste they generate: for W fundamental principles and human rights in the supply chain, example, how to manage, store and use food more efficiently, primarily through the introduction of a social-audit programme for Carrefour suppliers, carried out by firms of independent experts. To W information on the real meaning of use-by and best-before ensure that labour relations practices do actually change, Carrefour dates, in line with the messages conveyed in information and the IFHR have also developed training courses as part of a longcampaigns run by the European Commission and the term programme of support for suppliers to help them implement French Ministry of Agriculture and Food Processing, and, if a socially responsible approach. INFANS regularly carries out appropriate, using the tools made available in this context, investigative assignments in the countries from which Carrefour W marketing tools designed to reduce consumer food waste, sources products to assess working conditions and how they have such as shopping lists aimed at consumers and information changed. on prevention. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 22 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility 2.2 Social responsibility Inspired by the Group’s goal of being “the employer of choice” everywhere it operates, the Carrefour Group’s Human Resources DEVELOPING AND REWARDING THE GROUP’S MEN AND WOMEN 2 department has set itself the task of boosting its customer-service culture and improving its employees’ performance. As part of this, the Group continued to develop two priority strategic areas in 2012: From training to development and fair remuneration that motivates employees to perform well, the Group has prioritised the production of straightforward operational policies and programmes based on 2 acting as a responsible employer; 2 W the conviction that career management, training and recognition of W developing the potential of Carrefour’s men and women and its men and women are key elements in the Group’s performance. rewarding them 5. The key figures, principles and priorities of these strategic areas are described and illustrated by policies and practices at Group and local levels. ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Promoting diversity, prioritising rich, positive social dialogue, promoting well-being in the workplace and establishing the relationship between operational excellence and employee 2 fulfilment are all areas where the Group has emphasised its actions in order to be recognised as a benchmark company and to act as a responsible employer. 2 2.2.1 CARREFOUR’S MEN AND WOMEN At year-end 2012, Carrefour had 364,969 employees in 12 countries. This section sets out details of the Carrefour Group’s workforce in 2012 and like-for-like changes. 2 2.2.1.1 WORKFORCE PRESENTATION Breakdown of workforce by geographic region Change 2 Workforce by geographic region 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 2011/2012 Europe region 206,580 216,354 (4.5)% Latin America region 86,672 86,028 0.7% Asia region TOTAL GROUP 71,717 364,969 5 68,621 371,003 4.5% (1.6)% 2 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 23 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Breakdown of workforce by format Employees by format 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Hypermarkets 64.9% 64.9% Supermarkets 18.2% 18.0% Others 16.9% 17.1% TOTAL 100% 100% Workforce by age group Workforce by age group 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 > Age 65 0.1% 0.1% Age 65 * age > 60 0.6% 0.5% Age 60 * age > 55 3.3% 2.8% Age 55 * age > 50 6.2% 5.6% Age 50 * age > 45 9.5% 8.8% age 45 * age > 40 12.9% 11.9% Age 40 * age > 35 14.7% 14.3% Age 35 * age > 30 16.3% 15.8% Age 30 * age > 25 16.5% 17.5% Age 25 * age > 18 18.5% 22.2% < Age 18 1.4% 0.5% Breakdown by gender (male-female) The Carrefour Group had 57% women in the workforce at the end of 2012. The Group’s active policy of promoting equal treatment of men and women is described on page 26. Proportion of women by category 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Senior Directors 11.2% 10.8% Directors 20.9% 19.8% Managers 36.7% 35.5% Employees 59.7% 59.5% TOTAL GROUP 57.0% 56.7% Breakdown of workforce by category and type of contract Workforce by category 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Senior Directors 0.1% 0.1% Directors 0.5% 0.5% Managers 10.7% 10.3% Employees 88.7% 89.1% Workforce by type of contract 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Permanent contact 93.6% 92.4% Fixed-term contract 6.4% 7.6% 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 24 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility New hires and departures Number of new hires 2012 2011 96,786 5 Permanent contract Fixed-term contract 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 69,664 5 94,406 56,380 2 2 Departures by reason 2012 2011 Dismissal Resignation 22,408 55,116 28,128 52,206 2 End of probation period 23,640 28,873 2.2.2 ACTING AS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 2 2.2.2.1 A PROACTIVE POLICY wide range of backgrounds. In particular, the Group works in close Diversity is an integral part of Carrefour’s economic model. Since its creation, the Group has been committed to reflecting the diversity partnership with Ekon in Poland and Once in Spain on recruiting the disabled 5. 2 of society and the communities in which it operates. With some 100 nationalities represented, diversity is a reality at Carrefour: its teams Raising awareness of non-discrimination are made up of men and women of all ages, all backgrounds and Combating discrimination is primarily a question of providing varied career paths. training and raising awareness amongst all Group employees, Promoting diversity and equal opportunity with particular attention paid to management training, especially in relation to recruitment. In 2012, Carrefour’s various entities developed or continued to pursue actions that reflected their local 2 Since its creation, the Group has pursued a proactive policy context. of promoting diversity and equal opportunity, starting with recruitment and continuing throughout its employees’ careers. Various actions were taken in Brazil in 2012, including the Carrefour ensures fair treatment of its employees’ careers and approval of Carrefour’s policy on promoting diversity, making implements best practices designed to encourage equality between men and women, local employment and the recruitment of young non-discrimination a topic in the induction programme, specific training for in-store ambassadors and the launch of a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign, “We are the face of diversity.” 2 people (regardless of whether or not they have qualifications), people excluded from the workforce and the disabled, as well as Spain has developed a special training programme on equal maintaining older workers in employment. treatment, harassment and gender-based violence for managers and This key Group commitment is the responsibility of the Executive employees. director for Human Resources and Group Organisation, while Human Resources directors in each country are tasked with the In France in 2012, managers in 40 hypermarkets, primarily in the Ile-de-France region, attended a training course on professionalising 2 mission of promoting diversity. recruitment, during which each delegate had the opportunity to In France, this commitment resulted in the 2004 signing of the review the rules of objective evaluation and the legal framework Corporate Diversity Charter, the Code of Professional Conduct surrounding non-discrimination 5. The training course will be and the Parenting Charter, and the 2008 signing of a diversity rolled out to new stores in the first quarter of 2013. An experimental and social cohesion agreement for the hypermarkets 5 and an agreement on employment for the disabled in hypermarkets, study of hypermarket employees from all backgrounds on work/ study contracts is currently underway, meant to identify the impact of potentially discriminatory behaviour on employees’ performance. 2 supermarkets and logistics. In other Group countries, promoting diversity primarily takes the form of action plans and agreements with local associations to support the recruitment of people from a 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 25 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Special programmes targeting respect for equal Several countries have also launched special programmes and/or treatment of men and women signed workplace gender-equality agreements in order to encourage greater diversity amongst management employees. This is the case The Group has developed ways of organising work that enable in France, where agreements were renewed for hypermarkets and people to reconcile their working and family lives (including work supermarkets in 2012 5. Spain has also implemented equality schedules organised in blocks and job versatility; see page 33) and plans since 2010. Women represent over 57% of Carrefour’s are of particular benefit to women. total workforce, but are not as well represented at the highest management levels. In 2012, 35.7% of the Group’s managers were women. 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Percentage of women in management (1) 35.7% 5 34.6% 34.0% 33.8% 5.6% 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. (1) Like-for-like BU figures (100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). In addition to local initiatives, the Women Leaders programme was Concrete actions for integrating disabled workers launched at Carrefour in 2011 5. The Group Human Resources and keeping them employed department has developed a comprehensive action plan and set up a Steering Committee to monitor its implementation as well as to At the end of 2011, Carrefour entered into a partnership obtain feedback on the countries’ best practices. Four focus areas agreement with the Disability Network of the International Labour have been defined, resulting in measures that can be adapted to Organization (ILO) in order to work on promoting, alongside each country: community organisations and other institutions, the disabled’s employment around the world 5. In 2012, the partnership W each country’s definition of its own objectives; resulted in the Executive director for Human Resources and Group W making women more visible within the business by promoting Organisation participating in the official launch of the Disability their achievements; Network at the ILO in Geneva in June 2012, welcoming members career development decisions focused on gender equality; and of the network’s Executive Committee to Carrefour’s head office W and meeting disabled workers at the Carrefour store in Montesson. W the work/life balance. A “Disability at Carrefour” video was produced and disseminated Based primarily on identifying and establishing ambassadors around the world. in all countries, the project was launched and organised in 2011 Various countries have continued numerous programmes to help and expanded in 2012. Numerous initiatives have been launched, integrate and support disabled employees. including communications and awareness-raising activities in all countries; definition of a process to identity women with high In Spain, Carrefour has pursued a proactive policy in this area by potential in France; proactive recruitment of women managers signing an agreement in 2005 and following it up with an approach in Argentina; highlighting women’s careers within the Group to integrate the disabled in 2009. The Group is now working with (Argentina, Spain, France and Romania); the launch of the Women the Inserta foundation on recruiting the disabled, and takes part in Leaders intranet site; dissemination of a brochure to Senior forums on employment for those with disabilities in its catchment directors in all countries and directors in France; and establishment area. of a day dedicated to the role of women in business for members In Poland, Carrefour achieved an employment rate of 5.24% for the of the Carrefour European Committee (European Information and disabled in 2012 with the support of the Carrefour Foundation and Consultation Committee). Poland’s Ekon association. Training in all stores helps employees In France a study was carried out in supermarkets to assess the to cooperate more effectively with the disabled. In addition, difference in remuneration between men and women with the recruitment of the disabled is one of the criteria used to determine same profile at the level of Regional director, Store director and the remuneration of directors, Store directors and Regional directors. Store manager. The results, which were presented to the committee responsible for monitoring the agreement on equal treatment of men and women in September 2012, revealed discrepancies of less than 2.5%. (1) Population: Supermarket Store directors 5. (1) Methodology developed by the APEC (Agence Pour l’Emploi des Cadres) in France. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 26 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility In France, Carrefour remained one of the leading employers of the Brazil has launched the “I practise inclusion” programme, the aim disabled in the mass-market retail sector in 2012, reaching a level of which is to offer the disabled the right to equality within the of 6.03% in its hypermarkets (as at the end of 2012, excluding organisation, both when they are recruited and throughout their suspended contracts). Employees in charge of recruitment at career. The focus is on the person’s skills and assets rather than his Carrefour in France have been specifically trained to identify where the disabled could be matched to store vacancies. or her limitations. 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 2 Percentage of employees deemed disabled (1) 2.8% 2.6% 2.4% 2.6% 7.5% (1) Like-for-like BU figures (100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Number of disabled people (1) 10,095 5 9,452 9,092 9,758 3.4% (1) Like-for-like BU figures (100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2 A special focus on older workers’ employment Identifying employee expectations and working conditions Surveys have been carried out with employees across the Group for the last 20 years to identify their expectations, including the Carrefour pays particular attention to employing older workers and ensuring they enjoy good working conditions in the later stages of their careers. Agreements have therefore been negotiated Listening to Employees survey, focus groups, internet-based surveys in France and Italy and Encuesta Compromiso in Argentina 5. 2 and signed within the various entities in France, in particular to These surveys, conducted with a representative sample of store implement action plans in relation to managing older workers’ and head-office employees, are used to gather views on such key careers effectively. topics as corporate image, training, career development, working conditions, management and commitment levels. The results are Information sessions and training on retirement issues with the main welfare insurance groups have been rolled out in hypermarkets in France since 2010. By June 30, 2012, 146 information sessions had analysed in detail and fed into targeted action plans for each entity. To take the process a step further, Carrefour disseminated a 2 been deployed and 541 people had taken part in the programme. comprehensive opinion poll to all Group employees in May 2011, with a twofold aim: A guide for older workers was also sent to the home address of all supermarket employees over age 45 and those over 55 at Carrefour W to gather employees’ opinions on such key topics as career opportunities and development, quality of working life, Banque. It provides information and advice on working in a career’s later stages and on planning for retirement. interpersonal relationships, internal rules, policies and management functions within the business; 2 W to measure the extent to which employees understand and 2.2.2.2 DIALOGUE AS A TOOL TO DRIVE support the Carrefour Group’s strategy and objectives 5. SOCIAL PROGRESS Following the survey, each country implemented a 2012 action The Carrefour Group is committed to consultation and internal and external social dialogue in support of individual and collective development. plan; for example: Belgium has been targeting four areas, all identified as improvement 2 goals: communication, career opportunities, the Company’s As a means of measuring labour relations internally, for example, recognition of its employees and the Company’s reputation. One Carrefour carries out a detailed survey of its employees’ expectations. action plan produced by Carrefour Belgium in 2012 involved the Discussions take place on this basis at every level of the business implementation of HR Fundamentals (cf. Part 2.3.4), plus training and help to develop the Group’s culture and boost its employees’ commitment. for 85 Store directors on how to use these tools. 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 27 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility In Romania, the improvement goals identified in the comprehensive At European level, 2012 saw the tangible implementation of a survey were cross-referenced with results from self-assessments on new Carrefour European Consultation and Information Committee HR processes carried out by all Store directors as part of introducing agreement, signed in 2011 5. In addition to the Carrefour the Group HR Fundamentals programme. Action plans were European Consultation and Information Committee’s ordinary implemented, and 25 commitments were made and communicated meetings, General Management organised a two-day training and through posters in each store. Romania also trained its 75 Store information seminar in May 2012 for social partners and members directors on the HR processes and tools recommended as part of the of the committee; one day was devoted to equal treatment of men HR Fundamentals programme. and women. A meeting of the CICE’s Executive Committee devoted to new technologies was also set up. The agreement has improved In Poland, detailed surveys were carried out with 300 people in 10 communication between members of the European Committee: stores. the CICE newsletter and website, launched in 2012, provide In France, 115 groups of 10-12 people were surveyed in comprehensive, detailed information on meetings, best practices hypermarkets, while over 12,500 supermarket employees in France and official Group communications. These ensure that members are responded to the “all store employees” surveys conducted via the kept informed throughout the year. Internet. Social dialogue steadily grew in 2012, both in countries where it is an established practice and in those where the process is at an Organisation of social dialogue early stage. At Group level, in the mid-1990s Carrefour created one of the In Turkey, for example, a collective agreement on salary increases first European works committees: the European Consultation and was negotiated and signed in 2012. In France, annual compulsory Information Committee (Comité d’Information et de Concertation negotiations resulted in new benefits for hypermarket, supermarket Européen – CICE). The CICE provides an opportunity for Carrefour’s and logistics employees (e.g. the CESU (1) in hypermarkets). In social partners to speak freely and transparently with General Poland, 138 open-door meetings were organised for trade-union Management on an extremely wide range of topics, including representatives to meet Carrefour employees. In Belgium, three sustainable development and corporate social responsibility since new collective bargaining agreements were signed regarding work 2008. Carrefour’s signing of an agreement with UNI (Union Network organisation, the price discounts granted to employees and payment International) in May 2001 has contributed to the development of a of one-off, performance-related benefits. real culture of social dialogue. (1) Chèque Emploi Service Universel, a flexible service voucher for employees. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 28 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Overview of collective bargaining agreements The following table supplements the overview of collective bargaining agreements described above. It shows the main agreements signed in 2012. Clauses added to previously-signed agreements in 2012 are not listed. Country Agreements signed Agreement on work organisation in hypermarkets to support job versatility. 2 Agreement on computerisation of promotional vouchers. Belgium Agreement on the redeployment of certain individuals. Definition of joint annual targets for calculating management bonuses. Signing of three types of agreement for a total of nine in 2012. 2 W Standard agreements to fulfil legal obligations that had just come into effect (all stores); W Standard agreements amended to include a commitment for a higher minimum salary than the required local legal minimum (10 stores); 2 China W Standard agreement amended to include a salary increase compared with 2011 (six stores). Spain Agreement on work organisation. Company-wide agreement on equal treatment of men and women in the workplace 5. Agreement on change of membership in top-up pension organisations 5. France/hypermarkets Agreement on management of career development for certain individuals 5. Profit-sharing 5. Agreement on workplace health 5. 2 Agreement on workplace health 5. Profit-sharing 5. France/supermarkets Incentive scheme 5. Poland Definition of Inspectors’ function. Definition of consultation rules in the case of employees on permanent contracts being made redundant. Definitions of redundancy terms regarding the closure of four hypermarkets. 2 2012-2013 collective bargaining agreement on pension payments made to employees leaving the business Romania when they reach retirement age. Turkey New collective bargaining agreement for a three-year period. Brazil Collective bargaining agreement for the São Paulo region. 5 Qualitative statements verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2 An overview of the health and safety agreements signed is shown Prevention of workplace accidents on page 32. In addition to regulatory requirements, the Group ensures that its employees understand health and safety regulations, runs preventive training and awareness-raising campaigns, establishes procedures in 2 2.2.2.3 INCREASED HEALTH AND SAFETY the countries where it operates and performs regular on-site audits. VIGILANCE AT WORK To reduce the number and seriousness of workplace accidents, the The health and safety of both employees and customers are key Carrefour Group also puts risk assessment and prevention at the priorities for Carrefour. The Group made a commitment at a very early stage to a proactive policy of improving its employees’ working conditions in terms of heart of its employee health and safety management system. Many countries have set up dedicated organisational structures in the past few years 5. 2 both safety and physical and psychological health. From the outset, Regular training courses are provided to disseminate best practices this approach has been characterised by respect for the operational and ensure that they are applied consistently, covering inteams and listening to their needs, introducing flexible working store safety as well as health, movement and working posture. practices and a commitment to work/life balance. Countries without specific safety regulations base their practices on stricter French safety standards. Differences in legislation and the principle of Supermarkets in France trained over 2,500 people in movement and working posture in 2012. 2 subsidiarity regarding Carrefour’s various countries and entities justify the diversity of health and safety actions taken across the Group. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 29 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility France also developed risk assessment software in 2009. This is Spain has identified a list of equipment needed to ensure that designed to reflect the activities of each banner and is now deployed employees are properly protected for each workstation. Employees in all hypermarkets and 224 supermarkets. This allows each store can also take a dedicated training course on preventing risk in their to carry out risk analyses for all its workstations and to implement day-to-day work via the Online Campus site. annual action plans. In Poland, a dedicated health and safety department is responsible The Carrefour market store in Suresnes (France) stood out for for the risk prevention system and checks that procedures are its exemplary actions in the area of workplace risk prevention applied and updated as necessary. It sets up and runs a programme by conducting a prototype study and introducing equipment to of regular audits and monitors the corrective actions expected. A improve working conditions when employees are putting goods risk assessment is carried out for each workstation at each store on display. As a result, the banner was awarded a Cramif (Caisse opening. régionale d’assurance maladie d’Île-de-France) Award from the ÎleIn Brazil, accident analysis carried out in 2012 resulted in the de-France health insurance fund. production of a preventive action plan. Training on the use of Carrefour France created a dedicated body for workplace health equipment and machinery has been intensified. and safety in 2012. Several major projects have been launched, Romania has introduced a risk identification procedure, and including those aimed at preventing psychosocial risks, appointing quarterly meetings run by the Health and Safety Committee a Company medical officer for France and preventing workplace establish whether any action plans are required. risks associated with the “drive-in” format; these resulted in the signing of two partnership agreements with the Île-de-France health insurance fund on January 25, 2013, the first on “drivein” collection points and the second on workplace risk prevention officers’ training for Carrefour France. Rate of work absences and accident frequency and seriousness 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Rate of absence due to workplace and travel-related accidents (1) 0.57% 0.58% 0.59% 0.58% (0.8)% (1) Like-for-like BU figures (83% of 2012 consolidated sales) – excluding: HM: BR/SM: BR. 2012 2011 Workplace accident frequency rate (1) (number of accidents/millions of theoretical work hours) 21.9 5 28.0 Workplace accidents’ seriousness level (1) (number of days absent due to workplace accident/1,000 work hours). 0.52 0.61 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. (1) Like-for-like BU figures (100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). Prevention of occupational illnesses In 2012, France’s logistics entity limited the height of pallets, and significantly reduced the number of 1.80-metre pallets leaving the Workplace ergonomics and combating musculoskeletal warehouse. Building on these initiatives, a three-year action plan problems was instigated in 2012 on preventing strenuous working conditions The main occupational illnesses identified by the Carrefour Group and psychosocial risks. An information/consultation phase began are musculo-skeletal problems. Numerous preventive actions are in December 2012. taken across the Group to avoid them. Carrefour stores have been given ergonomic equipment designed to Preventing stress and psychosocial risks limit handling operations. French supermarkets and hypermarkets, Over the past 15 years, stress has emerged as a major psychosocial for example, are equipped with high-lift pallet trucks or manual risk faced by companies. The Carrefour Group instigated an trucks in smaller stores. Platforms have been specially created in approach to preventing psychosocial risks in the workplace several supermarkets to allow employees to reach the top shelves easily. years ago. It aims to assess the main risk factors and support the development of appropriate action plans. Numerous actions have been taken at local level at the instigation of countries and entities. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 30 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Carrefour Banque carried out a study involving all employees in In France and Spain, agreements on the equal treatment of men and 2012, conducted by a firm specialising in assessment and prevention women ensure that employees have more opportunity to reconcile of psychosocial risks and workplace stress 5. their working and family life. In tangible terms, employees in Spain now have the option of adding annual leave to their paternity leave. In Carrefour stores in France, training courses on stress management and “SOS Conflict” courses continued in 2012 to help employees manage sometimes difficult relationships with customers (from basic dissatisfaction to verbal or physical aggression or the threat In France, various measures have also been taken in relation to parenting, including adjustments to working hours, a pilot scheme for inter-company daycare centres in towns with several Carrefour 2 market stores, funding of childcare for parents attending training of violence): W some 43 managers and 1,385 hypermarket employees and store courses and offering CESU flexible service vouchers with a 50% employer contribution. The CESU voucher scheme already existed 2 managers were trained in stress management, with the aim of in the supermarkets, but was renewed and extended to hypermarkets identifying stress linked to workplace activities and managing and adapting working methods to optimise performance and improve the quality of working life; for the first time as part of the 2012 annual compulsory negotiations. Poland ran a time-management course in 2012 to help people 2 organise, plan and complete tasks more effectively, thus aiding W 1,310 employees took part in the “SOS Conflict” course in them in maintaining a better balance between their work and hypermarkets and 248 in supermarkets. A total of 25,266 have personal lives. benefited from the programme since 2004. The supermarkets also took the initiative and launched a questionnaire in early 2012, with the help of an outside firm, on Work-schedule pooling (see page 33) also helps them to achieve a better work/life balance. 2 evaluating and preventing psychosocial risks. Programmes to improve working conditions A remote listening and psychological support system has also Since the issue of improved working life is at the heart of current been set up for all employees in France. Available free-of-charge social thinking, Carrefour has implemented programmes on and 24/7, this personalised, anonymous, confidential service gives management and interpersonal relations intended to improve employees access to an outside psychological clinician to discuss any work-related or personal issues that may be causing them working conditions. In Spain, the Carrefour Life programme, an ambitious social project 2 unhappiness or even psychological problems, such as bereavement, aimed at employees and their families, offers a range of benefits, conflict or stress. courses and group activities designed to help people combine their Spain has carried out psychosocial risk assessments in over 20 private and working lives. The programme includes summer holiday stores. Despite the low level of psychosocial risks identified in the camps, the chance to take part in sporting competitions, cultural research, action plans have been agreed upon and implemented so as to prevent their appearance. events aimed at children, such as cinema and show tickets, and more. The programme has been a tremendous success since it was launched in 2009. It had over 22,000 members in 2012. 2 In Poland, a module on psychosocial risks and stress management has been introduced into the training programme delivered as part Hypermarkets in France introduced a well-being programme for of the induction process for new recruits. They are also told about check-out employees in 2010. The popularity of the initiative, the most frequent causes of occupational illness. which attracted over 12,000 participants, encouraged Carrefour to Promoting employee well-being repeat it, with 11 new ideas for events such as cookery competitions and introductory courses. 2 Numerous initiatives that go beyond legal requirements are run To ensure that all employees flourish in their work, Carrefour within the Group, such as courses designed to improve employees’ focuses its actions on promoting work/life balance and supports the diets, which are offered in France as part of an e-learning introduction of programmes to improve working conditions. programme and are also available in Argentina, Brazil, Poland and Work/life balance Carrefour was one of the first businesses to make a commitment Taiwan. In Taiwan, for example, the Employee Caring Mechanism programme, launched in all stores and at head office in June 2011, 2 aims to improve employees’ well-being at work through a range to respecting its employees’ work/life balance. As a member of initiatives, including birthday celebrations, rest areas, yoga and of the Observatoire de la parentalité en entreprise (a charitable dance classes after work, information sessions on insurance and tax organisation), the Group signed a parenting charter in 2008 and schemes, and so on. made a commitment toward implementing tangible initiatives in this area. 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 31 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Absenteeism rate by reason Absenteeism rate 2012 2011 Illness (1) 3.76% 3.87% Workplace accidents 0.42% 5 0.42% Accident while travelling 0.04% 0.04% (1) Illness only for employees on permanent contracts. 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. Overview of agreements signed regarding health and safety at work The table below shows some of the agreements and supplementary agreements signed with trade unions or employee representatives on workplace health and safety in 2012. This list is not exhaustive. Clauses added to previously-signed agreements are not included. Country/Format New for 2012 Renewal of an agreement signed in May 2009 for a three-year period. Part of the initial agreement relates to psychosocial risks and workplace stress (prevention of sexual and psychological abuse, support for risks of antisocial behaviour, support for employees who are victims of aggression and prevention of workplace stress). The new agreement now includes commitments France/supermarkets on reducing workplace strenuousness 5. Three-year agreement signed in hypermarkets in July 2012. Three major prevention areas, France/hypermarkets involving physical risks, psychosocial risks and workplace strenuousness 5. Brazil Agreement on medical assistance and insurance coverage. 5 Qualitative statements verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2.2.2.4 EFFECTIVE WORK ORGANISATION the changes it faces, while continuing to pay attention to employees’ THAT RESPECTS EMPLOYEES’ expectations and to comply with local regulations. NEEDS There are several ways of improving work organisation in stores while ensuring the efficiency levels required for growth, including reducing part-time work through job versatility, developing workInnovative organisational and working-time schedule pooling and experimenting with remote working. models Carrefour is committed to implementing effective organisational models that respond to the constraints inherent in the business and Reducing part-time employment Wherever possible, Carrefour seeks to boost the hourly basis of its part-time employees. 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Proportion of part-time employees 23.5% 5 23.4% 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. In France, actual working time for all full-time employees is 35 In Spain, an agreement on reorganising working hours was signed hours, except for managers, who work a fixed number of days per in 2012: it defines the minimum and maximum number of working year. In hypermarkets, actual working time for part-time employees hours per day and an annual calculation of working hours. Going is a minimum of 30 hours (except for student contracts) 5. forward, employees who work every day of the week are guaranteed Hypermarkets offer their part-time employees a full-time contract two consecutive days off on a Saturday and Sunday five times per whenever possible. year. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 32 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility Part-time work is an option that enables the Group to adapt its storeRemote working based activities to suit customer flows. However, the employees Remote working is designed to enable employees to work flexibly affected have not always favoured this alternative. Carrefour has while helping them to be more efficient. Working from home for developed a job versatility option – first in France and then in other some of the time can be especially useful in certain functions, in countries – which offers employees the opportunity to do some of their work in a different department within the store or to do a different job. This enables them to increase their number of working particular because it avoids employees having to travel to their usual workplace. Carrefour tested remote working in Italy and Belgium in 2012 2 hours and therefore their remuneration, diversify their workplace experience and explore new business functions. Since 2009, job versatility has enabled any hypermarket employee with some 20 employees from each head office. The scheme allows people to work remotely for one day per week in Belgium and up to two days per week in Italy. The business provides the necessary 2 in France to work under a full-time contract where possible, if they so wish. This means that they can work an additional five hours and see a 17% increase in their remuneration. Most logistics sites tools – computer, mobile phone and Internet access – and ensures that it meets legal requirements with regard to accidents or illnesses at an external workplace. 2 in France also offer job versatility. Some 1,284 people had taken The pilot in Belgium was conclusive and will be extended to all advantage of job versatility in hypermarkets as at the end of 2012, central services in 2013 (while the pilot in Italy is currently being 92% of whom were women, including 150 new beneficiaries. analysed). Job versatility has existed in Poland’s supermarkets for several years. Adapting the social model to economic 2 Work-schedule pooling challenges Introduced in France in 1998 and managed via a computerised tool, The demanding economic environment, structural changes in pooling of work schedules allows check-out employees to plan their consumption patterns and increased competition in the mass working time in accordance with their wishes and the level of store merchandise sector have had an impact on Carrefour’s business in activity. Two pilot schemes are underway in three stores in Belgium: western Europe, particularly in France. Against this background, Carrefour France launched a voluntary 2 W work-schedule pooling based on the scheme used in France; redundancy scheme at various head offices in early 2013 5. W a “free-time management” pilot, which gives check-out employees It was decided to reduce the size of central services and support the option of indicating two to five periods during the week when functions to simplify organisation of the Group’s head office they are not available. Over 200 stores in France used the work-schedule pooling system and other head offices in France and therefore help to boost the business’s competitiveness over the next few years while building a closer relationship with our in-store clientele. 2 in 2012, which can be implemented in any store with sufficient employee numbers. 2.2.3 DEVELOPPING AND REWARDING CARREFOUR’S MEN AND WOMEN 2 Career management, training and recognition of its men and women W offering fair remuneration and employee benefits that motivate are key elements in the Group’s operational performance. Carrefour has a firm commitment to all these areas and focuses its activities on three priority areas: employees, in line with the market and employees’ needs. The 2011 implementation of the Carrefour People Model and an HR 2 Fundamentals scheme was designed to strengthen the underlying W ensuring dynamic, equitable career management; principle by creating the conditions for responsible management and effective human resources management. W providing opportunities for all employees – whatever they do, throughout the world – to take part in training and increase their employability throughout their working lives; 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 33 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility 2.2.3.1 PROACTIVE TALENT AND CAREER In Romania, an employment exchange has been set up in order MANAGEMENT to create a transparent internal recruitment system so that all vacant positions are visible to all employees. Following the 2011 With over 120 different business functions and a presence in 12 reorganisation, support has been provided to help encourage countries, Carrefour offers some highly varied career paths and real managers in overstaffed hypermarkets to move over to supermarkets. mobility opportunities. The Group prioritises internal promotion and is committed to employees’ development being based on their Spain has developed a career tracking tool to assess the performance actual performance and their ability to take on new responsibilities, of all employees and produce career plans. combined with the business’s needs. To accomplish this, the Group In France, the “enviedebouger” intranet site supports internal has equipped itself with effective management tools and processes, mobility by publishing details of new challenges. including: Carrefour also decided to show its commitment by signing an W career committees. Career committees exist at every organisational agreement with its social partners on career development paths in level. Their aim is to identify talent and ensure that the business December 2011. The intention is for the new agreement to provide has the right people, in the right place, at the right time, now and ways of encouraging voluntary functional and/or geographical for the future. This results in joint and individual development mobility for all Group employees in France. It is about providing areas based on rigorous succession planning; the resources to build a career path for employees through: W the introduction of career management meetings designed to W links between various occupations; encourage the mutual exchange of views and the development W a training policy designed to make it easier for employees to of internal mobility between various countries and regions; and adapt and develop their professional skills; W annual performance appraisals. As Senior Directors and most W job mobility, mainly internally; directors have been trained in the new Carrefour People Model (see below), their performance has been assessed on the basis of W ways of managing job mobility that align with each company’s new methodology that takes account of both individual objectives human resources management policy. (the “what”) and key skills (the “how”) in order to strengthen A Young Talents path has also been formalised in hypermarkets the Group’s performance-based culture. The appraisal is an in France to help identify the managers of the future and support opportunity for the employee and his or her manager to discuss internal promotion: a questionnaire has been sent to all young the employee’s performance over the year, how they would like Group employee members who have been in a business management their career to develop and their training needs; position for a minimum of two years. This identifies potential among W the commitment the Carrefour Group has made to promoting existing employees members and means that they can be offered a women’s development and supporting them so that they might career that meets their expectations and aligns with Group needs. reach positions at the highest level of responsibility, primarily thanks to Carrefour’s Women Leaders project. Rate of internal promotion 2012 2011 Promotions to Senior Director 52.2% 30.5% Promotions to director 43.9% 45.0% Promotions to manager 51.6% 49.1% TOTAL 51.2% 48.5% 2.2.3.2 TRAINING TO SUPPORT levels, the Group Training department is responsible for carrying PROFESSIONAL AND PERSONAL out this policy. EFFECTIVENESS The Group provides leadership training for Senior Directors and certain high potentials. Each country and business unit is also responsible for implementing its own training plan to meet its The Carrefour Group’s training policy particular needs, especially where this relates to specific business The Carrefour Group’s training policy promotes employees’ functions. skills development and sustains them throughout their career. It also supports organisational change based on simplicity and effectiveness. Shared between the Group and country or entity 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 34 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility The policy is structured to follow the employee’s career path, Hypermarkets in France organise numerous open houses to provide breaking down as follows: information and raise awareness of the training available amongst employees. A total of 141 open houses were organised in 2012, and W training prior to and when starting a position, including an 181 stores ran open houses between 2010 and 2012. induction course for new arrivals involving business-related, W customer-relations and corporate-culture elements; training for better job performance; Romania introduced a training policy to encourage employees to adopt a proactive approach on the basis of the development needs expressed during their annual performance appraisal. Some 20 2 W development programmes to prepare for and support career progression. Targeted training is offered for each of the 120 business functions courses are now on offer, and 515 attendees have benefited from the new system. 2 In Spain, an e-learning platform is being developed and several represented at Carrefour in order to ensure excellence in the basics, with a goal of 100% of the target groups receiving compulsory training 5. new programmes have been created, including “Fresh Products School,” a check-out simulator, Carrefour Spain Master, business and language training, and more. 2 In total, nearly 5.0 million hours of training were provided in 2012, In China, in addition to individual development plans, Carrefour an average of 17.1 hours of training per person 5. has introduced a programme designed to assess store managers’ level of business knowledge in the form of a so-called “driving licence” assessment system. 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Average number of training hours per employee (1) 17.1 17.6 17.4 17.8 (4.3)% (1) Like-for-like BUs (scope: 84% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR/SM: BR. 2 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Total number of training hours delivered over the year (in millions) (1) 5.0 5 5.3 5.4 5.5 (10.0)% (1) Like-for-like BUs (scope: 84% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR/SM: BR. 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2 The Group’s 2012 training priority involved the roll-out of the Accredited training Carrefour People Model. The goal is to have a leadership model that clarifies the key skills that all Carrefour employees should have, The Carrefour Group makes full use of the continuing education regardless of their function, in order to improve the Group’s results through better individual and collective performance and to make the Carrefour attitude (committed, caring and positive) a reality. programmes provided within the legislative framework in France, and makes every effort to extend these to other countries where possible. 2 Training on the Carrefour People Model was launched in 2011 and Carrefour supports two accredited training programmes in France: delivered to Senior Director (Senior Directors and directors) in all W the CQP (Certificat de qualification professionnelle – Certificate countries in 2012. Several countries, including Belgium, Poland, of Professional Qualification) is aimed at employees without any Italy and Turkey, have also rolled out training to managers. As a result, over 6,000 employees have been trained on the model. other qualifications and gives them the opportunity to obtain professionally-recognised certification. The CQP scheme is already implemented in supermarkets so as to recognise existing 2 An e-learning platform (E-Campus Carrefour) was created at Group level to help share initiatives and support the model’s roll-out. employees’ skills and has been introduced in hypermarkets with Key training topics to be included in training catalogues so as the aim of supporting integration. In 2012, 1,604 people on work/ to ensure the development of key skills have been identified and study contracts completed training to obtain a Retail Employee communicated to all countries. Certificate of Professional Qualification. A total of 654 employees attended a three-day mentoring course. The introduction of the CQP Logistics Professional qualification in 2012 was piloted in 2 the Logistics department and is scheduled to be rolled out to all logistics sites in 2013; 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 35 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility W APL (Accreditation of Prior Learning) offers employees the 2.2.3.3 MOTIVATING, APPROPRIATE, chance to gain formal accreditation for their experience in the COMPETITIVE EMPLOYEE workplace. The first pilot scheme, launched in supermarkets REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS in 2011, was continued in 2012 (with 30 people involved that year). Internal trainers in supermarkets are also awarded skills Carrefour ensures that Group employees benefit from attractive certificates by the Sorbonne. The trainers concerned this year remuneration and benefit plans in line with local practices in each were those working in the non-food segment and at check-outs. market and in accordance with legal obligations and Group rules. In addition, Promocash, the Group’s cash & carry banner, has introduced a professionalisation programme for two intakes of Motivating employees departmental managers with a view to promoting them to deputy Carrefour wants all employees to be aware of their own objectives positions. and for the latter to be defined in line with Group priorities. Romania, Belgium, Italy and Poland have also had accredited This means paying special attention to managing skills and training programmes since 2012. performance. All managers are therefore asked to support members of their team to develop their skills and assess their performance Knowledge transfer and mentoring regularly over the course of the year. The aim of so-called “referral” stores and business trainers all over France and within each banner is to ensure that know-how Recognising employees and business best practices are passed on to the next generation. Learners alternate between theory and practice while working inFair remuneration within the organisation store. Fixed and variable remuneration levels are set while taking into account the specific nature of each function and the skills required. In addition, under the GPEC Agreement (job and skills forecast management system) of February 6, 2009 and the “older workers” The annual remuneration review is designed to verify the agreement settled with social partners, the Group’s various French consistency and fairness of internal remuneration levels: proposals entities negotiated and made commitments to promote senior for remuneration changes are analysed by each entity to ensure employment. As part of this initiative, senior-employee volunteers that they are consistent with responsibilities and the performance can pass on knowledge to less experienced employees, provide of each employee, and that they are based on a principle of fairness. training and mentor young people on work/study programmes, and Remuneration levels reflecting market practices support the integration of new employees. Countries assess their positioning each year in relation to their local In France and Spain, Carrefour has also put in place an internal market based on dedicated remuneration surveys, in order to ensure recruitment scheme for franchisees based on passing on know-how that salaries are in line with the Group’s employment catchment and providing on-going technical and commercial support. A total areas. of 333 people have been trained in France (including the 2011-2012 intake) in the convenience store format. Linking employees to Carrefour’s performance Each entity within the Group has simple, motivating remuneration Promoting equal opportunities through training plans. These aim to link employees to the business’s results and in particular to recognise employees who have made a decisive Each year, the Carrefour Group hires many people without contribution to the results achieved 5. professional qualifications and offers them a wide range of jobs along with numerous opportunities for development through To accomplish this, managers are eligible for variable individual training. Today, more than 50% of new Group managers have remuneration, the amount of which varies in line with the economic risen through the ranks by means of internal promotion 5. With results of the entity to which they belong and their individual its wealth of cultural and social diversity, the Group maintains performance. In addition, special initiatives for in-store employees a proactive policy that offers opportunities for those from all were launched in several countries in 2012. backgrounds. Training has been introduced for employees with reading and writing difficulties, based on the EvoluPro programme; the course is run by Carrefour hypermarkets in France and provides store employees with an opportunity to learn or improve their French on a voluntary basis. Since 2010, 665 people have benefited from the programme. It was renewed and extended to 70 stores during the annual compulsory negotiations in 2012. A pilot scheme is set to be launched for Logistics starting in 2013. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 36 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility A number of collective variable-remuneration schemes have thus in 2012. This is an individual, personalised document that details the been developed: elements that make up the employee’s remuneration and benefits. Following a survey carried out with recipients, this remuneration W China has announced the launch of a profit-sharing scheme in “passport” will be updated and improved in 2013. 2013 for which all employees in the country will be eligible; W in a similar vein, all employees in France are eligible for a profitsharing and incentive scheme that is more generous than the Ensuring compliance with legal obligations and Group rules 2 legal requirement. The amounts paid can be invested in a Group savings plan within six employee savings funds, offering a range of investment possibilities. The Carrefour Group supplements Given the associated challenges, particularly in financial and governance-related terms, the Group Human Resources department 2 some of these payments with a top-up contribution; has been keen to pay particular attention to the issue of W Carrefour supports employee share ownership by offering a Carrefour Shares fund as one of the six on offer. As of remuneration and employee benefits, for which specific rules have been communicated to the various Group entities. 2 December 31, 2012, Group employees held 1.17% of the Group’s capital through the Group savings plan; 2.2.3.4 MANAGEMENT TOOLS W in Brazil, a dedicated incentive scheme linked to store and merchandise results has been launched to recognise those AT GROUP LEVEL employees who have made a decisive contribution to performance. HR tools, known as HR Fundamentals, have been developed to apply in all countries where Carrefour operates. Used in conjunction 2 Offering appropriate benefits with the Carrefour People Model, these will contribute to improving commercial results by increasing our employees’ commitment and Benefit schemes in line with local practices have been implemented satisfaction across the Group. in each country where the Carrefour Group has a presence. Carrefour therefore contributes to improving the day-to-day lives of its employees and their families, for example through healthcare schemes top-up insurance schemes and purchase discounts 5. The eight HR Fundamentals were implemented in all Group stores in 2012 (excluding China and Brazil, where they are scheduled for implementation in the first half of 2013), giving the countries tools 2 to help Store directors and their managers to excel in recruitment, In 2012, the Group also instigated an inventory of employee benefit induction, objective-setting, remuneration and employee benefits, schemes worldwide 5. The inventory is designed to check that employee recognition, communications, training and career schemes comply with local obligations and to assess Carrefour’s management 5. position in each country, along with the risks and opportunities inherent in each scheme. The eight HR Fundamentals are part of an approach toward ongoing HR-process improvement. An intranet site was developed in 2 This approach is part of the Group’s desire to respond to its 2012 and has been translated into all Group languages to make it employees’ changing social-protection needs. It also translates into easier for managers to access tools and to encourage them to share various initiatives in relation to communications on the various best practices. Group benefit schemes. In France and Spain, for example, a brochure distributed to employees describes the various elements that comprise their 2 remuneration and benefits. In addition, all hypermarket employees in France received a remuneration “passport” for the first time 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 37 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable supplier relationships 2.3 Sustainable supplier relationships Since 1997, the Carrefour Group has been committed to oversight of conditions. Carrefour also works toward harmonising social working conditions at its own-brand product suppliers, and stands standards from an international standpoint and, in the context of as one of the pioneering companies in this area. its commercial relationships, contributes to its suppliers’ training and economic development. While the Group believes social audits are necessary it does not feel that they are sufficient, and is therefore going further by boosting supplier support so as to contribute to improving employee working 2.3.1 ENSURING OUR SUPPLIERS’ RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS 2.3.1.1 THE SOCIAL AND ETHICAL CHARTER In terms of employment rights, suppliers must undertake to comply FOR CARREFOUR PRODUCT with seven fundamental principles: SUPPLIERS 1. Prohibiting forced or compulsory labour; For more than 15 years, the Carrefour Group has implemented a 2. Prohibiting child labour; proactive policy designed to ensure respect for human rights by all 3. Respecting freedom of association and recognising the right to Carrefour product suppliers. This involves monitoring compliance collective bargaining; with the main Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). This commitment was formalised through its cooperative 4. Prohibiting any form of discrimination, harassment or physical work with the IFHR (International Federation of Human Rights), or psychological violence; which began in 1997 through a joint association known as INFANS. 5. Guaranteeing that necessary health and safety measures are In 2000, this partnership led to the drafting of a Social and Ethical taken; Charter, which is appended to contracts signed by Carrefour’s own6. Offering workers decent salaries, benefits and working brand product suppliers. conditions; In its Social and Ethical Charter, Carrefour notes, amongst other 7. Guaranteeing working hours in line with international standards. things, that its commitment to retailing that complies with ethical These principles, set out in the contractual document signed by standards, operates within the law and respects human rights is in suppliers, are based on the Reference Code produced by the line with the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact GSCP (1) (see below) according to best practices identified in the various existing Codes 5. and the 10 principles of its Code of Professional Conduct. By signing the Charter, suppliers commit, at every stage of their commercial relationship, to operating strictly within the law, To date, 100% of Carrefour-brand product suppliers have signed the undertaking not to impede competition law in any way, avoiding Social and Ethical Charter. conflict-of-interest situations, disallowing any form of corruption and guaranteeing confidentiality. (1) www.gscpnet.com. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 38 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable supplier relationships Key figures 1,044 social audits conducted at Group level in 2012 5. of which 55% were listing audits and 45% follow up audits. 2 Suppliers of national-brand products are also required to sign an Ethical Charter, through which they undertake to maintain a W monitoring of corrective actions by Carrefour teams, and followup audits. 2 relationship with Carrefour based on ethical practices. At the same time, Carrefour is continuing to train its own teams in France and Asia with regard to social responsibility and monitoring its implementation on-site. 2 2.3.1.2 RESPECT FOR THE SOCIAL Listing and follow-up social audits commissioned by the Group AND ETHICAL CHARTER obey strict rules, and the last few years have been devoted to To support the Social and Ethical Charter, Carrefour and the FIDH boosting these requirements: have developed a methodology designed to monitor compliance with the Charter, via social audits carried out by firms of independent experts, as well as to provide long-term supplier support. This W the geographical scope of systematic social audits has been redefined with the FIDH in light of current country risks; 2 methodology is based on the following steps: W any new supplier located in an at-risk country must subject their manufacturing sites to an external social audit in order to W presentation to suppliers of the conditions of their commercial be listed, and listing is only possible if the results of this audit relationship with Carrefour, a commitment by suppliers to the comply with Carrefour’s requirements; principles of the Charter and on-site inspections carried out by Carrefour teams; W where examples of non-compliance are observed, the time frame for carrying out follow-up audits will depend on the nature and 2 W external, unannounced on-site inspections carried out by gravity of the non-compliance issue. professional audit firms selected by Carrefour; In addition, audits are scrupulously made unannounced, regardless W random, external, on-site inspections carried out during FIDH of the supplier or activity sector. This type of audit has proven missions under the INFANS scheme; W implementation of a corrective action plan following the audit, co-signed by the supplier, and the recommendation of additional essential to determining actual working conditions. All Carrefour product suppliers located in sensitive countries are audited prior to listing. 2 measures by the FIDH if necessary; Key figure In 2012, 75% of the 1,044 sites where social audits were carried out were in China 5. 2 2 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 39 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable supplier relationships 2.3.2 SUPPORTING CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT FOR CARREFOUR PRODUCT SUPPLIERS 2.3.2.1 IMPLEMENTING AN INNOVATIVE 2.3.2.2 CONTRIBUTING TO HARMONISING SUPPORT APPROACH IN ADDITION INTERNATIONAL WORKPLACE TO AUDITS STANDARDS In 2012 as in previous years, the types of non-compliance most often Contributing to the implementation of stringent, harmonised observed related to working hours that exceeded ILO conventions standards is an integral part of the Carrefour Group’s continuous and local legislation and respect for minimum wages, plus an improvement approach. increase during the year in instances of non-compliance relating Since 1998, the Carrefour Group has played a leading role in creating to safety, in particular associated with more stringent requirements. the Social Clause Initiative (l’Initiative clause sociale – ICS), which This observation highlights the limitations of the audit process, brings together 19 mainly French retail banners. The ICS enables which is necessary but no longer sufficient, and affirms Carrefour’s members to share a common Code, methodology and database. policy of supporting suppliers via a progressive approach based on Each member enters data by incorporating results from social audits three main areas: carried out at their suppliers’ sites. Carrefour has contributed about W Carrefour is increasing the countries’ direct involvement in the 50% of the audit volume since the initiative was launched. conduct of social audits while maintaining coordinated actions Faced with a major increase in the number of audit standards, at Group level to produce a comprehensive risk map and to share in 2006 the Group decided to extend its approach worldwide by a common framework, methodology and resources; helping to launch, alongside three other international banners, the W to ensure that the actions taken to remedy instances of nonGlobal Social Compliance Programme (GSCP). Bringing together 34 compliance are effective and of benefit to the workers concerned, major players in the retail and industrial sectors, this programme Carrefour has enlisted the expertise of the FIDH, both in terms of promotes the continuous improvement of workers’ conditions based strategy development and action on the ground (see page 22 of on the worldwide harmonisation of standards and tools. Carrefour the FIDH partnership agreement), and works in conjunction with wanted support for its ambitious approach from its long-term its competitors to harmonise standards and share best practices; partners, the FIDH and UNI-Commerce, which sit on this platform’s Advisory Board. W in mature countries, audits are gradually being transformed into an overall approach to the supplier’s social performance. The GSCP has developed a standard Code based on best practices Suppliers themselves are involved in their evaluation, since they identified by its members, an audit methodology, the selection carry out a self-assessment using a framework based on the ISO criteria used by auditors, an environmental benchmark and an 26000 standard. The topics covered by the audit, such as social equivalence process. and environmental questions, are weighted according to the risks This process helps to reduce duplication of social audits carried out associated with the country or sector. Audits are no longer simply at production sites. Carrefour went through the equivalence process, about sanctioning compliance with regulations, but rather a form which consists of two phases, in 2012: of support, including best practices, which helps the supplier to improve. W a self-assessment of the Group’s process for checking the social compliance of its production sites; In 2012, systematic environmental audits of non-food product factories were boosted as part of the listing process. The goal W an evaluation based on evidence from the self-assessment by is to monitor suppliers’ environmental compliance so as to a panel of three international experts, resulting in a score for support them in more effectively managing their activities’ main Carrefour’s processes. environmental impacts. To achieve this, Carrefour has instigated Carrefour will publish its results in 2013 so that its management an extensive training programme for non-food quality managers system for social compliance can be compared with those of other on the environment and local regulations. Eight training courses buyers. have been run in eight Group countries. These are led by external specialists and are followed up in the field by experienced auditors. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 40 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable supplier relationships 2.3.2.3 PREVENTION PROCEDURES In China, where there are still numerous and recurrent instances FOR AT-RISK COUNTRIES of non-compliance, research into the causes of factory noncompliance is underway in order to draw up a targeted action plan. Corrective and preventive actions are taken in at-risk countries, again with a view to supporting suppliers in improving working conditions in their factories. These actions may be taken at the instigation of Carrefour teams in the country, with or without 2.3.2.4 PROMOTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SELF-ASSESSMENT 2 assistance from the Group or the INFANS association (FIDH), or jointly with other buyers and/or social partners facing the same noncompliance issues. They may be specific to a supplier, geographical TOOL FOR SUPPLIERS By helping its suppliers to adopt a sustainable development 2 area or identified issue. approach and by highlighting best practices, Carrefour boosts their Today, they are mainly carried out on a country or regional basis. Over the last few years, a number of fires have broken out in social performance as well as its own. 2 textile factories in Bangladesh. In 2011, 19 international groups, Carrefour provides a self-assessment tool for its including Carrefour, came together to launch a national plan to product suppliers raise awareness of fire safety standards in factories. Two films Launched in France in 2006, the sustainable development selfhave been made, one to inform workers of safety practices and the other detailing the security measures managers need to implement to protect everyone’s safety. Training sessions have been run for assessment tool is a detailed self-evaluation framework designed in conjunction with the WWF and ADEME, the French Environment and Energy Management Agency 5. It is accessible to suppliers 2 suppliers in Bangladesh by associations in the country’s textile online and includes 49 assessment criteria, based on four central sector. The fatal fires that occurred in late 2012, however, confirm pillars: the need for a comprehensive, multi-party approach, including W sustainable development management and policy; the administrative authorities, associations, suppliers, workers and their representatives, to improve Bangladeshi factory quality and practices across the board. Carrefour is currently working on a joint approach of this kind. W W environmental performance; workplace performance; 2 W economic performance. In conjunction with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a subsidiary of the World Bank, Carrefour has drafted procedures for Carrefour’s aim is to ensure that all of its suppliers answer all the effective operation and formation of workers’ representation questions and implement practical sustainable development committees (Workers’ Participative Committees – WPC), whose actions will supplement those of the trade unions. These procedures were sent to suppliers in May 2012, with a deadline for integration initiatives. Carrefour provides them with support to achieve this goal using the tool. The sustainable development self-assessment provides them with some 20 advice sheets and best-practice 2 into their system. In late 2012, the INFANS association worked examples, and allows them to compare their average with that of in factories to ensure that the WPCs were up and running and to other suppliers in their activity area. Carrefour also arranges for identify any necessary improvements. The association will provide consultants to visit some businesses to identify their best practices, help them to pinpoint improvement goals and draw up action plans. support to Carrefour as it now implements these procedures operationally across the board. Five films have been produced jointly with four other buyers and Based on feedback from its suppliers, Carrefour regularly optimises its self-assessment tool to more effectively meet their needs. In 2010, 2 an NGO on the rights and responsibilities of factory workers in the Group added an introductory module on carbon assessment southern India. The films will be distributed to factories in 2013. and included more sophisticated sorting criteria to compare the Training courses have already been run for those in charge of supplier’s performance according to activity sector. factories’ social compliance. The goal is to ensure that suppliers systematically incorporate workers’ rights and responsibilities into their employee information and training programme. In 2013, an In 2012, Carrefour worked on harmonising the sustainable development self-assessment with the ISO 26000 standard on corporate social responsibility. 2 independent NGO will measure the effectiveness of this training Carrefour provides the tool in 15 languages in all of the Group’s consolidated countries 5. based on predefined criteria. Once the results have been analysed, the approach may be extended to other suppliers. 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 41 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sustainable supplier relationships Key figures 6,940 suppliers had access to a self-assessment tool as at the end of 2012 5. 57% of them answered 100% of the questions 5. Carrefour highlights exemplary approaches The awards recognise exemplary approaches that encourage others to take similar actions. Each year, the Carrefour Sustainable In France, Carrefour has been promoting its suppliers’ CSR Development Awards are given to four businesses. In 2012, the approaches since 2009 through the Sustainable Development winners were: Awards. The businesses that achieve the best results in the selfassessment exercise are visited by an independent auditing firm. W Château de Nages (fruit); Following the audits, the winners are selected by a panel of experts W Biscuiterie de l’Abbaye; from the ADEME and WWF France, specialist journalists and W Arc International (tableware); Carrefour Group representatives. W Bodin (Carrefour organic chickens). 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone 2.4 A product range for everyone The Carrefour Group is committed to offering its millions of customers freedom of choice. W W putting a balanced, varied diet within everyone’s reach; promoting responsible consumption by offering Carrefour 2 To achieve this, the banner implements a product-mix policy that meets everyone’s tastes and expectations every day. Its wide, varied range is based on products from the major national brands, regional products that offer greater biodiversity protection. These values are part of the Group’s DNA. Carrefour uses a range of tools for expressing its values through its products in practical 2 products and Carrefour own-brand products. Carrefour’s 10,000 listed products represent a customer offer aimed at three goals: terms, from its specifications to the development of special brands via certification and collaboration with stakeholders. 2 W offering high-quality Carrefour products at the best value for money; 2.4.1 TRANSLATING THE GROUP’S COMMITMENTS INTO SPECIFICATIONS 2 2.4.1.1 DEFINING AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFE, An independent laboratory is responsible for producing a safety data sheet for all own-brand chemical products, and a toxicological 2 HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTS assessment is carried out by an expert. Carrefour produces an own-brand range that guarantees its customers access to safe, high-quality products. 2.4.1.2 PROMOTING A BALANCED DIET As a result, all of Carrefour’s ranges comply with concrete, demanding quality standards. Carrefour’s suppliers have committed FOR EVERYONE As a major retailer in the mass merchandise sector, and given the 2 to complying with strict specifications that define the product’s public health challenges represented by overweight and obesity basic characteristics, covering customer expectations, particularly rates, Carrefour is developing, in addition to basic quality and safety in terms of taste, price positioning, compliance with regulations and criteria, a proactive policy designed to promote a balanced diet for Carrefour standards, the origin of raw materials, the recipe used and everyone. Specifications require that suppliers improve their recipes production methods for food items. To guarantee maximum safety for consumers and to anticipate on a continuous basis, particularly by reducing levels of salt, sugar, lipids, saturated fatty acids, partially hydrogenated fats and trans 2 risks, Carrefour has introduced procedures and tools (periodic fats. For several years, the Group has also been developing targeted analyses, monitoring and traceability) designed to manage any nonranges to respond to the nutritional needs of certain consumer compliance that may be detected. In the event of non-compliance groups, such as newborns, children, the gluten-intolerant, those requiring a product withdrawal, the Group also uses an alert system who must limit their salt consumption and more. to immediately inform all stores that they must take action. Carrefour also takes all the necessary precautions in selecting 2.4.1.3 BETTER BIODIVERSITY 2 products’ composition when formulating its non-food ranges. This approach allows the Group to be proactive and anticipate new PROTECTION THROUGH PRODUCT regulations, in particular Europe’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation, CHARACTERISTICS Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical Substances) regulation. In many cases, Carrefour imposes stricter requirements than those laid down in the regulations. For toys, for example, the REACH regulations demand control of six phthalates. Carrefour, however, Carrefour also designs its specifications and supply chains so that its own-brand products respect the environment, biodiversity and local communities. Depending on the product family concerned, 2 prohibits the use of these six phthalates in its toys 5. Carrefour defines criteria to avoid depleting natural resources and to promote the use of formulations that provide greater ecosystem protection. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 43 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone Developing more responsible supplies of marine Reducing the environmental footprint of forestry resources supplies Carrefour includes sustainability criteria in the specifications for Carrefour made a commitment to sustainable forest management its fish-product supplies and optimises its range to reduce sales of so as to control its supplies of timber and associated products at a more-threatened species. The sale of red Mediterranean tuna was very early stage. In 2011, the Group raised the bar even higher by suspended in Europe’s Carrefour stores in 2008. In France, Carrefour bringing more of its European Purchasing Office suppliers within has also suspended the sale of deep-sea perch and blue ling cod. the scope of its responsible sourcing strategy. To do so, it drew In addition, sales of grenadier and cutlass fish have been cut back up a Wood Charter for Suppliers. By signing the charter, suppliers since 2008. In 2012, Carrefour continued the same approach by using wood, pulp, paper and products derived from these materials suspending the sale of new wild species in danger of extinction, commit themselves to ensuring: namely shark (except spotted dogfish), red sea bream, sturgeon W the legality of their supplies; and wild eel. These actions were the result of discussions with the Group’s stakeholders, in particular WWF France and the Seafood W respect for local populations; Choice Alliance NGO, as well as all key players in the sector. In W no sourcing from High Conservation Value (HCV) forests; China, the Group has followed Carrefour France’s example by W no sourcing of species included on the IUCN (International Union promoting a range of non-endangered fish and stopping the sale for Conservation of Nature) red list of threatened species or of certain listings, such as shark (and shark fin, except for spotted species protected under the CITES (Convention on International dogfish). Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) agreement. Developing a credible alternative to GMOs The Wood Charter is supported by a questionnaire that helps us to work with suppliers in examining how to improve their sourcing to In light of the controversy surrounding the issue and the lack of comply with the charter (species, production regions etc.). long-term data on the impact of cultivating genetically-modified Carrefour is now extending its continuous improvement approach organisms (GMOs) on biodiversity, Carrefour has implemented a to countries outside Europe. In Argentina, for example, 90% of proactive policy in this area for over 15 years. In 1996, the Group Carrefour’s own-brand outdoor furniture and decorative products was the first and only retailer to adopt the precautionary principle use FSC-certified timber, and in 2012 Carrefour was the first retailer and offer its customers a credible alternative to GMOs. In the in Argentina to offer firewood from local, sustainably managed European Union, no own-brand products in any of our ranges have contained GMOs for over a decade 5. Outside the European Union, forests. Thanks to its partnership with a local firm, Carrefour can ensure complete traceability of its timber products. the Group has taken steps to offer an alternative to GMOs whenever possible, while adapting to local regulatory requirements. The Group is also developing stationery and personal hygiene (paper tissues, wipes etc.) products and packaging based on FSC, PEFC and recycled materials, mainly under its ECOplanet brand. Key figure Carrefour France ranks no. 1 on the WWF France 2012 Timber Barometer (WWF Scorecard) 5. Using sustainable palm oil Depending on local eating habits and conditions, replacing palm oil with another oil may offer our customers nutritional benefits, Palm oil production is still too often associated with deforestation. in particular by reducing the product’s saturated fatty-acid content. As part of its forestry protection policy, Carrefour has committed to This change should not affect quality or have a detrimental effect using only sustainable palm oil in its own-brand products between on the taste, texture or shelf-life of the product. In France, palm now and 2015. At the end of 2012, over 120 listings containing oil was replaced with another oil in some 320 Carrefour products palm oil certified according to the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm in 2012 5, the equivalent of reducing palm oil consumption by Oil (RSPO) framework were available in stores in France. Over 400 7,000 tonnes. listings covered by Green Palm certificates were also for sale 5. In Indonesia, Carrefour launched the first product certified under the RSPO standard for the domestic market in 2012: a Carrefour ECOplanet-branded palm oil for cooking. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 44 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone 2.4.1.4 OFFERING MORE Carrefour is also exploring the possibilities of biosourced materials ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY such as bioplastics (produced from agricultural waste). PRODUCTS THROUGH ECOThe Carrefour design teams work to develop innovative, DESIGNED PACKAGING industrialisable packaging that takes environmental impact into Product packaging fulfils numerous functions, from protection to transport, storage, information, promotion, making the product consideration throughout the product’s lifecycle. The packaging must be recyclable as far as possible at the end of its lifecycle. In this regard, Carrefour is training its product managers and 2 easier to use and even reducing waste. But packaging involves consuming materials such as paper, cardboard, plastic and timber, which then become waste. Carrefour is committed to reducing quality engineers in Europe on packaging eco-design and product lifecycles 5. 2 packaging at source and designing innovative packaging that helps At the same time, Carrefour has been participating in outside protect the environment and is safe and simple for consumers to use. working groups, including: W since 2009, the Global Packaging Project of the Consumer Goods 2 The Group believes that innovative packaging always has an ecoForum (an international network of manufacturers and retailers) friendly design, including the following criteria: to develop a set of common indicators for evaluating packaging’s environmental performance. Carrefour aims to make the most W reduction at source and elimination of outer wrapping; effective packaging its priority, taking environmental criteria W preference for single-material solutions to facilitate sorting and recycling; W into account; the National Packaging Council (Conseil National de l’Emballage 2 W the use of certified materials from renewable, responsibly – CNE), a discussion forum for multiple players designed to managed resources; promote best practices and a responsible eco-design policy for consumer products, involving retailers, manufacturers and W preference for recycled materials; Society. W using environment-friendly inks and varnishes to print paper and cardboard. 2 2.4.2 PROMOTING THE EMERGENCE OF RESPONSIBLE SECTORS Many supply networks – involving seafood, wood products, soya, beef and palm oil – now have a major impact on the environment, W in May 2012, Carrefour participated in a round table organised by the WWF that brought together European Parliament members to 2 biodiversity and fish and wood resources. They also represent support ambitious reform of the Common Fisheries Policy; economic sectors that many populations around the world depend W in France, Carrefour also represents the Federation of Retail on for their livelihoods. For optimum effectiveness, retailers must and Distribution Companies (Fédération du commerce et de la bear responsibility for their entire supply chain; Carrefour therefore actively participates in the various platforms, round tables and working groups dedicated to developing responsible sectors. distribution – FCD) before the Sustainable Fishing Ecolabel Commission. Aware of the important role forests play in ensuring ecosystem 2 To preserve fish stocks: balance, Carrefour became involved early on in efforts to fight W Carrefour has been working with WWF France since 2007 to climate change, gradually developing a comprehensive strategy identify the fishing areas and species that need priority attention; comprising initiatives in those of its sectors connected to forestry W the Group also uses the guide published by Seafood Choice Alliance, an NGO working with the entire sector (fishermen, fish-farmers, distributors and retailers), which helps the latter to use and in association with NGOs and dedicated working groups: W as part of its membership in the Consumer Goods Forum, the Carrefour Group supported the adoption of a far-reaching 2 make the best procurement choices possible given certain species’ objective: zero deforestation by 2020; endangerment; W since 2009, Carrefour has been sitting on the Executive W to help improve practices in fish-farming, which is an acceptable Committee of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). alternative to fishing if the environmental impact is limited, Carrefour has been participating in the WWF’s international This round table is a platform for 650 palm-oil producers, agrifood manufacturers, retailers and NGOs. Its mission is to foster 2 dialogues, which are aimed at defining sustainability criteria, sustainable practices in the palm oil sector by developing a in particular regarding breeding densities, food-distribution production certification system and ensuring traceability in the optimisation, the monitoring of waste disposal for sea cages and supply chain; land-basin water quality; 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 45 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone W since 2009, Carrefour Brazil has been participating in the conversion of high-conservation-value areas. It also promotes Sustainable Cattle Working Group (Grupo de Trabalho da more responsible management practices, and ensures fair working Pecuaria Sustentavel – GTPS), which aims to create a responsible conditions in compliance with ILO standards and respect for cattle supply sector; local communities. Carrefour also went to considerable lengths to ensure that the RTRS standard included an appendix on nonW the Group is a member of the Round Table on Responsible GMO crops; Soya (RTRS), an international organisation that brings together soya producers, manufacturing representatives, mass-retailing W since 2006, Carrefour has been supporting the Soya Moratorium. representatives and NGOs since 2006. In 2010, it published a This initiative, engaged in by sector professionals, the Brazilian certification standard for responsible soya production, which authorities and Society, involves fighting the Amazon’s verifies that a product was grown without requiring the deforestation for soya crops. 2.4.3 CARREFOUR QUALITY LINES: AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS THAT UPHOLD VALUES Emblematic of Carrefour’s sustainable development approach, the Along with environmental protection, animal welfare is included in Carrefour Quality Line fresh products networks (meat, fish, cheese the specifications for animal-raising operations: and produce) put responsible consumption within reach of all W no preventive antibiotic treatments used; customers and consumers. In 2012, the Group celebrated the 20th anniversary of its Carrefour Quality Lines, of which there were 430 W prohibition of products made from animals whose feed consisted in Group countries this year. All such lines meet the socioeconomic of more than 0.9% GMOs; principles set forth at the very beginning with a view to achieving W limitations on animal density to reduce pollution and improve sustainable development: animal comfort; W Make quality products available to consumers at the best price; W rules guaranteeing comfortable conditions for animals while W Use local suppliers who are rewarded for their approach to being transported to slaughterhouses. quality and to whom Carrefour guarantees long-term markets Carrefour pays special attention to animal welfare because this (see pages 65-66, part 2.6); ethical principle contributes to the quality of the final product. W Contribute to local economic growth; In 2008, the Group boosted its commitment by entering into partnership with France’s International Society for the Protection of W promote local products and expertise. Farm Animals (Protection mondiale des animaux de ferme – PMAF), Responsible agriculture criteria are also included in product and launched several innovative projects in 2010 and 2011. specifications: In 1998, Carrefour France extended its commitments to include W mandatory crop rotation; upstream operations, in particular aiming to develop traceable, GMO-free soya-meal networks. Anticipating the French W a ban on spreading sludge from water treatment plants; government’s decree related to the labelling of GMO-free food W no chemical soil treatments after harvest; (eventually published in January 2012), as early as 2010 Carrefour W prohibition of soil-free plant production; was able to meet French transparency requirements on animal feed; more than 300 listed Carrefour and Carrefour Quality Line products W development of fish farming with limited environmental impact; sold in France now display the “Reared without GMOs” label. W integrated approach to fruit and vegetables. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 46 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone The Group has also launched research aimed at eliminating The Carrefour Quality Lines thus represent a unique approach, preventive antibiotics for poultry with the goal of better fighting due to their scope and the collaboration they make possible with the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which are caused the agricultural sphere. Since their creation, they have allowed in part by animal-raising operations’ overuse of medications. In Carrefour to develop innovations that promote the Group’s values partnership with a group of producers from Auvergne, Carrefour is testing plant therapy, an innovative natural solution for boosting birds’ immune systems. Since November 2012, Carrefour and set the groundwork for tomorrow’s agriculture. For the past 20 years, the Group has been creating Carrefour Quality Line seafood products so as to guarantee that a marketed species is 2 hypermarkets and supermarkets have been offering their customers and consumers poultry raised without antibiotics. not endangered or comes from sustainably managed stocks and is caught via fishing techniques that have a controlled environmental impact. 2 2 Key figures At the end of 2012, Brazil had 51 Carrefour Quality Lines (CQLs) and 152 products, eight of them launched in 2012. In Turkey, the CQLs offer 17 products. 2 Group 2012 2011 2010 Sales (incl. VAT) of Carrefour Quality Line products (in millions of euros) Number of Carrefour Quality Line products (number of products) 940 430 5 927 422 907 422 2 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2.4.4 MEETING THE EXPECTATIONS OF ALL CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS 2 In contact with thousands of suppliers and millions of customers, 2.4.4.1 FAIR TRADE Carrefour has long taken up its various responsibilities as the European market’s leader and the second-leading retailer worldwide. The Group has gradually developed a high-quality, safe, In 2012, the Group had over 1,700 fair trade listings (own-brand and national brands) throughout the world. In 1998, Carrefour 2 eco-friendly food product offer that makes a balanced diet available became the first French banner to market a fair trade product: to all. This comprehensive approach takes the shape of various Malongo coffee under the Max Havelaar label. initiatives that cover all these criteria and put into play Carrefour’s Carrefour Solidaire products come from some 50 small-producer social responsibility contributions. cooperatives located mainly in South America plus Asia and Africa. The Fairtrade label guarantees such producers a higher income and a long-term partnership, and certifies that their production 2 incorporates eco-friendly practices (GMO-free products, optimised natural-resource management etc.). In Spain, a range of textile products made in India by disadvantaged women is sold in partnership with the Creative Handicraft association. 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 47 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone Key figure In France, Carrefour is amongst the leading players in this market with over 548 items, including 17 with the Fairtrade label under its Carrefour Solidaire brand. Group 2012 2011 2010 Sales (incl. VAT) of Carrefour fair trade products (in millions of euros) 26 32 30 Number of Carrefour-brand fair trade products (number of listings) 115 5 100 77 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2.4.4.2 PROMOTING ORGANIC In 2012, Carrefour extended its “Guaranteed Lowest Price” pledge AGRICULTURE: THE CARREFOUR to 100 organic products from leading brands, selected from the BIO RANGE most frequently-purchased everyday products. Carrefour recently celebrated the 20th anniversary of its BIO organic range in France The Group has developed a particularly wide selection of organic by organising a number of events at its stores and launching a products that use eco-friendly production methods. The Carrefour wide-reaching campaign to promote Carrefour BIO products inBIO range offers a broad range of food products, textiles and store, via catalogues and online (http://www.c-laterre.fr/carrefour_ cosmetics, and the number of listings expands year after year. In et_le_bio/produit-bio-magasins). Italy launched six Carrefour BIO 2012, Carrefour hypermarkets sold nearly 2,000 Carrefour BIO products to encourage the consumption of soya, plant protein and food listings worldwide. other products by offering customers such alternatives as wheat, soya and quinoa, bringing the country’s number of BIO listings to over 200. Key figure 825 Carrefour BIO food listings and 565 textile listings in France. All formats 2012 2011 2010 Number of controlled organic-food product listings (in units) 2,004 5 1,998 1,201 Sales (incl. VAT) of controlled organic-food products (in millions of euros) 321 329 331 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 48 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone 2.4.4.3 MSC-CERTIFIED SEAFOOD W helping to inform consumers and boost their awareness (see page 51); Since 2008, the Carrefour Group has developed a wide range of own-brand products certified by the Marine Stewardship Council W developing targeted product ranges designed to meet certain (MSC), a globally recognised programme for certifying products customers’ specific nutritional needs. obtained via responsible fishing practices. With 23 MSC listings 5, Carrefour offers one of the largest ranges in France, all brands Carrefour Baby 2 combined. 2.4.4.4 CARREFOUR ECOPLANET: A RANGE Carrefour worked with paediatricians and dieticians to design this range of food products for children up to three years of age. It offers quality products made from simple recipes and adapted to the needs 2 of little ones. In France, the Carrefour Baby range had 50 listings, THAT HELPS PROTECT BOTH THE ENVIRONMENT AND BIODIVERSITY 36 of them organic, in 2011. 2 In 2006, the Group launched the Carrefour ECOplanet brand, which Carrefour Kids now has 124 listings (35 household and personal-care products, These fun, varied products, offered at affordable prices, were plus 80 non-food and nine food products). In particular, this developed in partnership with Disney to meet specific nutritional range provides the Group with an opportunity to demonstrate its commitment to preserving biodiversity and natural resources. ECOplanet-range products are certified under such well-respected standards: they have suitable calorie content and limited amounts of fat, sugar and salt, and do not use artificial sweeteners. 2 names as the European, FSC, MSC and Nordic Swan ecolabels or backed by an external guarantee. Carrefour No Gluten In France, Carrefour offers 34 labelled Carrefour ECOplanet products This range, specifically developed for the gluten-intolerant, is made from materials produced in sustainably managed forests. available in Europe and Argentina. These products can easily be Since 2010, this offer has included toys made from FSC wood, Carrefour ECOplanet nappies made from agricultural materials recognised by the wheat-head symbol with a cross through it, the logo of the French Gluten Intolerance Association and of the Spanish 2 and chlorine-free cellulose. The Carrefour ECOplanet range also Celiac Association (FACE). At the end of 2012, Spain’s offer of 150 offers a growing number of products made from recycled materials. gluten-free products included over 90 traditional fresh products Finally, certain listings are very innovative in that biotechnology listings (meat products) and a chocolate dessert. In Italy, 12 glutenis integrated into their design. This is the case, for example, with free products are offered at Carrefour stores. In Argentina, where cleaning products designed with a natural surface-active substance produced by bacteria. the percentage of people with gluten allergies is relatively high, Carrefour stores in the Salta region have a special area dedicated to gluten-free items. This initiative got its start through a partnership 2 between Carrefour and the municipality of Salta dedicated to 2.4.4.5 CARREFOUR DEVELOPS SPECIAL serving those with celiac disease. Mothers of coeliac children came PRODUCT RANGES DESIGNED together and formed a cooperative to develop gluten-free “homeTO MEET SPECIFIC NUTRITIONAL NEEDS made” products. These products are now sold at Carrefour stores. 2 In response to the world’s increasing obesity crisis, the Carrefour Group, as the second-leading retailer worldwide, has a responsibility to provide affordable products that allow all consumers to achieve a balanced diet. Carrefour’s nutritional strategy is founded on four main action spheres: W guaranteeing Carrefour products’ nutritional quality; 2 W offering healthy, affordable products; 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 49 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone 2.4.5 PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION 2.4.5.1 EDUCATING CUSTOMERS ABOUT 2.4.5.2 INFORMING CONSUMERS ABOUT RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION WASTE SORTING Since mass-market retailers can play a major role in modifying To both raise consumer awareness of waste-sorting’s importance consumption patterns and changing behaviour, Carrefour is thus and answer sometimes-complex sorting questions, Carrefour has redoubling its efforts to guide customers toward responsible included pictograms on its Carrefour BIO and Carrefour ECOplanet consumption. Products with environmental and social added product packaging. Available in four European countries (France, value are representative of more responsible consumption. They Belgium, Italy and Spain), these pictograms designate each are promoted during national and local events. In France for component of the packaging and how it should be disposed of (in example, during the Organic Spring campaign, hypermarkets and general garbage or a recycling bin). supermarkets promoted the Group’s commitment to biodiversity In 2012, the Group carried out a real-life test of the pictograms’ and protecting the environment in their catalogues, in-store and effectiveness as applied to 300 organic-range products. Given online. The stores set up sampling stands hosted by local suppliers, the success of this initiative, the Group plans to expand it to all such as producers of organic fruit, vegetables and meat. Carrefour products in 2013. In Argentina, China, France and Brazil, Carrefour used the WWF’s Earth Hour campaign to rally stores and customers around the issue Encourage customers to opt for reusable bags of climate change. During this operation, the Group promoted energy-efficient products in stores. In some countries, such as Argentina and Brazil, discontinuing the distribution of free disposable plastic check-out bags is a pioneering Carrefour Spain, in partnership with Fapas (the Fund for the initiative that has been supported by a major campaign to boost Protection of Wild Animals), supports projects to safeguard bears customer awareness. As part of its efforts, Carrefour Brazil has taken and tetra cockerels in the Cantabrian cordillera. It encourages its part in a huge “No more plastic bags” awareness-raising campaign customers to get involved in its “More Bears, Less CO2” programme in partnership with local communities and associations. Customers by planting trees, participating in pollination initiatives and visiting have been supported by store employees and offered a wide range protected areas. of reusable bags and boxes, available free of charge. In 2012 in France, 225 hypermarkets and 937 supermarkets An identical initiative was run by Carrefour in Turkey to mark participated in the third Blue Days, an event promoting the World Environment Day. catalogue’s MSC-labelled products over one week. A special promotional campaign was launched in the hypermarkets, while In France, to boost the reusable-bag offer, organic cotton bags information on sustainable fishing was promoted in the customer produced in the Vosges region were made available in several magazine and on the homepage (www.carrefour.fr). colours at hypermarkets and supermarkets. Also in France, types of fish classified by Carrefour as being from “well-managed, abundant fish stocks” are highly visible and easily identifiable on shelves. In-store, customers are given a list of “fish to take note of” and the address of a dedicated website. This initiative was carried out with support from WWF France. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 50 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A product range for everyone 2.4.5.3 INFORMING CONSUMERS ABOUT Awareness-raising campaigns in Group countries THE IMPORTANCE OF A VARIED, In all the countries in which it operates, the Carrefour Group is BALANCED DIET increasing its efforts to promote a balanced diet and healthier lifestyle, especially among young people. To reach as many Simple and transparent information Since 2005, Carrefour has also been labelling its products with people as possible, Carrefour spreads the message in a range of ways, including websites, magazines, participation in awareness 2 campaigns, sponsorships and promotional efforts aimed at nutritional information developed in collaboration with the CLCV (Confederation for consumption, housing and lifestyle) consumer association. To provide customers with clear information so that assembling affordable, balanced meals. In 2012 in France, for example, Carrefour market stores participated 2 in Taste Week for the ninth year in a row, promoting seasonal they can compare products more easily, in 2009 Carrefour decided to adopt the Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA) system for its ownbrand products in Europe. Grids on products’ front labels indicate fruit through tastings and informational workshops for over 1,000 children from nearby schools. 2 the amounts of calories, sugar, fat (including saturated fat) and Similarly, in Spain in 2012, over 3,100 children from 70 middle salt, expressed as a percentage of daily recommended amounts. On schools participated in Carrefour’s “Bocata Sano” (“Healthy products for children, the GDAs are provided for each product’s Sandwich”) initiative, aimed at preventing childhood obesity and targeted age range. spreading information on the importance of a healthy, balanced The packaging always includes the phrase, “Eat a varied, balanced diet and get regular exercise!” – a recommendation in line with diet. In Poland, a new website – www.klubmarkicarrefour.pl – is dedicated to promoting food products and consumption habits that 2 the basic principles of the PNNS (Plan National Nutrition Santé, or help make a balanced diet possible. National Nutrition and Health Plan), launched in 2001 by the French In collaboration with nutrition experts, Carrefour Brazil now offers authorities. Depending on the packaging’s available space, this a set of over 80 menus featuring optimum calorie, protein, sugar phrase may be followed by nutritional advice to help consumers put and fat content. These menus, available online and in stores, were together balanced, varied meals. For example, a pizza’s packaging is labelled with the following suggestion: “For a complete meal, enjoy adopted by over 100,000 customers in 2012. 2 this pizza with crudités or vegetables and have yogurt or a piece of fruit for dessert. And don’t forget to drink plenty of water.” 2 2 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 51 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance 2.5 Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Fighting climate change and preserving natural resources are major Carrefour takes action in two main ways: it moves toward energyCarrefour commitments. Using resources effectively contributes to efficient stores that produce small amounts of waste and CO2, the Group’s financial performance and longevity in the long term. and limits the environmental impact throughout the logistics Moreover, fighting climate change also helps maintain the quality chain. Carrefour’s approach is based on implementing innovative of the ecosystems we depend on for our business. technology, sharing best practices with other market players and informing employees at all levels. In response to this challenge, for more than a decade the Carrefour Group has resolutely invested in improving its retail operations’ environmental performance. 2.5.1 MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS Environmental risks are covered on pages 117-118. 2.5.1.2 ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION AND CERTIFICATION APPROACHES 2.5.1.1 ORGANISING THE COMPANY TO Environment, hygiene, health and safety management systems are being gradually rolled out in Group countries. They are supported ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES by a Group reporting tool and store environmental performance Environmental risks are evaluated and then a prevention measurement systems (energy and water consumption, waste programme is implemented in various countries where the Group production etc.), which make precise monitoring and management has retail outlets 5. In keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, of facilities and audit programmes possible, providing insight which prevails in the Carrefour Group’s management methods, each into the stores’ situation with regard to local environmental country introduces the organisation best suited to its situation in regulations as well as allowing users to anticipate environmental terms of environmental goals and achieving the objectives set forth risks and roll out appropriate preventive measures. All countries by the Group, in particular concerning efforts to reduce energy have defined environmental performance goals in such key areas consumption. Analysis, regulatory monitoring, development of as energy, greenhouse gas emissions and reducing waste and water action plans and investment therefore take place locally at the consumption, and they have a scorecard for monitoring purposes. initiative of country management or of store managers, with the Locally, certain countries can choose ISO 14001 certification for cooperation of maintenance employees and all other employees. some of their activities, as Spain has done for its service stations. At hypermarkets in France, for example, the variable pay for technical managers includes a qualitative goal for waste-sorting. Many countries have also introduced an energy-efficiency objective into store managers’ compensation 5. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 52 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance 2.5.2 STORES THAT ARE MORE Special attention is also paid to the selection of materials. Stores favour natural materials that are more respectful of the environment. ECONOMICAL AND Wood, brick, and paints are all chosen according to eco-responsible SUSTAINABLE criteria. In keeping with its commitment to responsible procurement Each year, Carrefour continues its growth and opens new retail outlets with the goal of reducing and managing the impact of its retail centres. (see pages 43-46), the wood comes in large part from sustainably managed forests. Glues, paints, stains and varnishes bearing the NF Environment label, European Ecolabel or other such equivalent are 2 used at all the sites in France. Carrefour Property also uses materials To this end, the Group works toward the following goals: W integrating environmental criteria into the construction and that require low levels of energy for their production or are made using abundant natural materials. 2 renovation of stores, since the choices made when the store is designed will have an impact throughout the entire operational period; Carrefour Property involves the banners operating in its French shopping centres in its approach. Environmental criteria are included in the rental agreements and specifications for outfitting 2 W reducing stores’ carbon footprint and energy consumption; boutiques to encourage the use of energy-efficient equipment, the choice of eco-friendly materials and the sorting of waste. W managing its sites’ water consumption; New sites are designed for optimal suitability within their local increasing the percentage of waste recycled at stores. 2 W environment. Launched in 2006, Carrefour’s Landscaping Charter includes management of green spaces with respect for local biodiversity 5. Each project is designed to integrate seamlessly 2.5.2.1 INTEGRATING ENVIRONMENTAL into the natural or urban landscape and to minimise environmental CONSIDERATIONS INTO THE impact. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION To strengthen its commitment to biodiversity and the preservation of OF STORES Designing energy-efficient stores natural resources, Carrefour Property developed a new Biodiversity Charter in 2012 5. Its goal is to spread the best practices that protect biodiversity, from the design phase to the works and onward 2 to the operational phase. A prerequisite for any land-use project, In constructing, expanding and renovating commercial spaces, this charter makes it possible to evaluate the ecological and urban each project gives the Carrefour Group an opportunity to apply context of the project. Next, it covers the following three areas: the principles of sustainable construction. Carrefour Property, the real-estate company that manages the commercial real-estate assets of the Carrefour Group in France, Italy and Spain, involves local communities, prime contractors parties and service providers in its W W the orientation of green-space design (according to the metropolitan area’s main zones of ecological consistency); the orientation of the worksite’s implementation; 2 eco-design approach, and works to implement innovative solutions W the orientation of green-space management. to protect the environment: Carrefour also works to facilitate its stores’ accessibility. For example, To reach the Group’s energy efficiency goal (see p. 54-56) Designing at the l’Escapade shopping centre, opened in November 2012 in La store architecture to optimise energy consumption. Renovated and new buildings use natural lighting as much as possible, are constructed from materials offering high thermal inertia and have Chapelle-Saint-Luc near Troyes, the integration of the project into its environment required safe pedestrian access paths, the creation 2 of a bicycle path and parking spaces for families, electric vehicles glass façades oriented in a way that reduces the need for airand carpool vehicles. The car park has recharging stations for conditioning. These best practices have been developed in France, electric vehicles. In Mondeville, the future business zone will be as well as in India, Taiwan and China, among others. Some stores served by a central bus stop. The future Quetigny business zone will also have a planted roof, which plays the role of insulation, or a white roof with high solar reflectivity, which limits the need for airconditioning, such as at the Assago hypermarket in Italy. be served by two tram lines. 2 In 2011, Carrefour expanded its Eco-Construction Charter to include renewable energy sources in projects, so that these options (solar water-heaters, heat pumps, wind turbines etc.) are more systematically taken into consideration. 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 53 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance To optimally promote this comprehensive environmental mud on public roads and the limitation of noise disturbances approach and get its stores involved in on-going improvement, by planning loud works for time periods that will be the most Carrefour Property studies the possibilities of HEQ (Haute Qualité comfortable for area residents. Environnementale, a French standard) certification or BREEAM In 2012, the Green Worksite Charter concerned 13 projects, in (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment particular involving: Method, a British standard) certification for each project in France. The Carrefour market supermarket in Mondonville, opened W the construction and expansion of hypermarkets and shopping in 2010, was the Group’s first store to receive HEQ certification. centres; These innovative standards and technologies are also used outside W the construction of supermarkets. the scope of Carrefour Property: Turkey, for example, is expecting In 2013, Carrefour Property aims to apply the Green Worksite to obtain LEED certification for its new head office, scheduled for Charter to all of its construction and expansion works. delivery in 2013. Carrefour’s approach is also embodied in other projects, such as the HEQ-certified l’Escapade shopping centre, which is also in the 2.5.2.2 REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENT process of obtaining BREEAM certification; the Carrefour Lyon FOOTPRINT OF STORE OPERATIONS Confluence store, which is also HEQ certified, as is the shopping centre it is part of; the expansion of the Argeles-Gazost Carrefour market; and the new Audenge Carrefour market, which aims to Reducing stores’ energy consumption and obtain HEQ certification. These on-going and completed projects carbon footprint use all of the measures detailed above to activate all possible means The Group has set itself an ambitious objective: reducing its CO2 of promoting environmental protection. emissions by 40% compared to 2009 levels in four European countries – France, Spain, Italy and Belgium – by 2020 5. Creating clean worksites The greenhouse gas emissions generated by store operations come Beginning with the design phase, Carrefour works to limit its mainly from the energy they use and the refrigerants needed to impact. In France, the companies that worked on construction sites produce food refrigeration. Carrefour has therefore made these two for Carrefour stores in 2012 signed the Green Worksite Charter 5, sources its priorities. which in particular recommends worksite waste-sorting, the cleaning of earth-moving machinery’s wheels to avoid spreading The Carrefour Group’s carbon footprint GHG EMISSIONS BY SOURCE (IN T. CO2 EQ.) Refrigerants 55 42% Scope 1 Gas 55 3% Fuel 55 1% Scope 2 Electrical power 55 44% Scope 3 Logistics 5 10% Excluding: Argentina HM and SM. 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 55 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of reasonable assurance. GHG EMISSIONS BY REGION (IN T. CO2 EQ.) France 20% Europe (excluding France) 44% Asia 11% Latin America 25% Excluding: Argentina HM and SM. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 54 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance To measure its carbon footprint, in 2007 the Group implemented They are all also gradually adopting low-consumption lighting, a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reporting system based on the and adding glass doors to frozen and refrigerated product units. guidelines of the GHG Protocol, an international GHG accounting Some stores also recover the heat energy generated by their standard 5. In 2012, the direct emissions (scope 1 of the protocol: cooling facilities and reuse it for heating or for domestic hotrefrigerants, gas and fuel) were 1.6 million t. of CO2 eq. 55 and indirect emissions (scope 2: electricity, and scope 3: goods transport) were 1.9 million t. of CO2 5 eq. water production, while others gradually replace their compressors with more effective units and still others develop organic-waste methanisation, install insulating walls and use heat pumps when 2 geothermal energy makes it possible. The energy efficiency programme Since store energy expenditure comes to over 500 million euros In France, thanks to the combination of these solutions, the Carrefour market supermarkets in Mondonville, Auterive, Sarlat 2 per year, reducing energy consumption is also a cornerstone of the Group’s efforts to stop wastage and a major factor in lowering Carrefour’s energy dependence. and Mauriac not only consume less energy than other stores on a like-for-like basis in terms of sales area, but they also no longer use fossil fuels for heating. 2 AVERAGE STORE ENERGY CONSUMPTION In Turkey, 15 projects were created during the 2011-2012 period to promote the roll-out of this type of initiative. The total investment Electrical power 87% represents nearly 7 million euros and will save up to 12 million Gas Fuel 11% 2% kilowatts. Achieving the energy efficiency goals established is a major factor in managers’ evaluations. Similarly, Taiwan, China, India and Poland are introducing more 2 effective equipment in their stores and increasing their energySTORE ENERGY CONSUMPTION consumption monitoring. Carrefour China won the Green Chinese Store award for its Hangzhou Yongjin site. Food refrigeration Air conditioning 35% 25% In Spain, the Edificios Eco-sostenibles energy-efficiency programme was launched in 2007. Thanks to this programme, for the third year in a row Carrefour Spain came out on top of the mass merchandising 2 Lighting 24% Food preparation and other areas 16% sector in the evaluation carried out by the Piensa en Clima NGO, which promotes approaches in favour of responsible consumption In 2012, the energy consumption (electricity, fuel and gas) of the and the fight against climate change. Group’s stores dropped by 24.6% (compared to 2004 levels, per sq. m. of sales area). Carrefour’s goal is to reduce energy consumption by 30% per sq. m. of store sales area by 2020 (compared to 2004 In 2012, Carrefour Brazil launched an inventory of the main improvement goals to reduce energy consumption, and plans to roll out an action plan in the next few years aimed at closing freezer 2 levels). units, installing energy meters in 400 stores and shopping areas and To achieve this result, the Group launched an energy efficiency replacing lighting systems. programme at all stores. This multi-year investment plan, worth some thirty million euros a year, allows Carrefour to roll out energy efficiency technology at its stores. The stores are also equipped with a centralised technical management (CTM) system that automatically 2 regulates heating, air conditioning and lighting according to need, and monitors consumption. 2 2 5 2012 ﬁgures veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 55 2012 ﬁgures veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of reasonable assurance. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 55 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Energy consumption – electricity, Gas and fuel (kWh/sq. m. of sales area) 573 596 619 628 (8.7)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 83% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR/SM: BR. 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions linked to energy consumption (in kg CO2/sq. m. of sales area) 187 192 205 208 (10.3)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 83% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR/SM: BR. Key figures A 24.6% decrease in energy consumption in kWh/sq. m. of sales area since 2004 across the Group. A 10.3% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions linked to energy consumption at stores consolidated within the Group since 2009. Promoting renewable energy sources Reducing refrigerant consumption Depending on local contexts, the Carrefour Group takes every Refrigerants used to run the refrigeration systems represent the opportunity to develop its use of renewable energy sources. Certain second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions generated by countries like Belgium already use 100% renewable energy, by the stores’ activity. To reduce greenhouse gas emissions caused selecting their electricity supplier. by leaking refrigerants, the Carrefour Group launched a strategy composed of two phases: There are many examples throughout the Group of stores equipped to produce heat or electricity using renewable sources. W to identify leaks, with the goal of limiting them to 10% of the gas used in its facilities; In Turkey, certain hypermarkets and supermarkets located in sunny regions are equipped with solar water-heaters. W to prioritise the use of alternative or natural fluids with a lower environmental impact; Carrefour also pledged to stop using In France, six wind turbines were installed at the Perpignan Claira hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) in its new cooling facilities as of 2015. site, and the Salaise shopping centre extension uses geothermal energy to heat and air-condition the mall and shops. In most of the countries where it operates, the Group has carried out a diagnostic analysis aimed at measuring fluid leak rates and In Spain, Carrefour has installed over 109,000 kWh/year in identifying their causes, with a view to introducing corrective photovoltaic cells at eight hypermarkets and rolled out over 11,000 measures. Between 2009 and 2012, the quantity of refrigerant gas solar panels at the Alovera warehouse, thus creating the largest refilled in cooling facilities following leaks dropped by 34.3% per array of this type in Europe. With this installation, Carrefour Spain sq. m. of sales area. reduced its emissions by over 500 t. of CO2 equivalent. Several types of gas may be used in refrigerator and freezer units. In Italy, 12 hypermarkets are equipped with heat pumps for heating, Their use is subject to increasing regulatory constraints. bringing renewable energy’s share of their consumption to 40%. The three warehouses in Massalengo, Pombia and Casella use solar At Carrefour stores in Europe, all food-chilling facilities that use energy. hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) will soon be phased out. Since January 1, 2010, the European Union has prohibited the use of Finally, in Poland, the rental of hypermarket roofs for the virgin HCFCs to refill existing cooling facilities. installation of solar panels is being studied. The use of HFCs (hydrofluorocarbons) will also be reduced, as legislation in this regard has been made considerably stricter. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 56 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Carrefour is thus testing various alternatives to traditional fluids, Leak monitoring has been included in maintenance contracts for such as natural fluids like carbon dioxide (CO2), which have a lower the facilities. In addition, carbon dioxide facilities are being tested impact on climate change and ozone layer destruction 5. Moreover, at three stores. the CO2 requires very tightly-sealed refrigeration facilities, which Stores in Taiwan are gradually migrating toward the use of fluids significantly reduce leak risks. The next-generation equipment also consumes less fluid and 10-20% less electricity, which limits greenhouse gas emissions as well. with lower environmental impact and have all been equipped with leak-detection devices. 2 China improved its leak detection procedure, which is now carried After the first conclusive experiments carried out in 2011, in which carbon dioxide was tested for freezer units, various pilot operations were launched in 2012, including those for refrigeration. The Group out bimonthly with more reliable equipment. Poland expects to replace the last of its equipment using HCFCs 2 by 2013 at the latest. CO2 refrigerant systems were tested at two is considering the possibility of converting those of its facilities operating on fluorinated fluids to the use of scalable mixed CO2 solutions, or to 100% CO2 solutions for facilities reaching their endhypermarkets and a supermarket in Poland in 2012; a decision was taken to gradually expand this practice. 2 of-life, or for complete or partial renovation of certain sites. From Since 2012, India has been using gas that does not harm the ozone this point on in new stores, completely renovated stores or stores layer. whose cooling facilities are reaching their end-of-life, the Group At the end of 2012, Italy had three CO2 plants. This fluid is used will therefore use CO2 for both freezing and refrigeration. In 2012, Turkey took a series of measures to reduce the impact of refrigerant systems: the last facilities operating with HCFCs systematically for all new store openings and renovations. In Brazil, Carrefour has launched on-going improvement 2 approaches. In 2012, for example, a map of refrigerant gas leaks were replaced, certain facilities were removed or reduced in was created and an action plan was developed to reduce them size and the compressors and capacitors at 49 supermarkets (equipment replacements and preventive maintenance). were replaced by equipment with anti-leak guarantees. 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 2 Quantity of refrigerant refilled due to leakage (in kg/1,000 sq. m. of sales area) 38.1 40.0 47.4 58.6 (35.0)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 76% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR, AR, TW/SM: BR, AR, TR. 2 Key figures A 35.0% reduction in the quantity of refrigerant fluid in cold-production facilities per sq. m. of sales area since 2009. A 24.9% reduction in CO2 emissions linked to refrigerant and energy consumption by stores in France, 2 Spain, Belgium and Italy compared to 2009 levels (goal: 40% less by 2020). 2 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 57 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Reducing water consumption Stores around the world are gradually adopting solutions designed to limit their consumption, such as water-saving taps, motionSources of water consumption vary with the size and operations detection taps and water-free urinals, systems for collecting and of the different stores. The operations that use the most water are recycling rainwater for usages not requiring drinking water – a the food-preparation areas (meat, fish, bread, pastries and deli), the solution that could reduce a hypermarket’s consumption by 10%. In cleaning of equipment and floors, the production of ice for the fish India, for example, certain stores have set up rainwater collection displays, hand-washing and employee restrooms, and the watering schemes. of interior plants and outdoor green spaces. In France, Italy, China, Taiwan and India, Carrefour and cash & From 2009 to 2012, water consumption dropped by 6.8% at Group carry stores are equipped with a water recycling system that collects level. This progress is the result of a long awareness-raising process. and treats wastewater for bacteriological pollution so that it can be In 2003, the Group adopted related management measures, including reused in toilets, for car-washing and for watering green spaces. All regular reporting and identification of consumption sources and stores in China are equipped with dry toilets, which save an average stores that consume the most 5. This monitoring and analysis of 170,000 litres of water per year and per store. work included a number of water-savings assessments. The stores have raised their employees’ awareness of this issue and optimised equipment maintenance, in particular to prevent leaks. In Turkey, for example, water metres at hypermarkets are monitored daily. 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Water consumed (in cu.m/sq. m. of sales area) 1.72 1.77 1.82 1.85 (6.8)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 92% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BE, AR/SM: BE, AR. Key figures A 6,8 % reduction in water consumption per sq. m. of sales area Group wide since 2009. 16.7 million cu.m consumed at Group stores in 2012. Reducing waste production and promoting on store shelves. If the packaging is well designed, this innovative recovery method offers several environmental benefits. The packaging is smaller and lighter, which limits the volume and weight of the Store waste primarily consists of secondary packaging (such as goods transported, fuel consumption and waste amounts. In France, packing boxes for product shipment) and, to a lesser extent, plastic, the ready-to-sell method is used for 80% of hypermarket products metal and organic waste from non-consumable food products. and 72% of supermarket goods. Reducing waste from operations is entirely in line with anti-wastage In Turkey in 2012, nearly 50% of single-use transport cases were efforts launched by Carrefour at the end of 2012. The Group has replaced with reusable cases, and a new partnership was set up to long been implementing a strategy with two parts: reducing waste test the use of pallets with a longer life span. Since 2009, Spain has at the source and recovering waste, whether in financial or physical form or as energy 5. been using 100% recyclable corrugated cardboard trays for fruit and vegetables that also help to save room during transport. France Reducing waste from operations opted to give priority to reusable packaging, mainly made of plastic, To limit its waste, the Group is, in particular, replacing the boxes and for produce, meat and textiles. crates used for goods transport with reusable plastic trays, and is Warehouses also actively participate in reducing waste at source. rolling out “ready-to-sell” units, which involve designing secondary See page 63. packaging in such a way that it can be used to display the products 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 58 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance In most of its countries, Carrefour stores work in partnership with In 2012, special efforts were made to step up waste collection at all charitable organisations, to which they donate food products and stores in Italy (paper, cardboard, wood, food waste, oils, batteries, textiles (see pages 68-69). and electric and electronic equipment). Recycling and recovering waste from operations Significant progress was also made in Argentina, where Carrefour Everywhere that it operates, the Group has also adopted a structured waste-management system to ensure that waste is recycled 5. actively participated in the integrated recycling management programme (PGIR) of the municipality of Buenos Aires. This programme offers environmental, social and financial benefits, since 2 Cardboard, the primary source of waste in stores, is sorted in all countries. Other types of waste (plastic, scrap metal, glass, organic waste etc.) it aims to reduce the overall amount of waste produced, develop recycling networks and professionalise the players already in the sector. In this framework, Argentina’s Carrefour stores have set up 2 are sorted according to the available local waste-recovery systems, which are becoming more common year-by-year. In all countries, Group stores have been increasing their efforts to find networks a sorting and recovery system that covers organic waste, packaging waste (cardboard, plastic etc.), oils, fluorescent tubes, paint, freon cylinders, batteries and more, and have trained employees in sorting 2 able to recycle their waste. methods (a total of 542 employees trained in 2012). Recovery of organic waste has been underway for many years now. In the same spirit, Carrefour Brazil intensified its waste management In Belgium, all stores sort waste from their grocery, bakery, fruit programmes to bring them up to national policy standards, in and vegetable sections and transform it into biomethane. In France, 11,131 tonnes of biowaste collected at Carrefour hypermarkets and supermarkets were treated in 2012 5. In Spain, an organic-waste particular for the appropriate elimination of organic waste and recyclables. Employees in Brazil also actively participate in working groups that bring together the mass merchandise sector, government 2 management system is now in operation at 172 hypermarkets. Over representatives and manufacturing decision-makers, with the goal the past year, 6,002 tonnes of organic waste were collected and of setting up sector-wide waste management agreements. recycled. Encouraging customers to collect and recycle waste In 2007, Carrefour Spain introduced an ambitious programme, the Integrated Waste Management Plan, and opted to centralise waste management and entrust the collection and recycling of waste to Throughout the Group, stores offer bins to collect waste brought in by customers. Whether or not local waste legislation exists, waste flows are diverse and becoming more numerous each year; 2 two service suppliers. In 2012, this optimisation programme was depending on local habits, flows may include batteries, electric and still a success: 65% of hypermarkets’ waste was recycled. Carrefour electronic waste, printer cartridges, light bulbs and other lighting Spain is also a member of the Sigaus integrated manufacturingconsumables. oil management system and the Ambilamp integrated management system designed to facilitate the recovery and recycling of oils and lighting consumables – neon tubing, bulbs, glass, metal fragments and more. Carrefour has also launched many awareness campaigns targeting customers to encourage them to sort their waste. 2 At the same time, French hypermarkets sorted and recycled 81% of their waste (including via food donations). RECYCLED WASTE BY REGION AND TYPE, INCLUDING DONATIONS TO CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS (IN KG/SQ. M. OF SALES AREA) 2 Europe Latin Region France (excluding France) America Asia 2 Cardboard/paper waste 72% 72% 91% 93% Donations 18% 1% 1% 0% Organic waste 1% 11% 1% 1% Other waste (including plastic) 9% 16% 7% 6% Proportion of waste recycled – including donations 2012 2011 2010 % vs. 10 2 (% of waste) 63.9 61.5 60.5 5.5% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 79% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM: BR, AR, TR/SM: BR, AR. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 59 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Reducing the impact of consumables W developing new technologies: electronic brochures and e-mail, loyalty-programme cheques and catalogues available on Limiting the environmental impact of commercial Carrefour’s websites and on smartphones in Europe; publications W optimising the distribution of its catalogues: Carrefour reduced Since 2005, the Carrefour Group has been implementing a its paper use by 20% in Spain, for example, by adjusting the comprehensive strategy involving all its commercial publications, number of catalogues distributed to the population density per in line with its responsible procurement approach (see pages 43neighbourhood and ensuring that only one catalogue is placed 46). In particular, the Group committed to using only FSCor in each mailbox. A similar approach is underway in France. PEFC-certified paper or recycled paper for its European commercial Carrefour hypermarkets began offering three catalogues per consumer publications by the end of 2012. month rather than four, which saves 10,000 tonnes of paper per In 2012, 99% of the paper used Group-wide for its commercial year. publications was recycled or certified; for Europe, the figure was Carrefour is also working with printers to reduce the impact of its 100%. At the same time, Carrefour has been reducing the quantity commercial publications. All of Carrefour’s printers are committed of paper used for its publications by: to an eco-friendly approach (Imprim’Vert, FSC, PEFC, ISO 14001 W reducing the grammage or size of catalogues; etc.). 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Quantity of paper purchased for commercial publications (in kg/sq. m. of sales area) 17.8 19.9 19.7 20.1 (11.1)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). Phasing out disposable check-out bags As a result, the number of disposable plastic bags distributed free In all countries where it operates, the Group has committed to of charge at check-outs dropped by 50% (per sq. m. of sales area) phasing out the free distribution of disposable plastic check-out from 2009 to 2012. Now, only Argentina, Brazil and Turkey still bags by the end of 2012. In 2003, the Group carried out its first give out such bags. In these countries, Carrefour is committed to a life-cycle analysis on different types of biodegradable and reusable progressive approach to raise customers’ awareness on this point. plastic and paper check-out bags. Updated in 2010, the analysis Certain Carrefour stores in Brazil (Piracicaba, Jundiai and Belo showed that, past the fifth use, the reusable carrier bag was the Horizonte) have already stopped distributing disposable bags. most eco-friendly of all the solutions studied. The Group therefore Carrefour has saved over 1,400 million free disposable plastic decided to launch an ambitious strategy of eliminating disposable check-out bags at Group level since 2009. plastic check-out bags and promoting reusable bags. 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 Number of free disposable plastic check-out bags purchased for stores (in kg/sq. m. of sales area) 103 122 141 206 (50.0)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 100% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT). Air, water and soil pollution Thanks to store efforts, the wastewater leaving sites is not laden with major pollutants. In certain countries, wastewater treatment The Carrefour Group’s commercial and retail operations release low and recycling systems have been introduced 5. levels of emissions into the air, water and soil, apart from greenhouse gas emissions. The initiatives aimed at reducing greenhouse gas Carrefour-managed service stations in France and Spain, emissions are described on the previous pages. for example, are equipped with facilities designed to prevent environmental risks and unpleasant odours, including: Equipment operating on fossil fuels that generate emissions into the air (dust or smoke) such as generators, compressors and condensers W double-bottom tanks and concrete storage tanks; are equipped with recovery systems or filters. W systems designed to recover vapour from gas storage tanks and deposits when tanks are completely filled; 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 60 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance W a braking system and fill valves to avoid overfilling and leaks, However, operations linked to goods transport may generate which contaminate soil; noise disturbances, particularly for local residents during delivery periods. In 2012, Carrefour intensified its noise-reduction strategy, W tight seals on the hose between tank and gas pump to avoid an approach for which Supply Chain France won the Gold Decibels ground contamination; W W adaptors on gas hoses and leak-detection equipment on tanks; hard pavement around the filling area to avoid fuel infiltration award in December 2011. This award recognises companies that have made significant progress in this area. In 2012, in the context of its membership in the Demeter Club and together with 2 the Certibruit organisation, Carrefour also participated in the W into the ground; decanting systems to avoid contamination of the sanitation network, and a system designed to detect water contamination development of a new “Respect for local residents during night deliveries” label 5 which recognises shippers and retailers that 2 significantly reduce the noise disturbances they generate, opening by hydrocarbons. Preventing noise pollution the way for the development of night deliveries. This label covers obligations regarding means and outcome: delivery points and roads 2 designed to reduce disturbances, training and awareness-raising for Carrefour store operations generate little to no major noise employees and follow-up on complaints to ensure respect for local disturbances. Generators or compressors that cannot be installed residents’ comfort. underground are covered with anti-noise equipment or placed In concrete terms, Carrefour France has also doubled its number of behind insulating walls. In all countries, maintenance teams ensure respect for noise regulations. In 2012, for example, Carrefour Poland silent lorries since 2010. At the end of 2012, its fleet included 140 vehicles that meet the PIEK standard, a label guaranteeing sound 2 took a number of measures to combat noise disturbances, including levels of under 60 decibels 5. soundproof doors for technical rooms (compressors, coolers), noisefilter installation, repairs to compressors, replacement with quieter compressors and use of soundproofing materials. 2 2.5.3 A MORE ECO-FRIENDLY LOGISTICS CHAIN In 2012, the Group continued to optimise its logistics chain to limit its impact on the environment and reduce its carbon footprint. As a part of an approach aimed at continuous, sustainable improvement centres for its European suppliers. By pooling inventories, these centres make it possible to save an average of 15-20% in distance travelled. Suppliers, mainly SMEs, deliver to a single point that 2 of goods transport, Carrefour developed innovative initiatives is close to their production site. Full multi-supplier lorries supply together with its partners and continued its efforts to reduce and Carrefour’s regional delivery warehouses from this point. Over 400 optimise the number of kilometres travelled in favour of more ecosuppliers in France supply these platforms. In Turkey, for example, friendly transport modes and improving warehouses’ environmental the construction of a new warehouse will make it possible to performance. serve the entire Black Sea region, reducing distances travelled by nearly 2 million kilometres. Taiwan ramped up negotiations with 2 certain suppliers to avoid direct factory-store deliveries and achieve 2.5.3.1 REDUCING AND OPTIMISING centralisation through the warehouse. THE NUMBER OF KILOMETRES In a further effort to reduce empty kilometres, Carrefour also TRAVELLED introduced an optimised return-logistics system in France: eight Adapting logistics networks regional centres now accept returns of packaging and cultural products from hypermarkets. This new organisation saved 2 4.8 million empty kilometres and 4,100 tonnes of carbon emissions Everywhere that it improves its efficiency, Carrefour redesigns or in 2012 (scope: French hypermarkets, from October 2011 to the end adapts its logistics network. The Group has rolled out consolidation of September 2012) 5. 2 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 61 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Optimised lorry loading has created a regional industrial inventory for Danone Eaux France at Carrefour’s Grans Miramas site, which has the advantage of At the same time, Carrefour is optimising lorry loading, with the being connected to a railway. This site supplies over 120 Carrefour goal of increasing the number of pallets per lorry and boxes per stores in the southeast, as well as the warehouses of other retailers pallet. In France, 26 twin-deck lorries make it possible to double operating in this region. With the volumes pooled in this way, the the volumes loaded into the trailers. In 2012, this represented objective is to send trains fully loaded with goods from Danone 9,700 fewer lorries on the roads and 1,440 fewer tonnes of CO2 Eaux France’s plants. This pooling has already saved 415 tonnes of emitted. Moreover, testing is underway on stackable shipping carbon emissions per year (with 1,000 fewer lorries on the roads). packaging to optimise lorry loading volumes. A twin-deck lorry is also in use in Poland. After a diagnostic phase in 2011, Argentina Backhauling initiatives were also introduced in Italy, where an implemented a wide-reaching plan aimed at optimising the loading agreement promoting this practice was signed with some 30 of its lorries. Over 2012, lorry-filling was optimised by 18%, 14% suppliers. In Argentina, Carrefour also introduced backhauling of which was accomplished by increasing the average size of pallets in three provinces – La Pampa, Buenos Aires and Mendoza – in and 4% through better lorry filling. Other actions, such as optimising partnership with 45 suppliers. In Belgium, Carrefour continued delivery frequency to 110 stores and improving suppliers’ pallet its efforts, and uses backhauling for 10% of its upstream flows, in preparation, also contribute to overall shipping optimisation. particular for beer products. Taiwan is also developing backhauling operations. The Group also encourages backhauling, wherein lorries that have delivered merchandise to stores are loaded at nearby suppliers to To support its optimisation efforts, Carrefour has invested in highre-supply Carrefour warehouses. In France in 2012, nearly 400,000 performance tools. A Transport Management System (TMS) aimed pallets were transported using this method, or five times more than at better management of data and optimised delivery rounds is in 2010. Several colLabourative projects have been developed, being implemented in France. Other countries, such as Argentina, including a very innovative platform initiated in France in Italy and Poland, also rolled out the TMS in 2012. partnership with Danone Eaux France and ID Logistics. This project 2012 2011 2010 2009 % vs. 09 CO2 emissions per shipping unit (in kg C02/pallet) 6.9 7.0 7.0 7.8 (12.5)% Like-for-like BUs (scope: 82% of 2012 consolidated sales, excl. VAT) – excluding: HM/SM: BR/IN. 2.5.3.2 PROMOTING AND DEVELOPING In Spain, Carrefour continues to put its focus on rail transport; in MORE ECO-FRIENDLY TRANSPORT 2011, 80% of its containers were routed by train. In Belgium, Carrefour is strongly encouraging waterway transport. Warehouse and store deliveries: multimodal The routing of import containers between Antwerp and Vilvoorde is therefore handled by barge. In Italy, Carrefour uses a daily train to solutions on the rise route some goods from its warehouse in northern Italy to the Rome In terms of alternative transport – waterway, rail and multimodal area for delivery to stores in the centre and south of the country. This solutions combining rail/road or barge/road – Carrefour continued rail line is operated in collaboration with one of Carrefour’s main its efforts in the countries where the infrastructures made it possible. suppliers. With some 3,000 trips per year, this line made it possible In France, over 9.5 million kilometres were saved in 2012 by using to achieve CO2 emissions savings of 26%. In Milan, Carrefour is also multimodal transport, or the equivalent of 17,000 fewer lorries for developing the use of clean transport for home grocery deliveries a savings of 7,200 tonnes of carbon emissions. Upstream (deliveries using vans operating on LPG or zero-emissions electric vehicles. from suppliers to warehouses), 43% of non-food import products In Brazil, Carrefour launched a combined waterway/sea transport were routed using a multimodal solution. initiative via the Itapevi platform in Manaus for fresh and frozen products as a replacement for road transport. Downstream (deliveries from warehouses to stores), multimodal transport represented 12% of all trans-France flows, or 4.5 million kilometres of road transport saved. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 62 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Optimising our business operations’ environmental performance Innovating for a more eco-friendly fleet that Turkey uses lorries that meet the latest standards and is examining respects local residents the possibility of introducing electric lorries into its fleet. Employees in Taiwan work continually toward the goal of reducing the number These efforts to optimise the fleet with cleaner, quieter lorries is a of lorries travelling between warehouses and stores. mechanism for progress and a key area for Carrefour’s environmental approach. The Group favours the use of cleaner lorries: W in Belgium, 100% of lorries are Euro 5-compliant; 2.5.3.3 ACTIONS TO IMPROVE THE 2 W in France, 93% of the fleet meets Euro 4 and 5 standards (compared with 80% in 2010). ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY OF WAREHOUSES 2 Compliant with the EEV (Enhanced Environmentally-Friendly Warehouses’ environmental performance is steadily improving. Vehicles) standard – the strictest to date – France’s fleet has now increased to 35 vehicles (versus 27 in 2011). In France, in 2008, Carrefour introduced a set of sustainable development indicators, initially for consolidated warehouses and 2 In France, Carrefour signed the CO2 Objective Charter, covering its then for warehouses managed by service providers. Since 2005, an own fleet, with the ADEME. Moreover, Carrefour’s shippers also outside firm has been carrying out sustainable development audits commit to the efforts by signing this Charter: 127 service providers, of French warehouses to identify best practices and encourage who handle 67% of the transport, have already signed it. Through improvements. These audits cover environmental and social criteria this charter, shippers commit to a concrete action plan over three years to reduce their fuel consumption and associated emissions. (energy consumption, CO2 emissions and waste production). 56 audits were performed in 2012 in France, with an average 94.7% 2 Specifically, this commitment involves installing accessories compliance with the reference system, compared to 91% in 2010. to improve vehicles’ aerodynamics, choosing a highly energyefficient system for refrigerated vehicles, improving consumption In 2012, French warehouses continued to reduce their energy monitoring, carrying out eco-friendly driving training for drivers consumption by improving the energy efficiency of their heating facilities, refrigeration equipment and lighting systems (such and raising awareness amongst shippers. The Group also tests and promotes innovative solutions, particularly as low-consumption lights and motion detectors that make it possible to activate lights only when needed). The result: electricity 2 in terms of engines: in France, Carrefour acquired six hybrid delivery consumption has been reduced by 8% compared with 2010 levels. lorries (electric and silent), improving energy use by nearly 10%. In a world premier in Lyon, thanks to a technological partnership with In Taiwan, a warehouse roof was equipped with photovoltaic cells Renault Trucks and the carrier Stef-TFE, the Group also launched that supply part of the building’s electricity needs. the world’s biggest electric lorry, a 16-tonne 100% electric Renault Midlum. This vehicle makes it possible to reduce CO2 emissions by 89% in the Lyon region (third quarter of 2012). In France, certain warehouses have begun using 100%-recyclable cardboard pallets. Weighing only 3.3 kg compared to the 20 kg of a wooden pallet, this recyclable cardboard version reduces waste 2 Also in France, Carrefour is experimenting with a bio-ethanol lorry quantities while improving handling conditions and significantly in collaboration with the manufacturer Scania and the carrier STAF. reducing the tonnages transported. In 2012, 2,410 tonnes in weight Since the beginning of 2013, Carrefour has been testing three lorries were saved in this way. fueled by biomethane, which is generated by recycling organic waste from its hypermarkets. This scheme makes it possible to make deliveries to some 15 stores in the Lille area with a neutral carbon Logistics organises the collection of cardboard and plastic packaging for Group stores, in particular supermarkets and convenience stores, which do not have high-enough volumes for removal by a service 2 assessment. In addition to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, provider. Over the entire logistics network, the waste-recovery rate this goods transport solution emits no fine particles, reduces noise is 55%. disturbances by half and represents a concrete experiment in energy independence for store deliveries. 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 63 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities 2.6 Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities Although it operates in 12 countries, as it expands its operations financial partners, together with which it promotes the on-going the Carrefour Group never forgets the communities where its stores creation of value for the benefit of all. are located, where its employees live and where it connects with its 2.6.1 PLAYING A DYNAMIC ROLE IN EMPLOYMENT AND THE LOCAL ECONOMY 2.6.1.1 STORES DRIVING EMPLOYMENT In France, the banner was the leading recruiter for work-based learning schemes in 2012, with 3,000 new recruits employed With nearly 10,000 stores, Carrefour is a major player in the under a work/study contract. Working in partnership with local socioeconomic development of the places in which it operates. organisations, the Group has also signed a Commitment Charter Carrefour stores are significant centres of direct and indirect for employment and work-based learning for young people with employment. In each Carrefour country and each district/region the Ministry for Apprenticeship and Vocational Training. In where it has a store, the banner follows a local recruitment policy 5. another exemplary initiative, Carrefour sponsored some 150 young In France, with over 106,000 employees, Carrefour represents one of people in 2012 in partnership with the Nos Quartiers ont du Talent the biggest private employers in the country. association. One illustration of the success of the initiative was the Carrefour hypermarkets in France, for example, employ an average forum on youth employment held at the end of the year, which of 300 people. Every new store creates jobs, which mainly benefit attracted 700 applicants. Other countries have also launched widepeople who live in its geographical area. In France, the Lyon reaching programmes dedicated to helping young people integrate Confluence and La Chapelle-Saint-Luc hypermarkets and the into society and the workplace. For example, Brazil’s Jeunes Audenge supermarket, all of which opened in 2012, are excellent Apprentis programme provided 1,400 young people with training examples. When the Lyon Confluence hypermarket opened, it hired in a store business line in 2011. 140 employees, 85% of them on permanent contracts. The opening France’s École Carrefour was created to promote the recruitment of the La Chapelle-Saint-Luc hypermarket created 200 direct and and qualification of young people as well as training and skills 250 indirect jobs. As for the Audenge Carrefour market, 25 jobs development for non-executive employees. Each year, it accepts were created in partnership with city hall and the local employment candidates under professionalisation and apprenticeship contracts. office; all these employees live in Audenge or neighbouring communities. Carrefour also encourages business start-ups and a spirit of entrepreneurship by facilitating access to franchising. Becoming a Its emphasis on local employment and recruitment has enabled young entrepreneur in business is an easy and realistic option thanks Carrefour to play a key role in the professional integration of those to the management rental scheme offered by Carrefour, the only in its employment pools, in particular with the 2004 signing of the banner that currently puts forward such a proposal in France. Since Workplace Diversity Charter and by taking very concrete action 2003, Carrefour convenience has been running a two-year training to promote employment for young people and integration into the programme for the assistant store managers of certain stores with workforce for people experiencing employment difficulties. a view to helping them open a store under a lease management scheme without having to make a significant investment. Promoting youth employment As a major player in franchising in France and the rest of Europe, The Carrefour Group is committed to contributing to the local Carrefour aims to expand the franchising concept in consolidated development of the communities in which it operates and has countries. It receives support for this concept from a network of always focused on recruiting local young people through workpartners, and creates financial value that brings benefits for all, based learning schemes and/or by providing mentoring for including companies, zones, countries and cities. new recruits. Carrefour retained its role as a key player in youth employment in 2012. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 64 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities Promoting access to employment for those who The aim was to boost ties amongst 35 local associations, the town have difficulty finding work council and businesses in the region to develop joint projects designed to support the community’s economic and social In 2012, the Group continued its partnerships with key players development. in employment and social integration, in France in particular, including local organisations, the PLIE (Plan Local pour l’Insertion et l’Emploi), Cap Emploi, École de la Deuxième Chance and The cash & carry stores are designed to offer restaurant industry professionals, administrations and small local businesses a convenient place to shop. These stores play an active role in 2 IMS-Entreprendre. In partnership with Pôle emploi, the French government employment service, Carrefour has continued to recruit employees for new stores using the MRS method, which aims to making Group regions dynamic. In India, for example, Carrefour has opened two new stores, and in Argentina it has introduced the Carrefour Maxi concept. 2 measure applicants’ skills via a simulation model. Carrefour has also recruited employees through the Préparation Opérationnelle à l’Emploi (POE – Getting Ready for Work) Similarly, Carrefour’s neighbourhood stores are particularly beneficial for rural areas. In France, for example, the Group has entered into a partnership with La Poste (the French postal service): 2 programme, again in partnership with Pôle emploi. Objective: To 79 Relais Poste (postal outlets) in Carrefour shopping centres have replaced local post offices that have permanently closed 5. support new employees through training to get them ready for starting work. At the Lyon Confluence store, 72 employees took Customers can therefore continue to carry out everyday transactions advantage of the programme offered by École Carrefour. A similar success story can be found in Spain, where Carrefour continued its partnership with the Integra Foundation, which (dropping off and fetching mail, buying stamps and ready-stamped envelopes and withdrawing money from post office accounts) and take advantage of longer opening hours (8 am to 8 pm). 2 awarded it a special commendation for its efforts to support people who have difficulty finding work. Six such people were recruited for new stores in Brescia and Príncipe de Vergara. lso in Spain, 2.6.1.3 STIMULATING THE LOCAL Carrefour joined forces with the Red Cross and the regional ECONOMY employment service for Greater Madrid to hire unemployed people from the northern part of the city. Since the very beginning, the Group has given priority to local procurement of products, particularly food products, which is 2 to say items produced in the same country where they are sold. 2.6.1.2 CARREFOUR AS A PARTNER In Turkey, Argentina and Brazil, the share of Carrefour’s food IN LOCAL LIFE products sourced from local suppliers is close to 100%. Carrefour The result of constructive cooperation with elected officials and local players, a Carrefour store is a centre of neighbourhood thus supports the growth of thousands of SMEs and small producers in all the countries where it operates, while helping to lower CO2 emissions created by the transport of imported goods. Carrefour 2 life, creating social ties and responding effectively to residents’ develops long-term relationships with local businesses that improve everyday needs. The Chapelle-Saint-Luc hypermarket is a good their production quality and boost their growth. example of Carrefour’s dedication to coordinating its efforts with In Spain, Carrefour invited over 720 SMEs to promote their products representatives of the communities where it operates. Completed in November 2012, the creation of a commercial area was carried out in conjunction with financial backers and on-going consultation with residents and users. The project is one of the largest in in its stores in 2012. In China, the Direct Purchase programme launched in 2007 aims for intermediary-free procurement at national level, which is to say 2 France and was undertaken by the city authorities in Troyes and from one province to another, and at local level within a given the French National Urban Redevelopment Agency, which made province. This makes it possible to offer customers low prices economic growth and trade the dual focus of the challenge. It for fruit and vegetables and to guarantee optimum revenues for aims to reintegrate vulnerable neighbourhoods by creating new housing and public services. The dynamic needed for such a project was made possible by on-going committed dialogue amongst all farmers. To support this approach, Carrefour China launched an initiative that allowed customers to use their mobile telephones to access information on the traceability of these products, the origin 2 stakeholders: the residents, the various communities, the private of production and the date they were delivered to the stores. At the partners, the State and the economic development participants. end of 2012, the Direct Purchase programme made it possible to buy over 300,000 tonnes of fruit and vegetables from over 500,000 farmers 5. As another example of cooperation amongst the private sector, associations and town council, Carrefour Argentina, along with other businesses and the town council of Zarate (a Buenos Aires district) organised a discussion forum this year, for the second year In Belgium, Carrefour teams select regional products from artisans located within 50 km of the stores, and promote them in a dedicated 2 running, as part of the AcercarRSE (Get Closer to CSR) programme. store area and via special events. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 65 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities At the same time, in Taiwan, Carrefour features local products by it helps market the products and facilitates access to loans to support stamping them with “MIT: Made in Taiwan.” The development of the investment in and development of such micro-businesses. This local products being advertised within the stores draws upon the pilot project has benefited a total of 2,600 people living in three culture of quality and trust created by Carrefour, as well as the communities since 2011. market knowledge acquired by store managers. A number of local initiatives are also underpinning the Group’s The Carrefour Quality Lines: partnerships commitment. In June 2012, for example, customers at the Lucques to promote participating suppliers hypermarket in Italy had the opportunity to take part in a free The 1992 launch of the first Carrefour Quality Line (CQL) products guided tour of the 50 local fruit and vegetable producers who in France marked the beginning of Carrefour’s commitment to its customers and French producers 5. With this initiative, Carrefour supply this store with fresh products on a daily basis. Carrefour Argentina supports micro-entrepreneurs in the city offers its customers a core range of high-quality fresh products. of Tigre by distributing and promoting their products at three For the producers, each Carrefour Quality Line network has given hypermarkets in Buenos Aires province. Since 2007, Carrefour rise to long-standing partnerships designed to develop a quality has also been participating in the organisation of a fair in the approach, from field to plate, together with all supply chain players. municipality of Malvinas Argentinas, during which 30 microThe Carrefour Quality Lines therefore help sustain and promote entrepreneurs are invited to promote their products. local business and regional expertise 5. Carrefour works closely Also in Argentina, through its Foundation and in collaboration with all network players (agricultural producers, animal breeders with Planet Finance Argentina and the Pro Yungas organisation, and processors), taking into account their needs and helping Carrefour supports a programme aimed at preserving the Yungas them to stay abreast of regulatory developments, implement region by providing technical and operational assistance to small, environmentally-friendly practices, reduce their pesticide use and indigenous producers of such items as wool and honey. To this end, improve animal welfare. Key figures 75.2% of the food products sold by Carrefour in the various countries where it operates come from local suppliers. 10% of Group revenues from traditional fresh products are achieved through CQL networks. Contracts for 27 new lines were signed in 2012. 430 5 CQL network contracts in Group countries in 2012. Over 21,000 producer partners in France and nearly 25,000 throughout the world. Carrefour also develops this partnership-based strategy by For suppliers, it also ensures fair compensation for their quality promoting shared best practices among its suppliers, organising approach. Through its networks, Carrefour commits to annual commercial events dedicated to their products and promoting their business volumes that guarantee an outlet for suppliers’ products. expertise at such events as Paris’ International Agriculture Show. In February 2012, this event provided the Group with the opportunity to celebrate the Carrefour Quality Lines’ 20th anniversary. 5 2012 ﬁgures veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 5 Qualitative statements veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 66 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities Promoting regional and local products Created in 1996 with the aim of cooperating with SMEs in a and ensuring commercial outlets for thousands common project, this brand allows customers to experience the of producers traditional dishes of various French regions. By distributing and promoting various regional products throughout France, the brand Among the regional product ranges that Carrefour develops, the Reflets de France brand involves 178 French partners, for whom it provides total turnover of over 317 million euros (excluding tax). gives suppliers the opportunity to develop their operations and allows a wider audience to explore the many products their region has to offer. 2 2 Key figures In 2012, the Reflets de France range offered 450 products in France. 2 90 million Reflets de France items are sold each year at Carrefour stores. In Italy, the Terre d’Italia range promotes traditional Italian food products and the expertise of the local SMEs that produce them. Over 90% of Terre d’Italia product suppliers have fewer than 50 offers 825 organic food listings and 565 organic cotton textile products. When national brands distributed by the banner are included, the total number of organic listings offered at Carrefour 2 employees. By working closely with 120 producers, Carrefour Italy hypermarkets comes to over 3,000. puts a national range of over 300 regionally-produced products More than 70% of the Carrefour BIO organic food products in within everyone’s reach. To promote this range, a wide-reaching French stores come from French production sites. Carrefour works development plan for new Terre d’Italia products was launched in 2012, a temporary store dedicated to the brand offering over 85 listings was opened and a dedicated online shop was also created. with over 200 agricultural and industrial partners in various regions of France. The priority for organic produce is clearly focused on French procurement, with some 40 different suppliers involved 2 Spain is developing the De Nuestra Tierra range based on the same in the sourcing. The share of imported products concerns mainly model. foreign products and citrus fruits not grown in France, as well as organic products from elsewhere in the European Union when Another example: In Turkey in 2012, Carrefour opened a warehouse in Samsunen dedicated to local fruit and vegetable procurement. French production is insufficient. In France, in the context of its decentralisation strategy, each Carrefour store manager develops his or her own local-product 2 Carrefour BIO: priority focus on French offer. Since the beginning of 2012, the assortments have been producers expanded and the banner now offers over 50,000 regional products In 1992, Carrefour launched its first organic product: the Boule BIO, that closely reflect consumer expectations. Carrefour hopes to a loaf of bread made from flour and yeast sourced from organic farms. In 2012, 20 years on, the Carrefour Group offered 2,000 5 organic food listings under its BIO brand. In France, the banner continue this approach and strengthen bonds between its stores and their local partners. To this end, it is examining ways of simplifying small companies’ administrative and logistics approaches. 2 Key figures 321 million euros in turnover from Carrefour BIO product sales worldwide. 2 Over 2,000 organic product listings offered in the countries. 2 5 2012 ﬁgures veriﬁed by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 67 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities 2.6.2 SERVING COMMUNITIES Solidarity is a Carrefour value, shared by everyone at every level. 2.6.2.2 THE CARREFOUR FOUNDATION The Group implements solidarity initiatives in every neighbourhood, city, region and country where it operates, at a national level Created in 2000, the Carrefour Foundation works with local through its stores and dedicated units and at an international level communities to reduce poverty and exclusion by mobilising its via the Carrefour Foundation. teams’ skills and the Group’s resources. In 2012, it refocused its efforts on two main working areas: food aid and emergency aid. 2.6.2.1 INTERNATIONAL CORPORATE 1. Food solidarity COMMUNITIES Providing food aid to the disadvantaged is a cornerstone of the The Group encourages its customers to help by making donations Carrefour Foundation’s work. This work, based upon Carrefour’s and buying products whose profits are used to finance assistance core business as a retailer, takes the form of iconic initiatives in programmes for the disadvantaged. several key areas: donations and collection of consumer products, the development of social-welfare grocery stores, the expansion of Carrefour stores thus play a key role in collecting food supplies for agricultural networks, the promotion of food-industry careers and the disadvantaged in all its countries. They not only supply food the implementation of nutritional programmes. products to local charitable associations and social-welfare grocery stores, but also work alongside their customers and partners on local To help people in difficulty, the Carrefour Foundation also supports collection schemes (for example, Restos du Cœur and food banks). new grocery stores, which aim to combat exclusion while respecting In all, the donations and food collected in France, Belgium, Spain, the dignity of beneficiaries and promoting ways of reintegrating Poland and Taiwan represented a donation of over 1.1 million euros people into society over the long term. The Carrefour Foundation in 2012. In Italy, nearly 2.3 million meals equivalents were collected worked with Group employees to help create 19 groceries in three for food banks from 12 warehouses and 54 hypermarkets. countries (Belgium, France and Greece) by providing logistical and practical support. In France, 10 PACTE (Pour Agir Contre Toute In 2012, Carrefour Spain renewed its Vuelta al Cole Solidaria (Back Exclusion – Taking Action Against All Exclusion) grocery stores to School with Solidarity) initiative. It raised 197,843.37 euros now offer 4,500 families the opportunity to purchase goods at in donations from customers thanks to the participation of 169 20% below their normal selling price. To support the collection of hypermarkets, which provided all the resources necessary for the fresh products without interrupting the cold chain in France, Spain, success of the campaign, and 2,463 Red Cross volunteers. As part of Belgium and Argentina, the Carrefour Foundation also finances the this initiative, Carrefour Spain commits to matching its customers’ purchase of refrigerated vehicles and cold-storage areas, which are donations. Nearly 400,000 euros has been donated to the Red Cross essential for maintaining the quality of fresh products. in the form of school supplies for over 16,169 disadvantaged boys and girls. The Carrefour Foundation also runs numerous initiatives to combat malnutrition and promote a healthy, balanced diet. Over In France, Carrefour participates in numerous national events, such four million people have benefited from nutritional advice thanks to as the Téléthon, which received 200,000 euros in donations in 2012, the Foundation’s involvement over the past 10 years. In particular, and the Pièces Jaunes (Small Change) campaign for sick children the Carrefour Foundation provides grants to Argentina’s Fundacion and teenagers in hospital, with 7.5 tonnes of coins collected in Conin, which works to combat malnutrition. In Poland, the Carrefour stores. Carrefour has collected 72.5 tonnes of coins in France since Foundation supports the Caritas organisation, which provides daily 2003. A similar initiative is being run in Argentina to support meals to 42 centres for disadvantaged children in 30 cities. In 2012, Unicef, where customers are invited to donate their small change thanks to efforts made by the employees of 32 Carrefour stores, the to support children’s health and education projects. Since 2007, no Foundation was able to distribute 234,000 meals to 1,200 children. fewer than 2 million Argentinean pesos (almost 360,000 euros) have been collected. Ranking among the top private employers and offering a wide range of careers, the Carrefour Group also helps, through its Foundation, Carrefour Italy rallied around victims of the Emilia-Romagna to develop talents and to boost the employability of those who have region’s earthquake and got its customers involved in the efforts. difficulty in finding work. To assist and support such people, in It offered customers the option of donating the points they had particular young people, the Foundation is dedicated to developing collected on their loyalty cards to help locals affected by the disaster. various programmes aimed at promoting such food-industry careers Carrefour matched its customers’ donations, giving 1,473,730 euros as baker, pastry chef, butcher, fish merchant and processed porkto rebuild a school. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 68 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Carrefour: a local financial player serving its communities product merchant. To this end, it finances subsidises programmes promote both a balanced diet and professional integration for the offering training and job-search assistance in these careers in disadvantaged, the Carrefour Foundation has been assisting the several countries in collaboration with local Carrefour teams. The Réseau Cocagne since 2008 with equipment and the creation of new Carrefour Foundation lent special support to the Shanghai Young gardens. In 2012, it supported 20 gardens. Following the success of Bakers programme, which is a solid example of this approach. Launched in 2008 alongside the Chi Heng Foundation and Shanghai Economic Chamber members, this programme offers vocational its programmes in France, the Réseau Cocagne aims to expand its work to Spain. 2 job opportunities for young Chinese people aged 17-23 to learn French baking techniques. The Shanghai Young Bakers programme promotes the social integration of young people from disadvantaged 2. Emergency aid Via the Foundation, Carrefour uses its retail logistics expertise to 2 backgrounds by offering them employment opportunities in a foodsupport international humanitarian assistance. It provides aid to industry sector that is highly valued in China. Nearly 100 young people have already been trained thanks to the support of the victims of large-scale natural disasters, acting swiftly to supply them with food, hygiene kits and other items that are essential to their survival. To support this activity, the Carrefour Foundation 2 Carrefour Foundation, the main sponsor of the programme since its creation. Each year, Carrefour hypermarkets in China also help provides assistance to the disadvantaged through aid programmes to develop the programme by taking on trainees, giving them the to which it contributes by donating school supplies and toys to opportunity to take up a high-quality career and helping them enter NGOs and other organisations. the business world. Another iconic project, created in July 1991, is the Réseau Cocagne In July 2012, after Typhoon Vicente hit the Beijing area, the Carrefour Foundation helped transport essential food products (milk, rice, dry goods and water) and non-food items (hygiene 2 (Cocagne network) in France, which helps the disadvantaged reenter society and the workforce by offering training in vegetable products and antiseptics) and helped supply 25,000 victims with production, a social approach that also has environmental benefits. thermoses, water boilers and water purifiers. Every week, the Réseau Cocagne produces and distributes baskets In April 2012, the Carrefour Foundation took action in Argentina, of seasonal organic produce to its 20,000 members. In its 120 gardens, the organisation has over 3,500 gardeners, recruited from among participants in the re-integration programme, who learn where a violent storm with winds of up to 110 km/hour hit the province of Buenos Aires. The Foundation worked with teams from local Carrefour stores to distribute food, bottled water, candles and 2 to rebuild their future day-by-day. Enthusiastic about its work to mattresses. 36 projects funded were subsidised by the Carrefour Foundation in 2012. 2 3.9 million euros in was allocated by the Carrefour Foundation in 2012. 2 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 69 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators 2.7 Assessment of performance and indicators 2.7.1 CARREFOUR GROUP’S PRESENCE IN THE MAIN SRI INDICES SRI indices Agency/organisation Carrefour’s presence in the indices in 2012 Aspi Eurozone Vigeo – France Since 2002 DJSI World Dow Jones – USA Since 2002 ECPI Ethical Index Euro ECPI – Italy, Luxembourg Since 2002 ECPI Ethical Index Global ECPI – Italy, Luxembourg Since 2002 Ethibel Excellence Europe Ethibel – Belgium Since 2005 Ethibel Excellence Global Ethibel – Belgium Since 2005 FTSE4 Good Global FTSE – GB Since 2004 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 70 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators 2.7.2 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2.7.2.1 GLOBAL REPORTING INDICATOR 2012 scope of coverage 2 Energy 100% 2 Disabled workers 100% Training 84% Water 92% Waste 95% 2 Women Refrigerants 96% managers 100% Accidents 100% Paper 100% 2 Logistics 100% Check out bags 100% Fair-trade products 100% Organic products 100% 2 local suppliers 100% Quality lines 100% The average coverage of the 2012 reporting indicators is 97.7% of Group scope in terms of turnover, excluding tax. 2 The product, store and logistics indicators are calculated year-to-year, from October 2011 to September 2012. The human resources indicators are calculated over the year 2012. 2 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 71 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators 2.7.2.2 KEY INDICATORS BY FORMAT Hypermarket Supermarket Others Definition of indicators Revenue Number of controlled organic food 2004 Number of listed food products certified as organic product listings (in units) 5 or eco-friendly and developed as own-brands. Sale of controlled organic food products 143 149 28 Amount of sales including VAT of food products (in millions of euros) certified as organic or eco-friendly and developed as own-brands. Sales of Carrefour Quality Line products 643 279 18 Sales (including VAT) of Carrefour Quality (in millions of euros) Line products: agricultural products meeting specifications that ensure product traceability a nd include social and environmental requirements. Sales (including VAT) of Carrefour brand 14.2 9.0 2.3 Amount of sales, taxes included, of own-brand fairfair trade products (in millions of euros) trade products certified by an independent body (such as the FLO or ESR) according to recognised criteria. Outside Europe, a product is considered fair-trade if it meets the certification criteria. Percentage of product sales for Carrefour 75.3 74.1 75.2 Sales percentage for Carrefour food products brands purchased from local suppliers produced in the country of sale. Logistics CO2 emissions per shipping unit 6.9 Calculated on the basis of kilometres travelled (kg/pallet) 5 (1 litre of fuel consumed = 2.6667 kg of CO2 CO2 emissions (thousands of tonnes) 5 365 emitted) to transport merchandise from warehouse to store. Shipping unit: 120 x 80 cm pallet. Excluding: Brazil logistics for emissions/pallet Stores Energy consumption 530 739 709 Consumption of electricity, gas and fuel required to (kWh/sq. m. of sales area) 5 run consolidated stores. Energy consumption 4,489 1,564 74 (electricity, gas, fuel) (in GWh) 5 CO2 emissions generated by fuel, 1,463 325 31 CO2 eq. emissions linked to electricity, gas and gas and electricity consumption fuel consumption required to run consolidated (thousands of tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 55 stores. Water consumption 1.8 1.3 1.6 Water consumption of consolidated stores. (in cubic m/sq. m. of sales area) 5 Excluding: HM/AR, BE, SM/AR, BE Water consumption 14.0 2.5 0.1 (in millions of cubic m) 5 Refrigerant consumption 45.1 69.2 79.5 Quantity of refrigerants used (in kg/1,000 sq. m. of sales area) 5 (CFCs, HCFCs, HFCs and others). Covered: food cold cabinets and air conditioning in consolidated stores. Excluding: HM/AR, SM/AR Stores’ CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) – 2,402 751 64 CO2 eq. emissions linked to electricity, gas, (1,000 t of CO2 equivalent) 5 5 fuel and refrigerant consumption required to run consolidated stores. Excluding: HM/AR, SM/AR Percentage of recycled waste, including 62.8 51.1 n/a Recycled waste from consolidated stores: paper/ food donations (as percentage of total waste) cardboard, plastic, organic waste and other Recycled waste – excluding donations 389 3 (batteries, cartridges, neon bulbs, cooking oil etc.) (in thousands of tonnes) 5 Excluding: HM/AR, TR, SM/AR, TR Quantities of batteries collected (in tonnes) 1,012 0 Quantity of paper purchased for 23.9 8.9 2.1 Quantity of paper purchased for commercial commercial publications publications, expressed in kg per sq. m. (in kg/sq. m. of sales area) 5 of sales area. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 72 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators Hypermarket Supermarket Others Definition of indicators Quantity of paper purchased 208 31 3 Quantity of paper purchased for commercial for commercial publications publications (flyers, brochures, newspapers etc.). (in thousands of tonnes) 5 Percentage of paper certified or recycled 99 97 n/a Percentage of paper purchased for commercial publications certified by a recognised body (FSC, PEFC, etc.) and/or recycled. 2 Number of disposable plastic bags distributed free-of-charge at check-out (in millions of bags) 5 909 350 88 Number of disposable plastic bags purchased by stores and distributed free of charge at check-out. 2 Human resources Rate of absence due to accident 0.40 0.69 0.45 Number of hours of absence due to workplace 2 (as a %) and commuting accidents/number of theoretical work hours in the period (excluding workplace illnesses). Women in management positions 30.3 36.9 43.4 Proportion of women in management positions (as a %) 5 (“manager” defined as an independent employee with decision-making authority holding a supervisory position). 2 Percentage of employees declared 2.8 3.5 1.8 Status defined by the legislation in force in each as having disabilities country (by default, this is any person with at least a 10% physical disability). Average number of employees over the period. Hours of training (in thousands) 5 3,995 511 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of moderate assurance. 456 Number of training hours Excluding: HM/BR, SM/BR 2 5 5 2012 figures verified by Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit, with a result of reasonable assurance. 2.7.3 REPORTING METHODOLOGY FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS 2 The Sustainability department relied on a multidisciplinary PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE steering committee for the preparation of the social, societal and environmental information in the Registration Document/ management report (RD/MR). This committee brought together all PREPARATION OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PORTION OF THE ANNUAL 2 REPORT the relevant Group departments (Quality, Human Resources, Legal, Marketing, Assets, Sales and Merchandise and Logistics), plus Based on the GRI-G3 (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting principles, representatives from the Sustainable Development network in key the Carrefour Group’s Registration Document/management report European countries. (RD/MR) adheres to the following principles: CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) 2 Carrefour places its own performance within the context of the social, economic and environmental constraints that weigh upon the Group, and puts the resulting data into perspective. 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 73 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators Stakeholder involvement SCOPE OF COVERAGE By maintaining an on-going dialogue with stakeholders (customers, employees, franchisees, suppliers, local communities and Principles applied shareholders), the Carrefour Group can anticipate and respond to Comprehensiveness: The Group strives to be as comprehensive the expectations of its various target audiences and prevent risks. as possible. Thus, its sustainable development report describes the Thanks to transparent commitments, and the involvement of implementation of its policy in 12 consolidated countries, and stakeholders in carrying them out, together we can jointly envisage the key performance indicators (KPIs) cover 97.7% of the Group’s long-term solutions and ensure the involvement of all those consolidated pre-tax sales. concerned. This dialogue and these partnerships are maintained either at Group level by the Sustainable Development department, Comparability: the figures are presented over several years, and or at local level by the countries, the banners and the stores. their development is calculated in like-for-like Business Units (BUs). The scope is made explicit in each case. BU’s excluded from the scope are indicated next to each graph shown in the report. Materiality Scope of coverage for fiscal 2012 The content of the CSR information published in the Registration Document/management report focuses on the social, economic The reporting on sustainable development KPIs applies to all of the and environmental issues that are most relevant to the Group’s Group’s BUs. The chart below indicates the Group’s BUs in 2012. operations. The sections on balanced nutrition, labour rights and energy efficiency are just a few examples. Country Abbre. HM SM PRX C&C Pays Abbre. France FR Hypermarket HM Supermarket SM Timeliness Spain ES Italy IT Convenience PRX For the past 12 years, Carrefour has produced and published an Belgium BE stores annual sustainability report. For 2012, the sustainable development Poland PL Cash & Carry C&C report is integrated into the Group’s management report so as to Romania RO meet the regulatory requirements of the Second Grenelle Round Turkey TR Table on the Environment. Brazil BR Argentina AR Clarity China CN Taïwan TW The Carrefour Group is mindful of the level of knowledge of each of India IN its stakeholders and endeavours to present information that is clear to the greatest number of people, while retaining an appropriate Group BU level of detail. NA-format not present in the country Scope variation The variations in scope are related to creations, acquisitions, sales and closures of stores or BUs. If a BU was created or acquired after January 1, 2012, it is not included in our reporting. If a BU was sold or closed in 2012, it is excluded from our reporting for the year in its entirety. For the year 2012, the consolidated operations in Greece, Cyprus, Colombia, Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia were also sold or converted into franchises. They are therefore excluded from the reporting for the full fiscal year. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 74 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS In 2011 and 2012, this application has continued to be implemented. Principles applied METHODOLOGICAL PARTICULARITIES Our sustainable development report adheres to the following principles: Accuracy: the Carrefour Group strives to ensure the accuracy of All of this information is indicated in the Group’s sustainable development reporting protocol, and in the KPI definition sheets 2 available within the Group’s reporting application for environmental its published data by conducting a great number of manual and automatic internal controls. KPIs and from the Group Human Resources department for social KPIs. 2 Comparability: the Group strives to maintain consistency throughout its reports. Figures presented for several years are calculated using like-for-like BUs. Methodological information concerning environmental and social indicators 2 Scope of environmental indicators (energy, water, refrigerants, Choice of indicators waste, check-out bags and commercial publications): the Since 2003, the Carrefour Group has used 20 key performance scope includes consolidated stores open from October 1 N-1 to September 30 N of the reporting period. Beginning with the 2012 indicators (KPIs) associated with its strategic sustainable development priorities. These indicators are designed to monitor the commitments made by the Group and its progress in environmental fiscal year, the reporting for these indicators, as well as the product and logistics indicators, will be established on a year-on-year, 2 and social performance. Each KPI was chosen by the Group for its 12-month basis. relevance to the Group’s activities, but also with the intention of The scope excludes consumption from non-Group activities, responding to stakeholder expectations and regulatory obligations. transport of people and refrigerated products (energy and refrigerants), warehouses, franchise stores, head offices and other References used The 2012 Registration Document/management report adheres to administrative offices. For check-out bags and commercial publications indicators, 2 the Global Compact’s recommendations for “communication on consumption of stores opened during the year may be included. progress”, the guidelines of the G3 Global Reporting Initiative (Level The number of square metres of sales area does not include B) and the guiding principles of the OECD (see the cross-reference inventory storage areas, food preparation rooms or the shopping tables on pages 316 to 320). As an addition to the annual report, it also complies with the requirements of Art. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code. centre, if applicable. The Group recommends that BUs use the sales area of stores open as of the first day of the reporting period for calculation purposes. 2 A sustainable development reporting protocol has been prepared by CO2 emissions: to evaluate the CO2 emissions related to our stores’ the Group’s Sustainable Development department. It stipulates the energy consumption (electricity, gas and fuel oil) and refrigerants, Group’s collection, calculation and consolidation rules. we use conversion factors (of kWh and kg, expressed as kg of Furthermore, through Enablon, a computerised reporting application, each reporting liaison has access to a data collection procedure, a user’s guide for the Enablon reporting application, CO2 equivalent). The factors employed derive from recognised international bodies, such as the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) and the IEA (International Energy Agency). When 2 definitions for each KPI and a checklist of control points, which the BU’s have specific national factors, they may enter them in is distributed internally to the sustainable development reporting Enablon. The associated CO2 emissions are then calculated by the managers. tool based on those factors. Since the 2009 fiscal year, the Group has compiled human resources indicators using the Group Human Resources reporting application. These indicators comply with the definitions drafted jointly by The emissions factor related to French BUs’ electricity consumption is updated annually based on changes made to the electricity supply agreement (50% regulated market/50% open market). 2 the Group Human Resources department and the Sustainable Development department. It should be noted that, for the 2010 reporting year, the Group human resources reporting application was not available to every BU. Accordingly, an alternative means of reporting via spread sheet was used. 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 75 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators Concerning CO2 emissions regarding our logistics activity, CO2 Employees declared to be disabled workers: a “person with a emissions related to downstream transport (shipping of merchandise disability” is defined by local regulations in each country. between warehouses and stores) are taken into account. We use a Fair trade products: since the fair trade product label does not exist conversion rate equal to 2.6667 kg of emitted CO2 per litre of fuel in all countries where the Group operates, this indicator includes consumed, established with the ADEME (the French Environment unlabelled products for which the procedure used is similar to that and Energy Management Agency). This indicator counts CO2 required for labelling. This applies in particular to products sold in emissions related to the transport of merchandise between China that are considered fair trade products. warehouses and stores. The following CO2 emissions are not taken into account: Carrefour Quality Line (CQL) contracts: contracts that meet the CQL criteria defined by Carrefour for its suppliers. CQL contracts W emissions generated by spotters; cover fresh products (fruit and vegetables, meat, fish, processed W emissions generated during inbound transport of goods to the pork and cheese) meeting the requirements of specifications that warehouse; ensure product traceability and include social and environmental requirements. W emissions related to direct deliveries (direct “producer-to-store” transport of goods without going through a warehouse); Local suppliers: suppliers whose products are manufactured in the country where they are sold; in other words, the production and/or W emissions related to customer and employee travel; processing of the product takes place in the same country. W emissions related to outbound rail transport (mainly in France) In some cases, the KPIs may involve an estimation (as with the and maritime transport (mainly in Indonesia). energy and water consumption indicators, which are calculated on Note that “store/warehouse” return trips are only taken into account the amount billed at an average price per kWh or cubic metre). In for fleets hired for Carrefour’s exclusive use. other cases, the BUs must specify and justify the relevance of the Paper weight: the definition used by the Group is the quantity of assumptions used in making estimates. paper purchased for commercial publications reduced to the surface area of paper purchased for commercial publications (in g/sq. m.). Methodological limitations of the indicators The number of listed organic products: the number of listed The environmental and social indicators may have methodological organic or eco-friendly products reported pertains to the number limitations arising from a lack of uniformity amongst national of identified organic items, labelled by outside third parties, among and international laws and definitions (e.g. regarding workplace own-brand products whose sales during the year were not zero. accidents) and/or from the qualitative, and therefore subjective, The number of Group listed products corresponds to the sum of the nature of certain data (such as indicators related to purchasing listed products sold in each country. With regard to fabrics, colours quality, the logistics process, stakeholders and consumer awareness). are differentiated but not sizes. For the refrigerant KPI, any leaks that may have occurred prior to Employees at the end of the period: those employed by the a change of equipment are not quantified in the reporting. They Company under an employment contract (excluding interns and correspond to emissions generated between the last maintenance suspended contracts) as of December 31. operation and replacement of the unit. The impact is insignificant Arrivals/departures: the internal movements from one Business at Group level thanks to both regular monitoring of the units and Unit to another are included in the number of hires and departures the staggered timetable for their replacement. Note that the mass communicated by most countries. balances are not systematically carried out each time the fluid is reloaded or at year-end. Therefore, some BUs’ reports on year-N Number of workplace accidents: workplace accidents are defined consumption include fluid still stored in containers. with reference to the laws in effect in each country. If no definition exists in the country, the definition used by the Group is “an For the logistics KPI (CO2 emissions per unit of transport), in the accident that occurred during working time and gave rise to a work vast majority of cases CO2 emissions related to the transport of stoppage.” goods are calculated on the basis of distance travelled, since there is no actual data on service providers’ fuel consumption and average Absence rate: the calculation method used by the countries is based consumption by type of vehicle. Countries where logistics are on business days; however, different methods may still exist in handled mainly by suppliers are also excluded from the reporting some countries. scope. Seriousness level: the ratio calculated from “number of days of In addition, pallets (transport units) used for backhauls are absence due to workplace accidents/1,000 theoretical work hours.” not included in the total number of pallets used in downstream The number of days of absence caused by a workplace accident is transport. calculated in business days, estimated using the number of hours of absence caused by a workplace accident divided by eight. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 76 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators For the energy KPI, the published quantity of energy corresponds Considering the methodological limitations outlined above and to the quantity purchased and not the quantity actually consumed the difficulties in gathering data, the reporting scope may vary for fuel oil and natural gas (13% of the energy consumed by stores). depending on the indicator. For each indicator that pertains to a limited scope, the scope is specified. For analysing any changes in For the water KPI, the published quantity of water corresponds to the quantity of water purchased. Water collected by some stores through drilling may not be counted when there is no charge for its withdrawal. In addition, when water consumption attributable the indicators, we factor out all BUs for which we lack data for one of the comparison years. 2 to the shopping centre is not identified separately from the store’s water consumption, it is included in the published quantity of water. When the billing amounts include costs other than those related to METHODS OF DATA COLLECTION, CONSOLIDATION AND CONTROL 2 water consumption, and such costs cannot be separated out, the quantity of water reported, though not significant, is overestimated. For the check-out bag KPI, the quantity of check-out bags published Reporting period 2 Reporting is performed four times annually: annual reporting is corresponds to the number of bags purchased during the reporting conducted for the management report, which is published each year period. for the Shareholders’ Meeting, and quarterly reporting is performed For the waste KPI, the chosen reporting scope included BUs that three times per year using indicators that are limited in scope. use waste collection companies, which provide information about the tonnage of waste removed. Generally speaking, when waste is collected directly by local communities, no information is The period used for the annual reporting is the calendar year (January 1 to December 31) for human resources indicators. 2 available. When waste is collected and grouped at the warehouses, To meet the requirements of the publication deadlines imposed the corresponding quantities are not systematically included in the by the management report, the indicators on store performance, reporting. logistics and merchandise are now calculated on a year-on-year basis from October N-1 to September N. With regard to the Carrefour Quality and organic product KPIs, it is not always possible to separate the portion of sales related to the hypermarket format from that related to the supermarket format. Data collection methods 2 In this case, Carrefour has chosen to report all the sales in the The system in place is based on dual information reporting that hypermarket format. allows for rigorous collection of qualitative and quantitative data For the KPI on sales of products purchased from local suppliers, from the various countries and banners. For qualitative information, when the supplier-managed product monitoring systems do not allow for a precise monitoring of the production site, the value taken into consideration corresponds to the products that are not the best practices applied in the countries are submitted via e-mail on the basis of a questionnaire provided by the Group Sustainability department. For quantitative information, the Enablon application 2 imported. was deployed in 2005 for reporting key environmental performance indicators. With regard to key social performance indicators, they With regard to the workplace accident KPI, for some BUs for which have been reported through the Group’s human resources reporting data is obtained based on the payroll tool the number of workplace tool since 2009. Reporting liaisons identified in each country are accidents with stoppage is estimated according to the number of hours of absence due to a workplace accident. Similarly, in these cases, the days of absence due to a workplace accident are estimated responsible for coordinating environmental and social reporting for their respective countries. 2 on the basis of the number of hours of absence (calculated according to the daily work time in the country in question). Data consolidation methods With regard to the training KPI, for some BUs for which data is Consolidation of the sustainable development indicators at Group obtained based on the payroll tool the number of training hours is estimated according to the number of hours of absence reported per training session. level is performed by the Sustainability department for all indicators, using our Enablon application. 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 77 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators Environmental data control methods EXTERNAL AUDIT Enablon, our computerised reporting application, features automatic consistency checks to prevent errors in the data reported by BUs; it Principle applied also offers the ability to attach source files and insert explanatory Reliability: quantified data are produced, consolidated, analysed comments, which makes auditing and internal control easier. Each and published. Selected data are subject to verification by an reporting manager verifies the data entered before it is consolidated outside third party. at the Group level, with the help of a check-list and control tips that are explained in the definition sheet for each indicator. The Group’s Sustainable Development department carries out a second level of External audit data control. Any inconsistencies and errors are reviewed together The reporting procedures for some of the main 2012 environmental with the countries and corrected as needed before the figures are and social indicators have been verified by our external Statutory consolidated and approved. Auditor, KPMG Audit. These indicators are marked with the 5 5 symbol on page 55 and the 5 symbol in the table on pages 72-73. Social data control methods The nature of the work carried out and the findings of this work are presented on pages 79-81. Human resources data are checked locally before being exported or manually entered in the Group human resources tool. The Group’s The 2012 assurance report indicates reasonable assurance with Human Resources department carries out a second level of data regard to the “Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2)” indicator control. Any inconsistencies and errors are reviewed together and a moderate level of assurance for the other verified information. with the countries and corrected as needed before the figures are consolidated and approved. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT In 2012, to meet the requirements of Article 225 of Grenelle II, the indicators corresponding to the stores, merchandise and logistics were calculated over a 12-month, year-on-year period running from October 2011 to September 2012. In the analyses, these figures are considered comparable with the data presented over a calendar year for previous years. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 78 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators 2.7.4 STATEMENT ATTESTING TO DISCLOSURE OF THE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION AND ASSURANCE REPORT OF ONE OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON A SELECTION OF THIS INFORMATION» 2 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. 2 Year ended December 31, 2012 2 Following the request made of us and in our capacity as Statutory W express a limited assurance conclusion on the fact that the Auditors for Carrefour SA, we present our report on the consolidated qualitative assertions underscored in the text and identified by the 5 symbol, as well as the selection of environmental and social, societal and environmental information included in the management report drawn up for the year ended December 31, 2012 in accordance with Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial social indicators (the “Data”), chosen by the Carrefour Group and identified with the 5 symbol in the 2012 management report 2 Code. are presented, in all material respects, in a sincere manner in accordance with the selected Reporting Procedure (Limited Assurance Report); COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to draw up a management report covering the consolidated social, societal and W express a reasonable assurance conclusion that the indicator on CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) (1), selected by the Carrefour Group and identified with the 5 5 symbol in the 2012 management 2 environmental information mentioned in Article R. 225-105report, presents no significant anomalies (reasonable assurance 1 of the French Commercial Code (hereafter the “Information”), report). established in accordance with the reporting procedure used (the We were assisted in our work the Climate Change and Sustainability “Reporting Procedure”) by the Company and available upon request from the Group Sustainability department and Human Resources department, of which a summary appears in the management report Services professionals of our firm. 2 1. Statement attesting to disclosure (chapter 2 – “The Carrefour Group’s societal responsibility” in the Registration Document). We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France: INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is defined by the regulatory texts, the profession’s W we compared the information presented in the management report with the list mentioned in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code; 2 Code of Ethics and the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the French W we verified that the information covered the consolidated scope, Commercial Code. In addition, we have introduced a quality which is to say the Company and its subsidiaries as defined control system that covers the policies and procedures documented in Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code, and the and aimed to ensure compliance with the deontological rules, professional standards and applicable laws and regulations. companies it controls, as defined in Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, with limitation specified in the “Methodology for reporting the sustainable development indicators” 2 methodology note presented in the “Corporate Responsibility” RESPONSIBILITY OF ONE OF chapter of the management report (chapter 2 – “The Carrefour THE STATUTORY AUDITORS Group’s societal responsibility” of the Registration Document); It is our responsibility, on the basis of our work to: W attest that the required information is present in the management W in the event of omission of certain consolidated information, we verified that explanations were supplied in compliance with the provisions of decree no. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012. 2 report or, in the event of omission, is explained in application of the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Based on this work, we attest to the presence in the management Commercial Code and decree no. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012 report of the information required. (Statement attesting to disclosure); (1) Deﬁnition established by the Group – Scope 1: Emissions attributable to the Group’s consumption of natural gas, fuel and refrigerants. Scope 2: Emissions attributable to the Group’s electricity consumption. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 79 2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators _ for both the consolidating entity and the entities 2. Assurance report on a selection of information consolidated, we used analytic procedures and performed Nature and scope of the work tests to verify the calculations and the consolidation of We conducted our work in accordance with the International this information. Our tests were more extensive for the Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 standard and indicator with reasonable assurance, professional standards applicable in France. We took the following _ in the Business Units that were selected (2) . According actions in order to obtain: to their business, their contribution to the consolidated W a limited assurance that the qualitative assertions underscored in indicators, location and risk analysis, we have: the text and indicated by the 5 symbol and the Data identified ° carried out interviews to ensure the correct application with the 5 symbol do not contain any material misstatements of the procedures, that would give us reason to doubt their sincerity, in all material ° implemented detailed tests on the basis of tests respects, in accordance with the aforementioned Reporting verifying the calculations made and supporting the Procedure. data with documents. Our tests were more extensive for A higher level of assurance would have required more extensive the indicator with reasonable assurance. verifications; The sample selected in this way represents on average 30% of the W a reasonable assurance that the CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) (1) employees of the Carrefour Group and between 13% and 65% of indicator identified by the 5 5 symbol has been established the quantitative environmental information tested (55% for the in all material respects in accordance with the aforementioned CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) (1) indicator); Reporting Procedure. W concerning the qualitative assertions underscored and We performed the following work: identified by the symbol 5, we carried out interviews and reviewed the associated documents to corroborate them and W we assessed the appropriateness of the Reporting Procedure in assess their sincerity; terms of relevance, exhaustiveness, neutrality, clearness and W finally, we weighed the relevance of the explanations where reliability, taking into consideration the best practices of the applicable the absence of certain information. sector, where appropriate; W we verified the implementation in the Carrefour Group of a Conclusion process of collection, compilation, treatment and control aimed Reasonable assurance at achieving exhaustiveness and consistency of the qualitative assertions underscored and identified by the 5 symbol and In our opinion, the CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) (1) indicator, identified by the 5 5 symbol in the 2012 management report, the Data identified by the 5 symbol; We reviewed the internal was established in all material respects in accordance with the control procedure and the risk-management procedures relative aforementioned Reporting Procedure. to its development; We interviewed those responsible for the social and environmental reports; Limited assurance W we selected the consolidated qualitative information to be On the basis of our work, we did not identify any material tested and determined the nature and scope of the tests, taking misstatement that could call into question the fact that the into consideration their significance with regard to the social qualitative assertions underscored and identified with the symbol 5 and environmental consequences associated with the Group’s and the data identified with the 5 symbol examined in the 2012 operations and characteristics, as well as its societal commitments: management report are presented, in all material respects, in a sincere manner and in compliance with the Reporting Procedure. W concerning the selected consolidated qualitative Data: (1) Deﬁntion established by the Group: Scope 1: emissions attributable to the Group’s consumption of natural gas, fuel and refrigerants. Scope 2: emissions attributable to the Group’s electricity consumption. (2) Hypermarkets France BU, Supermarkets France BU, Hypermarkets Argentina BU, Supermarkets Argentina BU, Hypermarkets Italy BU *, Supermarkets Italy BU *, Hypermarkets Poland BU *, Supermarkets Poland BU *, Hypermarkets Belgium BU **, Hypermarkets China BU *** and Supermarkets Turkey BU ****. * Business Units for which the work was held only on the CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) indicator. ** Business Unit for which the work was held only on the Number of lost-time workplace accidents indicator. *** Business Unit for which the work was held only on the following indicators: Energy consumption, CO2 emissions linked to energy consumption, Number of lost-time workplace accidents. **** Business Unitfor which the work was held only on the Number of disposable plastic bags distributed free of charge at check-outs indicator. 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 80 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assessment of performance and indicators Comments on the data W this year again, some Business Units are excluded from the scope We have the following comments to make on the data: of consolidation for the indicators published, as the informationcollection process is not yet fully reliable. Attention must be paid W users of the social indicator monitoring tool were trained to in 2013 to these Business Units to achieve the widest possible ensure correct use. Nevertheless, monitoring should be increased in certain Business Units, in particular for the workplace accident and training indicators; scope of “store” and “training” data communication. 2 Paris La Défense, March 6, 2013 2 French original signed by KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. 2 Eric Ropert Philippe Arnaud Partner Partner In charge of the Climate Change and Sustainability Services 2 2 2 2 2 2 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 81 9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CSR cross-reference tables 9.7 CSR cross-reference tables Pages of the Registration GRI reference G3.1 Principles of the Global Compact Principles of the OECD Document/management report Strategy and analysis 1.1 Principle 9 General principle 1 16; AA&RC * 1.2 Disclosure 4 and 5 16-20; 38-73 Company profile 2.1 Disclosure 3 AA&RC, Cover 2.2 Disclosure 1 AA&RC 2.3 Disclosure 3 8-12 2.4 Disclosure 3 8 2.5 Disclosure 3 8-12; 24 2.6 Disclosure 3 281-282 2.7 Disclosure 3 8-12; AA&RC 2.8 Disclosure 3 23; 4; AA&RC 2.9 4-13; 72-73 2.10 Report scope 3.1 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.2 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.3 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.4 Disclosure 2 Inside back cover 3.5 Disclosure 2 16; 20-22 3.6 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.7 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.8 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.9 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.10 Disclosure 2 71-78; 79-81 3.11 71-78; 79-81 3.12 79-82 3.13 Disclosure 2 79-81 Governance 4.1-4.7 General principle 6 16-21; 84-115 General principles 7 and 6 4.8 Disclosure 5 16-18; 84-115 4.9 16-18; 84-123 Environment 3 and 4 4.11 Principle 7 43-49 General principles 7 and 8 4.12 Disclosure 2, 3, 5 and 12 40-41; 46 4.13 20-22; 38-39; 45-46 4.14 20-22 4.15 20-22 4.16 20-22 4.17 Disclosure 5 20-22 *AA&RC : Annual Activity and Responsible Commitment report 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 316 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CSR cross-reference tables Pages of the Registration GRI reference G3.1 Principles of the Global Compact Principles of the OECD Document/management report Management and performance Finance Financial performance EC1 Disclosure 1 and 4a 21, 70; 281-282; AA&RC 9 EC2 52-57; 71-78; 117-118 Market presence EC6 EC7 Indirect economic impact 34; 64-65; 9 EC8 40-48; 65-67 Environment Materials EN1 EN2 Principle 8 Principle 8 50-51; 52-69; 71-78 45; 50-69; 71-78 9 Energy EN3 Principle 8 54-57; 71-78 EN5 Principle 8 53-57; 71-78 EN6 Water Principles 8 and 9 Environment 6.b 43-49; 53-57; 71-78 9 EN8 Principle 8 43-49; 53-58; 71-78 Biodiversity EN12 Principle 8 41-42; 43-50; 52-58; 71-78 EN14 EN15 Emissions, effluents and waste Principle 8 Principle 8 41-50; 52-58; 71-78 45-49; 53-54 9 EN16 Principle 8 52-57; 71-78 EN17 Principle 8 52-57; 71-78 EN18 Principles 8 and 9 52-57; 71-78 EN22 Emissions, effluents and waste Principle 8 45; 52-60 9 EN26 Transporting EN29 Principle 8 Principle 8 19-20 ; 41-42 ; 50 ; 71-78 52; 61-63; 71-78 9 Labour relations Employment LA1 23-25; 71-78 LA2 23-25; 71-78 Workplace health and safety LA7 29-32; 71-78 Training and education LA10 General principle 4 34-35; 71-78 LA13 24-26 9 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 317 9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CSR cross-reference tables Pages of the Registration GRI reference G3.1 Principles of the Global Compact Principles of the OECD Document/management report Human rights Investment and purchasing practices HR1 Principle 1 General principle 2 16-18; 38 HR2 Principles 1 and 2 General principle 10 16-18; 38-42 Child labour Employment and relationships HR6 Principle 5 industrial 1.b 16-18; 38-42 Society Communities SO9 45-50; 64-69 Corruption SO4 Principle 10 Anti-corruption 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 16-18; 38-42 Public policies SO5 20-22 Product liability Consumer health and safety PR1 Consumer interests 1 and 6 43-51; 71-78 Labelling of products and services PR5 Consumer interests 3 43-51; 71-78 Pages of the Registration Document/management report Article 225 Grenelle II Law Article 116 NER Law or comments 1° Labour information a) Employment: W total workforce and breakdown of employees by gender, 23 age and geographic region; W new hires and dismissals; 25 W salaries and changes. 1.1 and 1.3 36 b) Work organisation: W organisation of work schedules; W absenteeism. 1.2 32 and 33 c) Labour relations: W organisation of workplace dialogue, and specifically procedures for notifying, consulting and negotiating with employees; W overview of collective bargaining agreements. 1.4 and 1.8 28 and 29 d) Health and safety: W workplace health and safety; W overview of the agreements signed with trade unions or staff representatives regarding workplace health and safety; W workplace accidents, particularly their frequency and severity, as well as occupational illnesses. 1.5 29 to 32 e) Training: W policies implemented with regard to training; W total number of training hours. 1.6 34 to 36 f) Equal treatment: W measures taken to promote equal treatment of men and women; W measures taken to promote employment of the disabled and their integration into the job market; W anti-discrimination policy. 1.3 and 1.7 25 to 27 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 318 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CSR cross-reference tables Pages of the Registration Document/management report Article 225 Grenelle II Law Article 116 NER Law or comments g) Promotion of and compliance with the provisions of the International Labour Organization’s fundamental conventions regarding: W respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; 9 W elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; W elimination of forced or compulsory labour; W effective abolition of child labour. 1.8 16 2° Environmental information a) General environmental policy: 2.3, 2.4, 2.6 9 W organisation of the Company to handle environmental 2.5: Expenditures incurred issues and, where applicable, procedures for conducting to prevent the Company’s environmental assessments or certifications; environmental impact: the costs 52 W actions taken to train and educate employees regarding incurred to limit the effects of 9 environmental protection; the Company’s activity on the 19-20 environment correspond to the W resources devoted to environmental and pollution risk operating costs of the Sustainable prevention; Development department and its 117 and 118 W the amount of provisions and guarantees for networks in the countries, as well environmental risks, provided that this information is not as budgets for specific projects and likely to seriously harm the Company in the context of outside consultant fees. pending litigation. 2.7: Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental pollution: none (scope France) 2.8: Amount of indemnities paid during the year pursuant to a 9 legal ruling on environmental pollution: none (scope France) b) Pollution and waste management: W measures taken to prevent, reduce or redress any discharge into the air, water or soil that has a serious impact on the environment; W measures taken with regard to waste prevention, 60 9 recycling and disposal; 45, 50, 58 and 59 W steps taken to reduce noise pollution and any other form of pollution specific to an activity. 2.9 61 c) Sustainable use of resources: W water consumption and water supply based on local requirements; W consumption of raw materials and measures taken 58 9 to use them more efficiently; W energy consumption and measures taken to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy 2.1, 2.9 60 54 to 56 9 sources; W land use. Information not available in 2012 d) Climate change: W greenhouse gas emissions; 2.2, 2.9 54 to 57 W adaptation to the consequences of climate change. 119 e) Biodiversity protection: W measures taken to preserve and develop biodiversity. 2.2, 2.9 43 to 45 and 49 3° Information regarding sustainable development commitments 9 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 319 9 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CSR cross-reference tables Pages of the Registration Document/management report Article 225 Grenelle II Law Article 116 NER Law or comments a) Local, economic and social impact of the Company’s activity: 64 to 66 W on employment and regional development; W on nearby or local populations. Article 1 b) Relations with the people and organisations affected by the Company’s activities, including integration associations, educational institutions, environmental protection associations, consumer groups and local populations: Article 1 W conditions for building dialogue with these people and organisations; 20 to 22 W partnership and sponsorship activities. Article 1 68 and 69 c) Subcontracting and suppliers: W attention to social and environmental concerns as a factor in purchasing decisions; 38 and 39 W use of subcontracting and consideration of suppliers’ The use of subcontracting is not and subcontractors’ social and environmental available in 2012 responsibility in dealings with them. Supplier relations 38 to 42 d) Fair practices: 1.1 W actions taken to prevent corruption; 1.1.5 17 and 18 W measures taken to promote consumer health and safety. 43, 120-121 e) Other actions taken pursuant to this Section 3 to promote human rights. 1.8 38 to 41 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 320
