Desde 1977 San Roque, 3rd of June, 2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that [ Company Name ] reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Francisco Vega Ribes CEO Transportes Vega, S.L. Pol. Ind. Guadarranque, 8, 11360 San Roque (Cádiz) España Tel./Fax: +34 956 61 23 78/ +34 956 61 24 06 www.transportesvegasl.com Desde 1977 Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. As a small company, our influence on the development of our social environment is limited. However, we still think we can improve the relationship between company and employees in order to make that a better place to work. Also, we will strive to make our suppliers and partners understand how important it is for us to gather their commitment towards the Ten Principles as part of our general policy. Perhaps not the place to be stated, but I really think our biggest proof of Human Rights defense during the period evaluated has been the effort our organization has made to maintain the very same human resources with no change on their working conditions (salary, working time, etc.). As I believe a different way of doing business is possible, our organization sacrificed bigger benefits in 2012 to maintain all our employees working with us. It is a must of all companies, big and small, to think beyond benefits and consider themselves as instruments to fight this long lasting crisis. Usually newspapers and gurus reflect about the path to follow in order put an end to this crisis. However, most of them, including boards of directors at big companies or owners of small businesses, do only worry about how they can maintain the results they had 5 years back in time. It is time know to renounce to such a selfish policy and bet on people as the only way to guarantee a better development of our society. And we frankly believe we took the right decision. Perhaps there are many other things more important now, but if we protect employment we give many people the opportunity to live a decent life and offer their families a stable environment to grow their children. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Implementation of the Ten Principles as part of our Management Policy, making our commitment with defense of Human Rights fully aware to our stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes o Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. o Our best measurement tool is our reputation and also the absence of any accusation regarding our respect for Human Rights, independently of origin, sex, condition, etc. of the person. Transportes Vega, S.L. Pol. Ind. Guadarranque, 8, 11360 San Roque (Cádiz) España Tel./Fax: +34 956 61 23 78/ +34 956 61 24 06 www.transportesvegasl.com Desde 1977 Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. As part of our commitment with regards to labour rights, we have requested the very same commitment from our suppliers and customers to make sure we do not hire/provide services to institutions not respecting labour rights and its principles. However, we want to take a step further and during months to come, we will introduce a new contract clause regarding this commitment with labour rights respect both in our on going contracts as well as new contracts agreed, and also in our new quotations to our customers as third parties responsible many times of preventing those rights being broken, especially when our employees are requested to undertake those services they have been contracted for under risky circumstances for their own physical integrity despite they have been instructed not to do so by our General Management. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Renewal of employees´ elected representative during second half of 2012 as a way to guarantee their participation in all decisions which may affect them. Ex.: PPE selection, new working procedures, etc. Adjust working timetable in order to give our employees more flexibility and ease their access to leisure time with their families, as probably the most important goal nowadays. Implementation of a new questionnaire in order to gather employee´s opinion about different topics regarding his work, our organization, etc. and implement changes in our structure/processes. Request of customer´s site risk evaluation and SDS in order to analyze the best options to guarantee their safety whilst at work. Modification of vehicles in order to improve operations safety while loading/tipping with an investment of over 25000,00 €. Measurement of outcomes o Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Transportes Vega, S.L. Pol. Ind. Guadarranque, 8, 11360 San Roque (Cádiz) España Tel./Fax: +34 956 61 23 78/ +34 956 61 24 06 www.transportesvegasl.com Desde 1977 o Based on our KPI, questionnaires and statistics, we firmly believe we have clearly improved our labour environment, considering low level of accidents during last year and suggestions made by our employeed in order to improve their working conditions. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. As part of our general policy, environmental responsability is not an option but a must and therefore it plays a major role in our day to day work. We annually set new goals on this area, especially considering our main activity. As every year we pretend to reduce a little bit more our diesel consumption as well as our generation of disposable materials and in this sense we have modified some of our administrative procedures in order to reduce our use of paper and train our drivers in a more efficient way of driving. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Efficient driving training program. Foot print measurement tool implemented. Extensive use of electronic files to submit job orders to our subcontractors or invoices to our customers. Search of new chemical products respectful with the environment, reducing water treament needs and generation of containers containing hazardous materials. Measurement of outcomes o Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. o During last period we have reduced diesel consumption in about a 7 % as we have added three new trucks in order to improve said indicator. Also paper generated has been reduced in a 45 %. Some other indicators such as potable water consumption and diesel consumption at our workshop have also been drastically reduced. In general terms, we have reach most of our goals in this area, although we still have to work harder so as to push down our electricity bills and therefore our CO2 emissions. Transportes Vega, S.L. Pol. Ind. Guadarranque, 8, 11360 San Roque (Cádiz) España Tel./Fax: +34 956 61 23 78/ +34 956 61 24 06 www.transportesvegasl.com Desde 1977 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. We do not face usually this kind of situations. However, our guide of conduct includes a paragraph regarding our company´s policy respect to extortion and bribery. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. No especial tool implemented in this area as it does not represent a major threat in our sector. However we want to review our general policy and code of conduct in order to strength our commitment to fight this kind of practices. Measurement of outcomes o Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. o Not our company nor our employees have been involved in this situation so far and our procurement process is clear respect to how to proceed respect to the procurement of products and services, avoiding the possibility of these practices. No notification from our employees, customers or suppliers have been received on this matter. Transportes Vega, S.L. Pol. Ind. Guadarranque, 8, 11360 San Roque (Cádiz) España Tel./Fax: +34 956 61 23 78/ +34 956 61 24 06 www.transportesvegasl.com
