My day at Bialystok Global Compact Progress Report 2012 My day at Oosterweel My day at Ulm My day at Rigshospitalet My day at Balance Island Global Compact Progress Report 2012 2 Global Compact Progress Report 2012 Global Compact is an initiative of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses 10 principles from international declarations on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Grontmij has committed to uphold the Global Compact and the 10 principles by participating in the initiative, and as part of this commitment to implement the principles as part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Our progress in this process is reported in the following Communication on Progress 2012. Global Compact Progress Report 2012 3 CEO statement I am pleased to confirm that Grontmij supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this statement, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment – both to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. In our role as a leading sustainable design, engineering and management consultancy we have a responsibility to our stakeholders and our environment. We believe the integrity of our group means we must live up to this responsibility in everything we do, every day. Michiel Jaski CEO Grontmij N.V. Global Compact Progress Report 2012 4 Ten principles In 2012 we tailored a new integrity system (incl our safeguards) to our group and our business activities. We identified and defined the components we needed: Responsibility (to our society, environment, stakeholders and employees), Competence, Diligence, Impartiality, Fairness and Anti-Corruption. The integrity system consists of a policy, the business principles, a code of conduct, and a whistleblowing arrangement. Five out of six principles are derived from the Code of Ethics of the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). In addition, our Responsibility follows the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact. View our full, new Integrity Management System: www.grontmij.com > Corporate Responsibility > Business Integrity Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 1 Business should support and respect the Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a protection of internationally proclaimed monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning human rights. health and safety, labour practices, product standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anti-corruption. A compliance reporting process covering risk management was introduced. Among the key risks considered are those relating to human rights, labour protection, environmental management and anti corrupt practices. View our CR report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com For our general CR approach see our website www.grontmij.com > Corporate Responsibility 2 Business should ensure that they are not As part of the GRI-based CSR reporting for 2012 a conformity monitoring process for complicit in human right abuses. non-discrimination was undertaken for a fourth year. In the period January 2009 to December 2011 Grontmij reported that no incidents had occurred (GRI indicator HR4). See principle 6 for an incident in 2012. View our CR report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com 3 Business should uphold the freedom of Grontmij upholds such a policy for its employees. The policy is included in the new association and the effective recognition Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. of the right to collective bargaining. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policyand-Principles.pdf 4 Business should support the elimination of All employees have individual contracts stating terms and condi¬tions of service and the all forms of forced and compulsory labour. notice of leave. Our employment policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. The policy is included in the new Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policyand-Principles.pdf Global Compact Progress Report 2012 5 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 5 Business should support the effective Grontmij fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. The policy is included in the new abolition of child labour. Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. View our management approach to human rights www.grontmij.com/CorporateCovernanceDoc/Grontmij-Business-Policyand-Principles.pdf 6 Business should support the elimination Grontmij has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment of discrimination in respect of employment opportunities based solely upon an assessment of relevant qualifications. Our policies and occupation. for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards re elimination of al forms of discrimination. The policy is included in the new Grontmij business policy and principles and integrated in our integrity management system. In 2012, a Labor Court found against Grontmij France on the discrimination of an employee. Grontmij France has reviewed the incident and the HR department has taken action to prevent similar problems in the future. View our CR Report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com 7 Business should support a precautionary In 2008 we implemented a strategy for managing of our operations and delivering our approach to environmental challenges. consulting services with the goal of addressing climate change. The first step in this strategy was instigate a programme to monitor and measure our own environmental footprint. The first results of this were published in our annual CR report in May 2008. Our fifth annual CR report has also now been published. We have used the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative to guide these publications. View our CR Report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com We have also instigated a programme of “sustainability by design” whereby we will reduce the environmental footprint and increase the sustainability of the project that we deliver to our clients. Global Compact Progress Report 2012 6 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 8 Business should undertake initiatives Grontmij undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. to promote greater environmental responsibility. Just about every project we undertake has an impact on the environment. That is why Grontmij’s core purpose is to enable our clients to make informed decisions and well-considered investments as they develop our natural and built environment. As CR is of great value in the execution our projects, we also have to take up these responsibilities in our own operations. We are committed to developing and applying new technologies and processes that have great value in executing our projects in a sustainable way. Besides our integrity system, has each of our regions a managementsystem either accredited to ISO 9001 (except France) and 14001 (except Belgium and France) or we are working towards accreditation (France for ISO 9001). Examples of initiatives launched in 2012 are described throughout our group annual report. View our CR Report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com 9 Business should encourage the Grontmij is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. environmentally friendly technologies. Our responsibility to the use and development of environmentally friendly technologies is included in the new Grontmij business policy and principles and is integrated in our integrity management system. Some examples of our initiatives are mentioned on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com www.grontmij.com > Services 10 Business should work against corruption Anti corruption is an important part of our new Grontmij business policy and principles in all its forms, including extortion and and is integrated in our integrity management system. bribery Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2012 Grontmij has reported no incidents (GRI indicator SO4). View our CR report 2012 on 2012.annualreportgrontmij.com For our offices and contact details, visit www.grontmij.com > addresses
