Message from President and CEO Trudy Rautio As a leader in the global hospitality and travel industry, with 176,000 employees worldwide, I am proud of the fact that we are committed to operating our businesses in a responsible manner. With more than 1,300 Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group properties in operation or under development; 900 TGI FridaysSM restaurants; and Carlson Wagonlit Travel, our global travel management company, we work with a clear and noble purpose:  Serve millions of guests and travelers in a way that makes a positive difference to their lives;  Provide tens of thousands of jobs and help our employees grow and achieve their potential;  Contribute to the common good through our commitment to social responsibility; and  Generate attractive financial returns for our shareholders and business partners, while maintaining our core values. Carlson’s guiding principles are at the heart of how we conduct ourselves and align closely with the ten universal principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. Carlson has been a signatory to the Compact since 2010 and, each year, commits to making continued progress in support of the principles across all of our businesses – both collectively and individually. Collectively, Carlson’s Global Sourcing Council is a driving force for social responsibility and is made up leaders from the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group; TGI Fridays; Carlson Wagonlit Travel; and other Carlson business affiliates. Over the past year, the council has worked to incorporate language into supplier agreements that support Carlson’s responsible business values: language that condemns all forms of commercial and sexual exploitation of children (ECPAT) and supports the values of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. This assures ‘one voice’ and One Carlson, driving greater responsible business worldwide. Additionally, here are a few highlights on progress made in support of the UN Global Compact within each of our businesses. In the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Country Inn & Suites By CarlsonSM became the first and only upper midscale hotel brand to introduce classic dinnerware and eliminate the use of disposables. Radisson® bed linens have gone green. A new fabric, which uses 100 times less water than cotton, made its debut at Radisson hotels in the United States. Radisson also imports green coffee from sustainable sources – advancing our efforts to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger in support of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, UN Global Compact and International Women’s Coffee Alliance. Club CarlsonSM, the hotel rewards program for Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, has become the first hotel loyalty program to commit to a global meetings and events carbon offsetting initiative which we call Meetings Minus Carbon. Club Carlson purchases carbon credits to offset the estimated carbon footprint of 100 percent of Club Carlson for Planners meetings and events globally across the group’s participating brands totaling 1,077 hotels in operation worldwide. Fridays has donated nearly $540,000 to Feeding America, with money raised through the company’s World Bartender Championships. Fridays relationship with Feeding America ensures that 75% of funds will be donated back to the communities in which it was raised -providing nearly 4.5 million meals to those in need. Fridays Have a Heart Fund, dedicated to helping team members in need, provided over 200 grants, totaling more than $750,000 to employees. More than half of the money raised by Have a Heart comes from payroll deductions, proving that when you work for Fridays you truly are part of the Fridays family. In 2012, CWT also became a signatory of the UN Global Compact and published its first global Responsible Business Report, key milestones in a long history of operating in a socially responsible way. This comprehensive approach to Responsible Business provides a holistic and global view of CWT’s policies and achievements in the areas of governance, ethics and business behavior, human resources, human rights, environment, responsible products and services, and community involvement. At CWT, Responsible Business has become part of the company’s strategy which signals a strong determination to operate in a way that nurtures respect, dignity and sustainability in all aspects of its business. 2013 marks the 75th anniversary of Carlson and the tenth anniversary of Responsible Business Action Month, which originated in The Rezidor Hotel Group and spread across all of Carlson. Departments and teams work on local community service projects that range is scope from stuffing school backpacks with supplies to environmental cleanups and Habitat for Humanity home builds. As part of Carlson’s 75th anniversary celebration, Carlson will plant 7,500 trees in the Americas, another 7,500 in Asia Pacific and 7,500 in Europe, Middle East and Africa. Across all of our businesses, we are inspired and guided by our core principles and those of the UN Global Compact. Contributing to our communities, serving our guests, constantly working to reduce our impact on the environment and empowering our employees to live and work responsibly is at the core of our business actions today. We pledge to make continued progress in support of these principles as we look ahead to the next 75 years of responsible business at Carlson.
