CORPOR ATE REPORT 2012 Sharing values Key Figures of the Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Business Sales € million 1,319.9 1,362.0 1,571.9 1,583.6 1,734.9 EBITDA € million 262.5 245.6 331.2 315.9 338.9 EBITDA margin in % 19.9 18.0 21.1 20.0 19.5 EBIT € million 187.0 163.0 244.4 234.4 252.6 EBIT margin in % 14.2 12.0 15.5 14.8 14.6 Net income € million 90.4 84.3 133.5 146.5 157.5 Balance sheet total (as of December 31) € million 1,890.6 1,895.2 2,059.0 2,120.3 1 2,151.9 Capital ratio (as of December 31) in % 34.3 36.4 40.9 40.9 1 40.7 Investments € million 52.5 56.7 70.5 67.3 70.3 Net debt (incl. pension provisions and similar obligations) / EBITDA (as of December 31) ratio 3.2 3.1 2.2 2.4 1 2.4 Research and development expenses € million 86.2 95.7 2 107.9 107.6 113.8 Operating cash flow € million 153.1 225.7 235.1 200.9 219.5 Capital Market Shares issued as of balance sheet date millions 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 Share price at end of fiscal year (Xetra® closing price) in € 9.98 14.98 20.53 20.62 27.12 Market capitalization at end of fiscal year € million 1,179.4 1,770.2 2,426.1 2,436.7 3,204.9 Earnings per share in € 0.76 0.71 1.13 1.24 1.33 Dividend per share in € 0.50 0.50 0.60 0.62 0.65 3 Environment Carbon dioxide emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 4 kg 864.0 832.0 807.0 796.4 5 763.6 Direct and indirect energy consumption 4 GJ 9.7 9.3 9.1 8.9 5 8.7 Waste 4 kg 113.3 116.9 131.6 5 130.4 5 117.5 Water consumption 4 cbm 13.8 13.1 12.1 12.0 5 11.8 Wastewater 4 cbm 12.8 12.3 11.4 11.2 10.3 Employees Employees (as of December 31) FTE 6 5,097 4,954 5,288 5,434 5,669 Fluctuation rate in % 6.0 4.4 5.1 5.5 5.3 Number of accidents MAQ 7 5.7 7.0 5.0 3.2 5.3 Accident severity USQ 8 85 63 55 43 99 1 Adjusted as a result of changes to accounting policies in 2012 (see note 2.2) 2 2009 including restructuring expenditure 3 proposal 4 per ton of product sold 5 Due to a change in the calculation method, the figures for previous years have been adjusted. However, the underlying trend remains unchanged. 6 not including apprentices and trainees; FTE = Full Time Equivalent 7 MAQ = Number of reportable accidents (> 1 working day) x 1 million / number of working hours 8 USQ = Number of lost working days x 1 million / number of working hours Business Divisions Among the customer industries of our fragrances and flavors are the perfume, cosmetics and food industries, as well as household products’ suppliers. We are continually growing our activities in the nutrition and body care sectors on the basis of biofunctional and bioactive ingredients. Our customers Flavor & Nutrition use the flavors we produce in liquid, powder, granulated or paste form to make food and beverages. Our flavors give the products distinct tastes. We provide individual flavors or complete solutions, which, apart from the actual aroma, can contain additional functional raw materials, coloFragrances rants or microencapsulated components. With Perfumers create complex functional natural ingredients, the Consumer K E Y F I G U R E S O F T H E G R O U P // B U S I N E S S D I V I S I O N S fragrance compositions (perfume Health application area caters to the functional oils) by combining a number of aromatic food supplement and pharmaceutical preparation raw materials and essential oils. Symrise’s markets. perfume oils are used in perfumes (Fine Fragrances), in body care products (hair care BE VER AGES products, washing lotions, skin creams, SAVORY deodorants) and household products SWEET (washing and cleaning products). CONSUMER HE ALTH FINE FR AGR ANCES PERSONAL CARE HOUSEHOLD Aroma Molecules These products, which exist in liquid Scent & Care or crystalline form, are used in various applications. Nature-identical menthol is used in oral care products, chewing gums and shower gels. Symrise Oral Care uses uniform aroma chemicals (intermediate Symrise offers the products for perfume oils) to produce its own perfuentire range of mint me oils and sells them to customers who use them flavors and intermediate in their perfume oils. products for toothpaste, oral care products and SENSATES (MENTHOLS) chewing gum. SPECIAL FR AGR ANCE & FL AVOR INGREDIENTS FINE AROMA CHEMICALS Life Essentials The products manufactured by this business unit are used in skin care products, hair care products, suntan lotions, aftershave balsams, shower gels, washing lotions, shampoos and deodorants. The unique feature of Life Essentials’ activities is the combination of conventional body care products and plant-based bioactive ingredients. COSMETIC INGREDIENTS ACTIVE INGREDIENTS FUNCTIONALS BOTANICALS UVFILTER About This Report Symrise has made fundamental changes to its reporting for the 2012 fiscal year when compared to the reporting system used for 2011. This corporate report provides a holistic depiction of Symrise’s performance in 2012 – both from a business perspective as well as from a sustainability standpoint. The financial report for 2012, which contains the complete consolidated financial statements, the Group management report and all other legally required elements, is provided as a supplement to this corporate report and can be viewed electronically or ordered in print form at www.symrise.com/en/investor-relations. The auditor’s report refers solely to the parts of the financial report that are relevant for certification and, likewise, is only reflected therein. Symrise published its first corporate social responsibility report, entitled We Have the Future in Mind, in 2006, and we have since published a report on our sustainability activities every year. With the 2012 corporate report, we have decided to stop publishing separate financial and sustainability reports and are moving in the direction of integrated reporting. In doing so, we are keeping up with the continuously progressing integration of sustainability into our business model. The aim is to inform readers about how Symrise achieves lasting added value for all of the company’s relevant stakeholders by means of its activities. Our report addresses customers, employees and investors along with our other stakeholders and invites them to take part in a dialogue with Symrise. The 2012 Symrise corporate report will be published on March 12, 2013, and will be available in English and German. The environmental data contained in the report relates solely to production sites. All other data, unless stated otherwise, relates to the Symrise Group, which consists of the parent company Symrise AG and the companies that it has under its control (subsidiary companies). The publication date of the corporate report for the 2013 fiscal year is March 11, 2014. In addition, current coverage of the company’s activities can be found at www.symrise.com. Sharing values The people at Symrise share common values. We constantly strive for economic success while assuming responsibility for the environment, our employees and society at large. By taking into account the requirements of various stakeholders at all stages of the value creation process, we are creating value for all. Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and we view it as a clear competitive advantage. It helps ensure the long-term success of our company. 2 Cracking the Customer Code P. 26–31 Perseverance Pays Off P. 18–25 P. 32–39 Sustainable Excellence with Vanilla Menthol on Everyone’s Lips P. 40–47 Global Proximity P. 48–55 COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 3 Table of Contents Table of Contents COMPANY 4–17 REPORT 56–117 4–7 Letter to the Stakeholders 58–59 Goals and Measures 8-11 Business Activities and Structure 60–63 Business Development 12–15 Values, Goals, Strategy 64–65 Symrise on the Capital Market 16–17 Highlights 2012 66–75 Management 76–83 Sourcing 84–91 Innovations 92–101 Environment MAGA ZINE 18–55 102–111 Employees 112–117 Society 18–25 Perseverance Pays Off 26–31 Cracking the Customer Code 32–39 Sustainable Excellence with Vanilla 40–47 48–55 Menthol on Everyone’s Lips Global Proximity APPENDIX 118–124 118 GRI Application Level Check Statement 119–122 Glossary 123 Imprint 124 GRI Content Index 4 Symrise is on a successful path. This statement applies as much to the 2012 fiscal year as to the long-term, sustainable commitment of the company in the areas of the environment, employee issues, society and the economy. Delivering sustainable added value and profitable growth are key to our entrepreneurial activity. The motto of our 2012 corporate report, “Sharing Values,” expresses this conviction. Symrise does not pursue a sustainability strategy – rather, our company’s entire strategy is designed to be sustainable. Sustainability is an integral part of our objectives and all of our corporate activities. For this reason, we decided in 2012 to stop publishing separate financial and sustainability reports and move in the direction of integrated reporting with the 2012 corporate report. Once again, 2012 was a successful year for Symrise – in many ways. We increased Group sales by 10 % to € 1,735 million. This means that, over the past five years, our commercial performance has improved by a total of 36,1 %. With an EBITDA margin of 19.5 %, Symrise is one of the most profitable companies in this industry worldwide. At the end of 2012, the Symrise share closed at € 27.12. It thus closed the year up 31.5 % from the previous year and near its all-time high. The long-term, sustainable success of Symrise is based on the three pillars of a global presence, efficiency and portfolio diversification. Our aim is to continue to grow faster than the market in years to come by harnessing megatrends. Increasing numbers of people are moving to urban centers, where they also continue to grow older, while the emerging markets are rapidly improving their overall prosperity and standards of living. Nearly 50 % of our sales are already generated in the emerging markets and we will continue to increase this figure in the coming years. At the same time, we are solidifying our excellent position in the industrialized nations of Europe and North America. We will create a broad and balanced customer portfolio to maintain this growth in the future as well. Our goal is to continue growing together with both large multinational customers as well as with regional and local accounts. Our growth course is accompanied by our ongoing efforts in the area of sustainable corporate governance. In December, Symrise received the German Sustainability Award 2012 for the sourcing of vanilla in Madagascar. We see this award as yet another confirmation of our strategy. For years, we have been working closely with local vanilla farmers, ensuring our access to high-quality, sustainably grown vanilla. Furthermore, Symrise signed the Global Compact of the United Nations in 2012, thereby explicitly committing itself to the principles of the most important voluntary global initiative for corporate social and environmental responsibility. The Executive Board AC H I M DAU B BERND HIRSCH DR. HEINZ-JÜRGEN BERTR AM HANS HOLGER GLIEWE Head of Scent & Care Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Executive Board Head of Flavor & Nutrition and Labor Director since July 2009 Member of the Member of the Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Executive Board since Executive Board since Board since November 2006 Board since November 2009 November 2006 December 2009 Appointed until 2017 Appointed until 2015 Appointed until 2013 Appointed until 2015 Born 1958 Born 1959 Born 1962 Born 1970 6 Our measures to achieve continuous efficiency improvements are also proving effective. We were able to further reduce the impact of our production activities on the environment. For instance, our energy consumption and CO2 emissions per product unit sold in 2012 were 4.2 % and 5.4 % below 2010 levels, respectively. An increasing number of people are placing a higher level of importance on health and well-being. We are accommodating this trend with a diverse product portfolio, in particular with our Life Essentials and Consumer Health business units. With these different application areas, Symrise sets itself apart from the competition in a unique way. In addition, we create added value for our customers through our comprehensive understanding of product development. Our perspective is always a long-term one. That is why Symrise invested heavily in the future in 2012: We doubled our menthol production capacities, built a new research center and expanded our business activities in Brazil. In the coming years, we will build a new power station with cogeneration capabilities in Holzminden, with which we will be able to generate 30 % of our own electricity needs, as well as continue to expand the production facilities of both business divisions – in places like Shanghai, Singapore and Madagascar. And we will continue to invest in the training and continuing professional development of our employees, who are the ones that make Symrise’s success possible. Their dedication will carry Symrise into the future. Symrise is energetically pushing ahead with its profitable growth course and aiming for ambitious goals. This year, we once again plan to grow faster than the market for fragrances and flavors, which is projected to grow between 2 and 3 %. We also want to maintain our high profitability with an EBITDA margin of about 20 %. Aside from the challenges that lie before us, we can already look at the year 2013 with a sense of pride: Symrise is celebrating its ten-year anniversary. Ten years of intensive work and successful business lie behind us. For this, we would like to thank all of Symrise’s partners, friends and employees. Join us on our path toward sustainable value creation now and in the future. Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram Achim Daub Hans Holger Gliewe Bernd Hirsch COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 7 Letter to the Stakeholders “Symrise is pursuing a course of sustainable value creation. We create our objectives and our corporate strategy for the long term and align them with global megatrends. We consistently incorporate environmental, business partner, employee and social concerns at every stage of value creation when performing our business activities. In this way, we achieve results that we all can be proud of.” Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram, Chairman of the Executive Board “Symrise will celebrate its ten-year anniversary in 2013. The company has been listed on the stock exchange since 2006 and our stock has been represented in the MDAX® index since 2007. The stock exchange value of Symrise has increased by almost € 1.2 billion since its IPO. This is testament to how much the company is valued on the capital market as a result of its coherent and sustainable strategy, operational success and reliable and confidence-building communication.” Bernd Hirsch, Chief Financial Officer “Health and well-being are of the utmost importance to consumers. On top of this comes the increasing demand for products created in an ethical and environmentally friendly way. Symrise has picked up on these requirements: We focus our research and development activities on new functional ingredients for innovative taste solutions. Moreover, we are pushing ahead with our responsible backward integration for key raw materials and observe strict sustainability criteria across the entire value creation chain.” Hans Holger Gliewe, Head of Flavor & Nutrition “ We aim to create tangible added value for our customers with our products, which lift them above the competition. This requires in-depth knowledge of consumer wishes, a high level of innovation and an integrated understanding of sustainability. Symrise has a unique product portfolio, making us the preferred partner for our customers.” Achim Daub, Head of Scent & Care 8 Business Activities and Structure PROFILE Symrise develops, produces and sells fragrances and flavors market with its initial public offering (IPO). Since then, Symrise as well as ingredients for cosmetics. In addition, we provide biostock has been listed in the Prime Standard segment of the Gerfunctional and bioactive ingredients and substances as soluman stock exchange. With a market capitalization of about € 3.2 tions in the health and personal care application areas. A subbillion at the end of 2012, Symrise stock is listed on the MDAX ® stantial part of our added value consists of developing prodindex. ucts with additional benefits. Examples include flavorings that enable the sugar or salt content of foods to be reduced, or a Along with our innovative spirit, our creativity and our reliable moisturizing cosmetic ingredient that lowers the proportion of supply chain, our customers increasingly appreciate our compreservatives in care products. Our customers include large, mitment to sustainability and expect us to deliver it. Together multinational companies as well as important regional and lowith the pursuit of excellence and added value, with creativity, cal manufacturers of foods, beverages, perfumes, cosmetics, commitment and integrity, sustainability is anchored in our valpersonal care products, cleaning and washing products as well ues and our corporate strategy. We know that organizational as the pharmaceutical industry and manufacturers of food success and responsibility go hand in hand. That is why we insupplements. creasingly strive for shared value in our business activity. In 2012, Symrise achieved sales of more than € 1.7 billion, makSTRUCTURE ing it the fourth-largest company in the global flavor and fraBoth business divisions Scent & Care und Flavor & Nutrition are grances market. The company sells its products in 160 countries. responsible for our operating business. They each have their own In 2012, Symrise generated 52 % of sales in industrial countries research and development, purchasing, production, quality conin Western Europe, North America and parts of Asia. The number trol, marketing and sales departments. This system allows interof customers served by Symrise totaled over 6,000 in 2012. nal processes to be accelerated. We aim to simplify procedures A total of 48 % of our sales were achieved in the so-called emergwhile making them customer-oriented and pragmatic. Both busiing markets in Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Near and Middle ness divisions are organized into four regions with separate East and Eastern Europe. Around 5,700 people work at Symrise regional managements: Europe, Africa and the Near and Middle Group. With sites in 36 countries, we have a local presence in East (EAME), North America, Asia/Pacific, and Latin America. our most important sales markets. Their activities extend across several business units and application areas. In addition, the Group has a Corporate Center which The Symrise Group was created by a merger between the Gerencompasses the central areas of finance and controlling, corpoman companies Haarmann & Reimer and Dragoco in 2003. The rate communications, investor relations, legal affairs, human recompany will thus be celebrating its 10th anniversary in 2013. sources, corporate compliance, internal auditing and global proSymrise’s roots date back to 1874 and 1919, when the two comcess design in order to exploit cross-business synergies. panies were founded. In 2006, Symrise AG entered the stock COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 9 Business Activities and Structure CORP OR ATE STRUCTURE Scent & Care Flavor & Nutrition FR AGR ANCES BEVER AGES LIFE ESSENTIALS SAVORY AROMA MOLECULES SWEET OR AL CARE C ONSUMER HE ALTH The extensive research and development (R & D) undertaken, SCENT & CARE which is supplemented by a wide-reaching external network of The Scent & Care business division’s products are sold in some research institutes and scientific facilities, forms the basis of 135 countries. Its portfolio includes fragrances, cosmetic inour product development. Given the big differences in regional gredients, aroma chemicals and mint products. The business sensory preferences, comprehensive consumer research is also division has sites in 33 countries. Major subsidiaries are loan important part of our R & D activities. It creates the foundation cated in Brazil, China, Germany, France, Mexico, India, Singafor developing marketable products that are successful in the pore and the US. The Scent & Care business division is divided long term and that meet the various needs of consumers in differinto the Fragrances, Life Essentials, Aroma Molecules and ent parts of the world. Symrise has development centers notably Oral Care business units. In these business units, our prodin Germany, Brazil, China, France, Singapore and the US. ucts are used in different application areas as follows: 10 SYMRISE SITES 2012 Symrise sites Regional headquarters Fragrances: Perfumers combine aromatic raw materials like ucts, chewing gum and shower gels. Special Fragrance & Flavor aroma chemicals and essential oils into complex fragrances Ingredients and Fine Aroma Chemicals encompass aroma (perfume oils). Symrise’s perfume oils are used in perfumes chemicals (intermediate products for perfume oils) of particu(Fine Fragrances application area), in personal care products lar quality. These aroma chemicals are used for Symrise’s (Personal Care application area) and household products own perfume oil production and are also sold to consumer goods (Household application area). manufacturers, who make perfume oils from them. An important product group, among others, is that of biodegradable Life Essentials: The products manufactured in this business musk fragrances, which adhere significantly better to hair, unit are used in skin care products, hair care products, sun skin or textile fibers and are an essential component of percreams, after-shave balsams, shower gels, wash lotions, shamfume oils. poos and deodorants. Products with nurturing characteristics are an important part of this business unit. Alternative preserOral Care: Symrise offers the entire product range of mint vatives are another focus. The business unit is divided into the flavors and their intermediate products for use in toothpaste, Cosmetic Ingredients and UV Protection application areas. mouthwash and chewing gum. Aroma Molecules: The business unit is divided into the SenFL AVOR & NUTRITION sates (Menthols), Special Fragrance & Flavor Ingredients and Flavor & Nutrition’s range of products is sold in 140 countries. Fine Aroma Chemicals application areas. In the Sensates appliThe flavorings that we produce are used by customers to make cation area, Symrise manufactures nature-identical menthol, foods and beverages, giving different products individual which is primarily used in the manufacture of oral care prodtastes. Symrise supplies individual flavorings used in end prodCOMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 11 Business Activities and Structure ucts as well as complete solutions, which, apart from the actual Savory: This application area includes meat flavors, herb and flavor, can contain additional, functional raw materials, food colvegetable extracts, and flavor compositions for soups, sauces, oring or microencapsulated components. The global Consumer instant foods as well as seasonings for snacks. Special Symrise Health application area serves, among others, the growing marflavorings help reduce the salt and fat content of foods with ket for food supplements and pharmaceutical preparations. The no loss of flavor. business division has sites in more than 20 countries in Europe, Asia, North America, Latin America, the Near and Middle East Sweet: This application area includes sweets, baked goods, ice and Africa. It has central offices in Brazil, China, Germany, cream and dairy products. A focal point is products with imEngland, France, India, Japan, Mexico, Singapore and the US. proved flavor release and flavor systems with masking properIn particular, Symrise’s flavorings and ingredients are used in ties that permit the use of functional ingredients and simulfour application areas: taneously conceal the often unpleasant flavor of these ingredients. Symrise is focusing in particular on vanilla, citrus and Beverages: Our flavorings and beverage bases are used in mint flavors. non-alcoholic beverages such as refreshment drinks, fruit juice drinks, energy and sports drinks, tea and coffee drinks, Consumer Health: This application area includes natural, funcmixed milk drinks and functional drinks. Symrise also has tional ingredients to promote heart and digestive function, flaapplications with flavor granulates for instant drinks such as voring solutions and aromatization for pharmaceutical products tea and coffee specialties. The product range is being exas well as natural food colors and coloring foods (specialties). panded with flavorings, distillates and extracts for nearly all common types of alcoholic beverages. SYMRISE BUSINESS DIVISIONS SIMIL AR TECHNOLOGY PL ATFORMS FL AVOR NUTRITION IDENTICAL END CONSUMERS TR ADITIONAL F & F MARKET MANY SHARED CUSTOMERS + OF TEN THE SAME END PRODUCT HEALTH & CARE SCENT CARE MANY SHARED OR SIMIL AR MOLECULES / FL AVORS 12 Values, Goals, Strategy OUR MISSION feel every day for the environment, employees and society. The Symrise is recognized worldwide as a leading provider of fraSymrise set of values forms the foundation of how we think and grances and flavors and of basic ingredients and active agents act and also determines our corporate culture. “Because we care” for the perfume, cosmetics, pharmaceutical, food and beveragis the guiding principal of Symrise’s commitment to a holistic es industries. We combine our knowledge of consumers’ everunderstanding of its entrepreneurial activity. changing needs with creativity and ground-breaking technologies. In doing so, we concentrate on the development of soluIn order to strengthen our market position, sales should grow tions that provide our customers with added value. We strive to faster over the long term than the average market volume. This ensure sustained value creation and allow our employees and means that Symrise will be increasing its market share and shareholders to participate in the company’s success. expanding its lead over competitors. At the same time, Symrise has set itself the goal of being among the industry’s most proCOMMON VALUES DE TERMINE OUR GOALS fitable companies. By taking into account the requirements of The people at Symrise share common values. This is also a core various stakeholders at all stages of the value creation process, meaning of “Sharing Values,” the motto of our 2012 corporate we are creating value for all: “Sharing Values.” Linking economreport. In the long term, we want to be the most successful comic, ecological and social goals and strategies is making good pany in our industry. We also want to strengthen our market progress at Symrise, but it is by no means completely finished. position and ensure our independence. We are aware that ecoWe are working on this every day. nomic success and social acceptance are inextricably linked. Our economic goals are tied to the responsibility we live by and OUR VALUES COMMITMENT EXCELLENCE CREATIVIT Y Our employees are the key to the success of Outstanding performance for customers, consumIs our driver of innovations with which we bring Symrise. We stimulate our employees with ers and markets: Profitability, entrepreneural vision our claim of always inpiring more to life. challenges, encourage them to take on resand uncompromising quality ensure our success. ponsibility and help them develop. SUSTAIN ADDED VALUE INTEGRIT Y ABILIT Y Intelligent added benefits and integrated services Trust and honesty serve as the foundation of our We are individually and collectively aware of our for our customers, enjoyable and rewarding experiteamwork. This is as true in working with fellow responsibility we owe society as a company. ences for the customer and strategic growth for employees as it is with all of our stakeholders, and it That's why sustainability is one of our core princiSymrise. represents a core element of our code of conduct. ples guiding our actions. COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 13 Values, Goals, Strategy ON THE WAY TO AN INTEGR ATED CORP OR ATE STR ATEGY E X PA N D I N G P O S I T I O N I N T H E E M E R G I N G M A R K E T S Symrise’s corporate strategy is based on the three pillars of We made the decision to target our activities towards highly growth, efficiency and portfolio. It incorporates aspects of suspopulated and rapidly expanding regions of the world at an eartainability at all levels in order to enhance the company’s value ly stage. An increasing portion of the world’s population is exover the long term and minimize risks. In this way, we are makperiencing a rise in standard of living, and consumer spending ing sustainability an integral part of our business model and is increasing accordingly in Latin America, Asia, the Middle turning it into a clear competitive advantage. The goal is a comEast, Eastern Europe and Africa. In the medium to long term, pletely integrated corporate strategy. their spending will likely grow considerably quicker than the international average. “All business is local” – a good underGROW TH AND GLOBAL STRUCTURE standing of the local conditions, markets and consumers is a The global AFF market (Aroma Molecules, Flavors & Fragrances) major key to the successful further expansion of our business. relevant for Symrise has a volume of € 16.9 billion and is Thus Symrise is represented in key emerging markets with its achieving average long-term growth of around 2 to 3 % per own operating facilities. We create jobs in developing and year. Symrise’s market share is approximately 10 %. We want emerging markets that meet the standards set out by the Interto increase this market share through above-average growth. national Labour Organization (ILO) as a matter of course and ofIn order to do so, we are pursuing three strategic approaches: fer working conditions that often well exceed the local level. Additional jobs are created for the local population by sourcing G R O W T H W I T H R A P I D LY G R O W I N G C U S TO M E R S raw materials and intermediate products from the region. We Global, regional and local customers each account for approxiset high standards for the quality of products and the sustainamately one third of Symrise’s sales. This balanced customer bility of production methods used for this local sourcing. Furportfolio stabilizes business development and opens up growth thermore, Symrise is committed to local social issues at all of opportunities on a broader front. We give special attention to its locations. rapidly expanding customer companies. Our core competencies, such as Citrus, Vanilla or Mint, are specifically targeted I N N OVAT I O N A N D T E C H N O LO GY A S D R I V E R S at our customers’ main markets. There are few providers that OF GROW TH are equipped as Symrise is with the ability to provide the highWe focus our activities on new fields of business and applicaest product quality in any volume around the world. We ensure tion areas that show a higher growth potential than the general product quality and the ability to deliver through targeted backmarket for fragrances and flavors. Innovative products provide wards integration and long-term contracts for key raw materiSymrise with an excellent profile on the market and offer addials. With this concept, we also reduce the impact of volatile raw tional growth opportunities. At the same time, our commitmaterials prices on the performance of the business. Consumment to the areas of skin protection and healthy eating, for iner demand for sustainably produced and health-promoting prodstance, produces tangible benefits for end customers. Many ucts is rising. Symrise and our customer companies are embracof our research and development activities are aimed at reducing this megatrend in order to differentiate themselves from ing the fat, sugar and sodium content of products. Market and the competition and to grow profitabely. Sustainable products consumer research, research and development, creation, marand production methods make Symrise a valued partner for keting and sales are closely intertwined at Symrise. Regional leading companies in our customer industries. Furthermore, the research and development centers – such as the ones in São Pauclose cooperation with strategically important customers in lo (Brazil) or Shanghai (China) – ensure the local market releproduct development enhances customer loyalty. The focus on vance of development activities. Numerous partnerships with research and development and the international presence of research institutes and universities provide us with valuable this group of customers create interesting and highly skilled ideas. At the same time, Symrise contributes to scientific adjobs for Symrise employees. We want to participate at an abovevances with a range of initiatives such as doctoral scholaraverage rate in the growth of our dynamically expanding cusships and internships. Symrise is committed to green chemistry. tomers by persuading them with our performance. 14 OUR BUSINESS STR ATEGY VISION SUSTAINABILIT Y GROW TH EFFICIENCY PORTFOLIO VALUES BAL ANC ING THE CUSTOMER P ORTFOLIO MOVING FROM EFFICIENCY PRO G R AMS TO C ONTINUOUS INC ORP OR ATION INTO THE ORGANIZ ATION ENHANCING DIFFERENTIATION THROUG H A UNIQUE PROFILE SUSTAINABILIT Y AS STR ATEG IC DRIVER IN CUSTOMER BUSINESS We want to design chemical processes in such a way that rea consistently high level of quality. We strive to further optiduces energy consumption and environmental impact. We mize our cost structures along the entire value creation chain. make use of renewable raw materials wherever possible. With The aim is to achieve a sustainable EBITDA margin of around our focus on white biotechnology, we are increasingly able 20 % as well as continuously improving the economic and ecoto optimize production processes and make them more envilogical efficiency of our business activities. The most imporronmentally friendly. At the same time, new products and tant tool for this is Total Productive Maintenance (TPM). Since system solutions with a high degree of value-creation poten2007, we have implemented well over 2,000 improvements tial are developed. The safety and quality of our products and significantly exceeded our goal of increasing efficiency by is of the highest priority at Symrise. This is ensured by our 2.5 % each year as part of this standardized process. At the Global Product Compliance Competence Center, which also same time, TPM enables us to ensure that all changes in producoversees strict compliance with regulatory requirements. tion processes have a positive effect on our sustainability performance. In addition, we use balanced scorecards to optimize The three strategic approaches which Symrise uses to drive the the core areas of quality, service, costs, safety and employees. organic growth of the company are supplemented by selective Together with our customers, we have established an integrated acquisitions or strategic partnerships as long as these strengthsupply chain management system in the form of the Symchroen our business model. nize™ initiative, which comprises the entire value creation chain from raw materials procurement to the customer’s end product. CONTINUOUSLY HIGH PROFITABILIT Y Likewise, our comprehensive approach to environmental manThe second pillar of our corporate strategy is the continuous agement includes – together with ambitious, long-term goals efficiency improvement of our operational processes and the to reduce energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and water confocus on products with a high level of value creation. Symrise sumption as well as waste and waste water emissions – a syshas developed from its medium-sized roots into a corporation tematic process for continuous improvement. Successful producwith global reach. Though much has changed, cost-conscioustivity improvements increase the company’s investment ness remains a firm part of our corporate DNA . We are constantstrength and competitive edge. ly seeking to find even better methods for supplying our products in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly manner at COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 15 Values, Goals, Strategy ENHANCEMENT OF OUR PRODUCT P ORTFOLIO level, as well as via the same consumer clusters and customers, The enhancement of our product portfolio comprises the third offers us substantial synergy potential, of which we systematipillar of our corporate strategy. We tap new markets and segcally take advantage. The Life Essentials business unit has been ments, and constantly seek to expand our expertise in the areas created in the Scent & Care business division. This is where of nutrition and care. Symrise is active in dynamic markets – Active Ingredients – the highly effective substances for cosmetnew ideas, new challenges and opportunities are simply busiic care that slow the aging of the skin, soothe irritated skin or ness as usual. We want to further separate ourselves from the have an anti-bacterial effect – are located, for instance. In the competition by anticipating consumers’ changing needs and prefConsumer Health application area, Symrise develops natural, erences as soon as possible and fulfilling them quickly, efficientfunctional ingredients that promote heart or digestive function, ly, creatively and ecologically. At Symrise, innovation doesn’t for example. In the Flavor & Nutrition business division, around begin with the research and development of a product, but earli30 % of our research and development budget for 2012 was er – with the market research that leads to insight and knowlin the area of healthier nutrition. In all application areas, the edge. Symrise initiated a paradigm shift in the industry: We no proportion of products contributing to health and well-being longer start by talking about molecules or technologies, but amounted to 25 % of our sales in the 2012 fiscal year. By focusrather focus on the consumers. Our customers need a strong and ing our product portfolio on the areas of health and well-being, creative partner for innovation. And innovation doesn’t stop Symrise sets itself apart from the competition, produces tangible with the manufacture of our products. The close networking of benefits for end consumers and paves the way for long-term our established business units with new units at the technical growth potential. 16 Highlights 2012 Pleasing the Palate Symrise introduced its “Pure Pleasure” consumer study in September 2012. It analyzed the culinary preferences of consumers in four European countries. Symrise is using the since 1982 findings to develop ideas for new pleasurable products together with its customers. 30 Years in China Symrise was the first international manufacturer of fragrances to initiate business activities on the Chinese mainland in 1982. Today, the company is represented at four locations and is a market leader in the area of mint products for the oral care industry, for example. Due to Symrise’s early involvement in the emerging markets – including China – the company now generates 48 % of its sales in these rapidly expanding markets. Valuable Investment On May 16, 2012, Symrise AG’s Annual General German Meeting resolved to distribute a dividend of € 0.62 per share. Over the past five years, the company Sustainability Award has distributed dividends totaling € 321.5 million The German Sustainability Award Foundation recognized to its shareholders. Symrise AG for its responsible procurement of vanilla in Madagascar with first place in the “Germany’s Most Sustainable Initiatives” category in December 2012. The jury’s statement: With this initiative, Symrise is improving the social and economic situation for the local producers while at the same time guaranteeing its raw material supply in a sustainable manner. Commitment to Corporate Responsibility Secure Base of Raw Materials In July 2012, Symrise committed itself to the internationally recognized In June 2012, the new high-efficiency production system basic principles for sustainable and ethical business practices by signing for synthetic, nature-identical menthol became operathe UN Global Compact. The Global Compact sets standards for human tional in Holzminden. With an investment of € 16 million, rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures. Symrise doubled its production capacities and expanded its worldwide market leadership with regard to this key raw material. COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 17 Highlights 2012 Less is More Efficiency is a core principle at Symrise – and also applies to our environmental policies. By 2020, we aim to reduce the effects of Energy consumption* – 4.2 % our business activities on the environment per product unit sold by a third compared to 2010 levels. Compared to 2010, we made Wastewater emissions* – 9.9 % significant progress in this regard in 2012: Water consumption* – 2.4 % Sustainable Recognition CO2 emissions* – 5.4 % The internationally recognized sustainability rating agency oekom research confirmed Symrise’s position as one of the most sustainable Waste* –10.7 % chemical companies in the world in December 2012. The company qualifies as a sustainable investment (SRI) as a result of being granted Prime Status. 100 % Sustainable Vanilla Symrise vanilla now meets the strict criteria of the SAN standards for sustainable agriculture. A group of 1,073 farmers from 29 villages in the SAVA region was certified for this by the Rainforest Alliance. Symrise has been active in Madagascar for many years. The company has committed itself to procuring 100 % of its vanilla under fair conditions. In doing so, the company is also responding to the growing demand for vanilla produced in a socially and environmentally friendly manner. Expanded Presence in Latin America Symrise opened a new Center of Excellence in the São Paulo region of Brazil in August 2012. It pools research and development activities while also facilitating closer cooperation with market research, sales and marketing. The building complex was constructed and designed with sustainability and environmental protection in mind. Stakeholder Survey As part of a global survey, we invited over 600 customers, employees, “Have Your Say!” investors and suppliers to share their assessments of our performance Symrise conducted its second global and sustainability efforts. With 294 stakeholders participating, the reemployee survey in June 2012 in order sponse rate was over 45 %. The results show that around three quarters to increase employee involvement in of the survey participants are either satisfied or very satisfied with our the company’s development. Strong ratings in satisfaction and commitment strategic approach and assess our sustainability efforts as being good to excellent compared to our competitors. 3/4 placed Symrise among the top 15 % of attractive employers in Germany. * per product unit sold 18 Perseverance Pays Off SHARING VALUES Ten years ago, two renowned companies merged to form Symrise. Three years later, the company went public. The first ten years can be characterized as a success story – one that should continue into the future, says Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram. The CEO points to the company’s worldwide growth, efficient and sustainable business principles and clearly defined product and customer structures as the keys to its continued success. 19 2013 SYMRISE IS CELEBR ATING ITS TEN -YE AR ANNIVER SARY. SINCE ITS IP O IN 20 06, THE C OMPANY ’S VALUE HAS INCRE ASED BY ALMOST € 1.2 BILLION. THE COURSE FOR A SUSTAINABLE AND SUCCESS FUL FUTURE HAS BEEN SE T. 20 So profitability is a requirement? Absolutely. By definition, we cannot share value without value creation. In other words, we cannot “ Global, regional and be successful if our stakeholders don’t also benefit. We have long recognized that this model works best for us and we apply it to vanilla farming in local customers each Madagascar just as we do to all of our other sites and locations. account for a third of our Could you detail the worldwide growth of the company for us? sales. This distribution We notably expanded our position in 2012. Above all, we have achieved excellent balance – between the developed and emerging markets, between makes us less dependent the two divisions and within the product segments and customer groups. This principle is very important as it reduces our exposure to single risks. on any one group.” What does that mean with regard to the markets? We generated nearly half of our sales in the emerging markets. These markets show great growth Dr. Bertram, you have implemented a threepotential for the entire industry. Our business there pillar strategy, which focuses on maintaining has strong local roots. Our strategy of settling a global presence, increasing efficiency and our expertise locally has been serving us well. In offering a diverse portfolio. Where does the Russia, we are the only international company company stand today? in our industry to have set up a production plant We have improved in every area and this is reflectthere. We have strengthened our operations in ed in our performance figures. Value creation is Brazil – where we have maintained a presence for high and we have achieved an EBITDA margin of over 60 years – by opening a new Center of Exapproximately 20 % in a difficult economic envicellence. At the same time, we are also increasing ronment. We have also grown twice as fast as the our sales in developed markets. For example, we market for fragrances and flavors. Our three-pillar had a very good year in the USA . strategy – into which we have resolutely integrated sustainability aspects – has proven itself a sucWhat does the company’s customer structure cess. look like? We differentiate between global, regional and loSustainability is a popular buzzword these days. cal customers – each group now accounts for What exactly do you mean by it? roughly a third of our sales. Ten years ago, when We follow the shared value approach: We can only we started Symrise, we averaged only 11 % of share our company’s success by being commersales with global customers. Today, we are listed cially successful and creating value. In doing so, at nearly every international manufacturer as a we improve social and economic conditions or preferred supplier. We are very pleased with our maintain them at a high standard for the long term, current sales distribution as this reduces our which is what sustainability is all about. This apdependency on any one group in comparison to plies to all of our stakeholders and their environthe past. ments – from raw material suppliers and employees to customers and investors. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 21 Sharing Values Dr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram, Chairman of the Executive Board Do you see more potential in one customer increased from € 257,000 in 2006 to € 306,000 in group over the others? 2012. The end result is commercial success for all No, we want and are able to keep growing with parties – as well as sustainable business practices. every customer group. Judging from our high level of momentum, I am confident that we will. Do you have an example of this? Sustainability functions best when all stakeholders The company is growing and yet there is an benefit: the environment, the people in the region, emphasis on increasing efficiency at the same our customers, our employees and, of course, our time. How does that fit together? shareholders. When we link sustainability to our We sell about 30,000 products to thousands of business activities, all of our partners are strongly customers and we require about 10,000 raw mamotivated to act. A great example of this is our terials to make these products. This means that procurement of vanilla in Madagascar, which won we are managing complexity – both for us and our the German Sustainability Award in December partners. That’s why we started a universal pro2012. The award highlighted that we are improving gram at our sites that aims to improve efficiency the social and economic situation for the local along the entire value creation chain every year. producers with our initiative while at the same time It starts with purchasing and continues with cenguaranteeing our long-term access to this valuable tral research and development all the way through raw material. to sales. It has resulted in some solid improvements so far. One figure in particular really reflects this increased efficiency: Sales per employee has 22 VALUE CRE ATION CALCUL ATION 2012 (IN T €) Price, quality and availability are growing challenges when it comes to raw materials. How are you handling this? For credit providers 6.4 % We have implemented backwards integration for For the state 12.0 % four of our most important categories of raw mateFor shareholders and rials – ensuring the company’s access to these ma86,215 the company 25.2 % terials. Once again, sustainability is a driving factor. 625,206 With vanilla and citrus fruits, we have implemented 217,886 holistic concepts in Madagascar and Latin America, For employees 56.4 % respectively. We always purchase certain vegeta15,745 bles – such as onions, which are used in nearly every savory flavor – through regional growers with whom we have long-term agreements. On the other 789,882 hand, with synthetic menthol, which we have been manufacturing since 1973, we added a new production plant and doubled our production capacities in order to cover growing demand. Value creation Other income Other advance payments Material costs Depreciation and You differentiate between natural and synthetic amortization products. Is there a tendency towards one over Companies like Symrise are closely tied to the overall economy and society. the other? Over half of the value created serves to benefit employees. Thirty years ago, more than half of our products were doubtless synthetic. However, this also included some nature-identical materials, like our menthol, which is manufactured according to its natural structure. Today, these represent a sensible replacement for raw materials that are barely possible to cultivate in a sustainable manner. However, between 60 % and 70 % of our products are now made with natural raw materials and this trend is increasing. You mentioned various products. What are the advantages of a broad portfolio? In addition to a large quantity of successful products, we also have a unique position in our industry. Due in part to the wealth of expertise carried over from our predecessor companies, we offer more than just materials that provide a specific smell or taste. We are also involved in segments like “Care” and “Nutrition”. This means that we serve a much broader market that is constantly growing – in addition to our core market, which we share with large competitors. Global megatrends, such as healthy nutrition, wellness and care, contribute to our success. A further aspect is our experience in process and application technology, which gives us a distinct advantage. As our numerous awards and patents show, we are among the most innovative companies in our industry. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 23 Sharing Values 18,470 AN INVESTMENT OF € 10,000 IN SYMRISE STOCK AT ITS IPO IN 2006, WITH THE SUB SEQUENT INVESTMENT OF THE DIVIDENDS, WOULD TODAY RESULT IN IMPRESSIVE € G AINS. AS OF DECEMBER 28, 2012, THE PURCHASED SHARES WOULD BE WORTH € 18,470 – CONSTITUTING AN ANNUAL VALUE INCRE ASE OF 10.8 % . 10,000 € In years past, there was a lot of talk about prodswers always arise. In market and consumer reucts that offer additional health benefits – a marsearch, our experts are in constant dialogue and ket that accounts for about € 150 billion globally. always in search of newly developing trends. The How is the company progressing in this segment? same is true in quality management and compliIn 2012, we made significant progress in the deance with the various industry-specific regulavelopment of nutrient complexes for healthy foods tions and laws. We also have synergies within the and in producing highly purified plant extracts divisions such as when we combine fragrances with proven efficacy, for example. We continue to with new cosmetic substances in Scent & Care, push for a greater market share in this segment, or when we balance out flavor deficits with funcbut we do so with caution. We want to avoid investtional product solutions in Flavor & Nutrition. This ing in fields where the market has stagnated or allows us to offer real added value and extend fields that offer low value creation opportunities. our value creation. In addition, we look for opportunities that fit our company and align with our sustainability goals. Symrise is currently celebrating its ten-year anniversary. Where do you see the company Are these technologies developed in-house? in the next ten years? We use a mix of internal and external expertise, We see a company that has substantially insuch as from our minority holdings in the area creased its value and that will continue to operof biotechnology and medical nutrition. We also ate successfully in its markets, with numerous have partnerships with the Swedish companies innovations as part of a clearly differentiated portProbi and Indevex and work in close cooperation folio in the areas of balanced nutrition and perwith them. Both sides benefit from this pooling sonal care – all based on sustainable processes of expertise and expand their know-how. and products. In view of demographic changes, a growing global population and the increasing Let’s get back to Symrise itself. With Scent & scarcity of resources, sustainability is our reCare and Flavor & Nutrition, the company has sponsibility and is increasingly important for our two equally large divisions. Are there synergy business. effects between them? Yes, there are many areas that overlap between them and we continue to expand these. In research and development, process technologies and even in customer communication, there is a lot of repetition – the same questions and an24 10 years of Symrise “ – a success story built on the pioneering spirit of its predecessor companies. Inspiring innovations were and continue to be at the center of our entrepreneurial activities.” The discovery of the first method for manufacturing nature-identical vanillin led to the founding of one of these predecessor companies in 1874. And things have come full circle: In 2012, Symrise won the German Sustainability Award for its sustainable sourcing of vanilla in Madagascar. What Makes a Company Successful? Staying true to its identity yet remaining open to change. Loyalty to uncompromising corporate values such as creativity, commitment and sustainability. A readiness and willingness to change in order to actively make use of opportunities that present themselves on the global markets and to always provide customers with the best possible products, to constantly optimize the company’s own processes and create sustainable value for the company and its stakeholders. 1999 H&R is present on every continent with 1874 its own regional companies and emDiscovery of the first ploys over 4,000 people worldwide. The method for manufacturing company now generates Group sales nature-identical vanillin and of well over DM 1 billion. the founding of Haarmann’s vanillin factory in Holzminden. HAARMANN & REIMER GMBH 2002 (1874 – 2003) Sold to Swedish investor EQT for € 1.7 billion. 1954 Takeover by Bayer AG. Over the course 1973 of the next years, Haarmann & Reimer World’s first fully synthetic develops into an important international production of menthol. manufacturer of fragrance and flavor ingredients. 1919 Hairdresser Carl Wilhelm Gerberding founds the 2002 Dragon Company and 1929 Dragoco moves its company shares begins manufacturing Acquisition of factory into the new company Symrise. perfume and soap comgrounds in Holzminden, positions. which are still used today. 1981 Initial flavor production. With Horst-Otto Gerberding, company management is passed on to the third generation of the founding family. Today, Gerberding is a member of the Supervisory Board of Symrise AG. 1955 Company begins internationalizing. By the 1990s, the company had a total of 23 subsidiaries in foreign countries, including the USA, the UK, France, Austria, Italy and Switzerland. DRAGOCO GERBERDING & CO. AG (1919 – 2003) 2006 IPO of the Symrise share for official trading on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange (Prime Standard) on December 11. With a volume of 81.03 million shares and a placement price of € 17.25 per share, it was the largest IPO of the year in Germany. 2012 Symrise receives the German Sustainability Award for its sustainable sourcing of vanilla 2009 in Madagascar. Dr. Heinz Jürgen Bertram 2005 becomes CEO of Symrise with Natural vanilla business expana new strategic focus on Flavor ded. With the gradual integratiAND Nutrition as well as Scent on of the French-Madagascan AND Care. company Aromatics S.A.S., Symrise lays the foundation 2012 for the important vertical At € 27.875, the Symrise integration in its vanilla value share reaches its highest creation chain. value since its IPO on October 30. 2012 2007 2008 Doubling of the production Introduction of the taste platform taste Opening of the Global capacities for synthetic menthol. for life® – an innovative instrument for Citrus Center in Sorocaba, This key raw material is now developing new products more quickly and Brazil. There, Symrise produced in a highly efficient in line with market demand for healthy and pools its competencies and environmentally friendly enjoyable products. in the immediate vicinity manner. of the world’s most important region for citrus cultivation. 2003 With the merger of Dragoco and Haarmann & Reimer, Symrise becomes the world’s fourth largest supplier of fragrances and flavors. The company employs about 5,800 people at over 30 locations and generates sales of approximately € 1.25 billion. 26 Cracking the Customer Code INSIGHTDRIVEN INNOVATION What do consumers want? More than anything else, companies looking to develop the most fitting and advantageous products in highly competitive markets need the answer to this question. With a comprehensive, qualitative and quantitative study unlike any other in the industry, Symrise has found a way to adapt to both current and future trends. “Next Intensity” is a powerful tool for expanding the company’s innovation and creativity even further. 27 16,500 INTERVIE WS WITH CONSUMERS FROM ELE VEN C O U N TRIES PROV IDED THE F O U NDATI ON F OR THE GLOBAL TREND STUDY NE X T INTENSIT Y. 28 You’re standing in front of a shelf at the drugstore. It’s filled with two dozen types of toothpaste, neatly arranged white tubes with orange, Consumers from green or blue labels. A familiar scene. But one container stands out. Its packaging is black and Home eleven countries offer its label glows in neon colors. “A product like Quarters insight this can turn an entire market upside down – if it is able to do two important things. It has to fulfill the basic requirements of a toothpaste and, at the same time, promise more,” says Global Account Manager Sascha Schulze. The 37-year-old graduate of business administration is the global face of Symrise for a major international customer. For the Group, he works in the Beauty Care segment, which includes personal care, hair care and oral care products as well as perfumes. “The market is very complex. That’s Super influencers – why we always need to have a very clear idea of what people need and how these needs are develfuture-oriented Considered oping,” he says. people Consumption Accordingly, Symrise’s marketing department has set trends created a unique foresight tool for global trends, which offers a clear idea of where the future lies: Next Intensity. The company collects and analyzes information on what drives consumer decisions today – and what will drive them in the future. “These trends are crucial for us as we attempt to align our product developments to the ever-changing needs of consumers.” The unusual toothpaste, for example, is aimed at the growing group of consumers in developing markets, who want to experience something fresh and exciting in these hectic times – even if it’s just while brushing their teeth. This trend is called experiential consumption, a name given to it by Symrise’s large-scale study – a study unlike any other study of its kind in Experiential the industry. Next Intensity delivers comprehensive insight into global megatrends and consumer values, behaviors and desires. The goal of the study was to be able to offer Symrise customers – the manufacturers of perfume, personNew al care products, beverages and food – products perspectives that meet consumer needs even more closely, while providing multifaceted support to employees throughout the company. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 29 Insight-Driven Innovation Eco Citizenship Best Being Global megatrends determine the purchasing decisions of tomorrow Instant Everywhere Passion Identity Safe & Secure 30 ANALY ZING AND PREPARING GLOBAL DATA “Next Intensity The team set high goals for the study. Its aim was to identify global trends and deliver hard facts – both qualitatively and quantitatively. That’s why is an effective tool choosing the right agency was a crucial first step. “Our partner needed to have global experithat we use to ence collecting and analyzing data from around the world,” says Isabelle Vacheret. Symrise found that partner in GfK Roper, a company that is highly constantly refine regarded in monitoring and tracking consumer behavior, expectations, attitudes, basic needs, lifestyles and activities, which it has done every year our work.” for the last 15 years in 25 countries. “A key factor in the choice was that we didn’t want to simply buy heaps of raw data and pass that on A UNIQUE CROSS DIVISIONAL PROJECT to our customers. We wouldn’t have learned much Symrise has carried out consumer research studies from raw data,” says Clotilde Croixmarie. “We for decades, but the breadth and depth of Next Inneeded to understand it, adjust it and translate tensity is unprecedented. “Megatrends are global it into something meaningful for our day-to-day and they affect every product segment. That’s why operations, our employees and our customers. both Symrise divisions – Scent & Care and Flavor & Because of this, we developed a tool that allows Nutrition –decided to perform a joint study on a us to do exactly that for all regions and all product scale that was a first for the company, involving 25 categories.” countries around the world and for all product groups,” says Isabelle Vacheret, who was responsiGfK Roper conducted direct and online interviews ble for the Scent & Care side of the study as SVP with 16,500 consumers from seven mature markets Global Head of Marketing in Paris. “The study like the US, Germany and Japan as well as from the achieved high levels in terms of both quantity and four BRIC countries: Brazil, Russia, India and China. quality,” explains her colleague Clotilde CroixSymrise’s unique approach focuses in particular marie, head of Flavor & Nutrition’s EAME marketon “super influencers” – people that tend to act as ing department at the time of the study. early adopters, consuming in a cutting-edge way and thereby influencing trends. A joint kick-off meeting in Paris marked the starting point for Next Intensity and brought together NE X T INTENSIT Y representatives from around the world and both The result is a new trend-tracking tool that has divisions at the end of 2010. “The discussions were identified five megatrends that will globally influsimultaneously very focused and very open,” reence our way of developing products in R & D, calls Clotilde Croixmarie. “In the end, we were exCreation and Marketing. These trends are global cited about one common idea.” Isabelle Vacheret warming, scarcity of resources, an aging popuadds: “We didn’t reach a compromise. Instead, we lation, urbanization and the increasing importance reached a genuine, value-creating consensus.” of technology. Additionally, we came up with a One major factor for success was the fact that the global platform that is articulated around three study benefits everyone involved. It ensures that important drivers, as we observed that people’s marketing teams and consumer researchers are on lives and consumption patterns are driven by difthe same page across all regions and product ferent levels of intensity: “Slow,” “Balanced” and segments, while providing valuable information for “High.” Behaviors can change between the three every segment on a local basis. The knowledge platforms in a single day. Nevertheless, we do see sharing also helps save on costs and personnel resome differentiation depending on factors like sources. country, gender or income. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 31 Insight-Driven Innovation For instance, “Slow Intensity” refers to the puring & Consumer Insights for North America. “Our chase behaviors of people who consume less and constant objective is to develop innovations that focus more on the quality of their consumption match the needs of our customers.” He and his with a specific focus on provenance, ecological imcolleagues have been working with Next Intensity pact and the social consequences of their pursince mid-2012, developing products like snacks, chases. This does not rule out impulse purchases seasonings or beverages that have strong appeal or prevent them from engaging in expensive and to both on-the-go commuters and stay-at-home last-minute travel as part of their jobs. Among othfamily types. The way people live and er things, “Balanced Intensity” refers to the trend their behavior as consumof focusing on one’s own safe, secure and healthy Symrise employees decide which trends apply to ers can vary in intensity environment. “High Intensity” applies to those which customers, regions and products in sesdepending on the situation consumers who enjoy empowering their life, expersions lasting multiple hours. “We use the study for – from careful, qualityimenting with new products and enjoying exciting every product development,” Laroche says. oriented buying to spontanew experiences. neous, experimental purOne example of insight gained from Next Intensity chases. A TOOL FOR E VERYONE was for the North American market: “The Hispanic The marketing experts developed three correpopulation in the region accounts for 16 percent of sponding platforms for each of the three levels of the population today. By 2050, it will be about 30 intensity to help further clarify these consumer percent. Many people are aware of this fact. With trends. For use in day-to-day operations, the study Next Intensity, however, we can show what impact incorporates innovative new products, thoughtthis will have on snacking preferences or eating provoking charts, creative videos and powerful vishabits in general,” he says. ual images, which were explained to the marketing teams in workshops around the world as part of the Laroche, a native of France who has worked at global rollout. The informational materials sorted Symrise for 17 years, points out another highlight and analyzed trends and consumer insights for eveof the study: “When we present these trends to ry market according to age, income, gender, prodcustomers, they are intrigued by the depth and uct group and many other parameters. quality of the insights and occasionally we can find ourselves working with them in detail on their Now, every marketing department is using Next goals and objectives for hours. This is immensely Intensity. In Fine Fragrances, for instance, pervaluable for getting an even better understanding fumers get inspired by and fine-tune their creaof our partners.” Symrise speaks the same prodtions according to the insights produced by the uct language as its customers. This allows us to study – using facts to focus their creative talents better understand the challenges our partners are and experiences. In the Personal Care, Home facing, both in the present and the future. Though Care and Oral Care segments, Key Account Manthese global megatrends are reliable predictors for agers are proactively inviting their customers to the medium term, they will continue to develop and presentations. “Here, the marketing department evolve, particularly in the fast-changing dynamics is showcasing innovative new brand solutions of emerging markets. That’s why Symrise is always that match our clients’ needs. We are positioning refining and updating the Next Intensity program. Symrise as an indispensable, visionary partner “We enter new data from the agency every year for future development,” says Isabelle Vacheret. and adjust the results accordingly,” says Isabelle Vacheret. “We also check to see if a trend has But the study hasn’t just been a success in Scent & simply shifted or if completely new trends are deCare. Specialists in the Flavor & Nutrition division veloping and need to be evaluated,” adds Clotilde also are applying these valuable findings to their Croixmarie. “This way, we can continue to have this work. Emmanuel Laroche is one of them. “Recogvery effective tool to help us refine and improve nizing and anticipating trends is immensely imporour work.” tant for Symrise,” says the Vice President Market32 Sustainable Excellence with Vanilla SUSTAINABLE VALUE CRE ATION For over one hundred years, thousands of small-scale farmers in Madagascar, the island country off the East African coast, have been making their living by growing and selling vanilla. Symrise is one of the world’s largest buyers of the precious spice. The company has been locally present in Madagascar for many years and has developed a unique approach for the sustainable procurement of vanilla. This commitment is now receiving special recognition. 33 2012 IN 2012, SYMRISE WON THE GERMAN SUSTAINABILIT Y AWARD FOR ITS SUSTAINABLE SOURCING OF VANILL A IN MADAGASCAR. 34 The global vanilla business starts, wholly unspectacularly, with the use of some small wooden sticks. Each year, farmers spread out across the 100 % Madagascan rainforest with these match-like tools to pollinate the innumerable blossoms by hand. More than three-quarters of the world’s vanilla production relies quite literally on the able hands of Malagasy farmers. And, in much the same way, most of these farmers depend on vanilla as their only source of income and, as a result, their entire livelihood. Symrise was acutely aware of this fact when it began to develop a sustainability strategy for the proSYMRISE AIMS TO SOURCE 100 % OF ITS VANILL A IN A SOCIALLY curement of vanilla in 2007. Today, Symrise is the AND ENVIRONMENTALLY RESP ONSIBLE MANNER . THE COMPANY only company in its industry that cooperates directIS CONSTANTLY WORKING TOWARDS THIS GOAL. ly and intensively with the local farmers. Well over one hundred Symrise employees live and work on the island, processing more than ten percent of Cultivating vanilla is a tiring and tedious process the nation’s vanilla harvest of about 2,000 tons. All that requires a great deal of experience on the part processing stages – from cultivation and harvestof the farmers. Vanilla planifolia does not grow on ing, to the fermentation of the beans all the way plantations. Instead, it winds its vines around tutor through to the extraction process – take place in trees, like Jatropha or Glyceridia, in the shadows the country. In this way, the company is making a of the forest. If the farmers didn’t pollinate the blosnotable contribution to local value creation. soms themselves, the Vanilla planifolia growing in Madagascar – the largest region of vanilla cultiWhile the farmers themselves have practically no vation in the world – wouldn’t be able to produce use for their most important product, the situation any vanilla beans. is quite different thousands of kilometers away. Most industrially manufactured foods require the And the work involved in cultivating the queen of pleasantly sweet flavor of Vanilla planifolia. The the spices doesn’t end there: The green beans fragrance industry also needs this valuable raw are harvested by hand after being allowed to grow material – for exquisite perfumes as well as for for nine months. They are then blanched and fercare products, ambient scents and soaps. That is mented – the actual quality-yielding part of the why vanilla beans and the extracts made from process, which lasts multiple weeks. In this way, them are considered some of the most important the black, velvety and aromatic beans “ripen” – basic materials in the food and cosmetics industry. taking on the form most of us envision when we think of vanilla. QUEEN OF THE SPICES As with every natural product, there are social, enA GOOD DE AL FOR E VERYONE vironmental and economic challenges surrounding For many decades, the fine bourbon vanilla beans the cultivation of vanilla. The plan to address all of have made their way from Madagascar to Holzthese factors in a sustainable way proved to be minden in Lower Saxony. However, Symrise bought difficult, but the results have been widely praised. its vanilla through intermediate retailers for many years – until the company decided to invest in the spice’s origins in 2006. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 35 Sustainable Value Creation “ For us, sustainability means giving farmers an opportunity to make a fair living.” Since then, Symrise has been on site and emsuch as cocoa, coffee or cloves – to help them ployees maintain close contact with the farmers. diversify and add to their sources of income. The Establishing these contacts wasn’t easy in the farmers also particularly appreciate the opporbeginning, explains Laurence Briand, who is in tunity to take out small, interest-free loans from charge of the social and environmental initiaSymrise. Quite regularly during the lean season, tives surrounding vanilla at Symrise. “Many groups farmers are dependent on dubious middlemen to come here and make promises to the people, whom they sell vanilla at very low prices before but only a few actually return. Arriving with a suitharvest to cover their families’ basic needs. We case full of money isn’t enough to win the farmsupport them to break this vicious circle and ers’ trust.” To gain this trust, Symrise started a thereby to strengthen their economic independnumber of long-term projects together with a ence. network of developmental aid organizations, NGOs and local farmers’ associations. SUSTAINABLE ADVANTAGE These investments have improved farmers’ lives One constant focus of their work is ensuring a fair in a sustainable manner. Symrise’s vanilla business price. “For us, sustainability means giving farmers also benefits from this arrangement and is now an opportunity to make a fair living,” Briand exexperiencing double-digit growth. plains. “This includes enabling them to pay for adequate health care and for their children’s school Stephan Sielaff is the Senior Vice President Global fees or to obtain microloans for food . All of our Operations for Flavor & Nutrition at Symrise and activities are geared towards enhancing the farmis in charge of the vanilla supply chain strategy in ers’ selfsufficiency.” this role. For him, sustainability is not just a matter of compliance. He sees it as a real competitive This kind of sustainability means a chance to do advantage. In fact, he refers to business success good business – for everyone involved. Symrise as “a core element of Symrise’s sustainability thus pays the farmers a premium price that is strategy.” above the global market rate. The company also initiated a health insurance plan. Thanks to this What role does the sustainability strategy play initiative, some vanilla farmers are now able to in terms of competitiveness, Mr. Sielaff? go to the doctor for the very first time. Training At the very least, our sustainability concept seems sessions are also offered that teach the farmers to convince customers, as we are generating very effective and environmentally responsible cultigood business at the moment. vation methods or how to grow other products – 36 COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 37 Sustainable Value Creation What do customers expect when it comes to this topic, Mr. Sielaff? Customers want to know how we carry out our work in the region, what criteria formed the basis of our certifications or how we ensure that child Our partnership with the labor doesn’t take place. Basically, they want to farmers allows for complete see that we are handling our business in a retraceability of the vanilla. sponsible way. In the end, it’s all about reliability. More than 40 Symrise inspectors help ensure this What other trends do you see? by keeping in constant conThe trend towards more partnerships is an examtact with the farmers. ple. The major topics – such as child labor, climate change or environmental protection – can’t be solved by one company on its own. It will only happen if we all work together. I think we will all be challenged to break through some old conventions, with some of today’s competitors acting as partners on certain topics in the future. How do you imagine that happening? A good example is the sustainable vanilla initiative. As part of this organization, every stakeholder in the vanilla business – including retail chains, food manufacturers, producers like Symrise and NGOs – all work towards a common goal for an entire market. Does that work in such a highly competitive market environment? Of course, our competitors are also working on their own sustainability strategies. But it’s no longer about the old logic of always having to offer more than the next guy. Sustainability is a jungle of individual topics and developing a credible, sensible strategy out of these is the real challenge here. It’s the “how” and “where” that make a difference. That is why our sustainability concept is implemented along the entire value creation chain. The result is that shift I mentioned from compliance to competitive advantage. What does that look like in specific terms? We clearly state that we aren’t some charitable organization, but rather a profit-oriented business. We don’t just want to donate some money to a school and then leave. We make sure that the farmers receive a fair price for their vanilla and thus have enough money to pay for their children’s schooling or ensure that they have access to a health insurance plan, like the one we 38 initiated for them. Most notably, committed Organic, Fair Trade and Rainforest Alliance certifiSymrise employees are locally present 365 days cations. This approach pays off, explains Stephan a year. We understand the situation and the Sielaff: “Many of our strategically important cusenvironment the farmers live and work in. That tomers consider us the leading experts on vanilla generates trust. and its sustainable procurement.” Well over 1,000 farmers have been registered and But where does this translate into a competitive Symrise received special recognition of its sustrained by Symrise and advantage? tainability concept in 2012 – winning the German have (subsequently) reTake for example the issue of raw material supply. Sustainability Award in the “Germany’s Most ceived the certification by For the farmers, it is an attractive proposition to Sustainable Initiatives” category. The award is the Rainforest Alliance. sell their vanilla to us and continue doing business given to companies that show a special degree The company’s comprehenin this way. Our customers can thus also be conof responsibility and combine economic success sive training and support fident that we will continue to supply them with with social responsibility and environmental offers improve the farmers’ high-quality products in the future. In the end, protection in an exemplary manner. “With this economic situation. They this strategy means that we as a company are eninitiative, Symrise is improving the social and rightly take pride in their suring that we use our resources efficiently and economic situation for the local producers while achievements and the coin a manner that is focused on value creation. at the same time guaranteeing its raw material operation builds trust. supply in a sustainable manner,” praised the jury. That all sounds well and good in times of double-digit growth – but how sustainable is Briand traveled from warm Madagascar to wintry a sustainability strategy in times of crisis? Düsseldorf for the award ceremony, which was A provocative response to this question would supported by the German Federal Government as be to say that there is one thing that companies well as various economic associations and civic cannot afford – regardless of whether business organizations. She held the award as a representis booming or slumping – and that is to not have ative of her entire team, who were cheering in a firm sustainability concept! To underscore it 35°C (95°F) heat and nearly 100 % humidity in Madonce more, what we have developed with this agascar. “This award fills us with pride,” she exstrategy is a profitable business model. We will claimed. “It is a significant recognition of our susbenefit from this model in good times, and even tainability efforts and particularly of my colleagues more so in difficult times. in Madagascar, who support the farmers there on a daily basis.” In 2012, the sustainability business model reached a new milestone. Over 1,000 farmers in 29 villag“With vanilla, we have learned how successful es are now certified by the Rainforest Alliance. sustainable business can be,” concludes Sielaff. Laurence Briand and her team worked closely with “That is why our commitment in Madagascar will the farmers for many months to support them in continue to grow.” The company is currently buildthis process: They explained the principles of susing a new plant and warehouse there, which will tainable agriculture to them, highlighted what more than double production capacities. “We are these principles mean for their farms and partstill a long way from the end of this journey.” nered with them in implementing guidelines. The result: Symrise can offer its customers premium vanilla, cultivated in accordance with high social and environmental standards – including COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 39 Sustainable Value Creation “ With vanilla, we have learned how successful sustainable business can be.” 40 99.9 % PURE: SYNTHE TIC MENTHOL FROM SYMRISE MEE TS THE HIGHEST QUALIT Y STANDARDS. MOREOVER , IT IS PRODUCED IN A HIGHLY EFFICIENT AND ENVIRON MENTALLY FRIENDLY MANNER. 41 Menthol on Everyone’s Lips CONSISTENTLY EFFICIENT Symrise invested € 16 million to expand the production of synthetic menthol at its headquarters in Holzminden. In doing so, the global market leader doubled its capacity. This marks an important step since global demand for this raw material – and a high-quality, alwaysavailable supply at a stable price – has been rising for years. 42 The Symrise Menthol Cycle The process for manufacturing synthetic menthols is characterized by cycles in which the resource is refined, isolated and purified. The resulting by-prodESTERIFICATION ucts are recycled as raw materials during the process cycle. The impact on sustainability is positive: Yield is nearly 100 %, the product is biodegradable and almost no waste results from the process. TR ANSFER FROM LANXESS TO SYMRISE DISTILL ATION MENTHOL R ACEMIC ISOMERS DISTILL ATION HYDROGENATION M CRESOL R ACEMIZATION PROPEN ISOMERIZATION THYMOL DISTILLED THYMOL CRYSTALLIZATION THYMOL CRYSTALLIZED COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 43 Consistently Efficient DISTILL ATION SEPAR ATION CRYSTALLIZATION Reinhard Nowak climbs a steep spiral staircase up a 27-meter-high facade. “Be careful. Don’t let go of the handrails,” he advises. The manager of the menthol production plant looks briefly toward the hills along the Weser river from the top of the building as it shines silver in the sunlight. “A lovely view,” he says. One that he rarely enjoys in REESTERIFICATION peace and quiet. Work awaits him behind the metal door – and a completely different world. A world of silver and black-lined pipes, boilers, reactors, columns and an endless number of supply lines. The fourth floor of the expanded menthol production facility at Symrise’s headquarters in Holzminden is a high-tech manufacturing plant. It became operational in June 2012, after just 560 days of planning and construction. The air is dry and warm – with a hint of mint. “We take samples here on a regular basis,” Nowak explains. “That’s FINAL DISTILL ATION why it smells a little like menthol. Apart from that, the process runs in a closed system and is odorless as far as the outside world is concerned.” The synthetic raw material is the most important single product in the company’s portfolio. It is supplied to around 500 customers – ranging from multinational organizations to mediumsized companies – in a market where Symrise is the worldwide leader. “We expect the demand MENTHOLL DISTILLED for menthol to grow at an above-average annual rate in the future,” says Norbert Richter, head of TR ANSFER FROM SYMRISE TO LANXESS the Aroma Molecules business unit. “And the share of synthetic menthol will also increase.” The doctor of chemistry is in charge of the expansion of the production facilities. “Over the past few FINAL years, we have continually optimized our existing CRYSTALLIZATION plant and already were able to boost our capacity as a result,” Richter says. “But we had so many MENTHOLD DISTILLED business opportunities that the old facilities were simply not enough. With our increased capacities, we can minimize the enormous price fluctuations on the global market for our customers and deliver COMPACTING unwavering quality at all times.” PACK AGING MENTHOLL PELLETS MENTHOLL PELLETS PH 44 A driving factor for the rising demand comes from the dental and oral care market segment, explains Richter, who is also responsible for the second menthol production plant in Bushy Park, near Charleston, South Carolina. “Rising living standards mean that more and more people use toothpaste or mouthwash – preferably with a mint flavor. The biggest growth can be seen in Asia,” he says. By the same token, the pharmaceutical industry needs an increasing amount of menthol, which they use in a range of medications to cool, promote blood circulation and relieve pain. Furthermore, Symrise also sells the raw material in a spray-dried form for use in candy or chewing gum. A number of derivatives produced are also used in shower gels or other products for the cosmetics industry. The new production facility will double Symrise’s capacities in one fell swoop. The expansion – a € 16 million investment – was carried out during normal operations. This is evident in the production hall today. The new facilities are located in a Symrise applied the guidelines of good manufacturing practice (GMP) for the design, construction new building, which is connected to the old buildand operation of the expanded menthol production plant. Employees check the product’s safety and quality at regular intervals. ing by a staircase. During the expansion work, the old equipment was running at capacity. “A precise and well-thought-out schedule made it possible for us to minimize the amount of downtime caused by “With our increased capacities, we can minimize the expansion. Indeed, the longest period of downtime was just two weeks,” explains Nowak proudly. the enormous price fluctuations on the global Together with the Symrise subsidiary TESIUM , the market for our customers and deliver unwaverchemical engineer and trained chemical lab technician – who, after all, has spent 16 of his 25 years at ing quality at all times.” Symrise working with this valuable aromatic compound – planned the production expansion. At the heart of menthol synthesis is a method that Symrise developed 40 years ago, together with LANXESS AG – formerly Bayer – which continues to produce the base material today. LANXESS produces so-called “racemic menthol” from the raw material thymol and delivers it to Symrise in large tanks every day. It is then separated into l-menthol and d-menthol. While l-menthol corresponds to natural menthol, the d-menthol is completely returned to the process as a raw material. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 45 Consistently Efficient However, the separation is not easy. “We can’t In order to achieve both savings and an optimized use standard separation processes such as distilproduction process, engineers and plant techlation or crystallization. The substances also do nicians adjusted thousands of parameters during Synthetic menthol is not have different polarities or solubilities,” Nowak the first few months. “We optimized pressure, Symrise’s most important says. The challenge thus lies in separating them temperature and flow rates using measuring inindividual product. It despite these obstacles. “We use a chemical restruments in the reactors and columns,” Richter is supplied to around 500 action to produce subtle differences in the physisays. In his view, such fine-tuning is crucial for customers – ranging from cal properties of the molecule,” he says, highlightgaining a key advantage in terms of expertise. “We multinational organiing Symrise’s crucial expertise. “And we make have acquired so much experience with the zations to medium-sized use of these differing properties in order to perprocesses that we have been able to improve efficompanies – in a market form the separation.” ciency in many areas. And we will continue doing where Symrise is the so in the years to come.” worldwide leader. In addition to increasing capacity, Symrise has also improved the process. “The great innovation has been the continuous operation of our pipe reactors, which we have followed with an equally unceasing distillation process,” Nowak says. “This has made us significantly more efficient.” Moreover, auxiliary materials can be almost fully reused, leaving only trace residue. Symrise has also reduced the energy used in the process by making use of heat recovery, for example. 46 Dr. Norbert Richter studied chemistry in Göttingen and, after acquiring his doctorate, worked at Colorado State University in the USA. He began his career in 1991 at a pharmaceutical company in Germany. In 1998, he joined Symrise, where he has already held a number of managerial positions at locations in Mexico and the USA, among other countries. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 47 Consistently Efficient Consistent, Safe and High-Quality According to Dr. Norbert Richter, synthetic menproduction processes and the production environthol has many advantages over its natural counment, which enable us to achieve a high level of ter-part. In an interview, the head of the Aroma quality on a consistent and reproducible basis. This Molecules business unit at Symrise explains how means safety – for customers and consumers. im-portant the production of nature-identical aromatic compounds is for both the environment You use crude oil as a raw material in the and the growing markets. production of synthetic menthol. This doesn’t exactly sound like a sustainable practice. Dr. Richter, Symrise is producing increasing First of all, the careful use of non-renewable requantities of synthetic menthol. What sets it sources is especially important to us. We use up apart from natural menthol? nearly all of this raw material, meaning that virThe supply and price of natural menthol fluctuate tually no waste is produced and the product is biodramatically because it is a completely natural degradable. Furthermore, the extraction of naproduct. Synthetic menthol is not subject to such tural menthol is not any more sustainable. fluctuations. Furthermore, we produce synthetic menthol year-round, regardless of season or cliWhat are the challenges posed by natural mate. After all, customers require the same very menthol? high standard of quality at all times. The plant that is the primary source of the desired l-menthol is called mentha arvensis, also known as field mint. Its menthol content depends on both “ We produce synthetic menthol yearthe climate and the quality of the soil. Most mint now comes from India. The amount of land used round, regardless of season or climate.” for this purpose is immense. Farmers produce between 20 and 25 tons of mint per hectare annualIs synthetic menthol of a higher quality? ly, from which 125 to 200 kilograms of mint oil can Yes. The purity of natural menthol is between be extracted. In turn, 30 to 70 % of this constitutes 96 and 99 %. We achieve 99.9 %. Moreover, namenthol. However, yields per hectare are shrinking ture-identical menthol can be processed more because the soil is being depleted of nutrients. effectively. It dissolves four times faster, which More and more fertilizer and water needs to be accelerates and facilitates the customers’ proused. By the same token, the subsequent processes. Symrise meets high quality standards cess of distilling peppermint oil using basic equipduring production. These are externally audited ment is very energy-intensive – as are the next by government agencies and testing organizasteps in the process. tions as well as by the customers themselves, who also carry out audits at our facilities. Not If all these points are considered, could the least because our menthol is also approved for industry do without synthetic menthol? pharmaceutical use. No, definitely not. The rapidly growing demand could not be met with natural menthol – What does that mean? and attempting to do so would not be environWe manufacture according to good manufacturing mentally responsible. practice procedures. GMP provides guidelines for 48 49 Global Proximity GLOBALLY LOCAL The new Center of Excellence in Granja Viana, Brazil, combines research and development, sensory and consumer insight, marketing and creation, sales and market research – allowing employees to better cooperate across product segments. Located near the metropolis of São Paulo, the new facilities were designed to be sustainable and energy efficient. The site also borders on a part of the Atlantic rainforest – a natural treasure the company is working to protect. 50 “Our segment has seen double-digit growth for 30 years now and we continue to gain an everincreasing share of this growing market.” Eder Ramos, President of the Scent & Care division for Latin America The standard of living in Brazil is rising at a quick and constant rate. This is creating above-average growth in demand – not only for care products but for luxury products as well. The country is currently the world’s largest sales market for perfumes, deodorants and personal care products. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 51 Globally Local Ferns measuring four to five meters in height ingful visit to our facilities in a single day,” exstretch upwards. Bright blossoms in yellow, blue plains Ribeiro as he gazes out of his office window and violet decorate the forest canopy. Multiat the emerald treetops. “We used to be located colored butterflies and a vibrant array of birds in an industrial park on the edge of São Paulo, stand out against hundreds of different plants where we had no possibilities for expansion. The in all shades of green. The view from the Center significant growth experienced by the two diviof Excellence in Brazil’s Granja Viana is simply sions over the past several years made it necesbreathtaking. sary to find a place with both the space and infrastructure compatible with our vision of becoming The new Symrise center for the Latin American our customers’ first-choice and fully integrated region is nested within a tropical paradise. It borpartner. ders on a 22,000-square-meter portion of the Mata Atlântica – the highly endangered Atlantic E XHIBITING E XPERTISE forest that once covered up to 15 % of Brazil. Not Along with convenience, there is another major far from São Paulo and its 20 million residents, advantage for customers. “To more effectively around 140 employees from both divisions are communicate our know-how, we needed to do a working together for the first time in the same better job of presenting ourselves and needed to complex – which is an impressive sight on its own. have a stronger connection to the perfumery Bright colors and modern furnishings, along with world,” says Ivone Frias, Vice President for Frahigh-tech laboratories and showrooms, dominate grance Development in Latin America. “We need two glass structures connected by bridges. the connection to the people, moods and emotions of this region as well as a representative, inAn inspiring workplace in the perfect location: spiring and, of course, functional building.” A peek Brazil is the world’s largest sales market for perinside the cutting-edge scent laboratory – where fumes, deodorants and baby care products as innovation is put to the test in washing machines, well as the third largest market for cosmetics in showers and even a hair salon – makes it clear gen-eral – and it continues to grow at an impresthat these criteria have been fulfilled. sive rate. “Our segment has seen double-digit growth for 30 years now and we continue to gain “You can see how much we succeeded by the rean ever-increasing share of this growing market,” actions of our customers when they walk in. They says Eder Ramos, Regional President of the Scent & love to come here,” Frias says. She is in charge of Care division for Latin America. “Our major custhe fragrance development team, which in turn tomers are investing a great deal in both Brazil and needs to know its customers and consumers inthe rest of Latin America. With our local team, side and out. “We have to give our perfumers dewe can better research the needs and preferences tailed information so that they can focus their creof the people in this region while developing and ativity – and we can only do this if we work closely improving targeted products.” with our customers,” she says. The frequent and rewarding visits at the new center are already payThe same holds true for the Flavor & Nutrition diviing off. The project pipeline is growing and has sion, which Walter Ribeiro oversees as Regional achieved the highest level of any site in the Scent & President. He considers the center’s extraordiCare division thus far. nary location to be a particular highlight. “We are only 20 kilometers away from the vibrant metropolis of São Paulo and can quickly get to our production site and our Global Citrus Center in Sorocaba – all while avoiding rush-hour traffic. We are now able to provide our customers with a mean52 Walter Ribeiro has worked at Symrise since 1993. The President of the Flavor & Nutrition division for Latin America began his career in Rio de Janeiro and came along with move to the new site in São Paulo. Along with other responsibilities, he was in charge of quality management and production. “The significant growth experienced by the two divisions over the past several years made it necessary to find a place with both the space and infrastructure compatible with our vision of becoming our customers’ first-choice and fully integrated partner.” COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 53 Globally Local “Our major customers are investing a great deal in both Brazil and the rest of Latin America. With our local team, we can better research the needs and preferences of the people in this region while developing and improving targeted products.” The President of the Scent & Care division for Latin America has gained a wealth of experience during his time at Symrise. Eder Ramos has worked at the company for 30 years. After finishing his studies in marketing and communications, he worked at various locations in Germany as well as in Paris. 54 MORE CRE ATIVIT Y AS A TE AM flavors for. This is definitely a competitive advanIn addition to the advantages for cooperation with tage as it allows fast and cost-effective trials of customers, Symrise has also created an inspiring innovative product concepts, speeding up our goworkplace for its employees. “The building was to-market process as well as those of our customdesigned to facilitate communication,” says Ramos, ers,” says Ribeiro. who has been with the company for 30 years and was inspired in part by his time at the Center of ECOLOGY RIGHT OUTSIDE THE WINDOW Excellence in Clichy, France. He developed the The neighboring portion of Mata Atlântica played concept in close cooperation with Walter Ribeiro. a big role in the decision to relocate to the site. “In the beginning, we thought a lot about how “Here, we can integrate our environmental comwe wanted to arrange the employees and quickly mitment directly with our business. Many of our realized that we wanted to go in an interdiscipliproducts focus on nature, and this gives us a great nary direction,” Ribeiro adds. The Sales and Maropportunity to give something back to it,” Ribeiro keting departments for both the Scent & Care says. Symrise took on a major responsibility with and Flavor & Nutrition divisions now work together the property. “We cannot interfere with our surin a modern, open-plan office. There was no roundings and have to maintain their natural form way to arrange this at the old location. – just like in a national park.” Symrise has comThe new Center of Excelmissioned an NGO to care for the forest. The totallence in Granja Viana conEven the laboratories can cooperate more easily ly accessible building was also constructed with sists of a two-part building than before. “Our flavor specialists are currently the environment in mind. Used water is processed complex that covers roughhelping us here in the fragrance segment with the and recycled back into the system. 80 % of the ly 8,000 square meters. environmentally-friendly Symtrap® technology, walls are made of glass. This creates both a pleasA total of about 37,000 which allows flavors to be strongly concentrated,” ant atmosphere as well as major energy savings – square meters of usable explains Ricardo Omori, Vice President Scent & artificial lighting is rarely needed. space is available to emCare. “Of course, we used to exchange ideas and ployees throughout the experiences before, but this physical proximity Employees enjoy the special working conditions multi-story buildings. takes it to another level.” The S&C division is also at the center, including its approach to the muchshowing increasing interest in F & N’s Think Mint® discussed issue of work-life balance. “Most of us collection. “Along with our applications in chewing were already living nearby and now have a much gum or sweets, we can also contribute input for shorter commute,” says Luciano Koller, who now dental and oral care products,” says Marina Mononly spends an hour driving each day instead of tagner, who works in Flavor & Nutrition’s markettwo. As Regional Account Manager, he is often ing department. on the road: “It is definitely easier because we now can drive in the opposite direction of rush-hour The exchange of information works just as well in traffic.” the other direction. “We share information,” says the 22-year-old marketing graduate. “For instance, The 40-year-old food engineer has worked at we can learn from S & C how to better describe Symrise for eight years and is responsible for the fragrances – their know-how complements ours regional account management of a major global very well.” customer as well as six local customers. “The new center is fantastic for our customer contacts. Each division itself also benefits from the new They can visit us here and enjoy the pristine atbuilding. The specialists have considerably more mosphere while discussing projects with our space and updated equipment, which has made technicians.” The complex has many advantages, a notable improvement in their work for customKoller says. It is much greener, quieter and better ers. “We installed a pilot plant where we can anventilated – and thereby better suited for the flaticipate what the customer is planning to use our vorists and their refined senses. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 55 Globally Local “Here, we can integrate our environmental commitment directly with our business. Many of our products focus on nature, and this gives us a great opportunity to give something back to it.” Walter Ribeiro, President of the Flavor & Nutrition division for Latin America Others have also taken notice of the sustainably designed working environment. Large Brazilian corporations enrolled in sustainability certification or award programs have to audit their suppliers more often. “After one of these audits, the entire board of a major customer came for a visit to Granja Viana because they were enthusiastic about the report they received from the auditors,” Ribeiro recalls. “They were very impressed with our work here.” Ramos agrees: “They thought we had the best working environment in our industry,” he says. “That makes us proud.” 56 Report & Appendix COMPA N Y M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 57 Report 56–117 GOALS AND ME ASURES 58 – 59 BUSINESS DE VELOPMENT 60 – 63 SYMRISE ON THE CAPITAL MARK E T 64 – 65 MANAG EMENT 66 – 75 SOURCING 76 – 83 INNOVATIONS 84 – 91 ENVIRONMENT 92 – 101 EMPLOYEES 102 – 111 SOCIE T Y 112 – 117 Appendix 118–124 G RI APPLICATION LE VEL CHECK STATEMENT 118 G LOSSARY 119 – 122 IMPRINT 123 G RI C ONTENT INDE X 124 58 Goals and Measures ECONOMY LONG-TERM GOALS STATUS IN 2012 GOALS/MEASURES IN 2013 Our sales should grow faster than the Sales growth: +9.6 % to € 1,735 million market over the long term (2 to 3 % per year Fourth largest company in the F&F industry Growth on average) Market share 10 % 1 Sales growth > market growth We want to consistently be among the most profitable companies in the industry EBITDA margin: 19.5 % EBITDA margin: about 20 % We want our shareholders to participate in Dividend proposal for fiscal year 2012: our economic success by way of the attrac€ 0.65 per share Profitability tive dividend we distribute Earnings per share: € 1.33 Earnings per share > 2012 The ratio of net debt to EBITDA should be 2 in a corridor between 2.0 and 2.5 in the Finances medium term 3 Net debt 2/EBITDA: 2.4 Net debt 2/EBITDA: 2.0 to 2.5 An increase in the proportion of products in our portfolio that contribute to health Above-average growth in the Life Essenand well-being 25 % of sales tials and Consumer Health segments Numerous new ingredients were brought to We develop new active ingredients for the market. An overview can be found on Continued emphasis on research Portfolio healthier nutrition and skin protection pages 90/91. and development in these areas 1 Related to the relevant AFF market of € 16.9 billion 2 Including provisions for pensions and similar obligations 3 It is possible to exceed this range in the short term, by making acquisitions within the framework of our strategy, for example ENVIRONMENT LONG-TERM GOALS STATUS IN 2012 GOALS/MEASURES IN 2013 33 % less CO 2 emissions by 20201 Change of 5.4 % 1 CO 2 emissions: 4 %² 33 % less energy consumption by 20201 Change of 4.2 % 1 Energy consumption: 4 %² 33 % less waste volumes by 20201 Change of 10.7 % 1 Waste volumes: 4 %² 33 % less water consumption by 20201 Change of 2.4 % 1 Water consumption: 4 %² 33 % less wastewater production by 20201 Change of 9.9 % 1 Wastewater production: 4 %² Implementation of recommendations from Biodiversity check as part of the EU Life the biodiversity check; development of a Reducing the environmental impact of our program; analyzing energy efficiency at highly efficient and low-emission system processes and systems multiple locations for generating energy in Germany Minimizing Our Ecological Double-digit efficiency increases with Green Chemistry: Complete redesign Footprint Continually increasing process efficiency SymchronizeTM in 2011 and 2012 of processes Improving the environmental impact of Opening of a highly efficient menthol Research projects on renewable sources Consistent strategic synthetic raw materials production plant of raw materials Application of Increasing the share of raw materials that Sustainability meet agricultural sustainability standards SAN 3 certification for our vanilla GAP 4 certification for our onions Criteria When Sourcing Raw Increasing the share of raw materials certiExpanding our portfolio of raw materials for Expanding the volume of our vanilla certiMaterials fied according to sustainability standards perfumery certified by Ecocert fied by the Rainforest Alliance 1 Compared to the base value from 2010 per ton of product sold 2 Compared to the previous year’s figure per ton of product sold 3 Sustainable Agriculture Network 4 Good Agricultural Practice COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 59 Goals and Measures EMPLOYEES LONG-TERM GOALS STATUS IN 2012 GOALS/MEASURES IN 2013 Fluctuation rate: 5.3 % Minimizing unwanted employee fluctuation (previous year: 5.5 %) Further reduction of the fluctuation rate Active involvement of our employees in the International Employee Implementation of the measures derived company’s development Engagement Survey 2012 from the survey Constantly Increasing Redesign of the employee magazine based Redesign of internal online media; Employer Transparent communication with our on global reader survey; internal communicafurther expansion of our campaigns Attractiveness employees tions campaign on our corporate values on commitment and responsibility Targeted support of our employees Providing appropriate and relevant profesProfessional development expenses: with training and professional developsional development measures € 2.5 million (previous year: € 2.6 million). ment through career@symrise Encouraging professional development and Introduction of a placement ratio for internal Implementation of the introduced the assumption of responsibility applicants guidelines Expansion and Retention Successful launch of the career@symrise Individual career development and of Employee Introduction of an initiative for career module regarding career and succession succession planning for all positions Know-how development: career@symrise planning at the manager and director level Promoting Targeted promotion of specialist and manageriRetention and support of our high Diversity Among Promoting the diversity of expertise al career paths through our job grade model level of diversity and implementation Our Employees High proportion of local employees > 90 % (at previous year’s level) of multicultural training sessions Introduction of a new awareness Low accident rate (MAQ)1 MAQ: 5.3 (previous year: 3.2) Maximizing campaign and implementation Occupational Safety of intervention programs in target and Health Low accident severity (USQ) 2 USQ: 99 (previous year: 43) areas 1 MAQ = Accidents subject to reporting requirements x 1,000,000/working hours (accidents subject to reporting requirements > 1 working day) 2 USQ = Sick days x 1,000,000/working hours SOCIE T Y LONG-TERM GOALS STATUS IN 2012 GOALS/MEASURES IN 2013 Recording sustainability criteria for imporImplementation of raw materials-related Performing sustainability and risk evaluatant raw materials as part of a biodiversity recommendations from the biodiversity tions for key raw materials check check Assessment of our 250 most important suppliers according to SEDEX criteria by 2015 > 50 suppliers have been assessed Assessment of at least 50 more suppliers Development and expansion of strategic New initiatives: lavender, shea butter and initiatives on sustainable sourcing with a vetiver Identification of further focal points in focus on creating shared value Expansion of initiatives: vanilla, vegetables Fragrances and Life Essentials Sustainable Vanilla Initiative (SVI): Working Promoting industry standards for sustaintowards the development of a sustainability able sourcing standard for the vanilla sector Further promotion of SVI Expansion of our cooperation with PlaNet 100 % Responsible Cooperation with NGOs and other stakeFinance in Ghana and Madagascar as well as Transfer of our experiences to other Sourcing holder groups collaborations with a number of local NGOs segments Volunteer teams were formed at sites in eveEncouraging the involvement of our emry region, in which employees lent their time ployees in social projects and development and efforts to social and ecological projects Strengthening existing structures and of a company-wide volunteer program – during their working hours and beyond promoting further internal involvement Evaluating needs in the areas around our The newly formed Sustainability Care Teams Assessing the success of these projects sites and initiating relevant and focused have started projects based on local needs in and further concentrating our donation projects Brazil, India and China, among other places budget on these areas Promotion of Social Projects with a Establishment of a global guiding principle Focus on Education for our social commitment – Symrise. The concept was approved in 2012 by the and Health Because We Care. network of sustainability ambassadors Identifying corresponding global projects 60 Business Development In a challenging environment characterized by high raw materials costs and differentiated sales developments in the various regions, the Symrise Group managed to improve its market position in the 2012 fiscal year. GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Although the economic development of these counInternational economic activity continued to weaktries was also negatively affected by the weak deen in 2012. In many countries, the effects of the mand coming from industrialized nations in 2012, 2008/2009 recession continued to be felt, for inthe growth course for this group of countries constance in the form of elevated unemployment or tinued its comparably rapid ascent. While the econhigh debt levels in both public and private budgomies of the industrialized nations only expanded ets. The crisis in the eurozone only added to this by 1.2 % (previous year: 1.4 %), economic growth in and its impact spread beyond the financial sector the emerging markets amounted to 5.2 % for the and into the real economy. Consumer confidence, year under review, down from 7.2 % in 2011. and therefore consumer demand from private households, was also negatively impacted by the Symrise benefited from its favorable market posicrisis (at least in the eurozone) and had a clear tion in the emerging markets in the 2012 fiscal effect on the business activities of Symrise and year. many of its customers. According to the calculations of DIW Berlin (the German Institute for DE VELOPMENT OF ESSENTIAL SALES Economic Research) from January 2013, global MARKE TS economic performance increased by only 3.2 % The relevant market for the Symrise Group is growin 2012, following 4.2 % in the previous year. ing at a long-term rate of 2 % to 3 %. For 2012, the market volume amounted to € 16.9 billion. The flaIn 2012, economic output in the eurozone devors and fragrances market segment as well as the creased by 0.4 % (2011: + 1.5 %). Consumer demand market segment for aroma chemicals also showed a continued to be weak in Southern Europe, owing similar development over the past fiscal year. to high unemployment and falling levels of disposable income. In Germany, economic growth slowed SALES AND E ARNINGS from 3.0 % in 2011 to 0.8 % in 2012. Sales rose by 10 % compared to 2011, amounting to € 1,735 million for the reporting year. Sales growth Symrise is currently generating nearly half of its at local currency of 6 % was achieved. sales in the developing and emerging markets. OVERVIE W OF KE Y PERFORMANCE INDICATORS € MILLION 2011 2012 CHANGE IN % CHANGE IN % AT LOCAL CURRENCY Sales 1,583.6 1,734.9 9.6 6.4 EBITDA 315.9 338.9 7 4 EBITDA margin in % 20.0 19.5 Net income 146.5 157.5 7 Earnings per share in € 1.24 1.33 7 Net debt (incl. provisions for pensions and similar obligations) to EBITDA (Dec. 31)1 ratio 2.4 2.4 1 Prior-year figures adjusted as a result of changes to accounting policies in 2012 (see note 2.2) COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 61 Business Development Sales in the EAME region increased by 2 % (at loSALES DE VELOPMENT OF THE SYMRISE cal currency: 1 %). The North American region deGROUP (IN € MILLION) veloped very positively in the 2012 fiscal year Flavor & Nutrition Scent & Care and achieved growth of 17 % compared to the previous year (at local currency: 8 %). Sales in the Asia/Pacific region were also positive and posted 2,000 15 % growth (at local currency: 9 %). The greatest 1,734.9 1,800 rates of increase were seen in the Latin American 1,583.6 1,600 region. Sales there were up by 20 % compared to the previous year (at local currency: 21 %). 1,400 882.8 1,200 801.4 Sales in emerging markets exceeded the previous 1,000 year’s figures at local currency by 11 %. The share 800 of this group of countries in total sales was 48 % 600 in the 2012 fiscal year (2011: 46 %). 852.1 400 782.2 200 0 2011 2012 SALES BY REGION € MILLION 2011 2012 CHANGE IN % CHANGE IN % AT LOCAL CURRENCY EAME 771.2 785.4 2 1 North America 270.7 316.8 17 8 Asia/Pacific 350.8 404.5 15 9 Latin America 190.9 228.2 20 21 Total 1,583.6 1,734.9 10 6 Scent & Care generated sales of € 883 million in ous year to € 339 million in the reporting period. 2012 (previous year: € 801 million). This repreThe EBITDA margin decreased slightly from 20.0 % sents a growth of 7 % at local currency. EBITDA to 19.5 %. Continued high raw material costs and for the division increased by 2 % at € 161 million start-up costs for the new menthol production line (previous year: € 158 million) while the EBITDA were the main reason for this development, since margin amounted to 18.2 % (previous year: 19.7 %). they were not completely offset by measures to inFlavor & Nutrition increased its sales at local crease efficiency. currency by 6 % in 2012 to € 852 million (previous year: € 782 million). EBITDA for the division inIn 2012, the cost of sales rose by € 104 million, creased by 12 % to € 178 million (previous year: or 11 %, to € 1,034 million (2011: € 930 million). € 158 million) while the EBITDA margin expandThe disproportionate rise in costs in relation to ed from 20.2 % to 20.9 %. sales is mainly attributable to increased raw material costs as well as start-up costs for the Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and new menthol production line. Gross profit inamortization on property, plant and equipment creased by 7 % and amounted to € 701 million and intangible assets (EBITDA ) for the Symrise (2011: € 654 million). The gross margin was Group improved from € 316 million in the previ40.4 %, 0.9 percentage points lower than in the 62 INCOME STATEMENT IN SUMMARY € MILLION 2011 2012 CHANGE IN % Sales 1,583.6 1,734.9 9.6 Cost of sales -930.0 -1,034.4 11.2 Gross profit 653.6 700.6 7.2 Gross margin in % 41.3 40.4 Other operating income 12.9 15.7 22 Selling and marketing expenses -245.8 -267.3 9 Research and development expenses -107.6 -113.8 6 Administration expenses -76.8 -80.8 5 Other operating expenses -1.9 -1.8 -3 Income from operations / EBIT 234.4 252.6 8 previous year (41.3 %). Selling and marketing exand similar obligations) rose from € 772 million penses were up by 9 % compared to the previous at the end of 2011 to € 812 million during the reyear, amounting to € 267 million (2011: € 246 milporting year. This is due to the decrease of the lion). This corresponds to 15.4 % of Group sales discounting rate for future pension payments as (2011: 15.5 %). R&D expenses increased by 6 % to a result of the current low interest rates, which € 114 million (2011: € 108 million). The R&D rate thereby increases the present value of pension procame in slightly below the previous year’s level at visions. The ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 2.4 6.6 % (2011: 6.8 %). Administration expenses inas of the reporting date in 2012. This is on par with creased by 5 % to € 81 million (previous year: € 77 the previous year and remains within the targetmillion). Administration expenses as a share of ed corridor of 2.0 to 2.5. Group sales improved again from 4.9 % in 2011 to 4.7 % in the reporting period. OVERVIE W OF CASH FLOW The net income of the Symrise Group increased to € MILLION 2011 2012 € 158 million in the 2012 fiscal year after € 147 million in the previous year. With an unchanged Cash flow from operating activities 200.9 219.5 number of shares, earnings per share rose from Cash flow from investing activities 58.8 86.4 € 1.24 in 2011 to € 1.33 in the year under review. Cash flow from financing activities 131.6 -132.2 The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will Liquid funds (Dec. 31) 118.6 117.4 propose the distribution of a dividend of € 0.65 per share for the 2012 fiscal year to the Annual General Meeting on May 14, 2013. This represents a NE T ASSE TS € 0.03 increase on the previous year’s dividend. Total assets as of December 31, 2012, increased by € 32 million to € 2,152 million (December 31, FINANCIAL P OSITION 2011: € 2,120 million). This was mainly due to an The company’s cash flow from operating activiincrease in inventories and a rise in receivables ties increased in 2012 to € 220 million (2011: towards the end of the year. € 201 million), mainly due to an improved operating result. Liquid funds amounted to € 117 milAs of the reporting date in 2012, intangible assets lion at the end of 2012 – nearly equal to the previand property, plant and equipment fell by 2 % to ous year’s amount (December 31, 2011: € 119 mil€ 1,243 million (December 31, 2011: € 1,266 million). Net debt (including provisions for pensions lion), accounting for 58 % of assets. In the reportCOMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 63 Business Development ing date comparison 2011/2012, inventories rose clude price management, portfolio optimization by € 35 million, or 11 %, to € 348 million (Decemand a focus on innovative products and technober 31, 2011: € 313 million). As a result of systemlogies. Assuming that raw materials prices remain atic receivables management, the ratio of working at the level of 2012 and exchange rates do not capital to sales decreased by 1 percentage point to change significantly from 2012, we once again an31 %. The Symrise Group’s liquidity decreased ticipate an EBITDA margin of about 20 % for 2013. over the course of the year by € 1 million to € 117 million as of December 31. Non-current financial In 2013, we plan to create 250 new jobs – preassets increased to € 17 million due to the acquidominantly in the growth regions of Asia and sition of a stake of € 7 million during the reportLatin America. The number of employees in Euing year. rope, however, will remain stable. Worldwide personnel costs will increase by about 3 %. We In terms of equity and liability, current liabilities will further intensify our training efforts. decreased by € 43 million, or 11 %, to € 365 million (December 31, 2011: € 408 million) due to the reWe will continue our policy of paying out attracpayment of bank overdrafts. Non-current liabilities tive dividends and give our shareholders an aprose by 8 %. This includes non-current borrowings, propriate share in the company’s success. which amounted to € 450 million at the end of 2012, down from the previous year (€ 462 million). In Symrise’s debt, as measured in terms of the key contrast, provisions for pensions and similar oblifigure net debt (including pension provisions and gations rose by 28 % to € 371 million (December similar obligations) to EBITDA , should remain be31, 2011: € 291 million). This increase was due to tween 2.0 and 2.5 in the medium term. It is possithe considerably lower interest rates for discountble that we will deviate from this range for a short ing pension obligations. Furthermore, in anticipaperiod in order to finance acquisitions that promote tion of the change to the accounting method for our long-term strategy. pensions becoming mandatory in 2013, Symrise has already switched from the corridor method How the AFF market will develop beyond 2013 to the immediate recognition of changes of actuariand into 2014 will depend heavily on the economal gains and losses in other comprehensive income ic development of the individual country markets. in the fiscal year 2012. However, thanks to our global positioning, innovative strength, good relationships with key customSymrise AG’s equity climbed by 1 % to € 877 milers and our unique product portfolio, we are confilion as of December 31, 2012 (December 31, 2011: dent that we will exceed the market’s annual rate € 867 million). The equity ratio was unchanged as of growth of 2 % to 3 % in both 2013 and 2014. The of the 2012 reporting date at 41 %. Symrise Group will do everything it can to maintain and continue its sustainable and profitable OUTLOOK growth course. We are confident that we will continue to grow at a faster pace than the relevant market for fragrances and flavors in 2013. Estimates for the AFF market project 2 % to 3 % growth worldwide for the year under way. As in the past, both divisions – Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition – continue to target sales growth at local currency notably above the market rate. We remain committed to our strict cost management for the constant improvement of our result. In addition to cost reduction, these initiatives in64 Symrise on the Capital Market Symrise finances its business activities by way of equity and debt instruments. Shareholders, investors and other actors on the capital market are therefore important stakeholders for our company. Open communication and the continuous provision of transparent information form the foundation for trusting relationships. 2012 – A POSITIVE YEAR ON THE SYMRISE ENGAGES WITH THE STOCK MARKET CAPITAL MARKE TS After a strong start to the year, uncertainties stemWith our investor relations activities, we aim to ming from the European debt crisis negatively imfurther increase Symrise’s visibility on the capital pacted stock markets around the world in the secmarkets while solidifying and expanding the perond quarter. An assurance from Mario Draghi, head ception of our share as an attractive investment. We of the European Central Bank, stating that they are constantly in communication as we seek to would do “whatever it takes to preserve the euro” strengthen investors’ trust in the Symrise stock and the adoption of a permanent euro safety net and achieve a fair valuation for our share on the in the fall reenergized the stock and bond markets. capital market with our reliability and openness The leading German index, the DAX ®, closed the about our business development and corporate year at 7,612 points – an increase of about 29 % from strategy. the previous year. The Euro Stoxx 50® index for standard values in the eurozone was up 14 % on the The Executive Board and the Investor Relations year at 2,636 points. The Dow Jones® Index in the team are in continuous dialogue with investors USA was the least impressive of the group at 13,104 and analysts around the world. In 2012, we again points, representing a growth of only 7 % on the year. engaged in numerous individual and group discussions regarding Symrise’s strategy and busiSYMRISE STOCK SEES SOLID GAINS ness development. For the first time, we presented The Symrise share rose in value during the 2012 Symrise to investors who apply particularly high fiscal year from € 20.62 (end of 2011) to € 27.12 environmental and social standards to their invest(end of 2012). This amounts to a 32 % increase in ments as part of an SRI (Socially Responsible value. The Symrise share reached its all-time high Investment) road show in Zürich and Basel. We at € 27.875 on October 30, 2012. The benchmark inalso offer comprehensive information on the Symdex MDAX®, which also contains the Symrise share, rise share and bond at www.symrise.com/en/ineven gained 34 % during the 2012 fiscal year. vestor-relations.html. PERFORMANCE OF THE SYMRISE STOCK IN COMPARISON TO THE MDA X ® IN 2012* (IN € ) Symrise MDA X ® 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC * MDAX® indexed on Symrise share price COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 65 Symrise on the Capital Market “Symrise distributed dividends totaling “ The stock € 339 million market values for the past Symrise at KE Y DATA FOR SYMRISE STOCK five years.” € 3.2 billion.” Stock category No-par bearer shares of common stock Shares issued 118,173,300 shares Sector / Stock market segment Chemicals / Regulated market (Prime Standard) ISIN / WKN / Symbol / Common code DE000SYM9999 / SYM999 / SY1 / 27647189 Most important place of trade Xetra® (electronic trading platform) Designated sponsor Commerzbank AG Indices MDAX ®, EURO STOXX ® Chemicals MDAX ® ranking as of Dec. 31, 2011 10 by free float market capitalization / 17 by volume of stocks traded Initial listing / Offering price December 11, 2006 / € 17.25 COMPAR ATIVE PERFORMANCE OF THE SYMRISE STOCK IN € 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Shares issued as of balance sheet date millions 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 Share capital € million 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 118.2 Highest share price (Xetra® closing price) 19.28 15.73 22.34 22.74 27.87 Lowest share price (Xetra® closing price) 7.75 7.07 14.98 16.43 20.57 Share price at end of fiscal year (Xetra® closing price) 9.98 14.98 20.53 20.62 27.12 Free float in % 94.0 94.0 94.0 94.0 94.0 Market capitalization at end of fiscal year € million 1,179.4 1,770.2 2,426.1 2,436.7 3,204.9 Average daily trading volume (all German exchanges) shares, approximately 760,000 470,000 597,000 533,000 349,000 Earnings per share 0.76 0.71 1.13 1.24 1.33 Dividend per share 0.50 0.50 0.60 0.62 0.65 1 1 proposal KE Y DATA FOR SYMRISE BOND Category Bearer bond Total nominal value € 300,000,000 Denomination € 1,000 Interest rate / Payment date 4.125 % p.a. / October 25 Term October 25, 2017 ISIN / WKN / Symbol / Common code DE000SYM7779 / SYM777 / SY1A / 54901127 Initial listing / Issue price October 15, 2010 / 99.399 % Price as of Dec. 31, 2012 108.22 % 66 Management We are convinced that good and responsible management is the precondition and indispensable basis for Symrise’s success and for sustainable added value. Our success is founded first and foremost on the trust that our customers, employees and investors place in us. It is our aim to justify and strengthen this trust. ORGANIZ ATION AND CORP OR ATE visory Board has twelve members, with six reGOVERNANCE presentatives elected by the shareholders and six Symrise is a German stock corporation with a by the employees. To ensure that the Executive dual management structure consisting of an Board is advised and supervised independently, Executive Board and a Supervisory Board. The no former Executive Board members serve on Executive Board is responsible for managing the Supervisory Board. the company with the aim of sustainably increasing the company’s value. As of December 31, Symrise wants to enhance the company’s value 2012, the Executive Board has four members: over the long term while at the same time inDr. Heinz-Jürgen Bertram (CEO), Achim Daub creasing the sustainability of the company’s ac(President Scent & Care Worldwide), Hans Holger tions. Symrise’s strategy is derived from these Gliewe (President Flavor & Nutrition Worldwide) objectives and broken down to the departmental and Bernd Hirsch (CFO). level. To achieve targets, the management has laid down the company’s core processes and supThe actions of Symrise AG’s management and porting processes. These standardized processes oversight bodies are determined by the principles are described transparently for all employees in a of good and responsible corporate governance. management manual. The effectiveness of such The Executive Board and Supervisory Board idenprocesses is reviewed regularly and adjusted in tify themselves with the objectives of the Gerline with changing requirements as necessary. man Corporate Governance Code, which has established itself as a guideline and standard for good corporate governance in Germany. Symrise AG’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board cooperate closely in managing and overseeing the company. The Board is responsible for managing the company’s business operations in the interest of the company with a view to creating sustainable value. The Executive Board develops the company’s strategic direction, approves it with the Supervisory Board and is responsible for its implementation. The Supervisory Board advises and oversees the Executive Board in the management of Clear Commitment to Sustainability the company. It is involved in strategy and planSymrise signed the United Nation’s Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary ning as well as all other decisions of fundamental initiative for corporate responsibility, in 2012. In doing so, the company commits significance to the company. In accordance with itself to the goals of the compact: uniting entrepreneurial activity with societal and the articles of incorporation, Symrise AG’s Superenvironmental concerns. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 67 Management Honored: Symrise Wins German Sustainability Award 2012 Symrise AG won the German Sustainability Award in the category of “Germany’s Most Sustainable Initiatives” in December 2012. The company impressed the jury with its approach to the sustainable procurement of vanilla in Madagascar. Symrise works directly with over 1,000 farmers there and improves their socioeconomic situation by means of targeted measures in the areas of nutrition, health and education. The company also benefits from reliable access to high-quality raw materials and offers its customers added value when it comes to obtaining this highly coveted flavoring. The award underscores Symrise’s leadership in taking on entrepreneurial, social and environmental responsibility. 68 To ensure uniform exemplary activity and behavUnder the leadership of Corporate Compliance, ior, a Code of Conduct was drawn up for the entire the Sustainability Core Team manages the susGroup for the first time in 2006 and its guidance tainability strategy across the Group. The CEO of is binding on all employees. This Code of Conduct Symrise AG is directly responsible for the stratis continuously improved and is based on the comegy. Progress on all sustainability activities is repany’s values and principles. The purpose of the ported quarterly to the Executive Board. FurtherCode of Conduct is to help all employees cope with more, the company’s sustainability targets flow the ethical and legal challenges of their everyday into individual performance targets and thereby work, in business relations and in handling inforinto executive remuneration. mation. It provides the framework for interactions with Symrise’s key partners and ensures that comA global network of volunteer sustainability ampany processes are transparent, honest and conbassadors raise awareness locally of our sustainasistent. In the interest of all employees and of the bility strategy, thereby helping to further sensitize Group, noncompliance is analyzed and the causes our organization. In addition, so-called Sustainaremedied. This means that misconduct will be conbility Care Teams located at all of the Group’s resistently prosecuted in accordance with national gional headquarters and at many other locations laws. Our Code of Conduct was last subject to dearound the world contribute in many different ways tailed revision in 2011. by means of targeted initiatives toward integrating sustainability even more deeply into our business SUSTAINABILIT Y IN BUSINESS model. A global, cross-divisional team, the Symrise Sustainability Board, was established in 2009 to faCOMPLIANCE cilitate the strategic integration of sustainability At Symrise, we understand “compliance” as a hointo our core processes. It consists of senior manlistic organizational model ensuring adherence agement representatives and ensures both the deto legal regulations as well as intra-company guidevelopment and implementation of issues relevant lines and corresponding processes and systems. for sustainability across the entire extended value The focus of compliance activities is on quality, encreation chain as well as the consideration of the vironmental protection, health, work safety, prodinterests of key stakeholders. uct safety, food safety, risk and value management, antitrust laws and combating corruption. For this Implementation of the sustainability targets set reason, the Executive Board of Symrise AG has bunby the Sustainability Board lies with the business dled the corresponding functional units from indivisions. For this reason, the Executive Board tegrated management system (IMS), corporate auand Sustainability Board appointed global ambasditing, risk and sustainability management in the sadors to be responsible for the coordination of Corporate Compliance organization. The results of sustainability efforts in the Flavor & Nutrition and all audits and knowledge gained from risk manaScent & Care divisions in 2011. Together with regement are pooled together in this organizational presentatives from the Corporate Compliance and unit. This means that the measures are coordinatCorporate Communications departments, they ed more efficiently and that a control instrument is make up the Symrise’s Sustainability Core Team. created with which the Executive Board can incorporate aspects relevant to sustainable management into its decision-making. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 69 Management Argentina, Brazil, Germany, France, the UK, India, Singapore and the USA: The network of Symrise employees who have made it their mission to solidify sustainability within our corporate culture is large and diverse. And continuously growing. Shaping the Future Together Symrise sustainability ambassadors from every division and region met up in 2012 as part of a Global Sustainability Workshop. They passionately exchanged experiences and engaged in constructive discussions – resulting in the adoption of numerous concrete measures that will take sustainability at Symrise to the next level. Corporate Compliance helps business divisions to Our integrated management system is based on identify and prioritize the need for regulation as a the international ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS result of laws, certifications, generally recognized 18001, ISO 26000, ISO 50001 and SA 8000 standguidelines, ethical standards or the company’s ards, the generally accepted audit standards of process specifications, for example. The business the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) and other divisions implement process requirements in prorecognized local standards that promote a contincedural documents – both globally and locally. Conuous improvement in performance. We therefore duct-based regulations are accounted for in the rely securely at all corporate levels on exacting Symrise Code of Conduct and apply to every emglobal quality, environmental, health, occupationployee. The local Corporate Compliance offices al safety and product safety standards. give advice to the process managers, who implement global guidelines and adjust their processes. Corporate Audit and the IMS audit continuously The need for local regulation is identified on the baassess the key business processes and companies sis of national requirements. The headquarters is of Symrise AG. The auditing strategy of Corporate informed in the event that imports may be affected. Audit is to audit every company, including its business processes, at least every four years, which corresponds to an annual audit density of at least 70 25 % of the audit spectrum. Key business processes was carried out at our company sites in all counare assessed every year as part of the IMS audit. tries for the areas of management, purchasing, Corporate Compliance and Corporate Audit report sales, finance and order management. During the to every meeting of the Supervisory Board’s Auditcourse of this training, around 1,800 employees ing Committee. were trained in matters such as money laundering, anti-corruption or dealing with agents. FurFive years ago, Symrise set up an Integrity Hotline thermore, around 4,000 employees were invited to to ensure that high ethical and legal standards participate in a general Code of Conduct training are maintained throughout the company. With this course. A core focus was on sensitizing our employhotline, employees are able to contact Corporate ees regarding how to act in a sustainable manner Compliance using toll-free telephone numbers that on a day-to-day basis. have been specially set up in individual countries. Furthermore, reports may be submitted using the We plan to hold training sessions once again on Symrise Integrity Hotline’s online service. An inthese issues in 2013. Our primary focus is on emtermediary service operator ensures that employployee categories that are exposed to the greatest ees can retain anonymity where required and comrisks and on executive employees, who play a mulmunicate in their own native language. Of course, tiplier role in the company. all employees can also contact the Corporate Compliance Office directly and personally. OPP ORTUNITIES AND RISKS We believe sustainable value creation means In 2012, a total of eight cases worldwide were reeliminating potential risks for the environment, ported via the Integrity Hotline. In each case, insociety and the company in equal measure, as vestigations were then initiated. No material damwell as the early identification and exploitation age to third parties or to our company resulted of opportunities which arise from global megfrom these cases. atrends. 5 In order to ensure that all compliance requirements are consistently met, the need for training is regularly determined and appropriate measures are taken. In addition to training courses where employees are present on site, we are also increasingly offering internet-based training. We are thereby able to reach a larger number of employees in a shorter period of time. Furthermore, every employee can decide more flexibly Top when and where he or she would like to attend Ranking for Sustainability Efforts each training course. Final tests ensure that the Symrise AG is one of the most sustainable chemical companies in the course material has been understood. world. This was confirmed by the internationally recognized sustainability rating agency oekom research AG. The agency assessed the susNew Symrise employees are given comprehensive tainability performance of 101 of the world’s largest chemical compatraining when they join the company on the funnies. Symrise AG was given a Bgrade, placing it at the top of the damental principles of our Code of Conduct. In adchemical industry and granting it Prime Status, which qualifies a comdition to this, we run a variety of training courses pany as a sustainable investment (SRI ). Only four other companies on specific aspects. In 2012, compliance training received this status. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 71 Management Large Multinational Customer and Market Structure Our customer portfolio is balanced: Our sales are essentially divided evenly into Customers thirds between large multinational customers, regional customers and local customers. And we are aiming for consistent growth with each of these customer groups. About 50 % of our sales are now generated in the emerging markets. We want to conRegional tinue to grow faster than the market in years to come by harnessing the megatrend of globalization. Customers Local Customers The aim of the risk management system is the resulting from the progression of climate change identification of potential risks and the avoidance and the increasing scarcity of finite raw materials. or mitigation of these by implementing suitable The ensuing consequences such as fluctuations in countermeasures. Symrise’s risk management exthe availability of raw materials, rising energy prictends across all Group companies and business es or the tightening of government regulations units. The coordination of risk assessment occurs represent risks for long-term corporate success and at the level of the Corporate Center within the therefore are specifically accounted for in our proCorporate Compliance department. In 2012, risk curement strategy, product development and in the reporting was further developed as a manageprocesses along our supply chain. ment tool for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. At the same time, megatrends such as climate change or diminishing resources give rise to a We analyze risks broken down in the categories number of potential opportunities – including of retail and market risks, everyday business risks an increase in sales of certain sustainability-reand financial risks. Under the category of retail lated product groups due to changing consumer and market risks, we group risks relating to prodbehavior. Furthermore, we are of the opinion that uct portfolio expectations, the sourcing situation our globally uniform and demanding environand political stability factors. Purchasing risks as mental and social standards represent a competiwell as risks associated with investments and protive advantage in view of the increasing number duction, innovation, IT or the environment are takof changes being made to underlying regulatory en into account when analyzing our daily busiconditions in developing and emerging markets. ness activities. Financial risks include credit risks, In taking advantage of opportunities, it is imporliquidity risks, interest and currency risks as well tant that we maintain an acceptable risk profile. as tax risks. By means of appropriate guidelines, we ensure that risk assessments are taken into account in the Our risk management system covers sustainabilityExecutive Board’s decision-making processes from relevant issues as a subcategory of all other risk the very beginning. categories – from environmental and industry risks via procurement and product risks to operating risks. In particular, this is how we analyze risks 72 88 Leader in the Carbon Disclosure Project According to the assessments of the non-profit organization Carbon Disclosure Project, Symrise factors the risks and opportunities of climate change into its core business and shows a high level of external transparency. With 88 points out of a possible 100, Symrise is one of the highest-rated companies regarding transparency on the MDAX ® and is among the top 5 in the chemical industry in Germany, Austria and points out of a possible 100 Switzerland. AUDITS In addition to the many regulations that apply to Compliance with management guidelines and the fragrance and flavoring manufacturing induscountry-specific legislation is reviewed by Corpotry, we make further commitments to additional rate Audit and the IMS audit. The annual audit standards within the framework of associations plan takes every process in the management syssuch as IFRA , the International Fragrance Assotem into account. Internal IMS audits are carried ciation, IOFI , the International Organization of the out in accordance with ISO standard 19011. The Flavor Industry, and other regional and national Executive Board and the Auditing Committee industry associations and work actively on develof the Supervisory Board are regularly informed oping them. Since 1997, Symrise has also followed about this. External audits conducted by customthe guidelines of the Responsible Care initiative ers, authorities and independent certification orin order to achieve a continuous improvement in ganizations provide confirmation to Symrise of the areas of safety, health and environmental prothe ongoing improvement being made to its mantection irrespective of statutory requirements and agement systems. beyond. Other audits to safeguard our supply chain are implemented globally by Symrise (FSSC If any inconsistencies are uncovered during au22000). Core aspects here include food safety as dits or quality inspections, the division concerned well as protecting against sabotage, terrorism or introduces corrective measures and documents unauthorized access to our raw materials and these accordingly. Furthermore, the potential reproducts, such as by using access controls and percussions of these inconsistencies on other provigilance tests. cesses are assessed, with preventative measures being introduced if necessary. The same applies In the course of supplier audits, Symrise is conin the case of complaints. There were no material vinced of the performance of the management complaints in 2012 that would have led to fines systems of its suppliers and contract partners. being imposed due to breaches of statutory reguFurthermore, Symrise uses an official and glolations governing the provision and use of our bally recognized platform – SEDEX (Supplier Ethproducts. ical Data Exchange) – in order to be able to evaluate the performance of its key suppliers. The main focus of the evaluation is on health and safety, integrity and other ethical aspects. It is our long-term goal to evaluate each and every one of our suppliers using this system. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 73 Management AUDIT PROGR AM 2012 ENVIRONMENT ISO 14001 FOOD SAFET Y ISO 22000 FOOD SAFET Y HACCP SOCIAL COMPLIANCE QUALIT Y ISO 9001 FOOD SAFET Y IFS FOOD SAFET Y BRC FOOD SAFET Y SQ F FOOD SAFET Y AIB COUNTRY OHSAS 18001 FSSC 22000 ORGANIC FAIR TR ADE REGION SITE HAL AL KOSHER EFSIS GMP EAME Egypt Cairo EAME Germany Holzminden EAME Germany Braunschweig EAME Germany Nördlingen EAME Germany Hamburg EAME Great Britain Corby EAME Russia Rogovo EAME Spain Parets EAME South Africa Isando EAME UAE Dubai NA USA Branchburg NA USA Bushy Park NA USA Teterboro NA USA Elyria LA Argentina Tortuguitas LA Brazil Socorro LA Brazil Sorocaba LA Chile Santiago de Chile LA Colombia Bogotá LA Mexico Monterrey LA Venezuela La Victoria AP Australia Dee Why AP China Pudong AP India Chennai AP Japan Ibaraki AP Singapore Singapore DIALOGUE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS By engaging in regular discourse with these stakeThe success of Symrise depends heavily on the holders, Symrise is able to pick up on expectaability of corporate processes to address the needs tions and to develop successful solutions. The key of those who have a clear stake in the company instrument here is a materiality analysis which in the best possible way. Our most important stakeis used to analyze the strategic relevance of issues holders include customers, employees, shareholdfor Symrise and its stakeholders. Over the past ers, lenders, neighbors, politicians, non-governmenseveral years, we have analyzed the global diatal organizations and business partners. logue with all Symrise stakeholders, taking all business divisions into account. In workshops, we have identified the actual or potential influence of our activities on different stakeholder groups and what influence these groups have on Symrise. 74 Symrise makes use of a large number of differon our performance in the individual areas ent formats and channels to communicate with across our entire value creation chain as part of its stakeholder groups – within and beyond the a comprehensive international survey of key company. Intensive use is made of the various stakeholders. 294 stakeholders participated in opportunities for engaging in dialogue. A global the survey and completed the questionnaire employee engagement survey was carried out in full. This represents a response rate of 45 %. once again in 2012, in which over 80 % of employees had the chance to assess and thereby help We critically analyzed our materiality matrix and shape the strengths and weaknesses of our commade adjustments where necessary on the basis pany. In 2012, we continued to be in dialogue with of the survey results. The issues for which our a large number of raw material suppliers regardstakeholders have particularly high expectations ing ethical matters with the help of the SEDEX of us are discussed and evaluated by the Sustainplatform. In order to keep our customers and inability Board. The issues “Ensuring greatest posvestors informed about current developments at sible product safety,” “Efficient use of raw materiSymrise, we once again held a number of roadals” and “Occupational health and safety” have beshows and innovation days around the world. In come even more important to our stakeholders the course of these and other activities, we recompared to the previous year. In contrast, “Doceived valuable feedback, which is incorporated nating, sponsoring and volunteering” is now coninto our future work. sidered to be slightly less relevant. At the same time, the issues “Biodiversity,” “Using renewable In the 2012 fiscal year, we invited over 600 cusraw materials” and “Employee promotion and develtomers, employees, investors, suppliers, neighopment” have become more important to Symrise. bors, media representatives, NGOs, rating agencies and industrial associations to share with us their views on sustainability issues as well as SYMRISE’S SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE How satisfied are you in general with Symrise’s sustainabilHow would you generally rate Symrise’s sustainability performance ity strategy? compared to other companies in the industry? Very satisfied Excellent Satisfied Good 23 % Partially satisfied 25 % Satisfactory Not satisfied Poor 52 % 48 % 23 % 25 % 2% 2% COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 75 Management MATERIALIT Y MATRIX BUSINESS RELEVANCE FOR SYMRISE MEDIUM HIGH VERY HIGH Ensuring greatest possible → product safety → Observance of human rights Occupational health → and saftey → Supply chain excellence → Efficient use of raw materials VERY HIG H → Compliance Innovative and sustainable product solutions STAKEHOLDER E XPECTATIONS Conservation of resources and reducing emissions → Biodiversity Dialogue and collaboration Responsible → sourcing with stakeholders Employee promotion → and development → Attractiveness as an employer Reducing noise → Transparency and credibility Creation of shared value → and odor emissions Diversity and equality of opportunity Using renewable → raw materials Involving employees in sustainability issues HIG H MEDIUM Donating, sponsoring → and volunteering → → → Changes in Business Relevance Compared to 2011 → Changes in Stakeholder Expectations Compared to 2011 The results of the analysis of Symrise’s sustainaerage, it has been confirmed that Symrise has bility performance show that around three quarshowed good to very good performance in all ters of the survey participants are either satisfied areas. Only with regard to the issues “Employee or very satisfied with our strategic approach to promotion and development,” “Social commitsustainability and assess our performance in this ment” and “Biodiversity” did a small percentage area as being good to excellent compared to our of survey participants (between 7 % and 9 %) competitors. express dissatisfaction with Symrise’s performance. Although this stands in contrast to a In general, there is a high level of correlation majority of positive evaluations, we take this between the issues considered relevant by our criticism seriously and have responded to it key stakeholders and a positive assessment of in the corresponding chapters of this report. Symrise’s performance in these aspects. On av76 Sourcing The sourcing of raw materials represents the initial starting point for sustainable value creation. During the procurement process, we are faced with partially diverging stakeholder expectations and a number of practical challenges when implementing sustainable sourcing principles. We take a responsible and future-oriented approach to these challenges by employing forward-looking business practices. CHALLENGES FOR SUSTAINABLE SOURCING REQUIREMENTS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS Price Volatility of Raw Materials Competitive Prices Environmentally Friendly Sourcing Ensuring Product Quality Local Sourcing Permanent Ability to Deliver Socially Responsible Sourcing Observance of Human Rights Local Sourcing Certification of Raw Materials Risks Brought on by Climate Change Traceability of Raw Materials We use approximately 10,000 natural and synOn the one hand, for the sourcing of our raw matethetic raw materials from over 100 countries to rials, we are in competition for land which is used manufacture our products. They form the basis for for the production of materials for food or biofuels. the production of our approximately 30,000 differOn the other, we buy a large part of our prelimient products in the areas of fragrances, flavornary products from countries where, in some casings, cosmetic active ingredients and raw materies, problematic social conditions prevail. As these als, as well as functional ingredients. The overunderlying conditions influence the quality, availwhelming majority of our products are creative ability and price of the raw materials we use, it is compositions based on a large number of raw manot just a question of responsible sourcing practicterials. In addition to carriers such as ethanol, es, but it is also in our own long-term commercial they consist mainly of value-adding preliminary interest to establish and promote the highest enviproducts – in other words, aromatic compounds ronmental and social standards across all of our and active components. We place a special focus purchasing processes. on these ingredients in our sourcing strategy. As a result of these complex and dynamic relationLong-term growth is only possible if we continue ships, we always realign the organizational purto be in the position to ensure both raw material chasing structure with the changing market conavailability and quality, while remaining competiditions. To optimize the supply chain, procuretive when it comes to pricing. In view of the fact ment at Symrise is organized decentrally in the that a number of Symrise’s strategic raw materitwo business divisions of Scent & Care and Flaals are only used in our industry and that we only vor & Nutrition. In 2012, we adopted the scorecard buy small quantities of certain preliminary prodsystem for raw materials purchasing, following the ucts, our market clout and opportunities to exert success of the system in logistics. This enables us influence vary considerably across different supto more effectively monitor our processes using ply chains. This presents us with major challengproduct-specific KPIs. Here, long-term strategic es – in both raw materials sourcing and supplier thinking takes priority over short-term cost savmanagement. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 77 Sourcing ings. We pursue this approach with our responsible sourcing model, relying on long-term contracts and cooperation with our suppliers, on social and ecological commitment locally, and on strategic partnerships with our key customers. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING MODEL: GROW TH We secure our raw material supplies on a long-term basis We make a contribution to the conservation of biodiversity We help growers to diversify We improve growers’ living standards We increase local added value EFFICIENCY We reduce emissions from transportation We invest in renewable sources of energy We boost productivity by means of training courses We invest in local infrastructure P ORTFOLIO Rainforest Alliance Certified We offer our customers responsible products Symrise vanilla now fulfills the strict requirements of the Rainforest Alliance. A group We achieve optimal quality and yields of 1,073 farmers from 29 villages in the SAVA region was certified in accordance with We create transparency by means of certithe SAN standard for sustainable agriculture. To help the farmers attain certification, fication Symrise employees worked intensively with them as partners for many months to implement various measures. The company has been active in Madagascar for many In 2012, we purchased 202,000 tons of raw materiyears and has committed itself to procuring 100 % of its vanilla under fair conditions. als for processing into our products. Process losses This certification is another important milestone along the way. are relatively low and are mainly the result of extraction and distillation processes. Wherever it is possible and it makes sense, we try to reduce losses by recycling. Solvents that are required in production processes are, for example, cleansed repeatedly and reused. In the production of raw materials for flavorings alone, around 1,800 tons of solvent are fed back into the process every year. The main auxiliary and operating materials that we purchase are fuels. Packaging materials must be added to these. Wherever possible, we deliver our products in large containers that we take back and reuse. In 2012, we used around 23,500 tons of packing materials worldwide. The recycling quota was 26 %. 78 that’s onion!® Onions are an important component in nearly every culinary application and, for Symrise, one of the vegetable products with the highest volume. For over 60 years, we have purchased this raw material from within the direct vicinity of our Holzminden site. The short distances from the field to the factory help keep transport to a minimum. The process residues from production are then used in biogas plants to produce electrical energy, heat and fertilizer. This gives our onion extracts and flavors an extremely low carbon footprint. Everyone benefits from this approach: Our customers receive unique culinary specialties, the local farmers have planning security thanks to long-term contracts and we are assured of harvest-fresh quality and constant availability of supply. In 2012, we pooled this competitive advantage stemming from our taste competence in the vegetable segment into a new brand – that’s onion!® – which combines our expertise in sustainable sourcing with our competence in culinary product development. In the coming years, we plan to further expand this approach and purchase 100 % of our vegetable raw materials in a sustainable manner by 2020. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 79 Sourcing LOCAL VALUE CRE ATION fied by Ecocert. We have almost quadrupled our With regard to important core competences, we range of products in this area. However, total have deliberately chosen locations for our internabackward integration is neither possible nor does tional production facilities that have local availait make sense for all natural raw material supply bility of the raw materials primarily used. Backchains. The core focus of further development is ward integration in the citrus value chain in Brazil rather on approaches tailored to each raw mateand the vanilla value chain in Madagascar are just rial chain, which particularly address the risks as much cases in point as the vegetables sourced of so-called single sourcing – i.e., buying stratefrom the immediate vicinity of the German site in gic raw materials from just one supplier. Holzminden and are also processed there. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT We not only purchase our raw materials in the Symrise’s predecessor companies already introlocal economy but are also integrated into, produce duced systematic supplier management to ensure in and create value there. This approach enables that suppliers complied with corporate guidelines us to influence factors such as methods of cultivawith regard to quality management, product safety tion, choice of fruit and time of harvesting and and environmental management. Over the course thereby enjoy the benefits of high yields, secure of the past few years, we have revised these process supplies, best quality and the greatest possible with regard to sustainability considerations and degree of traceability. At the same time, we are made some significant additions. The focus is on supporting local socioeconomic structures and joint implementation with our key suppliers. making a contribution toward local added value. Another factor that is far from insignificant is the Along with commitments in the areas of quality, fact that we also achieve a reduction in costs, product safety and the environment, new suppliers transportation mileage and climate-relevant emismust provide information in a detailed approval sions. In 2012, we spent 53.8 % of our procureprocess about their sustainability program, their ment budget on suppliers based in domestic and assumption of social responsibility in their supply bordering regions of our main corporate locations. chain and their commitment to ethical standards. A truthful answer to this supplier acceptance quesBackward integration of our supply chain may tionnaire is the non-negotiable basis for Symrise also involve mergers and acquisitions. For this entering into a business relationship. We require purpose, we have defined corporate guidelines the safeguarding of general human rights, an unand corresponding due diligence processes in dertaking not to make use of child labor or forced which we check that, in addition to any environlabor of any form, and compliance with statutory mental risks, human rights and employees’ health and safety at work requirements. Furtherrights are observed in the run-up to integration. more, we expect our suppliers to allow their emThe same applies to major investments that we ployees the right to freedom of assembly and colmake as a company. In 2012, no situation arose lective bargaining, to observe at least the statuto which these guidelines applied. In the case of tory provisions on working times and pay, and to past acquisitions, such as the takeover of Aromatmake a clear commitment against discrimination ics / Origines in Madagascar, human rights asand abuse. pects were included in our due diligence. We will be extending our responsible, local sourcing approach further in both divisions in the years ahead. Key examples of this in 2012 include the diversification of our raw materials portfolio in Madagascar and the expansion of our portfolio of perfumery raw materials certi80 These standards constitute part of our Group-wide risk management system. We carry out systematic risk and performance assessments of all suppliers on the basis of economic, ecological and social aspects. The criteria for this risk analysis are: Purchasing volume with the supplier in question Strategic importance of the raw material Number of alternative sources of supply Result of the supplier qualification Supplier’s country of origin The result of the analysis is a weighted global risk matrix, which represents the basis of our supplier audit plan. Raw material suppliers are not the only ones taken into consideration – freight forwarders and packaging suppliers are included as well. In the case of suppliers who pose an especially notable risk, with crucial raw materials or with probSocial Business in Ghana lems that have come to light in the assessment, we As part of our partnership with PlaNet Finance, one of the co-initiators of the Star carry out audits on the basis of a globally specified Shea Network, we have invested in the responsible sourcing of shea butter in procedure. Focal points of these audits are product Ghana. The natural raw material is a well-established component of many cosmetic safety, quality management, health and safety at products. In this way, Symrise ensures its continued access to high-quality, fairly work, the environment and social responsibility. If traded and completely traceable shea butter. We will continue to intensify our coone or more criteria are found not to be up to our operation with Star Shea in the coming years. defined standards, the supplier is informed in detail and supplier development measures are jointly drawn up and initiated. If the supplier fails to In 2011, we upgraded our membership at SEDEX achieve the standards required, the order volume in order to further consolidate our sustainable raw from this supplier is reduced by way of a sanction. material supplies and to identify risks systematiAs a last resort, the business relationship with this cally. In 2012, we invited 100 key suppliers to regsupplier is terminated. Cases in which a supplier ister with SEDEX and to disclose their data to us. relationship was terminated due to a breach of relThis means that we now cover more than 50 of evant criteria did not occur in 2012. our largest suppliers. By 2015, we will assess our 250 most important suppliers using criteria laid The international platform Supplier Ethical Data down by SEDEX . With this measure, we will cover Exchange (SEDEX ) is an important tool that we more than 80 % of our procurement volume. use both to evaluate suppliers and to disclose our own data to our customers. On the platform of the nonprofit organization SEDEX , we publish information about working conditions and employment rights, health and safety at work, the environment and ethical business practices – as do many of our suppliers, competitors and customers. Since as early as 2006, we have disclosed our own data to many customers with the aid of SEDEX . All Symrise production locations are now SEDEX-registered. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 81 Sourcing STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATES standards in respect of animal rights. Our proCompliance with national and international statcurement department reminds these suppliers utory regulations governing the protection of in regular discussions of the five rights to which natural resources is an integral part of procureanimals are entitled in livestock farming: the ment policy at Symrise. The use of animal and right to fodder and drink, the right to wellbeing, plant-based raw materials listed by the Conventhe right to health and freedom from pain and tion on International Trade in Endangered Speinjury, the right to natural animal behavior and cies of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) is only perthe right to treatment that causes neither fear mitted throughout the Group if the supplier is nor suffering. Symrise has already specified, for able to prove their sustainability. instance, that it will only use egg products if the hens are kept in at least barn conditions. In that For a number of key natural raw materials, we enrespect, we go beyond European statutory requiredeavor to procure raw materials with a certificate ments. of origin. The majority of the palm oil that we use around the world, for example, is certified by the Our product portfolio is also influenced by our Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). As a strong presence in emerging markets. Demand for central organization, the RSPO seeks to promote products that are certified as kosher or halal is sustainable cultivation methods for palm oil and especially strong in the Middle East and North Afthereby limit environmental damage. Products rica. These certifications are also increasingly certified as organic or fair trade, in contrast, still important in large areas of Asia and in the United account for only a limited proportion of our proStates. Globally, 45 % of our raw materials are curement volume. certified as halal and 48 % as kosher. As our products often account for only a small part of the end product, customer demand for certified products has so far focused as a rule on especially iconic ingredients of quality end products such as vanilla. Approximately 1,500 raw materials from Symrise are available globally for use in organic or fair trade products. This corresponds to about 15 % of our raw material portfolio in the EAME region. Rising consumer demand for responsible, certified products points the way in product development and the choice of raw materials. We assume that the proportion of certified products will continue to increase. In 2012, we helped more than 1,000 vanilla farmers in Madagascar with whom we work directly to become certified by the Rainforest Alliance. Double Benefit Symrise started a pilot project in Madagascar in 2012 for the planting of the tropical We also attach great importance to responsible grass vetiver. While vetiver oil is an important raw material for perfumers with its animal husbandry, although Symrise itself neiwoody, balsamic fragrance, the plants are also useful for combating soil erosion with ther keeps nor processes animals. The proportion their long, widely spreading root systems. Soil erosion is a serious problem in Madaof raw materials of animal origin that we use is gascar. For the farmers, the sale of vetiver roots also represents a welcome source very low at approximately 2 %. Nevertheless, we of additional income. expect all our suppliers who handle live animals to observe statutory provisions and industry 82 SYNTHE TIC VERSUS NATUR AL R AW MATERIALS There is rising demand for natural and renewable raw materials among end customers. However, many synthetic raw materials currently cannot or can barely be replaced by renewable raw materials. Although the proportion of natural raw materials in our portfolio already accounts for more than half of the raw materials used and is continuously increasing, it is often not just commercially unwise to completely renounce synthetic raw materials but doing so would also have complex environmental and social repercussions in some cases. Greater use of renewable raw materials leads not only to an increase in the acreage required but also, increasingly, to competition for the production of foodstuffs and the conservation of biodiversity, which in turn represents a key prerequisite for cosmetic or medical product innovation. A Sustainable Decision Lavender from southern France has always been an important raw material for perSynthetic raw materials often take less energy to fumers. In 2012, Symrise decided to source CENSO -certified lavender and lavender manufacture than the energy required to harvest oils in the future and, in doing so, support the French lavender industry’s sustainable and transport natural ones. Furthermore, the proapproach. At the same time, we have also been supporting the CRIEPPAM research portion of value-giving substances in plants decenter since 2012 and working exclusively with the researchers on new and promising pends to a large extent on climate and geological lavender qualities. Further information is available at: http://www.censo-lavande.fr/en conditions – a risk that does not occur with synthetic products. What is more, the use of fossil re73 sources to manufacture chemical products acSymrise already has access to more than 1,500 raw counts for only a very small proportion of global materials for the production of organically certified consumption. It therefore cannot be our objecproducts. In 2012, the number of certified raw matetive to completely switch to naturally occurring rials for the perfumery rose from 17 to 73. 17 raw materials. Our focus is more on achieving a further reduction in our dependence on finite raw materials. We have therefore made the identification of alternative means of producing synWe use very few genetically modified raw matethetic substances a focal point of our research. rials; they amount to around 1 % of our raw materials portfolio worldwide. When we use GM raw Deciding whether to use a natural material or its materials, we comply with local regulatory requiresynthetic equivalent depends on the respective ments and with the most exacting food safety product. Irrespective of the source of the raw mastandards. A key criterion is consumer acceptance terial, we attach importance to using resources and the resulting demand. GM raw materials are sustainably and try to maximize our yields. We used mainly in North America and Asia. In Europe, encourage our suppliers to follow this strategy in accordance with our corporate policy, we use as well. Only such a far-reaching, integrated view no genetically modified products. will help us safeguard our commercial success in the future. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 83 Sourcing DIVERSIT Y OF R AW MATERIALS Symrise sources a wide range of different natural raw materials from around the world. Our long-term commercial success is therefore closely tied to the preservation of biological diversity. We approach the 3 challenge of sustainability in a variety of ways. 4 7 1 2 Madagascar 1 // The island nation off the East African coast is known for its exquisite spices such as vanilla, pepper and cloves. Its diversity is second-to-none: About 80 % of the local flora is unique to the country. Symrise is the only company in its industry that has a branch location in Madagascar and is committed to preserving the island’s biodiversity. Brazil 2 // Brazil is not only the world’s largest producer of oranges, it also is a country with an impressive range of flora and fauna. The Atlantic rainforest (Mata Atlântica), however, is severely threatened. Symrise Brazil is committed to protecting threatened rainforest areas by refraining from using raw materials from sources that may be environmentally questionable and through joint nature preservation projects with customers. Southeast Asia 3 // Whether patchouli, jasmine or tea: The nature of Southeast Asia is an essential source of important raw materials for the fragrance and flavor industry. Symrise is present in 12 Asian/Pacific countries and generates about 23 % of its sales there. This underscores the importance of a sustainable raw materials sourcing strategy. West Africa 4 // Africa is considered the poorest region in the world, but it is also known as the continent of opportunities. Its economy is growing dynamically, though this also brings possible dangers in the area of biodiversity – particularly for the coastal regions of West Africa. Symrise is committed to various social projects on location and continues to expand its sustainable sourcing activities. 84 Innovations With its two divisions, Scent & Care and Flavor & Nutrition, Symrise is one of the most successful global players in both the established markets and the emerging markets in Asia, Latin America or the Near and Middle East. Symrise’s product range is accordingly diverse: Various social and cultural consumer preferences are constantly combining with global trends for health and wellness, resulting in concrete product expectations. We do not simply react or respond to these developments – we help shape them. CHALLENGES FOR A SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT P OLICY REQUIREMENTS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS Worldwide Provision of High Product Vol-umes at Top Quality Greatest Possible Product Safety Meeting Increasing End Customer De-mand Innovative and Sustainable Product Solutions for Health-Promoting Products Products that Contribute to Health and Wellness Close Cooperation with Strategically Important Customers Using Renewable Raw Materials Partnerships with Companies, Research Institutions and Universities Efficient Use of Raw Materials Connecting Market and Consumer Research with R&D Alternatives to Animal Testing Successful activities in research and development are collaboratively researched, with the findings form the basis for Symrise’s competitiveness. Our being adjusted to the respective application. customers see us as a creative and valuable partner thanks to our constant development of innovaFrom the idea to the marketable product, the innotive products and solutions. Symrise’s product vation process at Symrise is organized based on portfolio ranges from fragrance and flavor solua company-wide, uniform stage gate process with tions to cosmetic base materials and substances decision filters. The process is also constantly beas well as functional ingredients. We therefore ing refined. This puts us in a position to anticipate serve manufacturers of perfumes, cosmetics and and serve changing consumer preferences at an foods in addition to the pharmaceutical industry early stage. and producers of nutritional supplements. Along with the highest requirements on quality and Symrise works with numerous regional and intersafety for our products, we develop targeted new national customers on joint development projects. product solutions based on the latest research Our guiding principle of open innovation helps us on consumer interests. to combine creativity and efficiency with resource conservation and environmental protection. Various INNOVATION AT SYMRISE customer awards in the area of innovation show Product development at Symrise is both centrally that we are on the right track. and decentrally organized. The divisions and business units focus on segment-specific R & D With our trend studies, market analyses and conactivities, which are performed directly on site sumer research, we have seen an increasing trend in the respective markets. At the same time, they of consumers expecting products that not only work in close contact with each other in the areas appeal to their senses but also contribute to their of technology, processes and research findings in health and well-being. We have made a concerted order to tap potential synergies. For instance, reeffort to integrate this development into our busilease systems, bioactive ingredients and sensory ness strategy and adjust our product range accordresearch have cross-divisional importance and ingly. Our goal is to continually increase sales with COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 85 Innovations Most Innovative Company of the Past Decade 2012, notable partnerships existed with numerous Our research in the Life Essentials segment was preinternational universities, such as King’s College sented with multiple awards for product innovations in London and the University of Tours in France, as in 2012. Along with three of the sought-after BSB Awards well as with companies like Cutech (Italy), EcoBifor innovative raw materials, Symrise also claimed a otics (Australia), Essen BioScience (UK) or Theraspecial award as the “Most Innovative Cosmetics Raw peutic Peptides (USA ). Material Supplier Company Within The Last 10 Years” – praising Symrise’s constantly high level of innovation, In addition, both business divisions have for sevfrom which our customers benefit. eral years had international scientific advisory boards consisting of internationally renowned scientists from different disciplines and fields of approducts that contribute to health, nutrition, skin plication. The task of these committees is to give care and skin protection. We are the only company advice regarding the latest research findings and in our industry that lists this as a strategic focus. their implementation in product innovations. For us, it is a logical consequence on our path towards integrating our business and sustainability The recognition of scientific papers that stem strategies. from within our company underscores the high standard of our research and development work. NE T WORKED RESE ARCH Symrise’s innovative strength is also seen in its Apart from their own internal research and develefforts to protect its intellectual property. In 2012, opment, both business divisions have comprehenthe company applied for 37 patents and is therefore sive partnerships with companies, universities and among the top patent holders in its industry. research institutes. This enables synergies to be utilized and expands the spectrum and perspective BE AUT Y, SCENTS AND CARE of R & D activities. Pleasant fragrances and products for beauty and care have been a part of people’s daily routine for Our network includes collaborations with rethe last 4,000 years. Today, most people can afford nowned German research institutes and universiproducts that increase their sense of well-being ties in Bochum, Braunschweig, Dresden, Düsseland self-worth. Symrise’s Scent & Care division dorf, Gießen, Greifswald, Halle-Wittenberg, Hanprovides its customers with competence in scents, over, Munich, Münster, Potsdam and Rostock. In beauty and care. Our focus here is on intensifying Systematic Green Chemistry Innovation is a key driver of sustainability at Symrise. In 2012, we introduced a process for recording and assessing our sustainability performance in product development. Using specific indicators, we check every project regarding its sustainability contribution. An initial result led to the development of a completely new green chemistry approach. While we usually further develop our existing products with continual improvements, we now concentrate on the complete redesign of processes using modern chemistry. This radical approach brings groundbreaking possibilities: For instance, it eliminates by-products, while improving raw material efficiency and allowing for a much lower environmental impact overall. This approach will continue to be expanded over the coming years. 86 bine aromatic raw materials like essential oils and aroma chemicals to create complex perfume oils. These are used in perfumes as well as in personal care and household products. In 2012, we began to hold special training sessions for our perfumers to increase the usage of renewable raw materials in fragrance compositions. In order to develop fragrances that appeal to consumers around the world and in every social class, our perfumers work where our customers and consumers are: in France, Groundbreaking Research Mex ico, India, the USA , China, Brazil, Germany Symrise once again participated in numerous research projects in 2012 that were and Singapore. That’s why the global acceptance of sponsored by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF ), the European our business is well understood to be in our own Regional Development Fund (ERDF ) and other funding institutions. A main focus of interest. these projects was methods or ingredients that show or support health-promoting effects. This includes projects on the “development of modern, natural flavors for In the Aroma Molecules business unit, Symrise enhancing the taste of healthy foods” and the “development of methods for naturally offers its customers a broad spectrum of various extracting taste-modified aromatic compounds.” classes of aromatic substances and compounds. They are the key components of many successful products in the world of fragrances and flavors. research on renewable raw materials, white bioAn important application area in this business unit technology and phytochemistry as well as on idenis that of biodegradable, synthetic musk fragranctifying active ingredients in natural raw materies, which adhere significantly better to hairs, skin als. The development of environmentally friendly, or textile fibers and are an essential component of safe and sustainable products and processes as perfume oils. Compared to earlier synthetic musk well as high-impact products (meaning products fragrances, they show a much better biodegradabilthat show high effects at low dosages), is the priity due to their chemical structure. Symrise is one mary goal of developmental activity in the Scent & of the major providers of macrocyclic musk comCare division. pounds (MCMs). Our extensive range of MCMs offers customers the greatest possible development Life Essentials offers a broad portfolio of highprocess flexibility and the best results. We have quality ingredients with proven effectiveness: also been committed to the protection of the musk anti-aging products, anti-irritants, products for deer, which our industry used to hunt for its valusensitive skin, multifunctional antibacterial subable glandular secretions, since 2011. stances, skin-lightening products and cooling substances. Thanks to our expertise in the areas We continued to expand the Oral Care business of phytochemistry, efficacy screening and anaunit as a core competence in Scent & Care in 2012. lytical chemistry, innovative products that correTogether with Flavor & Nutrition, Think Mint® spond to global trends in beauty, health and wellwas established as a cross-divisional brand for mint ness are developed based on natural products. flavors from Symrise. Here, we pooled our longLife Essentials is also specialized in the manufacstanding expertise on mint for all essential product ture of plant extracts and is the market leader in groups such as oral care products, chewing gum this segment. and sweets. We continue to conduct research in this area on new substances and technologies that The Fragrances business unit also places an emphasis on using raw materials and components that can be procured without causing negative social or environmental effects. Our perfumers comCOMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 87 Innovations 30 Years in China Symrise started doing business in this important growth market as the first international manufacturer of fragrances and flavors back in 1982. Today, we maintain a presence at four locations: in Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou and Taiwan. In various studies, we research the preferences of Chinese consumers, such as our current study in the Yunnan province. That region is also home to the musk deer, which long provided the well-known ingredient for perfume and is threatened with extinction today. Since 2011, Symrise has been involved in protecting this endangered species. Symrise sent some of its perfumers to the area to accompany the activities on location. The trip inspired a new collection of synthetic musk fragrances. It was presented to customers for the first time at the 30-year anniversary celebration. present us with economic and ecological advanConsumer preferences and habits are changing at tages. One example here is our cooling substances. an ever increasing pace. Today, consumers expect We are also heavily researching alternatives to not only delicious tasting foods but also foods that scarce natural raw materials. Our focus is primaricontribute to a healthy lifestyle. That’s why our ly on methods that conserve energy and resources. Flavor & Nutrition division focuses on the development of flavor solutions for healthier products and DELIGHTFUL AND HE ALTHY NUTRITION functional ingredients that promote good health, in Culinary pleasure and healthy nutrition are paraddition to the taste, quality and safety of its prodallel objectives that drive our research. Scientific ucts. Regardless of whether the product promises methods and natural base materials go hand in health or perfect enjoyment, it must taste good. hand when searching for new, healthier solutions Symrise provides its customers with innovative for optimizing taste and mouthfeel. At the same products that retain their great taste and the poptime, Symrise is serving the growing market for ular sweet, salty, juicy, creamy or savory perfood supplements and pharmaceutical preparaception – while substantially reducing the use of tions. This includes natural, functional ingredients sugar, salt, fat and flavor enhancers at the same to promote heart and digestive function, flavoring time. We also develop taste solutions for products solutions for pharmaceutical products as well as that contain active ingredients and contribute to natural food colors and coloring foods. Once again, a healthier lifestyle. The majority of our developthe focus is on developing basic materials that are ments are based on natural raw materials – under available on a sustainable basis. a label that is entitled to include nature in its name. 88 Our customers constantly have to adjust to the quickly changing desires and needs of consumers in order to keep their brands and products attractive. Symrise’s central strategic instrument used in this process is the integrated taste for life® platform. With the motto “Making the tastes people love,” Symrise develops creative product concepts that are in line with market requirements, geared towards consumers’ needs and help customers offer products that combine healthy nutrition and great taste. taste for life® combines the results of consumer research, the needs of the industry and the comprehensive and wide-ranging expertise of Symrise in Cooperation for New Health Solutions a single strategic instrument. We collaborate with Symrise AG and the Swedish biotechnology company Probi AB have agreed to a straour customers to find taste solutions that fulfill tegic partnership in the development of new product solutions for foods, food suppleconsumers’ needs. In 2012, products from the taste ments and cosmetics. The objective is to pool competencies regarding health-profor life® portfolio accounted for more than 25 % moting ingredients in an effort to jointly accelerate growth in this dynamic market of our sales by volume in the Flavor & Nutrition disegment. The collaboration focuses on probiotic oral care applications with proven vision. And that includes our flavoring solutions health benefits. to reduce fat, sodium or sugar content. PRODUCT SAFE T Y AND INFORMATION Our customers are informed about technical charThe Global Product Compliance Competence Center acteristics and how to safely handle our products is an important organizational unit for ensuring via material safety data sheets, product specificaproduct safety at Symrise. It is responsible for imtions and technical data sheets as well as additionplementing regulatory requirements, undertakes al individually tailored informational materials. the toxicological evaluation of raw materials and For instance, we added a platform for Life Essenproducts and prepares the data for customers and tials products to our SymSelect® internet tool to employees around the world. The Competence provide our customers with swift and interactive Center documents customer restrictions (the ruling access to our Life Essentials product portfolio. It out of certain substances) while taking the reguallows customers to research Symrise’s cosmetic latory environment into consideration and is in ingredi-ents online. charge of monitoring, testing and registering new substances, commissioning product tests from STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATES approved laboratories and evaluating test reports. Good manufacturing practice, or abiding by clear All administrative processes, legislative issues, guidelines – such as those required by pharmasafety reports, classification into hazard classes ceutical, cosmetics and food legislation – on qualiand the labeling of raw materials and products ty assurance of production processes and the proare handled centrally and coordinated globally duction environment, is the global basis of responhere. Regulatory Affairs and Competence Center sible behavior with products and manufacturing employees represent Symrise in the leading interprocesses. Many of the requirements are similar, national associations of the flavor and fragrance such as the quality requirements for end products, industry. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 89 Innovations but also for raw and auxiliary materials, clear prodCosmetic Active Ingredients and Raw Materials: uct labeling, qualified personnel, suitable producSymrise manufactures the majority of its cosmetic tion facilities and premises, as well as defining, imactive ingredients and raw materials according to plementing and adhering to hygiene standards the BRC Standard for Consumer Products. Cosmetic and ensuring the traceability of products and raw active ingredients and raw that are categorized as materials. Moreover, legislators have passed correOTC (over the counter) drugs in the USA are treated sponding regulations that define mostly extra relike pharmaceutical agents. Symrise’s Scent & Care quirements specifically for individual product product safety policy is an essential part of the Ingroups. Symrise makes a distinction between the tegrated Management System. The system is based following product groups: on DIN ISO 9001 and is subject to a continuous improvement process. In addition, Symrise conducts Flavors: Legislators have laid down various regurisk analyses and works with an HACCP (Hazard lations that require good manufacturing practice, Analysis and Critical Control Points) system. but a clear definition of this is lacking. The food industry has duly defined its own standards in orTo ensure the safety of our products throughout der to create a clear framework here. We abide their entire lifecycle, our product safety policy by the generally accepted requirements and auditintegrates all of the relevant steps, from the suping standards of the Global Food Safety Initiative plier to shipment to our customers. Symrise en(GFSI) and other locally recognized standards aimed sures compliance with legislation, requirements at ensuring a continual improvement in perforlaid down by associations and internal standmance. In 2012, more than 90 % of our product volards. All products are subject to a corresponding ume was manufactured at locations certified in evaluation – encompassing every step in the accordance with internationally recognized food chain from the purchase of raw materials to the safety management systems. By 2015, we will have finished product – using the information curall of our production sites in the Flavor & Nutrition rently available. There were no breaches of safety division certified to the FSSC 22000 standard. or health regulations in relation to our products at Symrise in 2012. An overview of the audit proPharmaceutical Agents: At Symrise, active phargram for 2012 can be found on page 73. maceutical ingredients (API) that are produced for pharmaceutical end products comply with the GMP rules of the applicable law on pharmaceuticals. Many countries have adopted the ICH Q7a guideline as a binding regulation and adapted it to national definitions in certain cases. Pharmaceutical Additives: Pharmaceutical addiAlternative Testing Methods tives are materials that are used in pharmaceutiSymrise joined the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to Animal Testcal end products but do not have an active effect. ing (EPAA) in 2012, becoming the first company in the fragrance and flavor industry to These include flavors and colors, for example. do so. The goal: Facilitate a joint exchange that results in the development of effecThere are currently no binding regulations for tive alternative testing methods to reduce animal testing and eventually replace the pharmaceutical additives. practice entirely. The company already has relevant experience in this area. Just last year, Symrise and Cutech received a European patent for their innovative ex vivo real-skin model. 90 Innovation made by Symrise B E AU T I F U L , S M O OT H S K I N With SymFit® 1617 and SymFit® nat 1750, we developed two anti-cellulite products – for which we have also applied for patents – that display outstanding application qualities in addition to their impressive effectiveness. N AT U R A L S M I L E A smile is crucial for a good first impression and consumers want to ensure that their lips look just right. The patent-pending substance Sym3D® was developed to effectively make lips fuller. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 91 Innovations TR ADITION AND MODERNIT Y F R E S H N E S S YO U C A N TA S T E The new plant extract series Actipone®s “Chinese Sustainable and local cultivation near HolzminMushrooms” impresses with more than just its efden is the guarantee for first-class quality when fective anti-oxidative qualities for care products – it comes to natural key raw materials that are exit is also made entirely plant extracts that can be tracted from fresh vegetables. We can generate sustainably produced and are used in traditional authentic, culinary taste experiences by combinChinese medicine. ing these with creative flavor compositions. C O R E C O M P E T E N C Y: O R A L H YG I E N E C U L I N A RY C O M P E T E N C E Symrise is setting new standards with the secIn 2012, we gained deep insights into the world of ond generation of oral hygiene products. Inspired culinary flavors with the help of modern analytical by nature, Optafresh® D is neutral in flavor and ditools. This resulted in natural and highly concenrectly combats the bacteria that cause bad breath. trated base flavors that promise authentic tastes. FRESH AIR G R E AT TA S T E W I T H O U T M S G Our newly patented two-phase air freshener We advanced our development of new umami aro2Scent delivers better fragrance qualities and matic compounds in 2012. Thanks to their high inlonger-lasting freshness compared to traditional tensity at low concentrations, these aromatic comair fresheners and is also highly affordable. pounds are perfectly suited for savory applications that contain no MSG additives for optimizing taste N AT U R A L C O M P O S I T I O N S impressions. Some of the compounds were found in With Natural Neofresh®, our experts created new, plant-based sources and therefore contribute to patented fragrance compositions from natural the growing consumer demand for natural alteringredients that effectively eliminate unwanted natives. household smells. Symrise has also established a series of databases with analytical and sensory B E V E R AG E S W I T H A C E R TA I N S O M E T H I N G data on the effectiveness of our raw materials in The focused combination of functional ingredivarious applications. ents with coordinated natural flavors resulted in the successful development of a new generation F R AG R A N C E M E M O RY of health-promoting and tasty products that are Microencapsulated fragrances are the key to speparticularly suited for use in instant beverages. cial sensory experiences of freshness. SymCap® K-LD was developed for use in laundry detergents S E E K I N G S AT I AT I O N in order to produce long-lasting fragrances that In the newly built Christian Doppler laboratory stay on dry fabric. The scents are released by fricfor bioactive ingredients in Vienna, researchers tion. have been intensively searching since early 2012 for natural flavors that elicit a feeling of satiety. N AT U R A L LY C I T R U S ! ® The research project, which is partially financed A new generation of citrus specialties improves the by Symrise, was able to successfully identify some authenticity and freshness of flavor profiles in the initial candidates over the course of the year. naturally citrus!® product platform. In cooperation with the citrus-processing industry, we use sustainable raw materials and environmentally friendly manufacturing processes. 92 Environment Environmental protection and safety mean more to us than merely fulfilling statutory requirements. Reducing our ecological footprint is linked closely to process efficiency and the associated long-term cost savings. However, what is required here is an approach which sees investment in technology and processes that conserve both energy and resources as a way of boosting the company’s value over the long term. At Symrise, we have set ourselves ambitious, long-term targets, making our progress in each business division both measurable and transparent. CHALLENGES FOR SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES REQUIREMENTS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS Operational Safety and Crisis Management Reduction of Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Optimization of Production Processes Reduction of Water Consumption and Wastewater Production Efficiency at all Stages of Value Creation Reduction of Waste Volume Diminishing Resources and Climate Change Reduction of Noise and Odor Emissions A complete analysis of our processes and how they mental performance. We are thereby able to gain are linked to the company environment is indisexperience and pass on best practices. Symrise pensable for the systematic reduction of energy, incurred no penalties for environmental offenses water and resource consumption as well as emisduring the reporting period. sions. To do so we take a look at all of the stages in our value chain and product life cycle – from The Executive Board and the Symrise Sustainabilraw materials procurement and processing via ity Board set Group-wide environmental sustainaproduct development and production to logistics – bility targets. Within this framework, our sites and identify appropriate starting points and arearound the world define their environmental measas with reduction potential. Indeed, with our ures independently. The heads of our sites and Symchronize™ initiative, we even go beyond the production facilities are responsible for local comboundaries of our value creation chain. Our environmental management is based on the ISO 14001 standard around the world. About 70 % of our sales volume is already produced at sites with ISO 14001 certification. Global environmental management is coordinated centrally by the Corporate Compliance unit. Jointly with the business divisions involved, it transfers global principles defined by the Executive Board into guideResource Efficiency in Brazil lines and procedural instructions. The Corporate At our São Paulo site, we were able to substantially reduce the environmental footprint Compliance unit carries out audits to monitor comof our fragrance production thanks to a series of combined measures. Along with the pliance with legal regulations and voluntary cominstallation of rainwater tanks and solar panels, various control and measuring instrumitments. Regular internal and external audits ments were set up, with which we can control and manage our future consumption in a help bring about further improvements in environmore targeted manner. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 93 Environment pliance with and implementation of guidelines VOLUME OF SOLD PRODUCTS and measures. Aspects of ecological and economin 1,000 tons ic efficiency are an integral part of individual performance targets and are therefore of relevance for remuneration. Additional sustainability ambassa250 dors were appointed in 2012 in order to further improve the implementation of Group targets at com193 201 200 191 pany sites. By means of this additional bottom-up 173 167 approach, not only do we increase acceptance at our local facilities, but we also receive valuable 150 suggestions for improvement which can then be applied to other facilities as well. 100 Furthermore, interdisciplinary teams systematically determine the most important environmental 50 impacts of our production facilities and processes in environmental aspect analyses. On the basis of 0 ecological and economic criteria, the teams then 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 specify measures to minimize this environmental impact, review their implementation and reassess the situation in the following year. Environmental aspect analyses are undertaken regularly at all CONSERVING RESOURCES BY INCRE ASING ISO 14001 certified locations. In 2010, we began EFFICIENCY training employees in our production facilities as The optimal utilization of our facilities is the aim of environmental consultants. A total of 18 environTotal Productive Maintenance (TPM). As part of mental consultants monitor the environmental this, efficiency losses are identified by drawing up efficiency of our production sites. In 2012, we inloss trees, the situation is analyzed and workflows troduced a software solution for collecting and are optimized as a result (“kaizen”). In this way, we analyzing key figures relating to our environmenare able to ensure that, during all changes in our tal performance. Together with a quarterly data production processes, the greatest level of energy collection, this allows us to manage and report our and resource efficiency is achieved. The Symrise consumption and emission figures even more preemployees involved in this process work in crosscisely in the future. hierarchical teams to draw up solutions and put them into practice. TPM enabled us to organize over We also offer to others what we do well ourselves. 820 employees into 56 teams in both divisions in Our subsidiary TESIUM bundles our competence 2012. With over 46 TPM coordinators, our coordinain the areas of technology, safety and the environtor density is among the best in the process indusment – both in Germany and around the world. try. Symrise’s training for coordinators is now both 240 employees ensure that we fulfill the highest valued and requested by leading companies in environmental standards in all business divisions. this industry. In many production areas, every TESIUM is also involved in the planning and conemployee is a member of at least one TPM team. struction of new facilities. Environmental, safety Since 2007, we have implemented well over 5,000 and energy aspects are taken into consideration improvements and significantly exceeded our for the entire life cycle of the facilities. TESIUM goal of increasing efficiency by 2.5 % each year. In makes this bundled expertise available to other 2012, the TPM teams worldwide focused on saving companies as well. energy. 94 350 CO2 TONS PER YE AR Efficient Packaging Two projects for optimizing the environmental impact and cost of bulk containers were successfully completed during the reporting period. By introducing an alternative packaging material as well as a new approach to recycling, we were able to reduce CO2 effects by about 350 tons per year while lowering operational costs at the same time. As part of our integrated quality management, es, reduction of storage times, shorter throughwe also carry out regular performance checks in put times and synchronization of processes. All the supply chain. The balanced scorecards introresources and materials are put to the best possiduced in 2005 to support monitoring have since ble use, complexity is reduced, processes are acbeen progressively rolled out at all production celerated and routine work is eliminated in favor sites worldwide. The scorecards assist us in optiof higher-value activities. Furthermore, optimized mizing the core areas of quality, service, costs, ordering leads to a reduction in shipping distancsafety and employee motivation. They contain globes and thereby in CO2 emissions. In the EAME really unified key figures and targets, which are gion alone, we saw improvements in order proevaluated on a monthly basis. When targets are cessing of 15 % over the past two years thanks to not met, measures are implemented to get us back Symchronize™. on track. The results and measures deriving from this process are posted at every production site EMISSIONS and therefore accessible to every employee. Since Our success in the reduction of greenhouse gases their introduction, we have more precisely dewas confirmed in 2012 following an assessment fined the key figures with each passing year in conducted by the Carbon Disclosure Project. Foundan effort to solidify our TPM culture of constant ed in 2000, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is improvement within the company. a non-profit organization that collects data on companies’ greenhouse gas emissions. The results are The optimization of our processes is often directbased on a voluntary, standardized questionnaire ly and mutually dependent on our business partthat requests information on CO2 emissions and ners. With the Symchronize™ initiative, we have reduction strategies once a year. During the assessestablished an extraordinary integrated supply ment of the transparency of our environmental chain management system with our customers. protection efforts, we were able to improve on the The aim of Symchronize™ is to optimize the valprevious year’s result of 63 points, achieving 88 ue creation chain beyond the usual interfaces: points (out of a possible 100 points). In the assessThe value creation chain included extends from ment of our CO2 performance, we received a B raw materials procurement to the customer’s end grade (out of a possible range from A to E). Due to product, integrating the customer and its prothis evaluation, we are, for the first time ever, the cesses. The main focus is on aspects such as debest-ranked MDAX® listed company on the Carbon mand-oriented supply, increased productivity Disclosure Leadership Index and the clear leader combined with optimized utilization of resourcin our industry. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 95 Environment We made a voluntary commitment in 2006 to sysCarbon dioxide accounts for the majority of our tematically record and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Other greenhouse gases, such as nitroemissions. We report according to Scope 1 (direct gen oxide, sulfur oxide, ammonium, methane, emissions) and Scope 2 (indirect emissions) of the and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are only GHG Protocol. As we have been able to cut our CO2 of limited relevance for our business activities. emissions significantly in the past, we set ourselves an additional target in 2010: By 2020, we We do not yet record our emissions of ozone depletaim to reduce our CO2 emissions per product unit ing substances (ODS). In view of the nature of our sold by a third compared to 2010 levels. We came business activity, we assume that these emissions a good deal closer to achieving this goal with our are low, but we will nevertheless start to record emission values for 2012. Our CO2 emissions per these emissions and – by 2015 at the latest – pubproduct sold were down by 5.4 % on the base year of lish our results. 2010. Combined with the significant increase in our sales volume by approximately 5.2 %, our CO2 ENERGY emissions decreased by 0.4 % in absolute terms Our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions compared to the base year. are determined to a large extent by our energy consumption. Given that nearly all of our producIn 2011, we also began to record our other indirect tion processes require the use of energy, a secure emissions as defined in Scope 3 of the GHG Protolong-term energy supply and the most efficient col. In 2012, we were able to further optimize our energy utilization possible are of strategic impordata measurement techniques by requesting infortance for us. We concentrate on areas in which mation from our large suppliers pursuant to PAS we need the most energy, especially in the areas 2050 to calculate so-called product carbon footof drying, extraction and distillation. A focus of prints (PCF ), for instance. Together with a number our business units is on conducting a complete of our competitors and customers, we also particioverhaul of the processes in order to eliminate bypated in a project conducted by the Research Instiproducts entirely where possible and to improve tute for Fragrance Materials (RIFM), in the course raw material and energy efficiency. In the course of which the Scope 3 emissions of an average perof expanding our production capacities for synfume oil were calculated. By way of this detailed thetic menthol in 2012, a new plant became operobservation, we ascertained that our Scope 3 emisational and its innovative technologies set new sions related to purchased goods and services are standards for energy-efficient menthol production. higher than had been previously believed. Our next step will therefore be to analyze these results in Our aim is to improve continuously the energy efmore detail in order to identify areas where targetficiency of our production facilities and processes. ed reductions can be made. Our other Scope 3 emisBy 2020, we aim to reduce our energy consumpsions in 2012 amounted to 8,975 tons from commuttion per product sold by a third compared to 2010. ing, 4,710 tons from business travel, 9,949 tons In 2012, absolute energy consumption decreased from waste disposal and 64,161 tons of CO2 resultby 0.8% despite somewhat higher sales volumes. ing from transport & logistics. Energy consumption per product sold was also reduced by 4.2 % as compared to 2010. 96 Another lever that we use in our energy management is the continual reduction of our reliance on fossil fuels. At the same time, we aim to gradually increase the proportion of energy from renewable sources that we use. Our electricity mix at producEXHAUST GAS STACK tion facilities in Germany already includes 22.0 % from renewable sources. We process a significant proportion of our production waste so that it is suitFUEL able for thermal utilization. In 2012 alone, we saved ELECTRICAL POWER STEAM BOILER around 2,200 tons of heating oil in this way. Planning began for a new boiler facility at our site in Holzminden in 2012 in order to further reduce our STEAM AT 80 BAR consumption of fossil fuels. The aim is to generate EXHAUST FROM TURBINE G* as much as one third of our own electricity needs OPERATIONS ourselves by 2015 using cogeneration. This equates to the electricity demand of around 4,000 households. SYMRISE CONSUMERS WATER , WASTE WATER AND WASTE FRESH WATER In order to raise greater awareness of the intensifying challenges faced by many regions in gaining access to clean, fresh water, the UN General Assembly has declared 2013 the International Year *GENER ATOR of Water Cooperation. As a result of growing populations and not least of the progression of climate New Energy change, water is becoming an increasingly scarce For every new investment, Symrise AG considers the environmental impact and encommodity in many parts of the world. ergy efficiency aspects. In 2012, we performed energy system analyses at our German locations and are planning to receive ISO 50000 certification in 2013. Although the overwhelming majority of our water consumption takes place at our facilities in Additionally, our subsidiary TESIUM developed a concept that will revolutionize enerHolzminden – an area that does not have a shortgy supply at our Holzminden site. The core element is the generation of electricity age of water – we also have sites in regions that for the site through cogeneration capabilities. High-pressure steam will be generated are currently confronted with these issues, or will in a new boiler which will power a turbine and eventually be used as process steam be at some point in the future. Although we have in the plant. The turbine will drive a generator, which will produce about one-third of already taken the conscious step at these sites of the electrical energy needed at the Holzminden site. using production processes that use as little water as possible, we have also launched a number of Along with long-term cost savings and added supply security, the system also aligns programs designed to further reduce water conwith Symrise AG’s environmental activities. The highly efficient, resource-conserving sumption and to improve how wastewater is treatand low-emission system should become operational in 2015. The investment will ed. We focus both on technology and on the conamount to about € 20 million. sumption behavior of every employee. For instance, we were able to make considerable improvements to wastewater values in 2012 at our plant in Egypt as a result of new wastewater treatment facilities. Wastewater can now be used for irrigation. At many locations in places such as Brazil, Colombia or Singapore, we have also started training courses COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 97 Environment kilogram of product sold. Wastewater contaminated with heavy metals is produced in a very limited amount at Symrise. Water Efficiency in Egypt We aim to reduce our solid waste volumes further, In 2012, the Symrise Operations Team in Egypt developed a new system for treating cutting them by 33 % per ton of product sold by wastewater. Thanks to the special recycling process, we save not only about 1.35 million 2020 (based on 2010 levels). Our waste manageliters of water per year, we also improve our energy and CO2 impacts due to greater ment consists of waste avoidance, thermal recyprocess efficiency. cling of waste to generate energy, reuse of waste and, wherever possible, recycling. We had to adjust our figures for 2010 and 2011 retroactively due to sensitize employees and provide them with to the more precise collection of data and to inmeasures they can employ so that each and every clude disposals from two sites that were reported one of them learns how to use water efficiently. later. In 2012, we thus managed to reduce our Wherever possible, we make multiple use of water relative waste volume by 10.7 % compared with in our production by recycling it ourselves. 2010 and made good progress toward achieving our target. In absolute terms, the reduction totaled Symrise is globally committed to an efficient and around 1,500 tons. Chemicals, oils or solid waste careful use of water: By 2020, we aim to reduce were not released into the environment in material our water consumption per product unit sold by a quantities in the reporting period. However, there third. In 2012, we consumed 2.37 million cubic was an incident at the Holzminden site involving meters of water, or 11.77 cubic meters per ton of the processing of natural substances in 2012: product sold. Compared to the base year of 2010, Ammonia escaped from the building’s cooling sysour water consumption per product unit sold thus tem. The building was immediately evacuated, the fell by 2.4 %. emergency services were notified and the Symrise crisis team took action. Readings in the building By the same token, our aim is to reduce our relawere well below the warning limit and at no time tive wastewater volumes by a third per kilogram was ammonia detected outside the building. of product sold by 2020. In 2012, we produced 2.07 million cubic meters of wastewater, or 10.30 As in 2011, a shift in the ratio of hazardous to noncubic meters per ton of product sold. Compared hazardous waste continued during the reporting to 2010, our wastewater discharge per kilogram period. Due to the rising demand for natural prodof product sold thus fell by 9.9 %. ucts, especially in our Flavor & Nutrition division, the quantity of compostable waste rose consideraIn general, our wastewater is not very polluted bly in comparison to 2010 by 1,000 tons. On the and special treatment is not required. Preliminary other hand, process optimization, mainly in chemicleansing takes place at the production facility, cal production and water processing, led in 2012 and the wastewater is then fed into the municipal to an absolute decline of 23.5 % in the output of hazsewage system. We nonetheless want to keep our ardous waste. Our initiatives in green chemistry emissions into the sewage system as low as possiand research into atom-economical reactions conble and check the condition of the water at regular tribute toward this increase in efficiency. intervals. A key figure in this connection is the chemical oxygen demand (COD). Over the past three years, we have succeeded in reducing this figure by 2.9 % per product unit sold. In 2012, the average COD value at Symrise came to 17.81 grams per 98 We also aim for efficiency with regard to packagOnly two of Symrise’s facilities are located in or ing: The bulk containers used at Symrise are tank adjacent to conservation areas: our development containers, intermediate bulk containers (IBCs) center in Cotia, Brazil and our plant in Vohemar, and barrels. They are reused or, if that is not posMadagascar. The former borders on the Mata sible, recycled. For small containers, we use disAtlântica – the Atlantic rainforest – which, due posable packaging for logistics reasons. Our logisto its extraordinarily high biodiversity level, tics services subsidiary, Symotion GmbH, optiis one the world’s top five biodiversity hot spots mizes this packaging continuously in respect of and deserves particular care as a result of its both the economic and ecological implications status as a designated UNESCO biosphere reserve. and of product safety and occupational health and We have undertaken to protect and preserve this safety aspects. forested region, as well as to ensure that our business activities have no negative impact on it THE BASIS AND FUTURE OF OUR BUSINESS: whatsoever. BIODIVERSIT Y Nature and its biodiversity is an irreplaceable source of natural resources for us. Moreover, we continually draw on nature for inspiration when looking for new flavors and fragrances, as well as for active substances and functional ingredients. Preserving biodiversity is therefore fundamentally in our own interest as an industry. With this in mind, rigorously confronting our own impact on biodiversity constitutes, first and foremost, a form of risk management with regard to the longterm availability of resources. In 2011 and 2012, we took part in a biodiversity check conducted by the Global Nature Fund and the management consulting company dokeo to address industry-specific issues related to the effect of business activities on biodiversity. The check was funded as part of the EU Life program. The aim of this check was to obtain an overview of the often complex interactions between biodiversity and our own business activities and to consider these from the point of view of possibilities to exert influence, opportunities and risks across the product life cycle. The results show that Symrise has recognized the importance of this issue and that it sets itself apart in terms of its commitment, clear responsibilities and regular materiality analyses. Never the“Business & Biodiversity” less, there is still the need for action with regard As part of an EU-sponsored campaign, Symrise underwent a biodiversity check in to the more systematic ascertainment of direct and 2012. The analysis performed by dokeo and the Global Nature Fund is a tool for the indirect influences on biodiversity, including deintegration of biodiversity risks in environmental management. The identification veloping concrete indicators that measure effectiveof strategic raw materials, potential regions of risk and the recommendation of speness. cific measures were the focus of the activities. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 99 Environment Madagascar, too, is one of the world’s biodiversity With our measures to safeguard the sustainable hot spots most worth protecting. Our site in the availability of resources and our extensive enviSava region is not directly located in a protected ronmental protection targets, we make a key conarea. It has only a limited impact on the local entribution to creating the preconditions necessary vironment as only fermentation and extraction proto preserve biodiversity. Building upon the biodicesses are carried out there. We have initiated versity check, we will intensify our strategic apa variety of measures to reduce our impact in the proach and develop suitable measures to analyze medium term. Integrated measures such as those our impact at important sites, including those not undertaken in Madagascar, where projects aimed located in conservation areas, to expand our cooperat maintaining biodiversity are supported systemation with scientific and social actors and to include atically, are trailblazers in this area. our employees even more strongly in this mission. TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS: SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 in gigajoules per ton of product sold in kg per ton of product sold Direct energy: Gas Fuel Scope 1 Indirect energy: Steam Electricity Scope 2 1,000 10 2.31 800 8 2.29 2.24 2.21 2.20 400.25 394.69 384.18 386.31 360.58 600 6 3.02 2.68 2.74 2.62 2.51 4 400 3.59 3.58 3.29 3.22 463.79 437.29 422.83 3.25 410.13 403.00 2 200 0.81 0.79 0.78 0.84 0.71 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 * Due to a change in the calculation method, the figures for previous years have been adjusted. However, the underlying trend remains unchanged. ENERGY CONSUMP TION BY ENERGY SOURCE IN 2012 Gas Fuel 29 % 38 % Steam Electricity non renewable 8% 19 % Electricity renewable 3% 3% Electricity nuclear 100 % = 8.67 gigajoules per ton of product sold in 2012 100 TOTAL WATER WITHDR AWAL WATER WITHDR AWAL IN 2012 BY SOURCE in m³ per ton of product sold 15 Municipal Groundwater 13.84 32 % 35 % 13.07 12.06 11.95 11.77 12 Surface 33 % 9 100 % = 2,365,770 m³ in 2012 6 3 0 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 TOTAL WASTE WATER VOLUME WASTEWATER: CHEMICAL OX YGEN DEMAND in m³ per ton of product sold in kg per ton of product sold 30 15 25.26 12.82 12.30 25 23.98 12 11.43 11.19 10.30 19.82 20 18.34 17.81 9 15 6 10 3 5 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 TOTAL WASTEWATER VOLUME FOR 2012 BY DESTINATION Truck Non-point source discharge Defined point 2% 100 % 2% 96 % 100 % = 2,070,300 m³ in 2012 COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 101 Environment TOTAL WASTE VOLUME: HA Z ARDOUS AND NON HA Z ARDOUS WASTE in kg per ton of product sold Hazardous waste 100 Non-hazardous waste 80 77.75 72.94 70 67.61 65.80 61.38 64.01 60 55.57 55.52 57.44 51.72 50 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010* 2011* 2012 TOTAL WASTE VOLUME IN 2012 BY DISPOSAL METHOD Incineration 44 % Recycling 18 % Biogas plant 17 % Chemical-physical treatment 5% Landfill Composting 3% 7% Waste treatment – Other 1% 5% Wastewater treatment 100 % = 23,622 tons in 2012 * Due to a change in the calculation method, the figures for previous years have been adjusted. However, the underlying trend remains unchanged. 102 Employees Motivated and qualified employees are the basis for Symrise’s success. In a close, cooperative relationship, we require performance, dedication and team spirit. At the same time, we support the professional development of our employees with a comprehensive education and training concept, giving them freedom to take responsibility when performing tasks, and make every effort to promote their career development with different career paths for specialist or management careers. CHALLENGES FOR A SUSTAINABLE PERSONNEL P OLICY REQUIREMENTS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS Competition for Young Employees Personnel Development Building and Retaining Know-how Diversity and Equality of Opportunity Workforce Productivity Training and Continuing Education Demographic Change Work Safety Change in the Working World Health Services for Employees Building upon the results of the 2010 employee Very good teamwork exists, with mutual engagement survey, we carried out another standsupport and appreciation among colleagues. ardized employee engagement survey in 2012, Challenges are mastered together. which gave our employees the opportunity to name Symrise managers do a good job and help the strengths and weaknesses of their company their employees with problems. and to alert management to existing shortcomings Employees can be proud of Symrise, its prodand areas requiring action. The standardized ucts and the service it provides. approach allows us to make a direct comparison with other companies. The employee commitBut that doesn’t mean there isn’t room for improvement index – an index that reflects employees’ satment: We can continue to improve our position as isfaction with and relationship to the company – an employer in growth markets. We will do this in placed Symrise in the top 15 % of the most popu2013 by way of various measures focusing on emlar German employers. We are proud of this. ployee motivation and loyalty. Overall, employees desire more development and career prospects and The 2012 employee engagement survey illustrated increased commitment to professional development the clear strengths Symrise has as an employer. and training. Internal communication and the flow Our employees think that: of information should be further improved; employees would like to know more about customer and Symrise offers interesting work assignments market trends as well as about the strategic alignwith individual room for maneuver and deciment of their business division and the company sion-making freedom. as a whole. Furthermore, the need for compatibiliEmployees can make use of their knowledge ty between professional and private life has gained and skills. significantly in importance. Here Symrise has alCOMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 103 Employees “A look at the detailed evaluations shows that our employees around the globe are proud to be a part of this company.” “On average, commitment is pleasingly high in the countries that were surveyed for the first time in 2012.” “Symrise Germany is among the top 15 % nationally in the areas of employee satisfaction of all companies and motivation.” “We will perform a cause analysis and seek out solutions in dialogue with the employees in areas where further action is needed.” Worldwide Commitment In 2012, we once again performed a comprehensive employee engagement survey at our locations in Brazil, China, Germany, France, India, Mexico, Singapore and the United States. The detailed answers and high rate of participation at 76 % show that our employees are actively interested in helping shape the future of our company. The results provided us with a comprehensive view of our company’s strengths and weaknesses and highlighted specific areas for potential improvement. Together with our employees, we are actively working towards finding sustainable solutions that will solidify our goal of being an employer of choice. 104 ready sent the right signals with the use of flexiThe fluctuation rate is yet another indicator which ble working time models and a cooperation with provides insight into the motivation and satisfacpreschools and childcare facilities. tion of employees. Overall, the worldwide fluctuation rate is pleasingly low. Based on local and reWe take feedback from employees very seriously gional benchmarks, Symrise performs very well and will address the issues employees deemed as and is able to retain its employees. needing improvement with a variety of measures. A continuous process of change was launched in The slightly higher fluctuation rate in Latin Ameri2012, in which we will gradually develop our orca is largely due to the relocation of our Brazilian ganization further. Furthermore, we regularly production facility from São Paulo to Sorocaba. The evaluate remuneration and company benefits, admove was completed in 2012, following intensive justing them to the current standards. An example preparations in 2011, which included workshops for here is our cooperation with local preschools to faemployees, individual orientation aids and targetcilitate the compatibility of professional and family ed communication measures. Generally speaking, life. Other examples include our company pension we include our employees in operational changes plan, attractive health care and health insurance. in a comprehensive and timely manner. We comply Symrise works worldwide on appropriate concepts. with any local or national statutory notification requirements and deadlines. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER REGION 2010 2011 2012 ABSOLUTE 2012 Germany 1.3 % 1.5 % 34 1.4 % EAME (not including Germany) 5.4 % 6.1 % 39 5.6 % North America 2.4 % 4.9 % 16 2.6 % Asia / Pacific 12.0 % 10.4 % 154 14.1 % Latin America 10.5 % 11.2 % 54 6.5 % Total 5.1 % 5.5 % 297 5.3 % GERMANY BY GENDER Female – – 13 0.5% Male – – 21 0.9% Total – – 34 1.4% WORLDWIDE BY GENDER Female – – 134 2.4% Male – – 163 2.9% Total – – 297 5.3% Definition: Share of employees that leave the company at their own request each year compared to the average workforce. Basis: Fixed-term and permanent employees; not including apprentices Data collection was expanded in 2012 so that a gender-specific presentation will also be possible in the future. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 105 Employees Welcome to Symrise! 45 young people began their training at Symrise in September 2012 as part of a total of eight occupational training programs. PRINCIPLES OF THE PERSONNEL P OLICY YOUNG TALENT AND PERSONNEL Our Integrated Management System is based on DE VELOPMENT the provisions of the SA 8000 social accountabiliSymrise adopts a wide range of approaches in ty standard. This standard is based on the conits endeavor to recruit and systematically promote ventions of the International Labour Organization qualified employees. In internships geared toward (ILO), the Universal Declaration of Human Rights preparation for a career, every year Symrise offers and the UN Convention on Children’s Rights. The many school pupils and college students around standard is already binding across the entire the world the opportunity to gain insights into the Symrise Group. It is a matter of course for us that company’s work processes. In order to acquire we view humane working conditions, decent emwell-qualified apprentices for Symrise, we mainployment and the consideration of the social astain close contacts with schools and vocational pects of employment as a precondition for our accolleges in the form of partnerships with student tivities at every site. Any kind of abuse of employenterprises, holding project days and participatees’ rights or safety at work provisions is illegal ing in career guidance measures and e-learning and is not tolerated at Symrise. We guarantee a projects. In 2012, Symrise once again organized compensation that, at the very least, corresponds a “Training Day” for interested pupils and parents to the legal or standard wage levels for the respecat the company headquarters in Holzminden, in tive industry. With regard to working hours and order to give them an early opportunity to gain an paid vacation, Symrise complies with local statuinsight into the working world. As of December 31, tory provisions, wage agreements and national 2012, 130 apprentices and trainees were employed practices in the countries where we operate. We at our sites in Germany. This corresponds to a also attach great importance to participation by training rate of around 5 %. employees representatives in the spirit of partnership. Treating the interests of our employees fairly In addition, we offer students the opportunity to also means that we base our remuneration policy become acquainted with Symrise through apprenon the collective agreements for our industry. A ticeships or programs for students working toclear commitment to freedom of association and wards their bachelor’s or master’s degrees. About the right to membership in a labor union are a 80 students take advantage of this opportunity matter of course for us. Around the world, the overevery year. Symrise also maintains close contact whelming majority of our employees are covered with universities and other continuing education by collective bargaining agreements. In Germany, institutions and regularly takes part in university the figure is 100 %. There were no strikes in the recruitment fairs. Overall, we have observed that company in 2012. Symrise is viewed as a very attractive employer, especially within our industry’s job market. New employees often find our corporate culture inspiring. 106 EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO CONTR ACT T YPE AND WORKING HOURS SHARE IN SHARE IN CHANGE IN 2010 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 GERMANY GERMANY GERMANY GLOBAL GERMANY GLOBAL GERMANY Permanent contracts Full time 1,959 2,036 2,064 5,254 83.5 % 90.5 % 1.4 % Part time 282 284 289 341 11.7 % 5.9 % 1.8 % Total 2,241 2,320 2,353 5,595 95.2 % 96.4 % 1.4 % Fixed-term contracts Full time 130 91 102 188 4.2 % 3.2 % 12.1 % Part time 17 16 16 21 0.6 % 0.4 % 0.0 % Total 147 107 118 209 4.8 % 3.6 % 10.3 % Total Full time 2,089 2,127 2,166 5,442 87.7 % 93.8 % 1.8 % Part time 299 300 305 362 12.3 % 6.2 % 1.7 % Total 2,388 2,427 2,471 5,804 100.0 % 100.0 % 1.8 % Basis: Employee figures, not including apprentices and temporary workers As of December 31 of the respective year EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO CONTR ACT T YPE: GLOBAL CONTRACT TYPE 2010 2011 2012 SHARE IN 2012 CHANGE IN 2012 Permanent contracts 5,054 5,200 5,471 96.5 % 5.2 % Fixed-term contracts 234 234 198 3.5 % – 15.4 % Total 5,288 5,434 5,669 100.0 % 4.3 % Basis: Full-time equivalents (FTE), not including apprentices and temporary workers As of December 31 of the respective year EMPLOYEES ACCORDING TO REGION REGION 2010 2011 2012 SHARE IN 2012 CHANGE IN 2012 Germany 2,271 2,310 2,352 41.5 % 1.8 % EAME not including Germany 737 732 757 13.4 % 3.4 % North America 628 613 641 11.3 % 4.6 % Asia / Pacific 904 1,027 1,113 19.6 % 8.4 % Latin America 748 752 806 14.2 % 7.2 % Total (not including apprentices and trainees) 5,288 5,434 5,669 100.0 % 4.3 % Trainees and apprentices 116 123 130 5.7 % Total 5,404 5,557 5,799 4.4 % Basis: Full-time equivalents (FTE), not including apprentices and temporary workers As of December 31 of the respective year COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 107 Employees Personal development in the sense of lifelong As early as 2009, we launched a further training learning is gaining in importance for everyone initiative that was aimed specifically at laboratory individually and for us as a company too. That and production employees. As part of this, unis why we strive to assist our employees in this skilled and semi-skilled employees are able to train endeavor and to promote their competencies in for a qualification as a mixing specialist or flavor a targeted manner. By means of a wide range of specialist. In addition, chemical workers can train further and in-service training programs, we to become process chemical technicians, which offer our employees an opportunity to develop involves learning the basics of chemistry, quality their skills continuously. All Symrise employees control and good production practice along with are offered safety training, language courses the risk potential associated with various chemical and courses in project management and data proproducts and processes. Qualification as an adcessing. In 2012, we finalized a wage agreement vanced laboratory technician is open to chemical regarding further training with social partners in lab technicians and concentrates on subjects such Germany that should help foster the systematic as the basics of process engineering, biotechnology, promotion of our employees in addition to existing customer communication and negotiating techinitiatives. This is part of Symrise’s clear comnique as well as the patent system. We also offer mitment to personnel development at all levels, training courses for managers in the Symrise including those employees covered by wage agreeGroup as part of the Leadership Academy. An esments. Lifelong learning is a matter of course at sential component of their development as manSymrise. agers is 360° feedback. The goal is to provide employees with comprehensive feedback and systematically encourage their professional development: “Feedback is a gift” is our motto. In 2012, worldwide expenses for further training measures were nearly unchanged from the previous year at about € 2.5 million. Our global career@ symrise initiative forms an important milestone on our way to an integrated development of our employees’ careers by providing a Group-wide software solution for comprehensive personnel management. Following the introduction in 2011 and 2012 of the global performance review process, which involves the systematic evaluation of competences and the agreement of personnel development measures alongside target agreements, we implemented the second module, which deals with succession planning, later in 2012. This way we will be in the position to control the appointment of our key positions on a global level and to make even better use of our potential internationally. With International Inspiration this instrument, employees themselves have the Global perfumer training has a long tradition at Symrise. We offer talented youngsters chance to create their own profiles and to make training that goes well beyond knowledge of raw materials, encouraging their creativity their career goals transparent. This helps to supand enabling them to achieve peak performances. This also includes a visit to the lavender fields in the “Alpes de Haute Provence” in southern France as well as the city of Grasse – considered by many to be the perfume capital of the world. Our perfumer schools are part of the Symrise Perfumers’ Academy, which promotes the continuous development of our creative specialists around the world. 108 career @ port the intensive dialogue between managers and employees with regard to career development. The plan in 2013 is to introduce a module to improve global training management. In this way, we grow closer to our goal of turning Symrise into the “employer of choice” for employees locatsymrise ed around the world. career@symrise: Phase 2 At the start of 2012, our company began an initiative for an integrated approach to During the performance review, we engage in inemployee promotion and development with career@symrise. Along with the target tensive dialogue with our employees, agree on agreement process, career and succession planning are now also integrated into the targets, evaluate qualifications and competences, corresponding online platform. With these changes, every employee should have and set yearly personnel development measures. the opportunity to showcase their skills, define their career aspirations and advance Symrise published its new set of values at the bein the company in close dialogue with their superiors. ginning of 2012. Our values include a clear commitment to our employees and their promotion within the company. ever, the proportion in senior management is significantly lower at 21.1 % (in Germany). We aim DIVERSIT Y AND EQUALIT Y OF OPP ORTUNIT Y to continue to increase this share by means of tarDifferent talents, cultures and views enrich our geted succession planning and a corresponding company and help us to develop new solutions for mentoring program. our various global customers, markets and consumer requirements, and to implement existing reRather than adopt an inflexible quota arrangequirements in the best way possible. We see the ment, we rely on targeted incentives within the great religious, ethnic, gender, age and cultural discope of our Talent Management Process and siversity of our employees as being both inspiring multaneously create a structured basis for these and a key factor for our success. Our diversity proincentives. One such precondition is the opporgram comprises guidelines for the recruitment and tunity to reconcile a family and a career. Symrise development of personnel with a view to actively offers its employees flexible working time models, promoting this diversity. part-time employment and job sharing. In Germany alone, around 92 % of our employees can arAs a general rule, we fill vacancies in the Symrise range their working time flexibly. Furthermore, Group solely on the basis of the internal or exwe cooperate with day care centers at our headternal applicant’s professional qualification and quarters in Holzminden to make child care easier. individual performance. If the qualifications are Equal pay for both men and women is a matter of equal, we give preference to internal applicants course for us. In many countries, wage agreements in view of our responsibility as an employer. The govern our employees’ pay. By means of pay caoverwhelming majority of our employees and mantegories, we ensure that remuneration is based on agement personnel at our global locations come qualification, responsibility and performance and from the country in question. On the other hand, that gender-specific differences for equal work are we also welcome intercultural workplaces and ruled out. For those employees not covered by wage diversity, which we actively promote with our peragreements, our job grade model ensures transparsonnel development measures. Another focal ency and fairness of remuneration. point in our striving for greater diversity is to increase the number of women in management in the medium term. In all, the proportion of women in the Group amounted to 39.6 % in 2012. HowCOMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 109 Employees EMPLOYEE CATEGORIES ACCORDING TO GENDER IN GERMANY 2011 SHARE IN 2011 2012 SHARE IN % Manager Male 282 11.6 % 292 11.8 % Female 75 3.1 % 78 3.2 % Total 357 14.7 % 370 15.0 % Non-manager Male 1,361 56.1 % 1,385 56.1 % Female 709 29.2 % 716 28.9 % Total 2,070 85.3 % 2,101 85.0 % Total workforce Male 1,643 67.7 % 1,677 67.9 % Female 784 32.3 % 794 32.1 % Total 2,427 100.0 % 2,471 100.0 % Definition: Managers, including junior managers, defined as non-tariff employees or managerial employees. Basis: Employee figures, not including apprentices and temporary workers. As of December 31, 2012 EMPLOYEE CATEGORIES ACCORDING TO AGE IN GERMANY AGE MANAGER SHARE IN % NON-MANAGER SHARE IN % TOTAL SHARE IN % 20 – 29 1 0.3 % 293 13.9 % 294 11.9 % 30 – 39 63 17.0 % 460 21.9 % 523 21.2 % 40 – 49 166 44.9 % 763 36.3 % 929 37.6 % 50 – 59 121 32.7 % 531 25.3 % 652 26.4 % 60 and older 19 5.1 % 54 2.6 % 73 2.9 % Total 370 100.0 % 2,101 100.0 % 2,471 100.0 % Definition: Managers, including junior managers, defined as non-tariff employees or managerial employees. Basis: Employee figures, not including apprentices and temporary workers. As of December 31, 2012 COMP OSITION OF THE E XECUTIVE AND SUPERVISORY BOARDS ACCORDING TO GENDER EXECUTIVE BOARD SHARE IN % SUPERVISORY BOARD SHARE IN % Male 4 100 % 9 75 % Female 0 0% 3 25 % Total 4 100 % 12 100 % As of December 31, 2012 110 In terms of age range, employees between the our personnel policy. At nearly all sites around ages of 30 and 49 dominate the workforce at the the world, we offer our employees a wide range Symrise Group, with a share of 62 %. A demoof health promotion activities. We thereby support graphic analysis of the workforce conducted at and maintain the professional capability of our the end of 2010 indicated that demographic develemployees at the same time. The nature and scope opment will be very steady in the next ten years. of these offerings are always geared to the speThe natural reduction of the workforce due to recific requirements of the workforce in question. tirement will be around 1 % or less per year until They range from free vaccinations and regular 2020. health checks to in-house and external sport and wellness facilities and advice to medically coorOCCUPATIONAL HE ALTH AND SAFE T Y dinated reintegration after a lengthy illness. If all All employees are entitled to a workplace that is in-house health management activities in Gerfree from health and safety hazards. A large nummany are combined, we reached approximately ber of programs and measures are held globally 900 employees in 2012. every year to help ensure safety at work. Due to different local circumstances and requirements, Many of the health promotion and maintenance the specific measures are controlled by local sysservices that we provide in Germany are also availtems and working groups at their own discretion. able at other locations. In the US, we run programs Measures and projects initiated in 2012 generally such as “Simply Healthy” in order to raise employmade a contribution toward further improvements ee awareness while, in Asia, we inform and train in occupational safety at Symrise. Moreover, our our employees over the course of health and safety facilities in Holzminden and the subsidiaries weeks. Since there are insufficient public health Symotion and TESIUM were successfully certicare systems in a number of countries, we also fied according to OHSAS 18000 in early 2012. provide employees in these areas with additional health insurance in order to ensure that health Regular training courses in safety at work are care is available to our employees. compulsory at Symrise across the Group. As a matter of principle, we investigate every accident and its causes in detail. In production divisions, we use the “kaizen” method in the case of serious accidents. Jointly with employees in the division affected, we draw up an action plan to prevent similar accidents from occurring in the future. However, we recorded an increase in the rate of accidents, including serious ones, in 2012. We have set up a dedicated task force to analyze the situation and develop appropriate countermeasures. Symply Healthy We take this matter very seriously and will inIn 2011, we started a targeted revision of our measures on health precautions at our volve all management personnel in it. sites in the USA under the name “symply healthy.” After a comprehensive analysis of the various ongoing projects, we are now working on integrating and further expanding Just as we advocate for the cause of safety at work, these as part of a comprehensive health culture. Our employees’ health is a central health precautions are an important aspect of concern for us in every country. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 111 Employees Within the framework of our “Sports & Culture” Health at Work program, we offer employees various physical recThree years ago, Symrise AG began an active health reation opportunities such as soccer, Kara-T-Romanagement system in cooperation with the Works bic, jogging, volleyball, power walking or yoga, so Council in Germany. The results of the current corpothat it is possible to remain healthy and fit outrate health audit are clear evidence of its success. side of professional activities. We also attach great The number of points increased compared to the preimportance to “operational health management” vious year from 338 to 368 out of a possible 400. and have agreed with the company’s social partThe corporate health audit examines and assesses ners on a program that includes further training health-promoting measures for employees in comand educational events. To recognize and minimize panies. Symrise was given the grade “excellent” and ergonomic burdens, health circles were set up therefore belongs to the top group of German com368 with certain focal points and work stations were panies. systematically analyzed for weaknesses. Here, employees can get ergonomic advice, with Symrise covering the costs. In addition, Symrise regularly organizes health days on key issues such as healthy nutrition, stress management and many others. In the management training program, the issue of “addiction and addiction prevention” is addressed. P OINTS IN 2012 338 P OINTS IN 2011 NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS (MAQ ) ACCIDENT SE VERIT Y (USQ ) 8 120 7.0 7 99 100 6 5.3 5.0 80 5 63 4 60 55 3.2 43 3 40 2 20 1 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of reportable accidents1 x 1,000,000 / Number of working hours 1 Reportable accidents > 1 working day Number of lost working days x 1,000,000 / Number of working hours 112 Society Companies with a one-dimensional focus on commercial success run the risk of losing the most important basis for business: trust. That’s why we actively assume our entrepreneurial responsibility along the entire value creation chain, expanding our commitment beyond our core business into the areas of health, nutrition, sports, culture and education. CHALLENGES FOR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS IN SOCIE T Y REQUIREMENTS OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS Reputation and Visibility Contribution to Local Economy Employee Identification Equitable Distribution of Yields Across Value Chain Minimizing Procurement Risks Support and Promotion of Local Infrastructure Developments Interest in a Business-Friendly Regulatory Environment Donations and Sponsoring Symrise accepts responsibility: We are conscious IN DIALOGUE of our influence on the society in which we work A more detailed understanding of our company’s and live. At the same time, we need our employees, influence on its surrounding environment is only business partners and local communities to acpossible in dialogue with the local communities cept us and trust us as a responsible partner in and neighbors of our over thirty locations worldorder to be a successful company. We sell our wide. We involve the local communities at an early products on a global market and, likewise, gather stage when it comes to major changes, such as the raw materials we need to manufacture them building projects or production expansions, with from nearly every corner of the world. That is why our plans for installing a new boiler facility in the concept of shared value is a primary guiding Holzminden in 2012 as a recent example. We proprinciple for our business. We want to increase our vide our neighbors with comprehensive inforcompetitiveness while simultaneously enhancing mation and take their concerns into consideration. the economic and social conditions of society. At our corporate headquarters in Holzminden, we inform the residents about our current business Sustainability, integrity and commitment are imactivities, local topics and our social commitments portant guidelines and standard components of via a regularly published community newsletter. our corporate values. We want to influence our enOdor emissions from our production facilities are vironment in such a way that not only our comjust one of the important issues for nearby resipany – but also our employees, customers and sodents. In order to keep odor pollution to a minimum, ciety at large – can achieve positive and sustainable development. “Because we care…” “Because we care” is the guiding principle summarizing our entrepreneurial responsibility. This simple yet expressive statement reflects both our strategic focus and our professional passion for the topic of sustainability – with regard to everything from sourcing to our employees, sites, products and society. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 113 Society have structures in place to not only conduct trade, but also to support and promote the local economies in a targeted manner. We do not view ourselves as outsiders in these regions, but rather as part of the local communities near our sites. By keeping the major processing steps in the country of origin, we also increase local value creation. For Symrise, this approach secures the long-term supply of raw materials, optimizes quality and yields, and provides maximum transparency for our customers. We believe that our responsible sourcing model establishes the basis for long-term and balanced business relationships and helps us achieve our goal of being a respected member of the community. The resulting trust that Multipliers we gain from this fair approach benefits both us As part of the permanent expansion of our internal sustainability network, 15 employand our customers. In Madagascar, we know the ees in Brazil came together to inspire their colleagues with specific ideas and worthbest areas in which to take action with regard to while examples for sustainability activities that individuals can live by on a daily basis. nutrition, health and education in order to improve The “Symlive Team” has an ambitious goal: By the end of 2013, the committee aims to the socioeconomic situation of the Madagascan no longer be as a committee of 15 people, but rather a group of 350 maybe even more… vanilla farmers and their families, thanks to an intensive dialogue with the farmers and coopewe continuously invest in modern filter systems ratives. In the long run, we benefit from well-edand in improving our existing systems. Regeneraucated and motivated business partners and tive thermal exhaust air cleaning systems are alworkers as well as from secured access to highready in use at many sites, enabling us to achieve quality resources. considerable improvements in this area. The local procurement and processing of our naThe conservation of natural surroundings near our tural raw materials is also consistent with the nasites is one of our primary concerns and one that ture of our business activities. In fact, Symrise’s we share with local residents. With the opening of predecessor company consciously decided to base our new innovation center in Brazil, we have beitself in Holzminden because of the proximity to come neighbors with a portion of the Mata Atlânnecessary raw materials. We continue to follow this tica, the Brazilian rainforest. We see it as our reprinciple and work to ensure that we are a respectsponsibility as good neighbors to protect and preed member of our local communities. serve its rich biodiversity. It goes without saying that the constant evaluation of our company’s imEMPLOYEES LE AD THE WAY pact on the environment is one of our obligations. The deep-rooted relationships with local communities is primarily thanks to our staff. A large LOCAL VALUE CRE ATION part of our personnel consists of local employees. A central element of our procurement policy aims Over 90 % of the management staff are from the to produce and process important raw materials local area. For the most part, we recruit our emnear to the regions where they are cultivated. We ployees from the country in which we are opercontinue to maintain close partnerships with ating, often even from the immediate vicinity of many of our local producers and suppliers, many our sites. As a result, many of the initial impulses of whom have been our partners for years. Parfor charitable projects come directly from our emticularly in Brazil and Madagascar, our main supployees themselves. We appreciate and encourage plier countries for citrus fruits and vanilla, we this kind of thinking and behavior, which shows 114 sense of entrepreneurial responsibility. These ambassadors motivate and inspire us to take on even more social responsibility using various strategies. They organize workshops, initiate projects and contribute to a greater integration of sustainability in our day-to-day activities by way of targeted initiatives. It is our aim to have every employee contribute to the sustainability of our company and business activities. DONATIONS AND SP ONSORING We help satisfy peoples’ basic needs with our products for the perfume, cosmetic, pharmaceutical and food industries. Nutrition, hygiene, skin protection, care and wellness are just as important for the success of our business as they are for soci“Work for a cause and not for applause ” ety. That’s why we offer support beyond our busiDedicated employees from all departments at Symrise in India have joined forces ness activities for organizations, institutions and to follow this motto. One of the most active sustainability teams in the world, they orprojects that make a non-profit contribution to ganize donation drives for sick children, homeless people and others in need – motithese areas. Actual local needs and added value vating the entire staff to help out. They have organized blood drives to make the free for the community are of the highest priority. Betreatment of children at a public clinic possible and have come together to perform fore we initiate or sponsor larger projects, we pervolunteer work. Many other initiatives benefiting the environment and local employees form needs analyses. have also been carried out. In order to establish suitable focal points and enthe independence and commitment of our employsure that our commitment focuses on local needs, ees, as another element of our social responsibiwe place great value on engaging in dialogue with lity and provide them with material and financial the areas and communities in which we operate. So support. We want employees that identify with while our global donation and sponsorship activiour company and its values and reflect these valties may be coordinated centrally, our local compaues externally. Committed employees are the key nies themselves decide upon and implement them. to becoming an accepted participant in the local In this way, we live up to our commitment to procommunity. vide funding at the local and regional levels. With corresponding guidelines, we promote both interVoluntary initiatives that take part in social pronal and external transparency, ensure that funds jects and ensure that we have a targeted positive are allocated throughout the globe in accordance influence on the local community have been startwith uniform principles and that all of our doed at nearly every site. In 2012, for instance, emnations are in keeping with our overall corporate ployees in India developed ideas that would benefit strategy. The business units involved are responboth the company and society. The result was a sible for ensuring donations are allocated correctlist of projects with direct relevance for the local ly, in accordance with these guidelines and the community. Symrise now supports, among others, Symrise Code of Conduct. Adherence to regulations a local project that offers shelter and assistance to is examined as part of regular audits conducted mentally ill women who were forced to leave their by Internal Audit. We generally do not support orhomes and live on the streets. ganizations whose aim is contrary to our Code of Conduct or whose purpose is to make a profit. A global employee network of volunteer sustainaSymrise does not donate to politicians or politibility ambassadors was initiated to solidify our cal parties. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 115 Society Thematically, we focus on the areas of health, nustemming from the UN Convention on the Rights trition, sports, culture and education. “Promoting of the Child. With the motto “UNS GEHT ’S GUT ” health through nutrition and care” receives spe(“We’re Doing Well”), the initiative focused on procial resources. In 2012, our “Naschgarten” (“Sweet jects that promoted a child’s right to health in 2012: Garden”) project claimed second place in the KinChildren and teenagers have the right to live and derHabenRechtePreis (Children Have Rights grow up in good health. We are proud that the Award), which is given by Lower Saxony’s Ministry Naschgarten is one of the 35 projects awarded. of Social Affairs, Womens’ Issues, Family, Health and Integration as well as Lower Saxony’s Kinderschutzbund (Child Protection League). Each year, this award focuses on a special children’s right Education is the Future Social Responsibility Starts at the Local Level Together with the Taiwanese Red Cross, our Symrise team in China is supporting the At our location in the Philippines, we are supporting a development of a “movable library” for aboriginal children in the Nantou province scholarship program for students from low-income famwho do not have proper and complete access to education. The remote mountainous ilies. Along with financial support for our local partner regions are especially in need of adequate teaching materials and books. China has organization Lihuk Panaghiusa, employees from Symrise been an important growth market for us for over thirty years now. As a company in also gave the youth tips and advice on professional and the region, we see it as our duty to contribute to the area’s positive development. career development opportunities as part of workshops held in 2012. We also convinced one of our customers in the area to continue to follow up on this project with us in the future. This major player in the region is now using its network to keep the ball rolling. 116 The Naschgarten was initiated in 2007 in cooperaKnowledge Transfer tion with government partners. The aim is to bring In the West African city of Accra, we have been successfully working with the local children closer to nature and to healthy eating. In university on food and flavor technology since 2011. Our company organizes a collothese days of poor diets, lack of exercise and the inquium every semester as well as various scientific studies, such as on the topic of creasingly limited scope of experience and creatimalnutrition, where talented students can participate. In this way, we are supporting vity, the Naschgarten provides children with room our growth ambitions in West Africa while bringing our know-how to the region and to develop and move around, making healthy eatproviding added value to the people living there. In the future, we will also be receiving ing an experience for all the senses. Children are additional support for our plans from the German embassy in Ghana. shown in a fun and entertaining way how plants are raised and cared for, teaching them to responsibly engage with nature. A reward awaits them in contract between the generations. We support prethe form of delicious and self-harvested vegetables schools, schools, universities and other non-profit and fruit to snack on. In 2011, the Naschgarten was institutions both in education and training as well awarded the title “Good Practice” by the health proas research. A requirement here is that the promotion association for the socially disadvantaged ject to be supported is local to one of our company (Gesundheitsförderung bei sozial Benachteiligten). sites or is relevant to our business activities. We Symrise has contributed more than € 400,000 to also encourage students to become involved in the Naschgarten project since its inception. a sustainability project as part of an internship with our company. This gives us an opportunity Due to this project’s great success, we decided to to hear new ideas and learn about innovative sostart a similar project near our site in Cleveland, lutions. Ohio, in the USA . The project “Grow With Me” focuses primarily on the goal of providing children Our support for educational facilities is especially with a greater understanding of their natural envisible in the area surrounding our site in Madavironment. Symrise is supporting the project with gascar. In 2011, we began supporting five primary donations and voluntary employee commitments. schools and two secondary schools in the farming villages of the SAVA region (Sambava, Antalaha, Aimed at minimizing social inequality, Symrise Vohemar, and Andapa). We contribute towards sealso supports the NGO Beleza & Cidadania in Brazil. curing the livelihoods of over 30 teachers, which The organization offers affordable courses and allows 2,600 children to receive an education. This training sessions in the area of personal care to support was continued in 2012 and we will conlow-income citizens. At the same time, Symrise tinue to expand on it in the coming years. uses the opportunity to more closely study the fragrance preferences and application habits of In the areas of sports and culture, we support clubs low-income workers while also testing new fraand community organizations while also encouraggrances. The results flow into new products that ing employee participation in sporting and cultural are better suited to consumer needs. events by means of initiatives within the company. In doing so, we contribute towards enriching local Truly sustainable development must bring the livsports and culture. In 2012, we invested a total of ing requirements of today into alignment with the more than € 800,000 in community interests across needs of future generations. By supporting scienthe Group. This amount includes social projects, tific advancements and providing youths with acdonations and sponsorships. cess to a quality education, we contribute to this COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 117 Society Naschgarten Receives Additional Accolades The Naschgarten, a successful community project aiming to promote healthy lifestyles for children, once again received public recognition in 2012. The project claimed second place among more than 30 competing projects in the 2012 KinderHabenRechtePreis (Children Have Rights Award) in Lower Saxony. This is now the third recognition and is a clear sign that we are on the right track with the strategy, objectives and programs we have initiated. Symrise has supported the Naschgarten as its initiator, manager and main sponsor since the project’s inception five years ago. Grow with Me Learning from nature, eating healthily and getting more exercise – these are the issues at the heart of the “Grow with Me” project at our Elyria, Ohio, site in the USA . Here, children and their parents learn how vitamin-rich fruits and vegetables are grown and made into tasty meals. At the same time, they also learn about nutrition and the role of exercise in a healthy lifestyle. Together with the Lorain Metropolitan Housing Association and a local Boys & Girls Club, we have expanded a public playground and built a garden plot in an area marked by unemployment and social probFour Strong Senses lems. The garden is maintained by the families in the housing project and the children Symrise Brazil supports the Dorina Nowill Foundation, in the Boys & Girls Club. Nutrition and horticulture education is held onsite as well. which promotes the social inclusion of visually-impaired Symrise supports the sustainability project in Elyria both financially as well as through people. The main focus of the project Perfumery for the voluntary commitment of our employees. Its aim is to create an urban garden the Visually Impaired is to develop and implement an which enables people to experience nature and become healthy through nutritious, educational program in the fragrances business. The wholesome food. company supports this program by providing training materials and opportunities to start at Symrise by way of an internship. This provides us with potential new talent and opens up new professional opportunities for these individuals. COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 119 Glossary Glossary AFF CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1,2,3) Aroma Molecules, Flavors & Fragrances The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines an international standard for recognizing and reporting the API CO2 footprint of a company. Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, comprising active substances that are used in a pharmaScope 1 describes direct greenhouse gas emisceutical end product sions from sources that belong to or are directly controlled by the company; AROMA Scope 2 describes indirect greenhouse gas A complex mix of flavors and /or fragrances often emissions that develop from the generation of based on aromatic compounds, which can be aroelectricity, steam, district heating and cooling; matic themselves Scope 3 describes all other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are not covered by Scope 2 BAL ANCED SCORECARDS (e.g. through business trips, the production of A concept for measuring, documenting and raw materials, outsourced processes) managing the company’s activities in view of its vision and strategy CITES The Convention on International Trade in EndanBIODIVERSIT Y gered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora is a treaty This refers to “the variability among living organthat aims to control the international trade of aniisms from all sources” according to the Convention mals and plants in such a way that their survival on Biological Diversity (CBD). It includes the diis not endangered versity within and among species as well as that of ecosystems DIVERSIFICATION A strategy that expands the business activity of BIOFUNCTIONAL an organization, for instance through new lines of The ability of a substance or product to bring business, products or services about a predictable function in interaction with an organism without causing undesirable effects 120 E AME GFSI Europe, Africa and the Middle East The Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) is a business-driven initiative for the continual improveEBITDA ment of management systems for food safety Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on property, plant and equipment GHG PROTOCOL and intangible assets The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the world’s most popular method used by governments and compaECOCERT nies for understanding, quantifying and managOne of the world’s largest organic certification ing greenhouse gas emissions organizations GMP GUIDELINES E THANOL GMP stands for Good Manufacturing Practice Commonly called alcohol, ethanol is widely used and comprises guidelines for ensuring the quality as a solvent for fragrances and flavors, among of production processes and environments other uses. Ethanol is also used as a base material for the synthesis of additional products GREEN CHEMISTRY This term refers to new approaches that have the F&F goal of reducing environmental pollution and enFlavors & Fragrances ergy consumption in order to carry out production in the most environmentally friendly manner posFL AVOR SPECIALIST sible. This requires the development of new technoAn additional qualification developed by Symrise logies for production employees that, in addition to mathematics, food chemistry and microbiology, also HACCP imparts knowledge regarding technologies and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points systems that are relevant for flavor production (HACCP) is a precautionary system that is supposed to ensure the safety of foods and conFREE FLOAT sumers Share capital of a public company available for trading on the stock market ICH Q 7A ICH Q7a is a guideline for good manufacturing FSSC 22000 practice with regard to pharmaceutical substancFood Safety System Certification 22000. es. ICH stands for the “International Conference A standard for ensuring food safety when on the Harmonisation of Technical Requirements manufacturing food products for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use” COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 121 Glossary ILO ISO 50001 The International Labour Organization (ILO) is a International standard for energy management. specialized agency of the United Nations which Its aim is to support companies in establishing has been commissioned with the promotion of soa systematic energy management system. It recial justice as well as human and labor rights places ISO 16001 IMS AUDIT KPI An organizational unit at Symrise that monitors Key Performance Indicator, a figure that allows and audits the integrated management system for the measurement of progress or the level of fulfillment with regard to important targets or IOFI crucial success factors International Organization of the Flavor Industry MCM ISO 9001 Macrocyclic musk compounds (MCMs) are bioInternational standard in quality management. It degradable, synthetic musk fragrances, which forms the basis for the ongoing process to imadhere significantly better to hair, skin or textile prove the company’s internal management system fibers and are an essential component of perfume oils ISO 14001 International standard in environmental manageNGO ment. Its goal is the avoidance of environmental Non-Governmental Organization impacts in harmony with business, social and political needs OHSAS 18001 Internationally recognized specification for occuISO 19011 pational safety management systems. The goal is Guideline for performing internal or external to support companies in meeting requirements audits of quality management or environmental with regard to health and safety in the workplace management systems PAS 2050 ISO 26000 First international specification for the evaluation First international guideline for corporate social of the life cycle of greenhouse gas emissions arisresponsibility. Its aim is to help companies to ing from goods and services systematically identify their social responsibilities in this complex field. PHY TOCHEMISTRY Also called plant chemistry, phytochemistry is a sub-area of biochemistry and botany that researches chemical substances in plants 122 R AINFOREST ALLIANCE SUPPLY CHAIN The Rainforest Alliance is an international nonThe organizational flow from the supplier to governmental organization. As such, it is committhe manufacturer (procurement, production, ted to the preservation of biodiversity and the sussale) to the end customer tainable conservation of the basis of life through ecological land use, socially responsible business SYMCHRONIZE ™ practices and value-based consumer behavior Symchronize™ is a Symrise initiative that aims to optimize the entire supply chain in close coopRSP O eration with customers and suppliers and thus As a central organization, the Round Table on Susachieve efficiency gains for all parties tainable Palm Oil seeks to promote sustainable cultivation methods for palm oil and thereby limit TPM environmental damage Total Productive Maintenance is a program that promotes constant improvement, particularly with SA 8000 regard to production. TPM focuses primarily on International standard for social and ethical identifying and eliminating losses and wastefulsystems. Its aim is to support companies when ness it comes to considering employees’ rights, workplace conditions and fundamental human rights WHITE BIOTECHNOLOGY as part of their business activities A new approach that uses biotechnological methods for industrial production processes. This SEDE X might mean the use of enzymes, for instance Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) is a nonprofit organization with the goal of promoting responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains SRI A Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) is an investment that takes the ethical values of the investor into account, in addition to the economic objectives of the investment COMPA NY M AG A Z I N E R E PO RT A PPE N D I X 123 Imprint Imprint PUBLISHER FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Symrise AG This Corporate Report contains forward-looking statements that are based on Mühlenfeldstrasse 1 current assumptions and fore-casts by Symrise AG. The future course of busiCorporate Communications ness and the results actually achieved by Symrise AG and its affiliates are 37603 Holzminden subject to a large number of risks and uncertainties and may therefore differ Germany substantially from the forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are T +49 55 31.90 – 0 outside of Symrise AG’s sphere of influence and cannot be assessed in detail F +49 55 31.90 – 16 49 ahead of events. They include, for example, unfavorable development of the global economy, a change in consumer behavior, and changes to laws, reguCONCEP T AND EDITING lations and official guidelines. Should one of these uncertainty factors, named PvF Investor Relations, Eschborn or otherwise, occur or should the assumptions on which the forward-looking akzente kommunikation und beratung, statements are based prove to be incorrect, the actual results may differ signifiMunich cantly from the results anticipated. Symrise undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements continuously and to adjust them to future events or CONCEP T, DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION developments. 3st kommunikation, Mainz © 2013 Symrise AG REP ORTAGE Marc-Stephan Andres, Münster The FSC ® logo identifies products which contain Dirk Böttcher, Rostock wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. PHOTOGR APHY Marcus Pietrek, Düsseldorf Pedro Colon, São Paulo PRINTED BY Westdeutsche Verlagsund Druckerei GmbH, Mörfelden-Walldorf PUBLICATION DATE OF THE REP ORT Print compensated Id-No. 1326949 March 12, 2013 www.bvdm-online.de SYMRISE ON THE INTERNE T www.symrise.com www.symrise.com/en/sustainability www.symrise.com/en/investor-relations 124 GRI Index and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Our reporting is aligned with the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), including the “Food Processing” Sector Supplement. The application level “A” has been evaluated and confirmed by the GRI (p. 118). This report also constitutes our first progress report (Communication on Progress – COP) as part of the UN Global Compact. The following index comprises references to places in this corporate report as well as in the financial report that provide information on our commitment to implementing the ten principles of the Global Compact. NO. INDICATOR AND DESCRIPTION STAT. REFERENCE / NOTE UNGC Standard Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization p. 4 7 1–10 1.2 Description of the most important effects, risks and opportunities p. 30 34 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization p. 123 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services p. 8 11; p. 6 9 2.3 Operational structure of the organization p. 8 11; p. 6 9 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters p. 5 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates p. 8 11; p. 6 9 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 6 2.7 Markets served p. 8 10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization p. 14 23, 26 28 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership p. 21, 14 23 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 16 17, 72, 85 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided ii 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ii 3.3 Reporting cycle ii 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ii 3.5 Process for defining report content ii, p. 73 75, 12 15 3.6 Boundary of the report ii 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ii 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. ii 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations ii, p. 93 97 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports p. 93, 95, 97, 99 101 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods p. 97, 99 101 3.12 GRI Content Index p. 124, v, vi 3.13 External audit and certification No external verification took place. 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Corporate Governance and governance structure of the organization p. 8 9; p. 6 1–10 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body p. 8 9; p. 6 1–10 4.3 Structure of governance bodies in organizations without Supervisory Board Not applicable. A Supervisory Board exists. 4.4 Employee and shareholder participation possibilities p. 73 75, 102 104; p. 35 37 4.5 The link between compensation for members of the highest governance body, p. 68; p. 37 41 1–10 senior managers and executives and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest p. 43 1–10 are avoided 4.7 Expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees p. 66 70; p. 43 relevant to economic, environmental and social performance 1–10 4.8 Mission statements, codes of conduct and principles relevant to sustainability p. 66 70 1–10 4.9 Method for monitoring sustainability performance p. 66 68; p. 30 1–10 4.10 Assessment of the highest managing body’s performance regarding sustainability p. 66 68; p. 43 4.11 Accounting for the precautionary approach p. 68 72; p. 30 34 7 4.12 External agreements, principles or initiatives p. 4, 77 80, 81 82, 89 1–10 4.13 Membership in associations and advocacy groups p. 72; p. 13 14 1–10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization p. 73 75 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 73 75 4.16 Approaches for the engagement of stakeholders p. 73 75 4.17 Central themes for stakeholders p. 73 75 fully disclosed partially disclosed not disclosed Corporate Report 2012 Financial Report 2012 NO. INDICATOR STAT. REFERENCE / NOTE UNGC Disclosures on Management Approach DMA SC Disclosures on management approach to procurement p. 76 77 1 10 DMA EC Disclosures on management approach to the economy p. 8 15, 60 63 1, 4, 6, 7 DMA EN Disclosures on management approach to the environment p. 92 98 7-9 DMA LA Disclosures on management approach to labor practices and decent employment p. 105, 108 111 1, 3, 6 DMA HR Disclosures on management approach to human rights p. 76 77, 108 111 1-6 DMA SO Disclosures on management approach to society p. 68 70, 88 89, 114 116 10 DMA PR Disclosures on management approach to product stewardship p. 88 89 1, 8 DMA AW Disclosures on management approach to animal treatment Symrise does not keep any animals. Performance Indicators Performance Indicators: Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 14 22; p. 116 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change p. 70 71 7-9 EC3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations p. 87 93 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government p. 19 20, 60 EC6 Business policies and practices regarding local suppliers p. 79 80 EC7 Procedure for hiring local employees p. 113 114 6 EC8 Services provided primarily for public benefit p. 114 117 Performance Indicators: Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 77 83; Exact weight and volume figures are viewed as confidential information. 8 GRI CONTENT INDEX EN2 Ratio of recyclable material to total input materials p. 77 8, 9 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy sources p. 95 96, 99 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources p. 95 96, 99 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements p. 93 96 8, 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption p. 95 96 8, 9 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 96 97, 100 8 EN11 Land use in protected areas p. 98 99 8 EN12 Significant impacts of operations on the biodiversity of protected areas p. 98 99 8 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. 94 95, 99 8 EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight p. 94 97 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions p. 97 101 7-9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight p. 95 8 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight p. 95 8 EN21 Total wastewater discharges by type and location of discharge p. 97, 100 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 97, 101 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant pollutant spills p. 97 8 EN26 Minimization of environmental impacts stemming from products and services p. 92 98 7-9 EN27 Returned packaging material p. 77 8, 9 EN28 Sanctions and monetary fines arising from non-compliance with environmental There were no significant fines from legal violations in 2012. 8 regulations Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region p. 106 LA2 Employee turnover p. 104; Based on internal investigations, we believe that a further breakdown does not provide any additional benefits relevant to sustainability. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 105 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) for significant operational changes p. 104 105 3 LA7 Work-related rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism p. 110 111; Occupational diseases and lost days are not reported as this 1 and work-related fatalities information is viewed as confidential. NO. INDICATOR STAT. REFERENCE / NOTE UNGC Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Decent Employment LA8 Precautionary measures regarding serious illnesses p. 110 111 1 LA10 Education and training per employee and employee category p. 105 108; A systematic data collection system is currently being developed LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and development reviews p. 107 108 LA13 Diversity of employees and governance bodies p. 108 110; Disclosures on minorities are not reported as this 1, 6 information is considered confidential. p. 108; Remuneration system is not gender-based. There is currently LA14 Wage differences according to gender no evidence to suggest further analysis. 1, 6 Performance Indicators: Human Rights HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses p. 79 80 1–6 HR2 Supplier checks regarding compliance with human rights p. 79 80 1–6 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Discrimination on the basis of personal characteristics is not tolerated at 1, 2, 6 Symrise. No incidences of discrimination came to light in the reporting period. HR5 Right to freedom of association and collective bargaining p. 105, 79 80 1, 2, 3 HR6 Operational activities with the risk of child labor p. 105, 79 80 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operational activities with the risk of forced labor p. 105, 79 80 1, 2, 4 Performance Indicators: Society SO1 Impact on community and society from operational activities p. 112 113 SO2 Investigations regarding corruption risks p. 68 70 10 SO3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 68 70 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption p. 70 10 SO5 Political positions, participation in political processes and lobbying p. 73 75, 115; p. 13 14 1 10 SO8 Sanctions and monetary fines from legal violations At present, only a few Group companies are affected by ongoing legal proceedings. There were no significant fines from legal violations in 2012. Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility PR1 Health impacts stemming from products along the product life cycle p. 73, 88 89 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes p. 89 concerning the impacts of products 1 PR3 Legally required product labeling p. 88 89 8 PR6 Legal conformity in advertising We do not market our products to end consumers. Our products are customtailored to the needs of our customers. We therefore do not advertise directly to consumers. PR9 Monetary fines related to product condition violations There were no significant fines from legal violations during the reporting period. Sector Indicators: Food Processing FP1 Suppliers that conform with procurement policy p. 79 80 1 10 FP2 Percentage of products purchased according to sustainability standards p. 81 82 FP3 Strike-related down-times p. 105 FP4 Programs for promoting a healthy lifestyle p. 114 117 FP5 Products from safety certified production plants p. 89 FP6 Products with reduced fat, sodium and sugar levels p. 88 FP7 Products with an increased level of fiber, vitamins, minerals, herbal or health-promop. 88 ting additives FP8 Nutritional information beyond the legal requirements We do not market our products to end consumers. FP9 Number of animals according to species Symrise does not keep any animals. FP10 Bodily changes and use of narcotics Symrise does not keep any animals. FP11 Livestock breeding Symrise does not keep any animals. FP12 Use of antibiotics, anti-inflammatory agents, hormones and/or growth enhancers Symrise does not keep any animals. FP13 Regulatory violations and non-compliance with voluntary standards regarding the Symrise does not keep any animals. treatment of animals, their transport or slaughter Financial Calendar M a r c h 12 , 2 013 Annual Press Conference/Analyst Conference Financial Year 2012 m aY 7, 2 013 Interim Report 1st Quarter 2013 m aY 14 , 2 013 Annual General Meeting, Holzminden A u g u s t 7, 2 013 Interim Report 2nd Quarter 2013 n o v e m b e r 5 , 2 013 Interim Report 3rd Quarter 2013 Symrise AG Mühlenfeldstrasse 1 37603 Holzminden Germany www.symrise.com
