November 6, 2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that R.I.S.K. Scientific Production Company CJSC reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Anar Aligioulov General Manager Relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. The human rights in the company are highly respected and all those actions are made based on requirements of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, European Convention on Human Rights as well as other international standards and domestic legislation. Actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. There are several actions to implement human rights policies and respect the rights of employees in company. We organize seminars and trainings to raise the awareness of employees on Human Rights. Human resource policies reflect rights and responsibilities of employees which is accessible to them at any time. We also implement suggestion box practice in the office which plays significant role in protection of human rights and eliminating of any violation of them. The performance monitoring and evaluation. If any incident occurs in respect of human rights violation in the company the Human Resource department deals with that issue first. All problems are resolved based on international documents and legislation. We also evaluate reports of managers and employees in respect of any human rights violation. Moreover, external audit checks the performance of human rights in the company and reports about gaps in the internal rules and procedures which later is eliminated by the Senior management of the company. Relevance of Labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The company strictly follows the requirements of the legislation in its human resource policies. The domestic labor legislation is also design based on ILO Core Conventions. As the legislation of the country is codified the all rights of the employees are reflected in the laws. The benefits as well as compensations to be made to the employees also reflected in the employment agreement signed with employees. Actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. We periodically hold training for employees in respect of their rights and responsibilities as well as health and safety. To hold such training is the requirement of the labor law of the country. The recent amendments to the law make all employers to insure all employees against the death and injury caused in the manufacture. Our company insured all its employees against death and injury in the manufacture. We also have suggestion box where the employees may leave their complaints and suggestions. Performance monitoring and evaluation. The external audit examines the compatibility of the employment agreements and other internal policies in respect of labor rights protection and gives the recommendations to eliminate them. The company does not makes any discrimination to the employees in respect their race, ethnicity, age, gender, etc. The company has enough quotas in respect of male and female as well as disabled people. Environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. The company follows all environmental normative acts to be in force as of this date. The company also follows instructions of our clients in respect of environment protection. The company has accepted standards which are used in the manufacture in order to prevent environmental risks. Actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. The company periodically conducts training and seminars in respect of protection of environment. The company resale and produce the products, which are environmentally and ecologically friendly. The company requires from the suppliers documents certifying the products to be environmentally friendly. Performance monitoring and evaluation. The company management periodically monitors the goods supplied and products produced to be in consistency with the environmental legislation and standards. This field is also examines by internal as well as external audits. Relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. The anti-corruption issues are regulated by the law on combating corruption and criminal code. Such matters are usually reflected in the agreements with partners and stakeholders where strictly prohibits the parties to suggest to senior, middle management or employees to offer any gift in kind or finance. Actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. The company raises the awareness of the employees in respect of results of corrupted practice through seminars or meetings. They are informed about the law requirements as well as sanctions described in the law. Performance monitoring and evaluation. The senior management periodically monitors the financial results of the works done by employees. The company also periodically makes cross interviews in order to be sure that whether corruption exist or not.
