Tokyo Electron is Part of Your Everyday Life Tokyo Electron Limited (TELTM) technologies help resolve environmental issues by improving the performance of electronic products and reducing the energy usage of products made by our customers. Semiconductor, ﬂat panel display (FPD) and photovoltaic (PV) panel components manufactured by our customers can be found inside a wide range of electronic products that you come into contact with every day. Semiconductors produced with TEL’s equipment Semiconductor Semiconductors are a key component of personal computers, mobile phones and other electronic products. Tokyo Electron offers a wide range of vital semiconductor production equipment and superior technical support to semiconductor manufacturers around the world. Our highly productive products and technologies respond to diverse customer needs and play an essential role in the production of increasingly complex semiconductors. Key electronic device components, including CPUs, memory units, and liquid crystal displays (LCDs), are made by manufacturers of semiconductors, FPD and PV panels, and others, who are major customers of Tokyo Electron. Our customers’ products are used in a wide range of electronic products that enrich people’s everyday lives with their dramatically improved performance and energy-saving features. Semiconductor, FPD, Tokyo Electron Delivers production equipment PV panel makers Manufacture key components End manufacturers CONTENTS Tokyo Electron is Part of Your Everyday Life/Contents . . . . . . . . . . p. 2 Working Together with Employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 16 Editorial Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 3 Safety and Health Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 18 Message from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 4 Quality Control Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 20 Procurement Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 21 Highlight Structure of Tokyo Electron Group Corporate Principles . . . . . . . . . p. 6 Environment Entering a New Stage Environmental Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 22 Developing New Business and Bolstering Existing Business . . . . . p. 8 Biodiversity Initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 23 Environmental Goals: Progress and Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 10 Environmental Initiatives in Products and Logistics . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 24 Plant and Ofﬁce Initiatives for the Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 28 Governance Corporate Governance/Internal Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 12 Community In Harmony with the Local Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 32 Society Relationship with Shareholders and Investors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 14 Comments from a Third-Party Expert . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 36 Communication with Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . p. 15 Response to the Third-Party Comment/Corporate Proﬁle . . . . . . . p. 37 2 PV panels produced with TEL’s equipment Photovoltaic (PV) panel Photovoltaic power is often considered to be the most promising renewable energy source. Based on our policy to address environmental problems through our technological prowess, Tokyo Electron is developing and manufacturing PV panel production equipment as our new business. FPDs produced with TEL’s equipment FPD (ﬂat panel display) A display used in personal computers and LCD TVs to reproduce beautiful, crisp images. Tokyo Electron offers FPD production equipment, as well as reliable technical support, that LCD panel makers need. With our leading-edge products and technologies, we continue to meet our customer’s ever-increasing demands for high-quality and low-cost solutions. Tokyo Electron is supporting your everyday life in a wide variety of ways. Supply end products Editorial Policy Scope of Report This report is intended to provide information on the Corporate Philosophy and Tokyo Electron Group Management Policies, which the Tokyo Electron Group respectively established and (Tokyo Electron and its subsidiaries in Japan and overseas) revised as part of its 50th anniversary celebrations, as well as on activities that the Group has carried out based on its written Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. Period Covered This ﬁscal 2013 report is organized in such a manner as to enable readers to Fiscal 2013 (April 1, 2012–March 31, 2013). However, some information for understand, from multiple aspects, the strategic initiatives of the TEL Group for ﬁscal 2014 has also been included. promoting global operations and technological innovation while aggressively reducing its environmental impact. Publication Timing At the same time, in order to ensure ease of reading for all readers, this report is certiﬁed as meeting the Color Universal Design (CUD) requirements of the non-proﬁt Publication of this report: September 2013 (Japanese), November 2013 (English) Color Universal Design Organization. Publication of the next report: September 2014 (Japanese), November 2014 (English) It is our hope that this report will serve to strengthen communication between the Publication of the previous report: September 2012 (Japanese), November 2012 (English) TEL Group and all its stakeholders, including the public, and we hope to make use of such communication in our future activities. We welcome your direct feedback and Guidelines Referred to in Preparing this Repor t opinions of this report using the questionnaire form provided. Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 issued by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment http://www.tel.com/environment/ehsreport/index.htm Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Note: The people appearing in the photograph on this page are employees of Tokyo Electron Limited. 3 Message from the President With a Dream for the Future— Taking on New Challenges for the Development of a Sustainable Society Marking the 50th Anniversary used in the past leaves them unable to grow, since public expectations towards businesses are constantly changing. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the founding of There was a time when it was believed that reducing the Tokyo Electron Group in November 1963. Over the past environmental impact and pursuing technological innovation half-century, the discipline that has undergone the most were mutually exclusive. Today, balancing the two is a matter rapid development is science and technology, particularly of course, and companies cannot grow unless they operate in semiconductors, which are now used in a wide variety of ways that reduce their environmental impact. electronic devices. It is fair to say that semiconductors have It is not easy to reduce environmental impact and keep played a crucial role in the development of humanity and costs low while carrying out the world’s most advanced provided a foundation for the current era. As a semiconductor technological development. As part of the TEL Group’s production equipment manufacturer, the TEL Group has made effort to achieve it all, we set a high goal of reducing energy various efforts to accurately understand customer needs in consumption on a per-wafer basis by 50% from the fiscal order to provide high-quality products. 2008 level with regard to major models of each business unit The world is at a turning point. Emerging countries, as of fiscal 2015. As of fiscal 2013, we succeeded in reducing including in Asia, are becoming the global driving force, taking energy consumption by 30% and are continuing to make over from Western countries that have traditionally played persistent efforts to achieve the final target for the benefit of a central role. In the next half century, global companies both society and the TEL Group. will find that simply sticking to the same old approaches Organizing Corporate Principles In celebrating our 50th anniversary, we have established a Corporate Philosophy and revised our Management Policies in light of the emergence of a new generation of workers and possible changes in the business environment. Furthermore, we have set forth a CSR Policy and developed a CSR promotion framework. As the foundation of our CSR activities going forward, we joined the United Nations Global Compact in July 2013. In carrying out and enhancing CSR activities, we will incorporate the EICC ® Code of Conduct. By operating our business in a way that not only takes environmental issues into account but also respects human rights, is aligned with corporate ethics, and raises awareness of risk management, we will establish a management structure befitting a global company with the goal of gaining the lasting trust of our stakeholders. 4 Initiatives for Launching New Business Originally founded as a trading company specializing in technology, the TEL Group established its position as a manufacturer in the 1980s. Because of this history, we have developed a corporate culture that encourages the flexible and aggressive incorporation of external technologies to support our cutting-edge technological development. With our most recent acquisition, we brought on board two European and two U.S. companies that are world leaders in cleaning, advanced packaging and thermal processing Joined the United Nations Global Compact in magnetic fields, all of which are indispensable to The TEL Group announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact both semiconductor production as well as ever-evolving and was registered as a member company in July 2013. In support of the 10 principles, the TEL Group will work to maintain a harmonious pursuit of both its photovoltaic panel production. By combining the world-class corporate activities and a sustainable society. technologies of these firms with the TEL Group’s expertise, we are confident that we will be able to satisfy every need of What is the United Nations Global Compact? customers worldwide. The UN Global Compact is a global initiative in which diverse organizations, including businesses, voluntarily participate for the development of sustainable society. It was established by then UN For the Next 50 Years Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 2000. As of July 2013, about 11,570 organizations (including 7,580 Throughout its 50-year history, the TEL Group has held to corporate participants) from 140 countries have joined the initiative to carry out activities based on the belief that its most valuable asset is its employees. In the 10 principles in four areas listed below: order to continue to grow as a global provider of cutting-edge technologies, we recognize that we need to improve our Human Rights workplace environment to create a culture that further t1SJODJQMF# VTJOFTTFTTIPVMETVQQPSUBOESFTQFDUUIFQSPUFDUJPOPG encourages our employees to take on challenging tasks in a internationally proclaimed human rights; and t1SJODJQMFNBLFTVSFUIBUUIFZBSFOPUDPNQMJDJUJOIVNBOSJHIUTBCVTFT global business environment. With continued and concerted efforts, we are working to create an environment in which all Labour employees can work comfortably, productively and passionately. t1SJODJQMF# VTJOFTTFTTIPVMEVQIPMEUIFGSFFEPNPGBTTPDJBUJPOBOEUIF effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; By taking advantage of experience and expertise acquired t1SJODJQMFU IFFMJNJOBUJPOPGBMMGPSNTPGGPSDFEBOEDPNQVMTPSZMBCPVS over the past five decades, the TEL Group will continue to t1SJODJQMFU IFFGGFDUJWFBCPMJUJPOPGDIJMEMBCPVSBOE contribute to the development of a sustainable society by t1SJODJQMFU IFFMJNJOBUJPOPGEJTDSJNJOBUJPOJOSFTQFDUPGFNQMPZNFOU providing high-value-added technologies and services for the and occupation. next 50 years. We appreciate your continued support. Environment t1SJODJQMF# VTJOFTTFTTIPVMETVQQPSUBQSFDBVUJPOBSZBQQSPBDIUP environmental challenges; t1SJODJQMFVOEFSUBLFJOJUJBUJWFTUPQSPNPUFHSFBUFSFOWJSPONFOUBM responsibility; and t1SJODJQMFF ODPVSBHFUIFEFWFMPQNFOUBOEEJGGVTJPOPGFOWJSPONFOUBMMZ friendly technologies. Tetsuro Higashi Anti-Corruption Chairman, President & CEO t1SJODJQMF# VTJOFTTFTTIPVMEXPSLBHBJOTUDPSSVQUJPOJOBMMJUTGPSNT  Tokyo Electron Limited including extortion and bribery. 5 Structure of Tokyo Electron Group Corporate Principles To mark its 50th anniversary, the Tokyo Electron (TEL) Group has established a Corporate Philosophy and revised its Management Policies. It has done this by reviewing its values, which form the foundation of its corporate mission and activities going forward as well as its growth engine. Corporate The Corporate Philosophy defines the purpose of Tokyo Electron’s existence and its mission in society. Philosophy The basic way of thinking that forms the foundation for corporate activities. We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support. Corporate Philosophy Management Policies CSR Policy TEL Value Management The Management Policies contain the management values which Tokyo Electron holds as important in achieving the Corporate Policies Philosophy. They express the manner of thinking which underscores the general rules of management in eight points. Profit is Essential Employees The TEL Group aims to contribute to the development of Employees are the source of the creation of value, and TEL society and industry and enhancement of corporate value Group employees perform their work with creativity, a sense while emphasizing the pursuit of profit. of responsibility, and a commitment to teamwork. Scope of Business Organizations The TEL Group leads markets by providing high-quality products The TEL Group builds optimal organizations that maximize corporate in leading-edge technology ﬁelds with a focus on electronics. value where each employee can work to their full potential. Growth Philosophy Safety, Health and the Environment We will tirelessly take on the challenges of technological The TEL Group gives the highest consideration to the safety innovation to achieve continuous growth through business and health of every person connected with our business expansion and market creation. activities as well as to the global environment. Quality and Service Social Responsibility The TEL Group strives to understand the true needs for With a full awareness of our corporate social responsibility, achieving customer satisfaction and securing customer trust we strive to gain the esteem of society and to be a company while continuously improving quality and service. where employees are proud to work. 6 The Tokyo Electron CSR Policy is a clear codification of our fundamental beliefs and values for undertaking CSR Policy CSR activities based on our Corporate Philosophy and Management Policies. The CSR Policy clarifies our social responsibilities and behavior as a corporation. HIGHLIGHT Corporate Activities Environment The Tokyo Electron Group will provide safe and high-quality The Tokyo Electron Group seeks to achieve harmony with the products and services to customers around the world and global environment. We strive to reduce our own impact on the contribute to the realization of an enriched society. environment and contribute to reducing the environmental impact of customers by developing and providing eco-friendly products. Business Ethics The Tokyo Electron Group acts in compliance with the laws and Communication with Stakeholders regulations of each country, international regulations, and in The Tokyo Electron Group discloses information relating to accordance with strict business ethics. We do not engage in any the Group in a fair, impartial, and timely manner, strives to conduct that impedes fair and open market competition. engage in two-way communications, and works to meet the expectations of stakeholders appropriately. Respect for Individuals The Tokyo Electron Group respects the character and Social Contribution individuality of each person. We recognize the diversity The Tokyo Electron Group engages in social contribution of employees, share a sense of mission, and promote the activities worldwide as a good corporate citizen to contribute development of workplaces with vitality. to the development of local communities and society. We promote CSR activities for sustainable corporate and social growth by referring to international frameworks, including the United Nations Global Compact and the EICC ®* Code of Conduct. We carry out self-assessments based on the EICC ® Guidelines and integrate them into our management system in each of four areas of labor, health and safety, the environment and personnel to continue our improvement efforts. CSR promotion framework President & CEO CSR Promotion Executive Officer CSR Promotion Department CSR Policy The Code of Ethics Personnel Policy Safety Policy Quality Policy Environment Policy Procurement Policy TEL Head Office/Group companies in and outside Japan (21 locations worldwide) CSR promotion members Having identified what drives our growth, the values we cherish and the qualities our employees seek to TEL Values inherit, we developed the TEL Values in April 2006. Challenge Teamwork We accept the challenge of going beyond We respect each other’s individuality and TEL Values what others are doing in pursuing our place a high priority on teamwork. goal of becoming number one globally. Pride Ownership Awareness TEL Values We take pride in providing high-value products and services. We will keep ownership in mind as we think things through, and engage in thorough We must have awareness of and accept responsibility for our behavior as implementation in order to achieve our goals. respectful members of society. Glossary * the ® ® EICC : Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition , an organization that sets forth a code of conduct for labor, safety and the environment for supply chains within electronics industry. “EICC” and “Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition” are trademarks of Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Incorporated. 7 Entering a New Stage Developing New Business and Bolstering Existing Business To remain innovative in the ever-advancing semiconductor production equipment sector, Tokyo Electron is enhancing its business development in frontline areas. Through corporate acquisition, we have added four new companies to the Group. TEL Magnetic Solutions Ltd. Establishing production technology for promising next-generation memory, MRAM Tokyo Electron has been working on equipment development in order to establish production technology for Magnetoresistive Random Access Memory (MRAM), a next-generation memory technology that is attracting attention. In December 2012, we acquired Magnetic Solutions Ltd., which possesses high-level technology for the important MRAM production process of thermal processing in a magnetic field, and established TEL Magnetic Solutions Ltd. Magnetic Annealing System As MRAM allows for high-speed writing with low power consumption, it is expected to replace current mainstream technology DRAM to become a key memory technology. Activities: Development, manufacturing and sales of Magnetic Annealing System Location: County Dublin, Ireland TEL Solar AG In November 2012, Tokyo Electron established TEL Solar AG after acquiring Oerlikon Contributing to the global environment Solar, which has world-leading technology in thin-film silicon photovoltaic panel production. Among the many types of photovoltaic panels, thin-film silicon photovoltaic panels generate more power than crystal photovoltaic panels, even in high-temperature regions right on the equator and in mostly cloudy regions. By combining Oerlikon Solar’s technologies with the technologies that we have nurtured in our semiconductor production equipment business, we will be able to dramatically improve conversion efficiency and productivity. As there is growing need for eco-friendly power generation systems, we will use our technologies for the development of an environmentally sustainable society. KAI TM MT Activities: Development, manufacturing and sales of photovoltaic PECVD panel production equipment System Location: Trübbach, Switzerland 8 TEL FSI, Inc. Developing cleaning system business HIGHLIGHT The ongoing miniaturization of chips has increased the importance of cleaning processes that remove particles*, photoresist, nitride film and contaminants. In October 2012, Tokyo Electron established TEL FSI, Inc. after acquiring FSI International, Inc., a global supplier of innovative cleaning solutions and advanced technologies with a broad customer base. As FSI’s processing technology and our technologies complement each other, this combination will increase our capabilities and strengthen our product portfolio. Activities: Development, manufacturing and sales of cleaning systems ORION TM Single wafer Location: Minnesota, United States cleaning system Stratus Electrochemical deposition system TEL NEXX, Inc. Ever-evolving semiconductors—Working on smaller packaging and lower power consumption The increased demand for smartphones, tablets and other mobile devices is driving the growth of the advanced packaging market. Advanced packaging technologies reduce form factors, enabling smaller devices that manage power more effectively, while delivering increased functionality. In May 2012, Tokyo Electron acquired NEXX Systems, Inc., a market leader in plating and sputtering equipment supplier, to serve this high growth 3D wafer level packaging market. The wholly owned, US subsidiary was established as TEL Activities: Development, manufacturing NEXX, Inc., broadening TEL’s equipment solutions to include high volume advanced and sales of ECD system, packaging tools. PVD system and sputter deposition Location: Massachusetts, United States Glossary *Particles: Very small impurities on wafers 9 Environmental Goals: Progress and Results Based on the Environment Vision specified in fiscal 2013, the Tokyo Electron Group has set environmental goals in the four areas of products, procurement and logistics, plants and offices, and environmental management. Because we expanded the scope of our environmental activities by making our efforts more multifaceted, we succeeded in achieving most of the goals in fiscal 2013. We will continue to make improvement efforts and spread them to overseas locations. Introductory presentation on Products guidelines for control over the use of chemical substances in products Steadily making progress toward 50% reduction in environmental impact of products and compliance with regulations of each country. Reduction of environmental impact of products Compatibility with Chinese RoHS Fiscal 2013 goal Fiscal 2013 goal Reduce power consumption of major models of each Continue to ensure products’ compatibility with the Chinese business unit by 30% over the ﬁscal 2008 level. labeling standard. Results Results Reduced power consumption of major models Ensured products’ compatibility with the standard. by 30%. (See p. 24–25 for details.) (See p. 26 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Continue to make efforts to reduce energy consumption by Fiscal 2014 goal 50% by ﬁscal 2015. Spread the activity to overseas production sites. Compliance with environmental regulations of each country Voluntary compatibility with the EU’s RoHS Fiscal 2013 goal Fiscal 2013 goal Continue to ensure products’ compliance with the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Continue to ensure that major models of each business unit Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) framework as well as with contain 98.5% or more parts that meet the EU’s Restriction labeling requirements based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classiﬁcation of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) and battery regulations of each country. and Electronic Equipment (RoHS). Results Results Complied with regulations in each country. (See p. 26 for details.) Continued to ensure compatibility. (See p. 26 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Fiscal 2014 goal Enhance compliance systems in overseas locations. Identify challenges for making continued efforts. Procurement and logistics Green procurement Promoting green procurement and Fiscal 2013 goal modal shift with cooperation Revise the lists of prohibited and restricted substances. of stakeholders. Results Revised the list. (See p. 27 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Launch activities based on the revised guideline. Reduction of environmental impact of logistics Fiscal 2013 goal Promote a modal shift. Continue monitoring. Results Continued the activity. (See p. 27 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Continue to ensure compliance. Guideline for Green Procurement 10 Plants and ofﬁces HIGHLIGHT Enhancing efforts, both in and outside Japan, to achieve goals of saving energy, reducing water consumption and recycling waste. Promotion of energy conservation Reduction of water consumption Fiscal 2013 goal Fiscal 2013 goal Reduce by 1% over the level of previous year. Maintain the ﬁscal 2012 level. Results Results Achieved the goal at 80% of locations in Japan. Achieved the goal at 80% of locations in Japan. (See p. 28 for details.) (See p. 29 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Fiscal 2014 goal Spread the activity to overseas locations. Spread the activity to overseas locations. Recycling of waste Fiscal 2013 goals Maintain a recycling rate of 97% or more. Continue to achieve zero emissions. Results Achieved the goals. (See p. 30 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Spread the activity to overseas locations. PV panels installed at Koshi Plant Ecosystem tour Environmental management Carrying out environmental education and promoting biodiversity initiatives based on the environmental management system. Environmental management system Environmental education Fiscal 2013 goal Fiscal 2013 goal Continue to obtain and maintain ISO14001 certiﬁcation for Formulate and implement an education program the Group’s plants. (Japan only). Results Results Continued to obtain and maintain certification. Formulated and implemented the program in locations (See p. 22 for details.) in Japan. (See p. 22 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Fiscal 2014 goal Maintain certiﬁcation. Spread the activity to overseas locations. Environmental communication Conservation of biodiversity Fiscal 2013 goal Fiscal 2013 goal Continue to publish and enhance Environmental and Social Determine a policy and formulate a plan upon investigation Report. and examination. Results Results Published this report (Environmental and Social Report 2013) Determined the concept and guidelines. with enhanced contents. (See p. 23 for details.) Fiscal 2014 goal Fiscal 2014 goal Publish further enhanced Environmental and Social Report. Carry out activities based on the concept and guidelines. 11 Corporate Governance/Internal Control respond quickly to changing business conditions, and to more Corporate Governance clearly define management accountability, the term of office for directors is set at one year. Our approach to corporate governance In order to maximize corporate value and enhance shareholder The Audit & Supervisory Board satisfaction, the Tokyo Electron Group is endeavoring to Tokyo Electron has five audit & supervisory board members, establish and operate optimal and highly effective structures three of whom are outside audit & supervisory board members. of governance based on its three basic principles: 1) Ensure The audit & supervisory board members not only attend meetings the transparency and soundness of business operations; of the Board of Directors, the Top Management Conference and 2) Facilitate quick decision-making and the efficient execution other important business meetings, but also conduct operations of business operations; and 3) Disclose information in a timely audits and accounting audits, and evaluate risk management, and suitable manner. and audit the performance of duties by directors. The corporate governance framework Tokyo Electron uses the audit & supervisory board system Internal control/risk based on the Companies Act of Japan, and furthermore management system has established its own Nomination Committee *1 and Compensation Committee *2 to increase the transparency and Our approach to internal control/risk management objectivity of management. The company has also adopted To more effectively strengthen the internal control and risk the executive officer system to facilitate quick decisionmanagement systems of the TEL Group, we are implementing making. Moreover, Tokyo Electron has been disclosing the practical measures in line with the Fundamental Policies individual remuneration of representative directors since 1999 concerning Internal Controls within the Tokyo Electron Group. in recognition of the importance of managerial transparency for shareholders. Risk management system Tokyo Electron has established a dedicated risk management The Board of Directors and internal control function within the General Affairs The Board of Directors consists of 11 directors, two of whom Department, which evaluates and analyzes risks that could affect are outside directors. In order to ensure that Tokyo Electron can the TEL Group, and works to reduce these risks by promoting the Diagram of the Corporate Governance Framework, Internal Control System and Risk Management System Annual Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditors · Compensation Committee · Chief Business Ethics Director · Nomination Committee · Chief Internal Control Director Confirm the progress of improvements and give instructions Representative Directors Request for improvement/Report Audit and improvement Request for reports Compliance & Internal Control Executive Officer improvement/Report Executive Officers Internal Audit Dept. (Global Audit Center) Committees · Ethics Committee · Information Security Committee · Export Trade Control Committee Request for improvement/Report Audit Risk Management & Internal Control Function (General Affairs Dept.) Request for improvement/Report Monitoring Administrative Depts. Business Depts. Check and balance Tokyo Electron Group Corporate Governance: http://www.tel.com/ir/policy/cg/index.htm Glossary *1 Nomination Committee: This committee nominates candidates for directors and a candidate for CEO, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors for approval. *2 Compensation Committee: This committee develops proposals on the executive compensation program and the compensation to be paid to representative directors, which it submits at the meeting of the Board of Directors for approval. 12 necessary measures. The status of risk management activities is meet semiannually, report on ethics-related issues faced by reported regularly to the Board of Directors. each company, and discuss measures to further improve ethical behavior and compliance. Information security The Code and its Q&A section are Under the TEL Group Information Security Policy and the published in Japanese, English, Korean Regulation for Management of Technical and Business and Chinese, and the company distributes Information, Tokyo Electron has put in place a framework it to all Group executives and employees, for preventing information leaks and ensures the safe and including those overseas. Moreover, the effective utilization of information assets. In fiscal 2013, based Code is appropriately reviewed and revised on the results of past assessments, we made an inventory of in response to changes in environmental The Code of electronically stored information to enhance the management of and social demands. Ethics booklet confidential data. We will continue this initiative. The Code of Ethics of the Tokyo Electron Group: Business continuity management http://www.tel.com/environment/corp_governance/ GOVERNANCE compliance/ethical.htm Following an overall review of our Business Continuity Plan (BCP), Tokyo Electron’s Head Office redeveloped its BCP in fiscal 2013 to respond to large-scale earthquakes. In fiscal Compliance system 2014, the BCP will be reviewed at the level of plant and office. Tokyo Electron has appointed a Compliance & Internal Control Meanwhile, the TEL Group carries out an annual BCP drill Executive Officer from among the executive officers to raise involving an earthquake scenario. awareness of compliance across the TEL Group and further improve its implementation. Internal audit department The Global Audit Center, which is the internal audit department Initiatives on compliance of the TEL Group, is responsible for auditing the business Tokyo Electron has drawn up the Compliance Regulations activities of the Group’s domestic and overseas bases, as well as setting out basic compliance-related requirements in line their compliance and systems, and evaluating the effectiveness with the Code. The Compliance Regulations are intended of internal control systems. As necessary, the Global Audit to ensure that all individuals who take part in the business Center also provides guidance to operating divisions. activities for the TEL Group clearly understand the pertinent laws, international standards and internal company rules, and consistently apply these rules in all of their activities. Compliance Internal reporting system Our approach to compliance In the event that an employee becomes aware of any activity Stakeholder trust is the cornerstone of business activities. In which may violate a law, regulation or principles of business order to maintain trust, it is necessary to continuously act in ethics, the TEL Group operates an internal reporting system that rigorous conformity to business ethics and compliance. In line employees may use to report their concerns. The entire Group with the Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls has established an ethics hotline and a compliance hotline, and within the TEL Group, all Group executives and employees are this reporting system is also in place at each overseas base. required to maintain high standards of ethics and to act with a In all cases, this system ensures that strict confidentiality is clear awareness of compliance. maintained to protect the whistleblowers and ensure that they are not subject to any disadvantage or repercussions. Code of Ethics, Chief Business Ethics Director and Ethics Committee Compliance education In 1998, Tokyo Electron formulated The Code of Ethics of Through the TEL Group’s e-learning system, we provide a common the Tokyo Electron Group to establish uniform standards to training program covering the basics of compliance, internal govern all of its global business activities. In the same year, control, export-related compliance, information security and the company appointed a Chief Business Ethics Director and other topics, which all executives and employees are required to established the Ethics Committee, which is responsible for complete, as well as a training program on insider trading and promoting business ethics awareness throughout the TEL other subjects aimed at different levels of personnel. We also Group. The Ethics Committee comprises the Chief Business make information on compliance issues available to employees on Ethics Director, the Ethics Committee Chairman, and presidents a dedicated site on our Intranet and take other steps to promote of major Group companies in and outside Japan. The members broad awareness of compliance throughout the Group. 13 Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Our approach to shareholder and Annual shareholders meeting investor relations To encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend Tokyo Electron is committed to making information about the annual shareholders meeting and fully exercise their voting company available in a fair, equitable and timely manner to rights, we send out invitations at least three weeks prior ensure that shareholders and investors can obtain an accurate, to meeting, and avoid the date when most major Japanese in-depth understanding of the company and its activities and companies hold their shareholders meetings. Shareholders can evaluate its corporate value appropriately. We also value who cannot attend a meeting can vote via the Internet. We also and respect opinions received from our stakeholders concerning participate in the web-based voting platform for institutional information disclosed and utilize their feedback as a point of investors operated by Investor Communications Japan (ICJ). reference to guide our future corporate management. Our website also carries notices of convocation, notices of resolution, the results of the exercise of voting rights and Information disclosure methods presentation materials. Tokyo Electron releases timely disclosure information via the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet) Earnings release conference and promptly posts the same information on its corporate We hold an earnings release conference to report our financial website. Even when it does not fall into the category of material results to securities analysts and institutional investors after information, we voluntarily disclose information which may be of every quarter. Meanwhile, by making these conferences open interest to stakeholders in an easy-to-understand manner using to members of the press, as well as by posting all the material various communication channels, including on our website or in handouts on our website, we ensure that information provided at printed form. the conference is also available to individual investors. To ensure that foreign investors have fair and equal access to our information, all information is released simultaneously in Japanese and English. Basic policy on returns to shareholders Our dividend policy is to link dividend payments to business Materials prepared for an performance and earnings, and our basic policy for returns to annual shareholders meeting shareholders is to maintain a payout rate of around 35% based on consolidated net income. Annual Report We aim to maintain profitable growth in order to enhance corporate value by effectively utilizing internal reserves and concentrating investments in growing businesses while at the Presentation materials used at same time delivering direct returns to shareholders through an earnings release conference dividends based on our performance and earnings. Financial Review: http://www.tel.com/ir/library/report/index.htm Constituent of the Presentation materials used at an earnings release conference: http://www.tel.com/ir/library/report/index.htm FTSE4Good Global Index Materials prepared for an annual shareholders meeting: http://www.tel.com/ir/stocks/asm/index.htm Annual Report: Tokyo Electron has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good http://www.tel.com/ir/library/ar/index.htm Global Index since September 2003. The FTSE4Good Factbook: Global Index is a social responsibility investment (SRI) http://www.tel.com/ir/library/fb/index.htm index provided by the FTSE Group, a world-leading index firm wholly owned by the London Stock Exchange. 14 Communication with Stakeholders Our approach to stakeholder Employee Meeting communications The TEL Group has been holding its Employee Meeting as The TEL Group values communication with its stakeholders, who a platform for communication between employees and top provide support for its corporate activities. We set a variety of management on an ongoing basis. The meeting is held annually communication opportunities, including web-based information in locations either in or outside Japan chosen alternately. This provision, the TEL Partners Day and Production Update Brieﬁng for fiscal year, we held the meeting primarily at Group companies in suppliers. We also hold a regular Employee Meeting as a platform Japan, namely, Tokyo Electron Tohoku, Miyagi, Yamanashi and for communication between employees and top management, Kyushu in Japan and Tokyo Electron Korea in South Korea. The carry out advertising activities highlighting our ties with society, meeting provides an opportunity for two-way communication, and support both scienceand sports-related events. with senior management providing an explanation about As part of our ongoing communication efforts, we identify the Group’s current circumstances along with a message to stakeholder expectations for the Group as well as collecting workers, and employees asking questions and voicing opinions. stakeholder feedback. We will continue to make use of such The TEL Group will continue to promote this communication information in our corporate management. platform and to incorporate employee feedback into its corporate management. Customers Suppliers Shareholders/ investors SOCIETY Employee Meeting Local Employees community TOPICS Admin. 2013 SEMI Akira Inoue EHS*1 Award org. The SEMI Outstanding EHS Achievement Award—Inspired by Akira Inoue is sponsored by the EHS Division of SEMI, a global industry association of major manufacturers of semiconductor/FPD Supporting “The Wonder of production equipment and materials. SEMI established the award in 2000 to honor the achievements of the late Akira Inoue, who, Elements” exhibition as well as being a past president of Tokyo Electron Ltd. and former Tokyo Electron participated as a special sponsor in an exhibition member of the SEMI Board of Directors, was a strong advocate for environment, health and safety. After the screening of nominations titled “The Wonder of Elements,” which was held from July 21 to by a subcommittee, SEMI grants the award to individuals who have October 8, 2012 at the National Museum of Nature and Science made significant contributions to the semiconductor industry and in Tokyo. The exhibition explained both the workings of nature and society at large in the area of EHS. The 2013 award was presented to Mr. Ajit Manocha, CEO of the application of chemical elements in relation to the production GLOBAL FOUNDRIES, on July 9, 2013 at SEMICON West 2013 of semiconductors and PV panels, providing the wider public with in San Francisco, U.S.A. Under the leadership of Mr. Manocha, an opportunity to become familiar with those members of the GLOBAL FOUNDRIES has made significant EHS achievements. The periodic table that are indispensable to leading-edge technologies. selection committee recognizes his achievements in: t; FSPJODJEFOUTBGFUZDVMUVSF t$ PNNJUNFOUUPFDPFGGJDJFODZ in foundry operations t8 4$*2 commitment to best QSBDUJDFTGPSQFSGMVPSP compound (PFC) reduction t8 4$DPNNJUNFOUUPB iDPOGMJDUGSFFTVQQMZDIBJOw Award ceremony The Wonder of Elements exhibition Glossary *12 EHS: Environment, Health and Safety * 84$ World Semiconductor Council 15 Working Together with Employees Our approach to personnel affairs *OJUJBUJWFTGPSXPSLMJGFCBMBODF The TEL Group has enhanced systems that help employees Business growth requires that each employee, as the core of continue to pursue their careers through various life events, the company, have creativity, a positive attitude, flexibility, such as systems for balancing work and childcare. enthusiasm and a sense of responsibility. The TEL Group seeks Tokyo Electron, for example, has enhanced its childcare to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can support system, giving parents of children of elementary school work to their full potential. age or younger the option to work shorter hours. In contrast, the shorter working hour system required by Japanese law targets Personnel Policy parents raising children under the age of three. 1. Respect for Human Rights Outside Japan, we implement a range of measures to improve We respect the character and individuality of each person and strive to create work environments without any infringement of human rights. work-life balance in compliance with local laws and requirements. %JWFSTF8PSLGPSDF  t$IJMEDBSFTVQQPSUTZTUFN We strive to respect and understand differences in values arising from · Childcare leave · Shorter working hours for parents gender, nationality, age, race, creed, religion and other attributes and to be a corporation where a diverse range of employees can work to their full potential.  t/VSTJOHDBSFMFBWFTZTUFN 3. Human Resource Development Users of shorter working hour system for childcare (Japan) We believe that each employee is the source of value creation and support the (Persons) development of skills by employees. 100 4. Employee Assessment and Treatment We provide opportunities to those employees with the enthusiasm for personal 50 growth and engage in fair evaluation of skills and employee treatment so that 85 65 75 employees with significant results can be rewarded. 47 50 34 5. Occupational Safety and Health 0 We place the highest priority on ensuring the safety and health of employees 2011 2012 2013 (FY) and maintain environments such that employees can work safely at our Statutory system TEL system workplaces and local residents feel a sense of reassurance. Improving the workplace environment and employee health 8PSL-JGF#BMBODF We implement measures to enable employees to achieve a good work-life balance. Placing the highest priority on the safety and health of its employees, the TEL Group is making a Group-wide effort to provide various supports. What we do to create a workplace  t.FOUBMIFBMUIFEVDBUJPO environment that is comfortable for all  t)BSBTTNFOUQSFWFOUJPOFEVDBUJPO  t*TTVJOHBHSPVQXJEFIFBMUIEFDMBSBUJPO Empowering employees to reach their full potential  t4FSWJOHIFBMUIZNFBMTBUDPNQBOZDBGFUFSJBT The TEL Group has put in place systems that support employees in their career development and help create a workplace Initiatives for globalization and workforce diversification environment that promotes job satisfaction. The TEL Group does business around the world. In fact,  t0VUTUBOEJOHFNQMPZFFBXBSE overseas sales account for 76% of the Group’s total sales and  t0QFOKPCQPTUJOHTZTUFN about 33% of Group employees work outside Japan (as of  t&NQMPZFFTVSWFZ March 2013). In line with this shift toward globalization, even  t&NQMPZFFTPQJOJPOTVSWFZ Group companies within Japan are aggressively working to develop diverse workforces and have set a target of 20% of new hires to be recruited from among foreign nationals. Balancing work and childcare Last year, I returned to work after taking childcare leave. At the time, I was concerned that I might not be able to balance work with raising my first child. Fortunately, my child has gotten used to the day care center and I am now able to work as I used to. I am thankful for the support of my family but above all I feel so grateful to my colleagues for their cooperation and understanding of my use of the childcare system. I’m living proof that Tokyo Electron provides its employees with an environment in which we can not only envision our career path but also make it a reality while at the same time Noriko Shimomura fulfilling our family obligations even after returning to work. Taiwan/Asia Sales Division Tokyo Electron Ltd. 16 8PSLMPDBUJPOPG(SPVQFNQMPZFFT leadership development program for next-generation leaders (Persons) 15,000 and a management and organizational training program. Going forward, TEL UNIVERSITY will continue to contribute to the 10,000 4,015 growth of the TEL Group by developing competent professionals. 2,435 2,680 5,000 7,908 8,004 8,186 Professional capability development program This program is designed to 0 End of March 2011 End of March 2012 End of March 2013 help employees in various jobs Employees working in Japan Employees working outside Japan acquire professional knowledge Foreign nationals as percentage of new hires (in Japan) and expertise in the Group’s core (%) technologies and common basic 15 11.3 technologies. Professional capability 10 development program 5 4.0 Organizational capability development program 1.0 Targeting group leaders in charge 0 2011 2012 2013 (FY) of their respective workplaces, this program intends to develop Basic policy on human resource development management capabilities The TEL Group is making continued efforts for employee required for the job and enhance education and training while encouraging and supporting organizational capabilities. Organizational capability development program employees’ proactive approaches toward learning in line with its basic human resource development policy, which consists of the /FYUHFOFSBUJPOMFBEFSTEFWFMPQNFOUQSPHSBN following three principles: This program provides participants with opportunities to engage 1. Self-motivation and a sense of responsibility are the in dialogue with TEL Group executives and acquire knowledge SOCIETY basic requirements for developing the talents of employees. from experts in various fields with the goal of encouraging 2. The workplace must support employee development. participants to establish their own decision-making criteria. 3. The company must provide employees with opportunities and incentives to learn and must build the necessary Global communication program platform or framework. Aiming to improve employees’ English communication skills, this program offers classes by foreign teachers (six-month course of TEL UNIVERSITY 22 classes). With the goal of enhancing its human resources from a medium Number of participants by program (Persons) to long-term perspective and improving the capabilities of the Total participants organization overall, the TEL Group has established an internal FY2013 in past 3 years education institution, TEL UNIVERSITY. Professional capability development program 529 2,762 Organizational capability development program 99 175 TEL UNIVERSITY courses include a program that provides /FYUHFOFSBUJPOMFBEFSTEFWFMPQNFOUQSPHSBN 45 96 individual employees with world-class knowledge and skills, a Global communication program 539 1,821 0WFSWJFXPG5&-6/*7&34*5: Learn about Become Enhance organizational Undertake corporate Learn about Tokyo Electron professional capability management the world Introduction Utilize technical knowledge gained Practice “Learning Develop a mind for Learn language skills Executives Organization” corporate top management · MOT* · Workshops · Organizational capability development program · Top management training · GTEC score improvement · Hatamura-juku Leaders · Project management · Next-generation top program Learn management skills management program · Introduction for mid-career · English learning program Learn technical knowledge · New group leader · Pre-next-generation top · Other languages recruits development program · Technical lecture management program · Basics of management Mid-career · Semiconductor · Core technologies employees Understand different cultures · Common basic technologies Introduction Learn basic knowledge · Basics of work · Understanding different New/junior · Introduction for new · Follow-up training cultures employees employees · Baseline education · Basic technologies Glossary * MOT: Management of Technology 17 Safety and Health Initiatives internal training facilities. This includes providing ongoing Our approach to safety and health practical training that aims to prevent accidents in clean rooms, The TEL Group performs a range of business activities including where our production equipment is primarily installed. In order development, manufacturing, transportation, installation and for equipment to be connected to power and other utilities*1, maintenance with the highest priority on the safety and health of the ﬂoor of a clean room in which it is located must have an all personnel from top management to frontline staff and makes open grating. This grating, however, can present a potential proactive and continuous improvements to enhance safety and tripping or falling hazard. Aiming to avoid these risks, the training promote good health. sessions simulate actual working conditions in order to instruct participants on proper work Safety Policy procedures and how to deal 1. Safety First Based on the principle of “safety first,” we strive to create safer products with dangerous situations. and work to maintain and improve the safety of all people involved with our Similar safety education and products and healthy workplace environments. practical training sessions are 2. Pursuit of Safe Technologies With an awareness of the factors that impair safety and health in our various conducted in other countries business activities, we continuously strive to create safer and more secure and regions around the world. workplaces by making improvements concerning those factors and through Practical training in a clean room intrinsically safe equipment designs and superior service capabilities. Preventing workplace accidents*2 3. Management and Employee Responsibility All employees maintain an awareness of potential problems and of the need before they occur for improvement concerning the maintenance and enhancement of safety and health at all workplaces, and management and employees act in accordance The number of workplace accidents in fiscal 2013 dropped from with their respective responsibilities. the fiscal 2012 level by about 20%. The number of accidents -FHBM$PNQMJBODF that could have led to severe injury*3 was reduced to half in both We comply with safety and health laws and regulations and international rules, take into consideration industry guidelines and strive to promote safety and health. fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 from the fiscal 2011 level, thanks to vigorous activities aimed at eradicating serious accidents. These 5. Collaboration and Cooperation with Society Based on a common understanding with a broad range of stakeholders, we figures are the results of our ongoing preventive measures, cooperate and collaborate with society and work to appropriately meet expectations. which include checking the availability of safety facilities and the safety environment at new factories and lines before delivering Initiatives for safety and health our equipment, identifying potential hazards at work sites (a task As part of our social responsibility activities, the TEL Group we call “KY” for the Japanese term “Kiken Yochi”), conducting places great importance on ensuring that our customers, safety inspections and providing training based on accident case employees and everyone else involved in our business can work studies. As part of its 50th anniversary celebrations in fiscal in a safe workplace environment, use our products safely and 2014, the TEL Group is reminding its employees of the Group’s enjoy good health. “safety first” policy and working to further foster a safety culture With a particular focus on securing the safety of its with the aim of totally eliminating workplace accidents through employees, the TEL Group carries out safety education using the collective efforts of the entire Group. TOPICS Training for raising hazard sensitivity in South Korea For three days in February 2013, Tokyo Electron Korea Ltd. (TEK) conducted a training program for identifying potential hazards known as “Kiken Yochi Training” (KYT) as well as “point and call” training. A total of 33 employees participated in the programs. KYT is designed to help workers identify possible hazards in the workplace to prevent accidents and has been statistically proven to be highly effective. Although TEK employees seemed a little awkward when first trying out the four-round hazard identification and point and call methods, they nevertheless took their training seriously and worked hard. We expect that practicing these methods will lead to more effective accident prevention in the future. Point and call training Glossary *12 Power and other utilities: Electricity, special high-pressure gas, liquid chemicals, air, cooling water and pure water, and exhaust discharge, among others * involving an injury to an employee as a “workplace accident.” 8PSLQMBDFBDDJEFOU Following the guidelines of the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), the TEL Group defines an accident *3 Accident that could lead to a severe injury: An accident that could result in a severe injury with ongoing effects 18 Occurrence rate of workplace accidents (FY2001 = 100) advanced safety refresher courses, which covered accidents 100 identified as fiscal 2013 priority issues: falling into a floor 100 opening, exposure to a liquid chemical, becoming caught in a moving part of a machine, becoming trapped during transportation of heavy goods and gas leaks. 50 43 45 36 23 19 0 2001 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Occurrence rate of accidents that could lead to a severe injury (FY2011 = 100) 100 100 Advanced safety refresher course using web-based 50 50 50 education system 0 Checking safety with customers 2011 2012 2013 (FY) When delivering TEL equipment to factories newly constructed by our customers, the TEL Group checks the new factory’s Safety education facilities and equipment as well as its work safety procedures Since July 2000, the TEL Group has been providing basic safety before starting operation of the equipment. These checks are education for all Group employees using a manual created intended to identify any questions or problems related to work SOCIETY in-house. We provide more advanced safety education using a procedures and promote the development of a safe working manual compiled by the Semiconductor Equipment Association environment prior to start-up. of Japan (SEAJ) for our technical employees who work primarily With regard to facilities, we particularly check the in clean rooms. availability of systems that are crucial during emergencies, such In fiscal 2013, 9,517 employees took basic safety as gas detectors, water leakage detectors, emergency showers, refresher courses using a web-based education system. eye washers and (material) safety data sheets (MSDSs/SDSs). The courses included a videotaped interview on safety with Even after launching operation of our equipment following the Tokyo Electron president and covered lessons learned delivery, we continue to conduct checks on an as-needed basis from the Great East Japan Earthquake as well as the subject in order to resolve questions and problems and ensure that of radiation. Meanwhile, 7,580 employees participated in procedures will be carried out safely. TOPICS Traffic safety education The Safety Promotion Dept. of Tokyo Electron FE Ltd. (TFE) provides a traffic safety education program called “What Will You Do?” for its field engineers who work on-site at customers’ plants. The education program include familiar topics such as identifying possible hazards while driving; driving and avoiding accidents on rainy days; possible hazards at intersections; possible hazards on commuter roads, during twilight hours and at night; risks of Traffic safety education skidding; and risks present at parking lots. To impart the full program using a web-based horror of traffic accidents and give clear examples of how to avoid education system them, the program uses video of actual accidents and near misses captured by drive recorders. At the end of the course, participants take a quiz to check their level of understanding. As well as TFE engineers, employees working at other departments and plants have accessed the course website, with the number of participants last fiscal year totaling around 1,400. 19 Quality Control Initiatives Our approach to quality Quality Promotion Framework The TEL Group provides high-quality products and services. President & CEO We include the entire process from development through manufacturing, installation and maintenance. We also focus General Manager of on the quality of the entire customer experience. For us, the Production Division Secretariat satisfaction and trust of our customers is proof of our quality. (Quality Promotion Department) Presidents of Group companies Quality Policy Heads of GM committees 1. Quality Always Quality is not only the foundation for customer satisfaction, but also the foundation for meeting expected production schedules and reducing downtime. Technology Control Production GM Material GM Quality GM Committee Committee Committee Committee We prioritize quality over temporary cost increases. 2. Quality Design and Assurance * Working group members consist of general managers, We build quality into every TEL product during the design phase by focusing Design Parts Standardization Standardization department managers or representatives from plants on leading-edge technology. By bringing quality into our processes early and and ofﬁces in Japan. Working Group* Working Group* focusing on quality throughout all processes, we succeed in providing highquality products and services. 3. Quality and Trust When we find a quality problem, manufacturing, sales and service departments <Technology Control Committee> analyze the facts and complete a thorough investigation to determine the The Technology Control Committee is comprised of the Design cause, resolving the problem as quickly as possible. Our customers can trust in our commitment to address identified quality problems. Standardization Working Group and the Parts Standardization 4. Continuous Improvement Activities Working Group. At these working group meetings, factory We improve quality with an effective quality management system. This includes and division representatives with using quality measures, improving by applying the PDCA cycle, and practicing specialized knowledge share the Reducing continuous improvement activities. inventory 5. Communication with Stakeholders latest information and identify Reducing Improving In addition to providing product quality information in a timely manner, we common essential challenges in costs quality understand and align to the expectations of our stakeholders. Front standardization as a foundation of loading manufacturing. The particular focus Shortening Reducing Quality assurance of the committee is on improving lead time man-hours Reducing When a quality problem occurs, we promptly take action quality in the development and changes to minimize its impact on the customer. Sales and service design phase (front loading). departments then report relevant information to the quality assurance department responsible for the product that caused Improving design quality the problem. Based on the use and quality record of the The TEL Group performs repeated design reviews, evaluations product, the quality assurance department will then conduct and simulations at the design stage to develop equipment with a an analysis, investigate possible causes and inform production higher level of perfection, and it makes continuous improvement and technology departments of the results while also sharing efforts by implementing PDCA cycles to increase the satisfaction the information with other divisions to prevent similar problems and gain the trust of customers. These measures have resulted from happening. in improved quality and a drop in the number of changes needed during the design phase. Quality promotion framework The TEL Group has established a cross-divisional TEL Number of changes at the design stage (FY2007 = 100) Group Quality Promotion Framework led by four working 100 groups. These working groups cooperate with each other for 100 53.4% efficient and stable quality control with the goal of improving 71.0 67.3 Reduction customer satisfaction. 50 46.6 0 2007 2009 2011 2013 (FY) 20 Procurement Initiatives Our approach to procurement Working together with suppliers The high-value manufacturing that the TEL Group strives for The TEL Group calls for the cooperation of its suppliers with is based on the functions of all materials and components that regard to compliance with labor-related laws, including those on make up the products and the pursuit of high quality. child labor and forced labor. Specifically, this means we expect We value communications with suppliers and seek to grow our suppliers to respect fundamental human rights, protect manufacturing on a global scale with our suppliers based on intellectual property rights, comply with import/export-related ongoing trusting relationships. laws and regulations, prohibit the involvement with antisocial forces and take measures in regard to conflict minerals*2. With Procurement Policy regard to specific requests, such as requests to respond to $PNQMJBODFXJUI QQMJDBCMF-BXTBOE4PDJBM/PSNT chemical substance regulations, we hold briefing sessions for We engage in procurement activities with integrity in compliance with the laws suppliers so that we can work together with them. and regulations of each country and social norms based on our corporate ethics. Meanwhile, in order to reduce environmental impacts and 2. Priority on the Environment We conduct procurement with full consideration for reduction of environmental logistics costs, we cooperate with our suppliers to conduct impact and protection of the global environment. joint operations for highly efficient pick-up and delivery at two 3. Fair Business Practices locations, namely, Tohoku and Kyushu. We continuously seek high-value technologies and create broad opportunities for their business transactions based on the precondition of open competition. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 4. Partnership We prioritize relationships of trust based on mutual understanding with The TEL Group is formulating disaster mitigation programs in suppliers and conduct activities in the pursuit of mutual continuous growth. cooperation with our suppliers. In order to promptly identify 5. Information Management damage and take steps for recovery following a disaster, we SOCIETY We properly manage the confidential information of suppliers that we obtain in the course of business. have built a database of suppliers’ production sites. We also conduct an annual survey and use the results to carry out activities aimed at reducing risks together with suppliers. Communication with suppliers The TEL Group not only uses electronic data interchange Initiatives for procurement BCP (EDI)*1 for procuring parts and materials online, but also operates its own website to promote efficient two-way Investigate damage & Speed & accuracy communication with suppliers. evaluate impact Procurement BCP scheme (Procurement BER*3) We share our business overview and policies through the Post-disaster measures semiannual Production Update Briefing held by the Group’s Support recovery efforts & Procurement BCP take procurement measures manufacturing companies and the annual TEL Partners Day as (Procurement BDR*4) well as daily communication. Pre-disaster Establish BCP system measures with suppliers Build relationship with suppliers based on Minimize risks mutual trust and respect TEL Partners Day held in fiscal 2013 Glossary *1 aElectronic data interchange (EDI): A framework to facilitate the electronic exchange of information related to commercial transactions among corporations in unified standard format *2 Conflict minerals: Four minerals (tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten) mined or traded in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighboring countries that form a source of funds for armed groups, and give rise to violations of human rights or labor problems. *43 BDR: BER: Business Emergency Response. First response taken immediately after a disaster * Business Disaster Recovery. Recovery effort that is made according to the results of the damage investigation 21 Environmental Management Our approach to the environment Environmental activity promotion framework The TEL Group aims to solve environmental issues through Global Environment Meeting our leading-edge technology and services under slogan of “Technology for Eco Life.” We strive to contribute to Product Environment Product Environment Operation Environment the establishment of a sustainable society by reducing Value Meeting Compliance Meeting Value Meeting the Group’s impact on the consumption of resources, on Compliance with, and response Reducing environmental Reducing the energy to, laws and regulations on impact of business biodiversity and on climate change by taking actions that consumption of products environmental standards for activities; ensuring products in each country compliance both directly and indirectly contribute to the protection and conservation of the environment. Environmental education Environment Policy The TEL Group provides Group employees with environmental 1. Environmental Goals and Continuous Improvement education and training aimed at different job grades. For We continually enhance our knowledge of environmental issues to establish new employees such training programs are mandatory. In voluntary goals that are reviewed by Executive Management and drive continuous improvement and full regulatory compliance. fiscal 2013, the TEL Group provided employees in Japan with web-based environmental education using an e-learning system. 2. Promotion of Environmental Technology We aim to invest in the development of leading-edge, high-value products and In fiscal 2014, the TEL Group will provide the program to Group services that directly contribute to a sustainable society. employees outside Japan to raise environmental awareness 3. Environmental Contribution with Products across the entire Group. We develop eco-friendly products through our leading-edge technology. The Group cooperates with customers and suppliers to strive for the prevention and improvement of a wide range of environmental concerns. 4. Operational Environmental Impact Reduction and Preservation We quantitatively analyze and reduce the environmental impact of our global operations with activity from all levels of employees and operations. 5. Collaboration and Cooperation with Stakeholders and Society We actively promote collaboration and cooperation with all our stakeholders to achieve mutual understanding and conformance to expectations. Web-based environmental education Environmental activity promotion Checking environmental activities framework The TEL Group’s manufacturing subsidiaries keep a close eye To promote Group-wide environmental activities, the TEL on laws and regulations in order to ensure compliance with Group has established a framework consisting of the Product environmental laws, emission standards and other legal and Environment Value Meeting, Product Environment Compliance regulatory frameworks. Some of them have also set their own Meeting and Operation Environment Value Meeting. Supervised voluntary standards. The TEL Group has completed its checks by the Global Environment Meeting, these three meetings on the frameworks for environmental initiatives as well as the are comprised of members appointed by top management progress of related activities with respect to companies acquired from the Tokyo Electron Head Office and Group companies. by the Group in fiscal 2013. Collectively, they carry out activities for achieving the TEL In ﬁscal 2013, the Group was not involved in any environmentGroup environmental goals and keep tabs on their progress. To related incidents or accidents, nor committed any violations of ensure continuous improvement, the committees are subject to environmental law, nor was subject to any related legal proceedings. management reviews. Since 1997, the TEL Group has been introducing environmental management systems based on ISO14001 standards, primarily at manufacturing subsidiaries, and obtaining ISO14001 certification. List of ISO14001 certified TEL Group plants and offices: http://www.tel.com/environment/enviro/index.htm Checking environmental frameworks at TEL FSI, Inc. 22 Biodiversity Initiatives representative director of Conservation International Japan, and Our approach to biodiversity Associate Professor Rei Kosaka of Kanazawa University to get The environment plays host to an enormous amount of feedback on the guidelines. biodiversity. This biodiversity supports a number of ecosystem Based on the relationship maps and activity guidelines, we services, without which the TEL Group would be unable to are committed to launching biodiversity initiatives. continue its business activities. Our activities, however, have a non-negligible impact on biodiversity. Based on this recognition, Activity Guidelines the Group has put in place a framework to promote initiatives for We aim to become a company that contributes to biodiversity biodiversity conservation. through business activities. We strive to understand the life cycle impact of our products and Fiscal 2013 activities reduce such impact. Since October 2012, the TEL Group has held workshops We shall familiarize ourselves with the issues related to biodiversity, acquire relevant knowledge and make conservation efforts. to deepen employees’ understanding of biodiversity. The first workshop organized an ecosystem tour around the Fuchu Office led by an expert guide. This tour provided an opportunity for participants to get a close-up look at their immediate natural environment and learn about biodiversity conservation. Two TEL Group offices mapped the relationship between business activities and biodiversity based on product life cycle assessments and identified the relationship between TEL products and biodiversity. Having gained a Workshop clearer understanding of both the impact and dependence of products on biodiversity over the course of the product life cycle, the two offices formulated the Group’s approach to the issue and drafted activity guidelines. At the end of February 2013, representatives of the Group met with Mr. Yasushi Hibi, Ecosystem tour Map of biodiversity relationship* Product life cycle Raw materials ENVIRONMENT Renewable energy Mineral resources Energy resources Energy resources Energy resources Renewable resources Input Energy resources Energy resources Renewable resources Renewable resources Packaging/wood Resources Raw materials procurement Production Transportation Use Disposal/recycling Semiconductor production using products Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Output into water to air into water to air to air into water to air into water to air Emissions into soil Emissions into soil Pollution, Climate change Climate change Pollution, Climate change Impact of Pollution Pollution Degradation of habitat of Increase of Degradation of habitat of input/output Climate change Climate change living organisms non-native species living organisms Plants and Offices Consumer use of semiconductors Input Output Impact of input/output Output Impact of input/output Energy resources Pollution Development of Emissions Emissions Climate change Disposal energy-saving, Renewable resources Land use into water to air Degradation of habitat of living organisms after use resource-saving society Waste from cafeteria Increase of non-native species Semiconductor Building materials * Created based on the Business & Biodiversity Interrelationship Map by the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) Renewable energy : Hydro power and solar photovoltaic power generation Energy resources : Crude oil, natural gas Renewable resource : water Resources : quartz, etc. 23 Environmental Initiatives in Products and Logistics Reducing Environmental Energy monitoring To facilitate the effort to reduce the energy consumption of Impact of Product Use our equipment when in use, we are developing a monitoring system for the centralized management of energy consumption. Our approach to environmental initiatives Known as the “Eco Monitor,” the system visualizes the amount In its Environment Policy, the TEL Group clearly expresses its of electricity and other utilities supplied to the equipment belief that promoting environmentally friendly product design is during operation. It is expected that the data will be used for a crucial part of its corporate activity. The Group is particularly comparison and analysis purposes and will lead to the reduction working on reducing the energy consumption of its products as of waste in energy consumption and the improvement of a priority challenge. operational efficiency. Energy-saving measures Electricity The TEL Group is making energy-saving efforts to achieve the goal of 50% reduction in energy consumption from the fiscal Cooling water 2008 level by fiscal 2015 with regard to major models of each business unit. In fiscal 2013, we achieved the interim target of Pure water reducing energy consumption by 30% regarding major models of each business unit. We are promoting the reduction of product energy Dry air consumption through four approaches: (1) reducing the energy used by the product itself; (2) reducing the energy used by Nitrogen peripheral devices; (3) ensuring systematic and efficient operation of products; and (4) ensuring energy-saving operation Exhaust of customers’ factories. As the importance of (3) and (4) is likely to increase in the future, we are planning to focus more on the monitoring and control of energy use. Customer’s factory Eco Monitor Energy-saving operation of the factory (planned operation and proper management) System Efﬁcient management Equipment Reduced energy usage of the equipment itself Reduced energy usage of peripheral devices Pump Water chiller Scrubber Monitors electricity, exhaust, water (cooling water and pure water), Peripheral devices dry air and nitrogen as comprehensive energy during the actual operation of the equipment in accordance with SEMI S23*. Glossary * SEMI S23: Guidelines for energy conservation for semiconductor production equipment issued by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), an international industry organization for semiconductor/FPD production equipment and material manufacturers 24 Equipment that achieved a 30% reduction in energy consumption (from FY2008 level; per wafer) Electricity Plasma Etch System Electricity Single Wafer Plasma Treatment System TactrasTM VigusTM Triase+TM SPAi Key initiative: Key initiative: Saving energy consumption of Eliminating temperature control chiller, pump and heater unit by using plant-sourced Energy reduction: 31% cooling water directly Energy reduction: 50% Electricity Gas Chemical Etch System Electricity Single Wafer CVD System Certas WINGTM Triase+TM EX-IITM TiN Key initiative: Key initiative: Improving productivity with Miniaturization and energy-saving two-wafer processing operation of heater and pump Energy reduction: 50% Energy reduction: 50% Pure Auto Wet Station Dry air Single Wafer Cleaning System water EXPEDIUSTM-i CELLESTATM-i Key initiative: Key initiative: Reducing pure water Reducing dry air consumption by consumption in standby mode improving the drying system Energy reduction: 36% Energy reduction: 50% ENVIRONMENT Dry air Wafer Prober Nitrogen Scrubber System Precio nanoTM NS300+ Key initiative: Key initiative: Reducing the amount of dry Reducing the amount of exhaust air supply with dew point by changing N 2 purging to dry air monitoring and improving duct Energy reduction: 50% Energy reduction: 50% Nitrogen Thermal Processing System Exhaust Coater/Developers TELINDY PLUSTM CLEAN TRACK TM LITHIUS ProTM V-i Key initiative: Key initiative: Ensuring the use of proper amount Reducing the amount of exhaust of nitrogen of rotating cup modules and saving energy in temperature/ Energy reduction: 30% humidity control Energy reduction: 50% 25 Measures against Regulated Complying with the laws and regulations in countries and regions where our customers operate Chemical Substances We provide equipment in full compliance with China’s version of RoHS, which requires that necessary Our approach to regulated chemical substances information be provided to customers. Reducing regulated chemical substances contained in products In response to the EU’s REACH regulation, we provide is essential when manufacturing environmentally friendly information on the content of any substance of very high products. At the TEL Group, we set our own standards and concern (SVHC) and safety information when a SVHC continue to make efforts to reduce the use of regulated amounting to more than 0.1% is present in any of our products. chemical substances in our equipment and quickly supply In response to each country’s regulations based on products that are in compliance with the laws and regulations of the GHS*5 formulated by the United Nations, the TEL countries in which our customers operate. Group makes available safety information on chemical substances through (material) safety data sheets, or Reducing the use of regulated (M) SDS, as well as labels affixed to containers carrying chemical substances in equipment chemical substances. Although TEL Group products are exempt from the EU’s RoHS*1 With regard to battery regulations*6 enacted by the EU Directive, the TEL Group is committed to voluntarily reducing and Taiwan, we check whether applicable batteries are the use of the six RoHS substances*2. We designate equipment used inside our products and take necessary measures. that contains 98.5% or more parts that meet the EU’s RoHS Directive as “equipment with fewer regulated chemical Future plans substances,” and major models of each of our business units We will further increase the percentage of equipment meet this standard. We will make continued efforts to increase containing reduced amounts of regulated chemical substances. the number of compliant models. We will effectively use JAMP and other frameworks Additionally, to effectively become compliant with the EU’s and will broaden our collaboration with customers RoHS Directive, REACH*3, Chinese RoHS and other regulations, and suppliers to promote more rational and accurate we adopted JAMP AIS*4 and JAMP management guidelines measures for the management of regulated chemical for information on chemicals contained in our products. Prior substances. We will also continuously improve our to the adoption of these regulations, in fiscal 2013 we held chemical substance management system, which we have briefing sessions for our suppliers. We will introduce the built internally based on JAMP management guidelines JAMP-IT system, which is an IT system promoted by JAMP for information on chemicals contained in products, to for distributing information on chemical substances contained further strengthen our control over chemical substances. in products, and efficiently conduct surveys by requesting We will further tighten the management of regulated cooperation from our suppliers. chemical substances at a global level to achieve an even higher level of environmental compliance for our products. Equipment with fewer regulated chemical substances as of FY2013 Thermal Processing System TELINDY PLUS™ Single Wafer CVD System Trias™ Wafer Prober Precio™ Telius™SP Etch System Tactras™ CLEAN TRACK™ LITHIUS Pro™ Coater/Developers CLEAN TRACK™ LITHIUS™ CELLESTA™+ Surface Preparation System EXPEDIUS™ NS300 Introductory presentation on management Presentation material Wafer Bonding/Debonding System Synapse™ Series guidelines for information on chemicals contained in products Glossary *12 RoHS: Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment *3 REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. A regulation pertaining to the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction Six RoHS substances: Lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenals (PBBs) and polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs) * of chemicals. For products containing SVHC amounting to more than 0.1 wt% in particular, manufacturers are required to provide information on the SVHC content of their products as well as information to ensure the safe use of the products. *4 JAMP AIS: Article information sheet (AIS) promoted by the Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium (JAMP). This sheet is used to deliver basic information on regulated chemical substances. *5 standards GHS: Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. A system agreed upon by the United Nations that is intended to provide unified across various countries for the classification of hazard level, labeling and the content of (M) SDS *6 Battery regulations: Regulations enforced in each country to facilitate the collection and recycling of batteries, including the mandatory indication of the recycling symbol on batteries 26 Reducing the Environmental 2012 level but improved by about 8 points from fiscal 2008. To further facilitate a modal shift by switching to marine and Impact of Logistics other transportation methods that have a lower impact on the environment, we are working to reduce production lead time. Our approach to reducing the We use wooden frames and corrugated cardboard as environmental impact of logistics packaging materials when shipping products. To reduce the Regulations concerning logistics have been tightened with amount of resources used for packaging, we also use reusable a view to helping curb global climate change. At the same corrugated cardboard boxes as packaging materials for some time, companies are facing growing demands for measures shipments inside Japan. Furthermore, casters and special tools to reduce environmental impact of their logistics. For its part, used for moving products on-site at the customers’ premises the TEL Group will continue striving to reduce environmental are collected and brought back to Group plants for reuse as part impact caused by the transport of its products through such of our efforts to save resources. means as promoting modal shift* 7 for domestic and overseas transport and adopting packaging methods with a smaller CO 2 emissions from logistics and the proportion of marine transportation environmental footprint. (Thousand tons) (%) 200 53.6 60 Reducing the environmental impact 150 145 50 5 36.6 of logistics 32.0 37.8 40 100 140 25.9 30 We calculate and monitor the CO 2 emissions of domestic 70 66 4 3 60 20 and international logistics for our products. In fiscal 2013, 50 17.4 33 31 2 we reduced CO 2 emissions by about 9% from fiscal 2012, 3 2 66 63 58 10 0 30 29 to about 60,000 tons. The share of marine transportation 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) used for exports was 25.9%, which declined from the fiscal International logistics Logistics within Japan Proportion of marine transportation in international logistics TOPICS Revision of Guideline for Green Procurement On January 15, 2001, the TEL Group issued the Guideline for Green Procurement to operate its business based on its Environment Policy, and has since promoted green procurement that takes into account efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its suppliers’ business activities. ENVIRONMENT In light of the more stringent environmental laws and regulations being enacted around the globe over the decade since the issuance of the Guideline for Green Procurement, the TEL Group revised the guideline in November 2012. The revised guideline consists of the following: 1. Improving the environmental management system Improving the sustainable corporate environmental management system to conserve the global environment by referring to the ISO14001 environmental management system 2. Monitoring, reducing, and disclosing the environmental impact of business activities 3. Considering the environmental impact of products t1 SPWJEJOHMBCFMTSFRVJSFEGPSEFMJWFSZPGHBTBOEDIFNJDBMQSPEVDUT BTXFMMBTTBGFUZJOGPSNBUJPO t. FBTVSFTGPSSFHVMBUFEDIFNJDBMTVCTUBODFTJODPNQPOFOUT QBSUT NBUFSJBMT BOEDIFNJDBMTVTFE for maintenance t. FBTVSFTSFRVJSFEGPSDIFNJDBMTVCTUBODFTDPOUBJOFEJOCVJMUJODPNQPOFOUTBOEQBSUT t*OGPSNBUJPOPOCBUUFSJFTGPSCVJMUJODPNQPOFOUTBOEQBSUT Guideline for Green Procurement t3 FEVDJOHFOFSHZDPOTVNQUJPOBOEJNQSPWJOHFOFSHZFGGJDJFODZ t3 FTPVSDFTBWJOH SFVTFBOESFDZDMJOH t3 FVTJOHQBDLBHJOHNBUFSJBMT VTFPGFOWJSPONFOUBMMZGSJFOEMZNBUFSJBMT FOTVSJOHDPNQMJBODFXJUI laws and regulations t1 SPWJEJOHFOWJSPONFOUBMJOGPSNBUJPO Glossary *7 Modal shift: A shift in the mode of transportation. Specifically, switching from conventional freight transportation by truck or aircraft to means such as marine and rail, which have a lower impact on the environment 27 Plant and Ofﬁce Initiatives for the Environment Preventing Global Climate Change Figure 2: Electricity consumption (Million kWh) 300 270.1 262.1 Our approach to climate change 9.9 249.6 250.6 251.4 12.5 231.8 16.0 20.5 27.8 40.5 200 At the TEL Group, each plant and office makes efforts to achieve its own goal of energy consumption reduction set in 260.2 237.1 230.1 100 215.8 223.6 221.6 units (e.g., floor area) that it has chosen to measure and reports energy consumption depending on the form of its business. The 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Group is also proactively adopting photovoltaic power generation Japan Overseas systems to reduce CO 2 emissions. Figure 3: Breakdown of CO 2 emissions from energy Efforts to reduce energy consumption * consumption 2 by source In accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the City gas 3% LPG 1% Group plants and offices have set the goal of reducing energy Kerosene 1% Heavy oil, light oil, etc. 1% consumption by at least 1% year on year. In fiscal 2013, five out of six TEL plants in Japan achieved this goal. Energy consumption with the unit of kiloliter of crude oil equivalent*1 FY2013 Electricity 94% 140,712 decreased by 6.4% from the previous year (Figure 1). tons Figure 1: Energy consumption in FY2013 (Baseline year = FY2012) Energy Energy consumption 1FSVOJUDPOTVNQUJPO Plant consumption (kl) over baseline year over baseline year Tohoku Plant 3,400 102% 89% Figure 4: CO 2 emissions from energy consumption Technology Center Sendai 2,754 103% 104% (t) Yamanashi Plant (Hosaka) 11,645 89% 89% 150,000 140,712 Yamanashi Plant (Fujii) 9,511 95% 95% Koshi Plant 15,905 96% 96% 120,000 113,169 116,078 23,316 Ozu Plant 3,478 82% 82% 7,335 8,336 90,616 96,893 102,187 Total 46,693 93.6% 90,000 8,945 12,046 15,063 60,000 105,834 107,742 117,396 Power consumption of the entire TEL Group increased 81,671 84,847 87,124 30,000 by about 4% from fiscal 2012 (Figure 2). CO 2 emissions 0 associated with energy use increased by about 38% from 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) fiscal 2012, primarily due to worsening power emission factors Japan Overseas in Japan (Figures 3 and 4). If power emission factors are CO 2 emissions in ﬁscal 2012 totaled 87,124 tons minus a 50,000 ton reduction brought about through the use of a domestic clean development mechanism (CDM)*3. assumed to be at the same levels as those in fiscal 2012, CO 2 emissions at plants that have set their targets decreased Figure 5: CO 2 emissions in Figure 6: Electricity generated with similarly as with energy consumption (Figure 5). areas that have set goals 17QPXFSHFOFSBUJPOTZTUFNT (Thousand tons) (Million kWh) 100 4.0 3.9 Introducing PV power generation systems 93 74 69 In fiscal 2013, the Koshi Plant introduced photovoltaic power generation systems. The TEL Group generated a combined total 2.2 50 2.0 of 3,858 MWh using PV cells installed at the Koshi Plant as well as the Yamanashi and Miyagi Plants, which had already adopted PV systems, in fiscal 2013 (Figure 6). 0 0 2012 2013 2013* (FY) 2012 2013 (FY) *When power factors are the same as those in ﬁscal 2012 Glossary *1 Kiloliter of crude oil equivalent: Volume of electricity, heavy oil, gas and other types of energy used × Per-unit calorific value of each energy type × Conversion rate for crude oil equivalent *2 CO 2 emissions from energy consumption: We used adjusted emission factors for individual electric power providers for the emission factor for electricity consumption in Japan in fiscal 2013. For the emission factor for electricity consumption overseas, we used estimated factors calculated by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan based on values published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). *3 government Domestic clean development mechanism (CDM): The approved mechanism for CO emissions reduction under Japan’s Domestic CDM System (a Japanese 2 scheme that allows small and medium-sized businesses to receive funding, technology, and technical support from large businesses in order to work collaboratively to reduce CO 2 emissions and trade the reduced amount as emission credits) 28 Conserving Resources Efforts to reduce the use of paper Our employees are encouraged to use duplex copying, to copy Our approach to resource conservation at a reduced size, and to digitize information and internal The TEL Group is working to minimize the use of limited natural circulars. As a result of these efforts, the TEL Group’s use of resources by reducing the volume of water and paper used. copier paper in Japan in fiscal 2013 decreased by about 25%, or more than 8 million sheets, compared with fiscal 2012. Efforts to reduce water consumption The TEL Group has set a new environmental goal of keeping 8BUFSDPOTVNQUJPOJO': (Baseline year = FY2012) water consumption at the same or at a lower level than the basic 8BUFSUZQF 8BUFS 8BUFSDPOTVNQUJPO 1FSVOJUDPOTVNQUJPO Plant unit set by each plant in fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2013, five out of used consumption (m3) over baseline year over baseline year Tohoku Plant 56,965 121.5% 88.8% the six goals set regarding water (tap water, industrial water and 50,246 116.6% 110.3% groundwater) used at six TEL plants in Japan were achieved. Technology Center Sendai 7,501 73.0% 69.1% The Hosaka Plant, for example, streamlined facilities for Yamanashi Plant (Hosaka) 243,377 95.2% 95.2% pure water, which accounts for a majority of water used, and Yamanashi Plant (Fujii) 60,029 93.3% 93.3% consequently reduced overall water consumption by about 5% Koshi Plant from fiscal 2012 levels. At the same time, the Ozu Plant carried 527,899 89.4% 89.2% Ozu Plant out activities to reduce water consumption at its cafeteria, Total 946,017 93.6% including ensuring intermittent operation of faucets and using Tap water Industrial water Groundwater rinse-free rice, which resulted in a 67% reduction in water consumption compared to the level before implementing the 8BUFSDPOTVNQUJPO series of measures. While sharing these practices throughout the (Thousand m 3) 1,180 1,139 1,192 1,182 group, each plant is making efforts to reduce water consumption. 1,200 48 2 65 1,090 70 104 1 967 64 49 315 300 1 199 Streamlining pure water facilities at the Hosaka Plant 800 599 575 504 Before improvement 531 506 466 Pretreatment with No.1 No.2 Tap water Anion tower*4 400 RO*5 Pure water membrane ﬁlter RO 531 498 413 Discharged Discharged 296 301 312 water water 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) After improvement Overseas use Groundwater Tap water Industrial water Activated Cation tower*6 Tap water carbon ﬁlter + Anion tower RO Pure water ENVIRONMENT We reduced the amount of water discharged by reviewing Discharged pretreatment and interim treatment methods and integrating water two RO treatment units into one. We were also able to reduce the amount of liquid chemicals used for treatment and the electricity used for pumps of related facilities. TOPICS Score of semiconductor production equipment manufacturers Achieving a 79 CDP*7 2012 disclosure score (Disclosure score) 100 86 79 70 61 Tokyo Electron scored 79 for its CDP disclosure score, which 55 evaluates strategy on climate change, initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and status of information disclosure. We will continue to make proactive efforts for environment 0 conservation and information disclosure. Japanese sector Japanese sector Japanese sector Overseas sector Tokyo Electron peer company A peer company B peer company C peer company Glossary *45 Anion tower: A tower where anion treatment is conducted *6 Cation tower: A tower where cation treatment is conducted RO: Reverse osmosis operation *7 CDP: Carbon Disclosure Project. A project that works with institutional investors to ask leading companies by market value in key countries to disclose their * strategies for combating climate change and greenhouse gas emissions. Since its start in 2000, the response rate from corporations has been increasing year by year. 29 Reducing Waste Breakdown of waste (Japan) Others 12% Our approach to waste reduction Wood waste/packaging materials 6% In its efforts to minimize waste, the TEL Group recycles whatever Plastics 8% FY2013 Liquid waste 52% waste is generated to the greatest extent possible, and disposes 7,960 Paper 8% tons of non-recyclable waste in a proper and responsible manner. To be more specific, we separate recyclable waste from Metal/product waste 14% non-recyclables, use new manufacturing processes that do not involve waste generation, hire only waste disposal companies inspected and authorized by our company, periodically check Recycling rate and generation of incinerated and landfill waste (Japan) final waste disposal practices, and also focus on educational (t) (%) activities related to the sorting of waste and other topics. Some 98.1 97.4 97.3 100 97.0 97.3 97.3 business sites have begun using electronic manifests*1 to 500 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more ensure proper management of waste. 400 366 331 300 288 276 Volume of waste generated and 245 215 recycling rates 200 The volume of waste generated at TEL plants and offices in 100 Japan decreased by 38% from fiscal 2012, as the liquid waste 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) treatment building at Koshi Plant began its operations, resulting Incineration and landﬁll Recycling rate in a decrease in the volume of liquid waste to be treated by an outside contractor. With a recycling rate*2 of 97.3% in fiscal 2013, the TEL Group achieved its goal of maintaining a recycling 3 FDZDMJOHSBUFGPSJOEVTUSJBMXBTUFHFOFSBUFEBU5&-(SPVQ rate of 97% or more. Also in fiscal 2013, the Group monitored plants in Japan the volume of waste generated at its plants and offices outside Recycling rate Plant Japan, and confirmed a recycling rate of about 20%. We will FY2012 FY2013 monitor the volume of waste generated at overseas locations in Tohoku Plant 99.2% 100% a more accurate manner for even higher goal setting. Taiwa Plant 100% 100% Yamanashi Plant (Hosaka) 100% 100% Zero waste Yamanashi Plant (Fujii) 100% 100% The TEL Group defines plants where less than 2% of waste Koshi Plant 100% 100% generated is incinerated or put into landfill as “zero waste Ozu Plant 100% 100% plants.” In fiscal 2013, we achieved zero waste at six plants in Japan as a result of our efforts to reduce waste and recycle. TOPICS Overseas initiative Tokyo Electron Taiwan Limited (TET) has worked on waste sorting, i.e., separating recyclable waste from general waste. By installing trash bins labeled by the type of waste at the entrance of the office and the clean room to ensure proper waste sorting, TET achieved a recycling rate of 63% in fiscal 2013. TET will continue to work on reducing and sorting waste to improve their recycling rate. Trash bins labeled for waste separation installed at the entrance of the kitchen and clean room Glossary *1 Electronic manifest: A system in which the flow of industrial waste is managed via a communication network linking information processing centers, the companies generating the waste, waste collection and transportation companies, and waste disposal companies. It replaces the conventional paper-based control manifest. *2 Recycling rate: Recycled amount ÷ Amount of waste generated × 100 30 after use either through specialist Management of Chemical Substances waste disposal contractors or using our in-house processing equipment. We will Our approach to the management of continue to properly manage risk relating chemical substances to these chemical substances. The TEL Group uses chemical substances mainly in the Illustrating one example of proper Shelves used to store development and manufacturing phases of products. In the chemical substance management, chemical substances at TEK development phase, whenever we introduce a new chemical Tokyo Electron Korea Limited (TEK) specifies where to store the substance or alter the method of using a chemical substance, chemical substances it handles, keeps (M)SDS information at we make sure to check for environmental, health and safety the storage site, and places GHS-required labels on containers risks and take the necessary measures before the new used for carrying chemical substances. substance or method is adopted. 7PMVNFPG1353$MBTT*%FTJHOBUFE$IFNJDBM4VCTUBODFTIBOEMFE +BQBO Compliance with the PRTR* law 3 (kg) 15,000 13,709 14,361 11,732 In accordance with the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release 169 1,617 12,450 2,031 Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment 2,108 5,071 and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof 10,000 9,693 4,541 3,787 1,359 1,607 236 (“Japanese PRTR law”), we ensure that chemical substances 1,459 3,962 6,285 regulated under the law are managed rigorously, and that 1,200 847 5,000 1,225 8,469 8,203 5,914 the amounts of regulated substances used, discharged and 5,021 5,427 3,977 transferred are consistently monitored. The TEL Group uses hydrogen fluoride, one of the regulated substances, in large 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) quantities particularly during the cleaning of test wafers. We Hydrogen ﬂuoride and its water-soluble salts Methylnaphthalene Ethylene glycol Others make sure to properly dispose of the hazardous substances Xylene .BUFSJBMCBMBODFPG1353SFHVMBUFETVCTUBODFT Volume of substances handled 11,732 kg/year Waste 5,083 kg/year Transferred to sewage 180 kg/year Released into the air 19 kg/year On-site landfill 0 kg/year Released into water 0 kg/year Removed 2,335 kg/year ENVIRONMENT Recycled 195 kg/year Volume of substances consumed 3,920 kg/year Input and output (FY2013) Change from Change from Input previous year Output previous year Energy (crude oil equivalent) 69,684 kl +5.0% CO2 emissions from energy consumption 140,712 tons +37.7% (Breakdown) Electricity 262.15 million kWh +4.3% Gas (crude oil equivalent) 2,668 kl +36.0% Waste 7,960 tons -38.2% Fuel (crude oil equivalent) 1,216 kl -20.1% TEL (Breakdown) Recycled amount 7,745 tons -38.3% Water 1.182 million m 3 -0.9% Group Amount of incinerated/landfill waste 215 tons -35.0% Chemical substances (Class I Designated Chemical Substances under the PRTR system) 11.7 tons -18.2% Paper (copier paper) 99 tons -25.0% Total product shipment 9,634 tons -36.8% Material/packaging material Glossary *3 PRTR: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register. A system under which the use of chemical substances that may be hazardous to human health and the ecosystem, their release into the environment, and their transfer (contained in waste) off the original business premises are identified, tabulated, and disclosed 31 In Harmony with the Local Community The TEL Group is building relationships for mutual development through various forms of social involvement, including initiatives for the development of young people as future leaders, community-based citizenship activities in response to local needs, and support for recovery and revitalization efforts in the Tohoku region that was affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Supporting science education Science class To provide elementary school children with an opportunity to know the fun of science, we held an event titled “Fun Topics of Science” consisting of a science show and classes with demonstrative experiments. A total of 1,800 children and their families visited the science show featuring various experiments, such as experiencing the power of air by demonstrating an air cannon. In classes held on the curious characteristics of low temperatures and other science-related subjects, elementary school children watched experiments enthusiastically. The TEL Group will continue to hold this popular annual event. Other activities t0 SHBOJ[FE4DJFODF4PDDFS4DIPPM(Tokyo Electron) tS ponsored Youngsters’ Science Festival in Kumamoto 2012 (Tokyo Electron Kyushu) tA ccepted participants in High Tech University in Kumamoto (Tokyo Electron Kyushu) Science show Revitalizing local communities Supporting the Kumamoto Castle Marathon We supported the second Kumamoto Castle Marathon as a gold sponsor two years in a row. Over 10,000 runners wearing colorful gear ran through the center of Kumamoto City. More than 120 TEL Group employees participated in the marathon, with well over 80 employees running with all their might toward the goal in the first marathon. TEL employees also participated in the event as volunteer supporters, performing baggage checks, serving meals, and cheering the runners Kumamoto Castle Marathon on along the road. Other activities t4 QPOTPSFEBOBUJPOBMXPNFOTDPSQPSBUFSFMBZNBSBUIPOPSi2VFFOT&LJEFOw in Miyagi as a special sponsor (Tokyo Electron/Tokyo Electron Miyagi) t4 QPOTPSFE5PLZP&MFDUSPO/JSBTBLJ#VOLB)BMM/BNJOH3JHIU.FNPSJBM Concert (Tokyo Electron Yamanashi) t4 VQQPSUFE&TBTIJ+JOLV'FTUJWBM(Tokyo Electron Tohoku) National women’s corporate relay marathon (Queen’s Ekiden in Miyagi) 32 Environmental conservation Planting trees in Tokyo Electron Forest As part of our effort to develop forests and conserve the environment, we plant trees in Tokyo Electron Forest. Under this project, we intend to plant 3,000 konara oak trees (Quercus serrate) in five years in a 3.1-hectare area at the foot of the Yatsugatake Mountains, which is one of the greatest sights to behold in Yamanashi Prefecture. During the third tree planting event, about 200 employees and family members planted 800 konara seedlings. The participants worked hard, some even on steep slopes, with mud and dirt on their clothes. Tree planting provides wild animals with their habitat and food, and also creates fertile soil. We will continue endeavoring to conserve the global environment with gratitude and consideration for nature. Other activities tParticipated in the Second Corporate Afforestation Program (Tokyo Electron Tohoku) Planting trees in Tokyo Electron Forest t0 GGJDFHSFFOJOHDBNQBJHO(Tokyo Electron (Shanghai)) t& DPDPNNVUFSCVTEFNPOTUSBUJPOFYQFSJNFOU(Tokyo Electron Kyushu) Corporate philanthropy Sponsoring Grand Gala, Great East Japan Earthquake memorial charity ballet show In March 2013, we sponsored the Grand Gala Concert, Great East Japan Earthquake memorial charity ballet show at Tokyo Electron Hall Miyagi in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture, and Bunkamura Orchard Hall in Tokyo. In organizing this ballet show, Shinobu Takita, a principal dancer in the Kiev Ballet, the National Ballet of Ukraine, called for participation of dancers around the world who are in harmony with the purpose of the concert. The price of one concert ticket included a 1,000 yen donation to an earthquake recovery fund, and we were able to donate a total of 3,195,000 yen from 1,388 tickets sold for the Sendai show and 1,807 tickets for the Tokyo show. COMMUNITY Other activities t1SPWJEFEEPOBUJPOTUP.JZBHJBOE*XBUF1SFGFDUVSFTUPTVQQPSUUIFJSSFDPWFSZ Grand Gala poster efforts from the earthquake (Tokyo Electron) t1BSUJDJQBUFEJO$IJMESFO*O/FFE (Tokyo Electron Europe) t5 #-&'03580QSPHSBN(Tokyo Electron) t% POBUFEQPMJPWBDDJOF(TEL Group) 33 Tohoku Recovery Project For over two years immediately following the Great East Japan Supporting communities based in temporary housing Earthquake, Tokyo Electron has carried out supportive activities, In 2012, we donated health appliances and other products including providing donations and holding various events. Hoping to 725 locations of temporary housing in Miyagi and Iwate to help revitalize disaster-hit communities by making children Prefectures. We selected items to be shared at meeting and local residents happy, we are providing ongoing support for places to help stimulate communication between sites rebuilding and the earliest possible recovery. and to build communities. We worked together with local businesses in procuring and delivering items to donate in Providing donations to 87 disaster-affected consideration of recovery of the disaster-hit areas. elementary and junior high schools With the cooperation of education boards in Miyagi and Iwate Providing students with workplace experience Prefectures, we donated a total of 26.4 million yen to 87 With the cooperation of Iwate Prefecture’s education board, elementary and junior high schools affected by the disaster. TEL Tohoku Plant carried out a workplace experience The schools used the donations for club activities and afterprogram for two local junior high schools. hours classes for the students. Donating a PV power generation system Aiming to provide opportunities to become familiar with renewable energy, Tokyo Electron donated a total of 11 photovoltaic power generation systems to schools and public facilities in Miyagi and Iwate Prefectures (7 in Miyagi : Installation sites of donated and 4 in Iwate). The PV systems we donated use thin film silicon PV panels, PV power generation systems which is the technology we are currently most focused on in our PV panel production equipment business. By standardizing components required for installation and using a temporary pile foundation engineering installation method, we were able to shorten the installation work period and make it possible to easily relocate the systems when required along with the progress of recovery efforts. 34 External Evaluation SynapseTM Series Won an Award for Excellence at the 18th Semiconductor of the Year Awards At the 18th Semiconductor of the Year Awards in 2012, Tokyo Electron’s Synapse Series wafer bonding/debonding system won the Award for Excellence in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment category. The Semiconductor of the Year Awards have been held yearly since 1994 by The Semiconductor Industry News published by Sangyo Times, Inc. Reporters from The Semiconductor Industry News vote on products and technology based on their originality, their impact on society, market share, public reaction, and viability. In addition to miniaturization, the semiconductor industry manufacturing world is focused on 3DI packaging, in which multiple semiconductors are vertically stacked. TEL is focusing on TSV (Through Silicon Via), which is a core part of semiconductor 3DI packaging technology. The Synapse Series employs 3DI packaging technology and has been optimized for large-scale mass production lines. This award recognizes the originality and the impact of the Synapse Series on both society and the industry. The Synapse Series was chosen from 48 products and technologies nominated in the semiconductor manufacturing Synapse Series wafer bonding/debonding system equipment category. Other recognition Category Awards received* Sponsor 2012 SCQI Award (Supplier Continuous Quality Improvement Award) Intel Corporation Customer BEST in Value APPRECIATION DAY 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 2012 C. Grant Willson Best Paper Award SPIE Advanced Lithography SEMI International Collaboration Award SEMI (Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International) 44th Ichimura Industrial Award The New Technology Development Foundation Equipment/production International Rational Process Achievement Award Kepner-Tregoe, Inc. Ranked 4th in semiconductor equipment manufacturing category in Patent IEEE Spectrum Patent Power 2012 Power scorecard based on Pipeline Power The Chief of the Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Award at the Nikkei Inc., New Office Promotion Association 25th Tohoku New Office Promotion Award (Tokyo Electron Miyagi Limited) Green Choice Champion (renewable energy) Environment/safety (Tokyo Electron America, Inc. Austin office) Austin Energy Gold Level Business Winner (renewable energy) Portland General Electric Company (Tokyo Electron America, Inc. Portland office) 2012 Internet IR Commendation Award Diawa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. COMMUNITY Gold Award in the magazine advertising category at the 33rd Japan BtoB BtoB Advertising Association Japan Communication Advertising Awards in 2012 Bronze Award in the newspaper advertising category at the 52nd Consumer Japan Advertisers Association Inc. Advertising Contest * Unless the name of the award recipient company is specified, the award is assumed to have been presented to Tokyo Electron Limited. 35 Comments from a Third-Party Expert I have read the Environmental and Social Report 2013 of Tokyo plants both in and outside Japan. The report attributes this Electron Limited and received a further explanation of the increase mainly to rising power emission factors. I suspect company’s environmental and social responsibility activities that an increase in the number of production and overseas from the directors of the CSR Promotion Department and the group companies is another possible reason, and think that Corporate Environment Promotion Department and other staff the report should have provided more detailed information members. I would like to make my third-party comments taking about that. I noted the steady progress in reducing the volume into account my observations on last year’s report. of water consumption and waste generated. As the company has set a goal of a 50% reduction in energy consumption for Corporate principles and CSR major models by fiscal 2015, I also expect that it will make At the beginning, this report states the company’s corporate further contributions to reducing energy consumption and CO 2 principles, namely, its eight management policies for the emissions of the users of its products in the future. development of a dream-inspiring society through its leadingedge technologies and reliable service and support. In line with Initiatives for employees these policies, the report then explains the policy on corporate This report discloses work locations of group employees. Of all social responsibility. The fact that the company’s CSR promotion group employees, 33% work outside Japan. The TEL Group in framework is headed by the President implies a group-wide Japan intends to increase the percentage of foreign nationals enthusiasm to work on CSR, involving the head ofﬁce and all group in new hires to 20%, which demonstrates the company’s companies. Regrettably, the report does not refer to the relevance proactive approach to diversity. As management of foreign between CSR and governance in its explanation regarding the employees, who have different cultures and customs, will governance framework, although highly viable governance is become increasingly important, I hope future reports will include required to carry out the CSR activities effectively. comments from foreign employees. Expansion of new business and CSR I recognize that the company has enhanced the content of its The company acquired two European companies and two reports year by year. For even further improvement, the company US companies in fiscal 2013 toward the development of must identify the type of information that it needs as well as new business and enhancement of existing business. Of the the information that readers want, quantify and manage the company’s current sales, sales in Japan accounts for 24% common information between the two as KPIs (key performance while sales outside Japan, including the United States and indicators), and disclose the KPIs on a continual basis. These Taiwan, makes up the remaining 76%. This suggests the need efforts will help the company gain more trust from society. to launch CSR activities globally. The head office must lead Note: The third-party comment above does not constitute an opinion on the overseas group companies in implementing energy conservation accuracy or completeness of the information included in this report. measures and reducing environmental impact to ensure compliance with the CSR policy. In that sense, signing and joining the United Nations Global Compact in this fiscal year was very significant. I hope that the company’s future report Yoshito Nakamura will cover more information on overseas group companies—for Certified Public Accountant example, what kind of new initiatives are being taken at which Adjunct Instructor of Toyo University, group companies, as well as the situation for each country. The Open University of Japan Auditor, Supporting Organization of JOCV Auditor, Foundation for Environmental goals: Progress and results Accounting Research in Construction Industry Auditor, Kawasaki City Council of Social Welfare The company reduced energy consumption at four out of six Chairman, Evaluation Committee for Incorporated Administrative Agencies, major plants. However, overall CO 2 emissions increased at Ministry of Defense 36 Response to the Third-Party Comment I am deeply grateful to Mr. Nakamura, who visited our Akasaka head office, enabling us to report our CSR promotion framework and the progress of CSR activities since the previous fiscal year. Furthermore, I appreciate his comments on this report. In response to the comments we received from Prof. Nakamura last year, this year’s report covers our progress in reducing our water consumption, in diversity management, and in activities across the supply chain. This is a crucial fiscal year for our CSR activities based on the TEL Group’s corporate principles. We are aware that in order to make our activities more viable, it is important that we promote our activities in collaboration with the corporate governance framework, the internal control system and the risk management system. With regard to evaluation of viability, we will set a roadmap and KPIs, and develop a mechanism to disclose our progress in specific and verifiable figures. As for environmental activities, we have re-established our environmental vision and KPIs for fiscal 2013 and covered our practices and progress in this report. This fiscal year, we will launch activities in overseas locations, including at the four companies we acquired. We will introduce our progress in the next report and thereafter as we go forward to the future. Toshiya Matsuda Moyuru Yasuhara Director Director Corporate Environment Promotion Dept. Corporate Branding Promotion Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited CSR Promotion Dept. Tokyo Electron Limited Corporate Proﬁle Consolidated net sales Company name: Tokyo Electron Limited (TEL) (Billion yen) Address: Akasaka Biz Tower, 5-3-1 Akasaka, 800 668.7 633.0 Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan 107-6325 508.0 497.2 418.6 Established: November 11, 1963 400 Representative: Tetsuro Higashi, President & CEO Main business: Semiconductor production equipment 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) business, flat panel display (FPD) production equipment business, Consolidated operating income photovoltaic panel production (Billion yen) 97.8 equipment business 100 Capital: 54,961,191,468 yen 60.4 50 Number of employees: 1,530 Number of group 14.7 12.5 12,341 -2.1 employees: 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Number of locations: In Japan: 11 companies; 49 locations Outside Japan: 45 companies Number of Group employees in 18 countries; 70 locations (Persons) 12,341 10,491 10,204 10,595 10,940 Worldwide total: 56 companies 10,000 in 19 countries; 119 locations (As of April 1, 2013) 5,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (CY) (As of April 1, each year) Net sales by division (Consolidated) Net sales by region (Consolidated) Electronic components & Other Other 3.5% computer networks 0.4 billion yen (0.1%) 84.6 billion yen China 7.7% Japan 23.8% (17.0%) Europe 7.8% FPD/PV production equipment South Korea 11.9% 20.1 billion yen Semiconductor FY2013 production equipment FY2013 (4.1%) 392 billion yen North America 23.6% (78.8%) Taiwan 21.7% 37 TEL Eco-Life Art Contest The Tokyo Electron Group holds the TEL Eco-Life Art Contest every year as part of its activities to raise environmental awareness. In 2013, we received a host of entries from all over the world. Rice Planting (Taiwan) Swallowtail Drinking Nectar Yosemite Valley (USA) Peaceful Seagull (China) from Tiger Lily (South Korea) Horses at Sunset (Germany) A Sunflower to Two Bees (Japan) You Can Eat Unwashed Produce if it is Pollination (Japan) Grown in a Clean Environment (South Korea) Spring Forward (USA) Chlorophytum Comosum (China) Reflections on the Water (China) Shining Water of Life (Japan) Corporate Environment Promotion Department 2-30-7 Sumiyoshi-cho, Fuchu City The main body of this report (pages 3 to 36) was printed on paper made from trees thinned from forests as part of forest invigoration efforts. Tokyo 183-8705, Japan Tel: +81-42-333-8050 We use green power* (Biomass, 1,000kWh) in printing and the bookbinding Fax: +81-42-333-8477 process of this CSR report. http://www.tel.com * Green power has generated by power plants of Solar, Wind, Small Hydro, Geothermal and Biomass. PR51-211 Published: November 2013
