Responsibility. Trust. Confidence. 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Cover: for more information about Commerzbank’s environmental internship, see page 38 Selected key figures Key performance indicators 2010 2011 2012 Operating profit (€ million) 1,386 507 1,216 Pre-tax profit or loss (€ million) 1,353 507 905 Consolidated profit or loss 1 (€ million) 1,430 638 6 2 Total assets (€ billion) 754.3 661.8 635.9 Staff Germany 3 45,301 44,474 42,857 Abroad 3 13,800 13,686 10,744 3 Total 59,101 58,160 53,601 Total proportion of women at management 23.0 23.1 24.0 levels 1– 4 (Commerzbank AG, Germany) (%) Environment 4 Direct energy consumption (MWh) 218,988 204,383 209,429 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) 445,887 442,515 379,200 CO2 emissions (t) 127,224 119,475 107,114 Paper consumption (t) 5,095 4,888 4,359 1 Insofar as attributable to Commerzbank shareholders. 2 As per 31 December of the year in question. 3 Headcount as per 31 December of the year in question. 4 All environmental data relate to Commerzbank AG in Germany. Responsibility. Trust. Confidence. About this report This 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report explains how Commerzbank understands the principle of corporate responsibility and how it applies this understanding to its business processes, business model, employees and corporate citizenship. Aimed equally at internal and external stakeholders, the report is intended to be read by employees, shareholders, customers and all those who have an interest in Commerzbank. It refers to Commerzbank AG in Germany and covers all our 2012 activity. However, it also includes other relevant events that occurred before the editorial deadline of 31 July 2013. With a few exceptions (which are indicated accordingly), the key data refer to 2012. Transparent and comparable reporting This is Commerzbank’s fifth Corporate Responsibility Report. As far as comparability and transparency are concerned, it has like its predecessors been compiled in accordance with the G3 guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report’s compliance with these guidelines has been awarded Application Level A by the GRI, the highest level available (cf. page 85). This report also serves as our Communication on Progress regarding our implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). An overview of the progress made by Commerzbank in implementing the UNGC principles is shown in table format (cf. pages 80– 83). Qualitative and quantitative information in this report When choosing the content of this report, Commerzbank applied the principle of materiality and focused on topics relevant to an assessment of its sustainability performance. To that end, we also carried out a materiality analysis during the reporting period (cf. page 49). The themes that emerged from that analysis form the focus of this report in proportion to their relevance. The key data in the report relate to Commerzbank AG in Germany, unless stated otherwise. It was collected at local level in the individual departments and compiled by the Corporate Responsibility department. Environmental data were requested by the Environmental Management team, collected by individual departments, analysed and quality-assured and then finally validated by Environmental Management. The collection of key environmental data was also focused on Commerzbank AG in Germany. In addition, we began a process in 2012 to collect environmental data from all our foreign branches (Amsterdam, Beijing, Brussels, Dubai, Hong Kong, London, Luxembourg, Madrid, Milan, New York, Paris, Prague, Shanghai, Singapore, Tianjin, Tokyo, Vienna and Zurich). Currently, however, we are unable to provide complete data from these countries. Format and use of language To make the report reader-friendly, we have avoided gender-based repetition in the text (i.e. his/her). Generally, we have also decided not to include full legal names of subsidiaries and not-for-profit organisations, again for improved readability. The 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report is available as a download in German and › Sustainability portal www.nachhaltigkeit. English from www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de. On this portal you will also find all our sustainability reports commerzbank.de along with supplementary information and the latest news on sustainability. The detailed Corporate Responsibility Report is published every two years; the next report will appear in 2015. In the intervening years, any significant data and relevant developments are published in an online status report. 1 P.10 P. 20 Sustainable corporate management Customers Corporate responsibility and sustainAt Commerzbank, fairness and ability are absolutely fundamental to competence are the mainstays of the way we do business. the customer relationship. Contents U2 Selected key figures 10 – 19 Sustainable corporate management 1 About this report 10 Maximising the upside while mitigating the downside 4 –5 Introduction by the Chairman of the Board 15 Dilemma: Are all non-sustainable of Managing Directors investments really unsustainable? Chris-Oliver Schickentanz 6 –7 Portrait of Commerzbank 19 Responsibility: What does it mean for banking? 8 –9 Our role in society Professor Birger Priddat 20 –29 Customers 20 Fair treatment, competent advice 24 Dilemma: Are products that are good for the bank good for the customer, too (and vice versa)? Sabine Schmittroth 29 Trust: What do customers expect? Hans-Jürgen Kräh 2 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report P. 30 P. 38 Management and employees Dialogue and society Looking ahead to the future – this Commerzbank maintains many links is the objective that guides human to the social environment in which resources activities at Commerzbank. it operates. 30 –37 Management and employees 46 –83 Sustainability performance in accordance with GRI 30 Modern leadership, responsible management 36 Dilemma: Can we be a responsible employer 47 –53 Strategy and programme when we are cutting posts at the same time? 54 –57 Governance Albert Reicherzer 58 –61 Market and customers 37 Confidence: Courage in the face of change 62 –69 Environment Professor Julian Nida-Rümelin 70 –75 Employees 76 –79 Society 38 –45 Dialogue and society 80 –83 GRI index and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 38 Socially committed and fit for the future 44 Dilemma: Is it really responsible to invest in 84 Contact information and legal notice social projects when the money is needed elsewhere? U3 GRI confirmation Doris Schwerdtfeger 3 Martin Blessing Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors The past few years have not been easy for Commerzbank: the sub-prime crisis in the US, the sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone and much tighter regulation have affected not just our own organisation, but also the sector as a whole. We have analysed – and learned from – our mistakes. We have consolidated the merger of Commerzbank and Dresdner Bank. This was no easy task – especially given the challenging market environment. So when we talk about sustainability and responsibility, we understand only too well what these concepts mean. We take responsibility for our decisions in bad times as well as good. And we must deal responsibly with the effects that upheaval can have on our organisation. It’s the only way we can be sure of sustained success. That is exactly what we have been doing in the past few years. We have adapted our business model to the economic climate that now prevails in the financial sector, massively reduced our risk and cut costs. And we will continue to take this approach in the future. This will enable us to make extensive investments in our core business so that we can enjoy long-term and sustainable success in terms of income as well. A further consideration for us is how we earn money as a bank and at the same time meet the changing needs of our customers. Our first priority is customer satisfaction, not short-term gain, because only satisfied customers can help us to achieve long-term commercial success. We have rigorously restructured our sales management processes, changed our performance incentives and given employees intensive training. We have made fairness and competence the core values for how we deal with customers and how we design our products. They apply to private and corporate customers and to all other Commerzbank business partners. To that end, our products and services have been audited against our promise of fairness and competence as well as for responsibility and sustainability. For example, we were one of the first banks to stop issuing exchangetraded investment products based on staple food commodities. 4 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report The rights issue in May 2013 enabled us to reduce all elements of our exposure to sovereign debt as far as we could. We have optimised our level of capital and increased our ability to distribute dividends. At the same time, the German government’s stake in Commerzbank has been reduced. Taken as a whole, these developments mark the beginning of the end of the German government’s role as a shareholder in Commerzbank. And they lay the groundwork for future success. But along with the challenges we face, we also want to use this report to talk about positive developments. The first of these is the notable improvement in efficiency, to which all areas of the bank have contributed. In environmental management, for example, changes to the data centres have resulted in savings of millions of euros. Even in tough conditions, environmental protection remains a top priority for us. Our commitment to renewable energies is undimmed. Since the beginning of 2013, Commerzbank has been using exclusively green electricity for all its offices and business premises in Germany. We have set ourselves a new climate target for 2020 that involves reducing CO2 emissions by a further 20 percent. Together with our achievements in this area so far, that would constitute a total decrease of 70 percent from the base year of 2007. Active environmental protection, enlightened labour relations and the fight against bribery and corruption are the cornerstones of the UN Global Compact. Alongside many well-known companies in Germany and worldwide, we are signatories to this initiative and are explicitly committed to its principles. We are the leading private bank for small and medium-sized enterprises in Germany. The Private Customers segment is doing well. In the first six months of 2013 alone, we have approved nearly 40 percent more loans to private customers than in the corresponding period of the previous year. This is an area where our home finance advisors, who are not tied to particular providers, have had a noticeable impact. The realignment of our sales function to be more customer-focused and to provide fair advisory products has also received third-party endorsement. We have received excellent ratings for initiatives such as the Customer Compass. Customer satisfaction, which we assess regularly, has shown a marked improvement. Our free current account with a satisfaction guarantee has enabled us to boost our private customer business. In 2012, the branch network showed a net increase of 120,000 customers; by mid-2013, we already had another 100,000. This can be attributed in large part to our extensive and effective marketing campaign. Fair products and impartial advice; customer satisfaction as the bedrock of our sales operation; a responsible and effective approach to internal challenges – these are the building blocks of our future success. Martin Blessing Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors 5 Commerzbank: a partner for private and corporate customers Headquartered in Frankfurt am Main, Commerzbank AG is one of the leading banks for private and corporate customers in Germany and Poland. It is also a strong universal bank with many years of broad experience brought to it by two banking houses steeped in tradition: Commerzbank, founded in 1870, and Dresdner Bank, founded in 1872 and merged with Commerzbank in 2009. We are a reliable and high-performance finanShareholder structure as at 31 December 2012 cial service provider for our private customers, who have one of the most extensive branch netBlackRock Institutional works of any German retail bank at their disposal. We > 3% investors support German small and medium-sized enterprises 47% (SMEs) in their business operations in Germany and Private investors beyond. At the same time, our customers also benefit 25% from the capital markets expertise of our investment German banking arm. government With around 1,200 branches, we provide our 25% + 1 share customers in Germany with an extensive network offering advice and services. We have a direct presence in the most important international commercial and financial centres. And we work with several thousand Structure and organisation correspondent banks worldwide. Commerzbank has around 14 million private customers and one million small business and corporate cusShareholder structure tomers worldwide. Its goal is to further strengthen its As at 31 December 2012, around 47 percent of all position as the market leader for private and corporate Commerzbank shares were held by institutional incustomers in Germany. vestors. The rest were accounted for by our major Our activity is focused on four core segments: shareholders SoFFin (the Financial Market StabilisaPrivate Customers, Mittelstandsbank, Corporates & tion Fund) and BlackRock as well as private investors Markets and Central & Eastern Europe. The bank uses predominantly domiciled in Germany. Minority shareits new Non-Core Assets run-off segment, created in holders, also known as the free float, accounted for mid-2012, to bundle all its public finance activities, about 75 percent. Investors based in Germany owned commercial real-estate finance and shipping finance. 58 percent of the shares, with investors outside of Commerzbank’s principal subsidiaries in GerGermany holding the remaining 42 percent. many are comdirect bank AG, Commerz Real AG and Hypothekenbank Frankfurt AG (formerly Eurohypo AG). 6 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Outside Germany, the bank is represented in 53 councapital. The bank intends to achieve a return on equity tries and all major financial centres by seven major after taxes of over 10 percent in its core business in subsidiaries, 23 international branches and 35 repre2016. sentative offices. The strategic realignment of our Private Customers segment should provide particular impetus 2012 business performance for an increase in earnings. We aim to create a multiIn 2012, Commerzbank’s operating profit rose to channel bank that combines modern technology with €1.216 billion while pre-tax profit rose to €905 million, traditional values such as fairness, trust and compeup from €507 million in the previous year. This was tence. Between now and 2016, Commerzbank will be attributable, in particular, to a reduction in administrainvesting a total of around €1 billion in its platforms, tive expenses. By contrast, consolidated profit – insoproducts and services, the advisory process and skills far as attributable to Commerzbank shareholders – was training for staff in the Private Customers segment. down to €6 million against the previous year’s figure of With these measures we aim to increase income per €638 million. For a detailed income statement, see the customer, raise the number of customers in Germany 2012 Annual Report from page 73 onwards. from the current eleven million to twelve million, Total assets of the Commerzbank Group and thereby achieve an operating profit of over amounted to €635.9 billion as at 31 December 2012. €500 million. The drop of €25.9 billion or 3.9 percent compared with The Mittelstandsbank segment will make further year-end 2011 was attributable to the reduction in balimprovements to its successful business model and ance sheet volume and risk-weighted assets, which consolidate its leading market position. The growth was partially offset by the increase in collateralised focus is as much on winning new customers, especially money market transactions and the investment of free in the SME sector, as it is on increasing the business cash with central banks. Overall, Commerzbank took we do with existing customers in Germany. Outside an important step on its way to further reducing volof Germany, we will develop business in our existing umes and risks. The reduction in volume particularly locations and invest in becoming one of the leading affected the Non-Core Assets segment – especially the trade services banks in Europe. Public Finance operating unit. Corporates & Markets offers customers with links to the capital markets financing solutions, hedgRights issue in April 2013 ing and investment products and associated advice. By a large majority, the shareholders of Commerzbank In doing so, it rigorously applies our risk-controlled approved the planned rights issue allowing for the business model: this segment stopped its own-account complete and early repayment of the silent participatrading activities in 2004 and is now maintaining a tions of SoFFin (the Financial Market Stabilisation clear focus on the customer. Investment banking is Fund) and Allianz. This transaction, which was comclosely linked to Commerzbank’s private and corporate pleted in May 2013, has considerably improved the customer business. capital structure of Commerzbank. In the course of In our Central & Eastern Europe segment, we the repayment of the silent participations, the stake intend to continue the successful organic growth of held by the German government in Commerzbank Poland’s BRE Bank and build on its tried-and-tested decreased from about 25 percent to less than 20 peruniversal bank model. We will also be aiming to cent. Commerzbank has implemented the reverse develop the direct banking provided by mBank: its share split as voted for at the Annual General Meeting mobile banking offer will be extended and its position in the ratio of ten to one. as one of Europe’s leading online banks strengthened. BRE Bank will also enhance its product range by Strategic agenda up to 2016 exploiting the increased interplay between investment At the beginning of November 2012, we presented our banking and corporate customer business and will strategic agenda for the period up to 2016. In doing so, tailor those products to the requirements of SMEs. All we wanted to use the next few years to adapt our busiBRE Bank Group brands will be rebranded under the ness model to the economic climate that now prevails mBank name by 2016. in the financial sector and generate targeted growth. In the period leading up to 2016, we will be investing over €2 billion in the profitability of our core business, keeping costs stable by implementing additional efficiency measures and further optimising our level of 7 Commerzbank in society Banks are part of society and fulfil important roles in the economy: as an intermediary, employer, taxpayer and sponsor. Authorities Banks were subject to state oversight and statutory regulation well before the financial crisis. The supreme regulator in Germany is BaFin (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority). Compliance, reporting Tax and other payments Reports Sharing of information, engagement Dialogue Civil society As players on the financial market and as part of society, banks are closely watched by various social groups. They therefore maintain a dialogue with a wide range of organisations that are Sponsorship part of civil society. 8 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report 14 million private customers 1 million business and corporate customers 1,200 branches for private and business customers Work and training 53,601 Local authorities employees Banks are employers, training providers and clients. They contribute to infrastructure via foundations and Foundations the support of cultural, charitable and 2,298 educational initiatives. apprentices Sponsorship, support €796 million income taxes €2.5 million funding provided by the Foundation Centre Commerzbank Group key figures Payments as at end of 2012 processing Loans Investing, disbursing, lending money; processing payments Market Banks provide loans and finance to individuals, companies and local authorities, manage savings deposits, process payments as well as trade and hold securities. 9 Sustainable corporate management Maximising the upside while mitigating the downside As one of Germany’s and Poland’s leading banks, Commerzbank sees sustainability and corporate responsibility as absolutely fundamental to the way it does business. They are our guide in overcoming existing challenges as well as our focus for the future. Sustainability is an over-used word – especially › Market orientation: The bank thinks and acts on a in the world of finance. For Commerzbank, it market-oriented basis; the needs and aims of cusrefers to the staying power we need to overtomers are the critical factors in this respect. come the financial crisis and the challenges the crisis › Team spirit: Because our staff face up to challenges poses for us in particular. But it also refers to our future as a team, they can enjoy their success as a team. viability. Meeting our responsibilities, rebuilding trust, › Integrity: This is the company’s most important demonstrating confidence as a signal to employees, asset and the basis for customer conﬁdence in customers and business partners – these are chalCommerzbank. lenges that we intended to meet with fairness and competence. Our Corporate Responsibility Guidelines translate these For Commerzbank, sustainability rests on solid ComWerte into behavioural rules for day-to-day opevalues, binding codes of conduct and high self-imposed rations. Here employees and managers can see the standards. It also requires continual dialogue with all priorities we have set ourselves for putting corporate the stakeholders in society affected by what we do. responsibility into action. The Guidelines refer to six From these principles flow corporate goals such as the different areas: › legal compliance and transparency; › embedding the values in our core Corporate responsibility business; › employee awareness; Solid values, binding codes of conduct, high › stakeholder dialogue; self-imposed standards and continuous dia› recognition of the United Nations Global Compact; logue provide a framework for Commerzbank’s › continuous improvement. business activities. Sustainability risks that have particular relevance for our business have been dealt with in speciﬁc additional guidelines. financing of renewable energies, the refusal to issue Serious breaches of these guidelines can lead to discinew exchange-traded investment products based on plinary action. In a similar way, Commerzbank’s Code staple food commodities and our commitment to nonof Conduct provides a binding frame of reference for profit work. In this way, we can continue to make a conbehaving with integrity, dealing as it does with issues › ComWerte tribution to sustainability, even outside of the bank. such as bribery, corruption, tax evasion, discretion, www.nachhaltigkeit. commerzbank.de prevention of money laundering, insider trading and > Employees Values and policies the basic principles of workplace behaviour. In addi› Corporate Responsibility Our commitment is based on the common values that tion, Commerzbank has adopted ofﬁcial positions on Governance guide everyone, from executives to employees. What controversial business areas (see box on page 13). www.nachhaltigkeit. commerzbank.de we refer to internally as our ComWerte (corporate > Governance values) form the basis not just for our corporate reStrengthening sustainability in core business › Code of Conduct sponsibility but the individual, personal responsibility Loans, investment products or customer relationships www.nachhaltigkeit. of every Commerzbank employee. These values are as that particularly affect sustainability are looked at very commerzbank.de > Governance follows: closely by Commerzbank’s Reputational Risk Management department. Depending on the outcome, they can › Performance: Individual and team-oriented perbe made subject to certain conditions or even assessed formance forms the basis for the long-term success as negative, which can lead to their being rejected. of the bank. Sensitive areas that are subject to regular and thorough › Respect and partnership: These values are key analysis by Reputational Risk Management include features of our relationships with customers, weapons, armaments and businesses involved in employees and partners. energy production or commodities mining. In 2012, around 2,600 requests were dealt with (2011: 1,800). About 10 percent received a negative evaluation owing to social, environmental or ethical concerns. The increase in requests is primarily due to increased 12 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report awareness among the bank’s employees. Regular preCommerzbank was aware of this problem early on and sentations and workshops both in Germany and other entered direct talks with the relevant markets such countries, together with a special reputational risk as Singapore back in 2007. A trade agreement for newsletter introduced at the end of 2011, have made the supply of palm oil has been jointly produced. staff more aware of certain topics, such as the environCommerzbank has been guided in this process by the mental effect of the growing demand for palm oil. regulations laid down by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). This body was established to set Minimum standards for palm oil minimum standards for the sustainable production of The palm oil issue is a good example to explain how palm oil and currently has over 1,000 members. Any Commerzbank has successfully implemented sustainpalm oil supplier with whom Commerzbank is involved ability criteria in its core business. Palm oil is the must be a member of the RSPO. The supplier must also world’s most important vegetable oil, accounting for provide information (such as certiﬁcation) regarding one third of global consumption of vegetable oil. the extent to which it has already implemented, or Constantly increasing global demand is leading to the plans to implement, sustainable palm oil production destruction of tropical forests to make way for palm oil in its processes. If the supplier fails to meet any of plantations, especially in Indonesia and Malaysia but these criteria, Commerzbank will not provide ﬁnance increasingly in Africa and South America as well. This in this case. in turn leads to indigenous peoples being dispossessed This and other issues are ﬁrmly embedded in of their land and the destruction of rare animal and the bank’s processes. Commerzbank’s Reputational plant species. Risk Management department is regularly looking out for and analysing newly emerging environmental, ethical and social issues and making the relevant areas of the bank aware of them. › Policies and positioning Many stakeholders representing different aspects of Agricultural commodities In November 2011, Electricity generation Generally accepted principles society raise questions with Commerzbank about Commerzbank stopped issuing new exchange-traded of sustainability are also observed when considering controversial issues. We acknowledge our economic investment products based on wheat, maize, soya, ﬁnancial transactions involving electricity generation and socio-political responsibility – to the extent that rice or potatoes. Commerzbank does not issue prod(especially dams and coal-ﬁred and nuclear power we are able to exert an inﬂuence. We therefore ucts that contain staple foods, nor does it actively stations). respect the demands and expectations of external market or recommend them. Indigenous peoples Commerzbank’s activities relatstakeholders and look at how and whether they can Human rights Within its sphere of inﬂuence, ing to implementation of the UN Global Compact also be incorporated into the bank’s decision-making Commerzbank ensures that human rights are reincludes special protection for indigenous peoples in processes. Investments that are related to the topics spected, especially by its employees, suppliers and connection with large-scale projects. on the right are examined by Commerzbank’s customers. Reputational Risk Management department. More Agriculture and forestry Besides fulﬁlling challenginformation: www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de Armaments Introduced in 2008, the policy governing requirements relating to the environment and > Governance ing armaments relates to transactions involving human rights, Commerzbank takes other aspects into weapons and armaments within the meaning of the consideration, such as procurement practices of inGerman War Weapons Control Act (KrWaffKontrG). ternational corporations, criticism concerning genetically modiﬁed organisms and FSC standards. Conflict zones When evaluating potential transactions, Commerzbank looks not just at a country’s Mining In this area, Commerzbank assesses extractpolitical situation but also at possible conﬂicts. ion methods, compliance with standards for human rights and working conditions, anti-corruption practFossil fuels In the case of ﬁnancial transactions in ices and environmental restoration. connection with crude oil, natural gas or coal, Commerzbank also examines issues of environmental Toxic materials When considering ﬁnance transprotection, human rights and working conditions. actions, Commerzbank investigates compliance with emissions and exposure limits based on generally accepted standards. 13 Back in 2004, Commerzbank was one of the ﬁrst in the › regulations on the prevention of money laundering banking sector to focus its investment banking arm on and the ﬁnancing of terrorism; customer-related business by ceasing its dedicated › imposed sanctions; own-account trading activities. We intend to continue › codes of conduct for investment services and other to apply this risk-controlled business model consisrelated services; tently and furthermore to forego spectacular but high› anti-fraud and anti-corruption measures. risk gains generated by own-account trading. The basic goal is to identify at an early stage any comOECD guidance on precious metals pliance risks that could threaten the integrity, and In mid-2013, as one of the leading players in the pretherefore the success, of Commerzbank, and minimise cious metals market, Commerzbank issued its own and control them as much as possible. directive based on the recommendations made by the At Commerzbank, an essential tool for meeting Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developthese requirements is the Global Compliance Manual. ment (OECD) for the responsible sourcing of precious It brings together all the Group’s minimum compliance metals from conﬂict zones. One of the world’s largest standards from around the world and is updated at processors of precious metals, Argor-Heraeus, of least once a year. As part of these updates, the chapters whom Commerzbank is part owner, has also impleon anti-fraud management and the employee code of mented its own detailed directive. In addition, comconduct were recently revised and on 1 July 2013 were modities are only sourced from suppliers who apply made binding for all Commerzbank employees. similar regulations. Prevention of terrorism and money laundering At the end of 2012, mindful of the increasing restrictions on trade imposed by international and European Compliance standards sanctions, the Compliance unit completed the worldwide introduction of the Guidelines on Sanctions Due The goal is to identify at an early stage Diligence for Documentary and Guarantee Business. any risks that could threaten the integrity These guidelines require trade ﬁnance deals to be carefully checked against consistent criteria to see if of Commerzbank. they are the subject of an embargo, thereby ensuring that the bank does not breach any sanctions that are in place. The prevention of money laundering and terrorCompliance ist financing is continuing to become increasingly The Compliance Unit regards itself as a partner and important. In order to satisfy increased international advisor to the individual divisions of the bank, helping requirements in these areas, we need to examine and to manage and reduce compliance risks. The guiding develop our existing security arrangements on an principles here are the implementation of, and adherongoing basis. Our Compliance department works ence to, statutory banking regulations and Commerzclosely with all areas of the business in Germany and bank’s own internal rules, compliance with standards elsewhere, advising and supporting them in meeting and codes of conduct that are typical for this area. On these requirements and the challenges they give rise to. the one hand, the focus is on preventing and combating illegal activities and, on the other, on adhering to Strengthening investor protection statutory regulations, standards and codes of conduct The German Investor Protection and Capital Markets typical for the field of business, in particular: Improvement Act (AnsFuG), which deals with securities compliance, came into force in November 2012. It aims to provide investors with greater protection against bad advice and gives Germany’s Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) further powers to carry out inspections and impose sanctions. Commerzbank has 12,000 members of staff who pro14 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Chris-Oliver Schickentanz, Chief Investment Ofﬁcer in the Private Customers segment, examines the dilemma: Are all non-sustainable investments really unsustainable? One thing is true: Commerzbank is not one of the Commerzbank fulfils this wish, in certain respects, by well-known players when it comes to sustainable intaking the decision out of their hands. “Since 2011, vestments. Among other reasons, this is because all investment recommendations for private cusCommerzbank has not sold any funds of its own as part tomers have gone through a sustainability filter,” exof its asset management business for many years. plains Schickentanz. The first step in this process is to Nonetheless, the investment recommendations made by exclude all companies that breach generally accepted our customer advisors mean we do have an influence UN principles, such as the ban on cluster bombs. Only over our customers’ investments decisions. But returnthen does a conventional financial analysis of equities ing to the question: are all investments not actually deand bonds take place. “The outcome is that we scribed as sustainable automatically non-sustainable? identify investments that are financially lucrative “We do a great deal to ensure the sustainability yet meet a minimum level of sustainability,” says of our investments,” says Chris-Oliver Schickentanz, Schickentanz. Chief Investment Officer in the Private Customers A third step in the sustainable investment segment at Commerzbank. “If you ask our customers process that Commerzbank customers can, but are not whether sustainability is important to them, two thirds obliged to, take is the targeted search for investments of them will say yes. After all, nobody wants an investwith the lowest sustainability risks, for which the serment that is explicitly unsustainable.” But at the same vices of an external ratings agency are engaged. Howtime, actual demand for specifically sustainability-oriever, “the first two stages of the filter process prevent ented forms of investment is limited. our investment recommendations from being non-susAlthough customers seldom put it into practtainable, even if they don’t actually say ‘sustainable’ on ice, they do have a real wish for sustainability and the label,” believes Schickentanz. vide advice as deﬁned by the German Securities Avoiding sustainability risks in our investments Trading Act (WpHG). The bank has informed them of Investments made without regard for ethical principles the resulting requirements and thereby ensured the can hinder sustainable development. To protect our new legislation was implemented in a timely manner. customers against unwittingly becoming complicit in In 2012, BaFin also enhanced the Minimum breaches of human rights or environmental damage, Requirements for the Compliance Function and Addiall of Commerzbank’s investment recommendations tional Requirements Governing Rules of Conduct, are run through a “sustainability ﬁlter”. In that way we Organisation and Transparency pursuant to sections can be sure that we do not invest in companies that 31 et seq. WpHG (MaComp). The new regulations clarbreach the generally recognised principles of the UN ify the obligations of the compliance function and the (see “Dilemma” box). processes where it is to be applied. Under these regulations, compliance has ceased to be simply an inspection measure and now offers protection as well. In the interests of improving the service we offer our customers, Commerzbank implemented these new regulations immediately. 15 Specifically, this means replacing hardware and Environmental managesystems with more energy-efficient equipment. For ment aids efficiency several years now, we have been working to virtualise our servers and are redesigning the data centres to keep measures warm and cold air separate. The new hardware also tolerates higher temperatures in the data centres – 26 to In the light of continuing climate change and rising en27 Celsius instead of the former limit of 22 Celsius. This ergy costs, it is becoming increasingly important for means we can use less energy for cooling yet still get companies to take responsibility for protecting the the same performance from the equipment. In the past climate and conserving natural resources. We have three years, we have been able to reduce the number of undertaken to minimise our environmental impact over data centres from 21 to eleven. And we have reduced the long term. The thousands of computer workstations the amount of cabling and number of devices per user, we use, and the IT infrastructure underpinning them, which has also led to a reduction in energy usage. constitute one of our biggest leverage tools for the greening of our IT systems – that is, for the energyMore than a million worth of savings thanks to efﬁcient and resource-efﬁcient operation of our IT and green efficiencies communications technology. Energy efﬁciency pays dividends: this can be seen most noticeably with the cooling systems at our Frankfurt service centre, where Europe’s largest trading ﬂoor and More efficiency IT equipment (as used on our trading ﬂoor, shown on the right) consumes a lot of energy. Cold aisles in the server rooms (left) are an efﬁcient way of using less energy and reducing costs. 16 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report the bank’s central data centre are to be found. For an Carbon Trust Standard expenditure of around €40,000, we reduced our 2012 energy costs by €1.44 million from the previous year. Commerzbank London has obtained Carbon Trust Standard certiﬁcation for the third time in sucAlso in 2012, when it came to business travel, cession due to steadfast efforts to reduce its annual CO2 emissions. These efforts have enabled we reduced greenhouse gas emissions and cut costs Commerzbank London to reduce its carbon footprint by 27 percent over the past ﬁve years, with by 40 percent from the previous year. Cost-cutting an 11 percent decrease in 2012. It has therefore not simply achieved its reduction target, it has considerably exceeded it. measures led to a tightening of the bank’s existing travel guidelines and to the increased use of phone and video conferencing instead of face-to-face meetings. New climate target Committee, various measures are being worked on – in At the start of 2013, we made our climate target even the areas of business travel and buildings, for exammore demanding. Up until 2011, we had been aiming ple – to achieve this target. Where business travel to reduce groupwide CO2 emissions by 30 percent cannot be avoided, we encourage staff to use the against the base year of 2007. We reached this target train whenever possible. In May 2013, Commerzbank’s ahead of schedule and, with CO2 reductions of 52 percar-pooling scheme began: employees with similar cent by the end of 2011, exceeded it by some margin. routes can get together via an intranet platform, This was achieved in large part thanks to our phased thereby using their cars less, saving on travel costs and conversion to green electricity, which was completed reducing their environmental impact. on 1 January 2013. Since then, the approximately The climate target and the measures associated 1,300 buildings occupied by Commerzbank AG in with it represent Commerzbank’s commitment to Germany have been 100 percent powered by green greening its operations as part of its climate change electricity. strategy. Other elements of the strategy aim to make Our new target is that, by 2020, we will have the core business even more sustainable and develop reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by a total of other climate-relevant products and services. The bank 70 percent compared to 2007 and will have made also wants to increase awareness of climate change further strides towards being climate neutral as a and wherever possible promote active climate protectcompany. At the request of the Group Environmental ion measures to its staff, customers and the public. › Climate target for 2020 Reduction in CO2 emissions compared with the base year of 2007 Target for 2011 – 30% 2012 status – 57% New target for 2020 – 70% Source: Commerzbank AG 17 Green building Commerzbank insists on energy-efﬁcient construction and building use – both at its head ofﬁce and in the regions. Gallusanlage, we are aiming to gain certification from the US LEED system (Leadership in Energy and Envi100 percent green electricity ronmental Design) for resource-efficient construction and servicing. We hope to achieve this by 2015. Since January 2013, the approximately 1,300 This emphasis on environmentally responsible buildings occupied by Commerzbank AG in architecture is shared by our subsidiaries. In a joint venture with Tishman Speyer, Commerz Real is Germany have been 100 percent powered by responsible for the TaunusTurm project. The building, green electricity. which is still under construction, is aiming to be the first newly-built office skyscraper in Frankfurt to gain LEED Platinum certification, the scheme’s highest Sustainable property management rating. Innovative and high-performance heating and Commerzbank has a long history of sustainable buildcooling ceiling systems ensure an excellent environing use. For the past 16 years, we have insisted on mental footprint, using around 30 percent less energy energy-efficient construction and building use for new than conventional systems. With its connection to builds and refurbishments. In 2009, Commerzbank the Frankfurt district heating network, the building Tower in Frankfurt, which was completed in 1997 and is heated with green energy, a process whereby in serves as the bank’s head office, was one of the first summer an absorption refrigerator is used to turn the recipients of the city of Frankfurt’s Green Building district heating into cold water for air conditioning Award. The former head office of Dresdner Bank, the systems. The sprinkler tanks are used as cold water Silver Tower, which was thoroughly renovated in 2011 storage units. Other elements are solar control glazing, and subsequently sold, was awarded silver certification water saving technology, rainwater recycling, an intelfrom the German Sustainable Building Council ligent lift system, individual office lighting and refuse (DGNB). For the Gallileo building in Frankfurt’s disposal areas with recycling zones. 18 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Responsibility: What does it mean for banking? Banks are central pillars of a country’s economy; they extend loans and arrange finance. Without their potential to offer credit, the economy would not be able to make the investments that enable prosperity and growth. Their business is essentially the trading of expected future returns. By Professor Birger Priddat This is not a risk-free business. then money has the inherent power to The responsibility of the banks lies in comMarkets shift and change – somespark the imagination. The banks’ responmunicating the risks and contributing to times not in the expected manner. sibility here covers not only private bankfinancial literacy so that investors can form This is because lending and the capital realistic expectations. The banks therefore markets business (derivatives, options, need to regain the trust that people once etc., but also equities and bonds) inherhad in banks, and this will require changes ently involve a future dimension. However, in the advice they give. Customers have things can turn out not quite as expected. become more cautious as a result of the Banks have experience in predicting future events of 2008 and 2009. Banks cannot markets, but their experiences are static operate meaningfully in this market of and are based on assumptions about what promises without a high degree of trust; is likely to happen. When they say they there are always “open” contracts that are expect something to occur with a likenot fulfilled until later on. Customers must lihood of 80 percent, there is a 20 percent accept that the banks are their partners chance that it will not occur. The banks’ whose experience of the markets extends responsibility is to be able to deal with this far beyond their own powers of judgement. risk and to remain capable of functioning However, the banks can make a difference should there be unexpected changes in a way that goes beyond risk communica(e.g. in volatility). That was not the case in Professor Birger Priddat is the current tion and financial literacy: along with politi2008 and 2009. incumbent of the chair for political economics cians, they are the ones who have to create at Witten/Herdecke University. Banking has its own particular charconfidence in money as a store of value. acteristics: rather than producing tangible If customers and banks want to congoods, it makes promises based on past ing but also, for example, food commodity tinue to do business with each other in the experience. This calls for a strong awarespeculation and project finance. Public atlong term, there needs to be some form of ness of risk – on the part of banks, which tention is now focused more closely on the rapprochement. It is important to remain are ramping up their risk management, and banks, which have realised that they have objective: the banks cannot provide customers, who are having to learn that to choose areas in which they operate more investors with absolute guarantees but they they may be choosing investments that, becarefully or justify their actions. do require the expertise to arrange and cause they promise good profits, also entail manage investments wisely. This transforms a greater level of risk. In this context, prothe manner in which they deal with risk viding appropriate advice requires particuinto an indicator of quality. lar expertise. Market participants accept that it is normal for banks to want to sell their securities above all else. Some investors may have illusions about how realistic their profit expectations are, but Customers Fair treatment, competent advice At Commerzbank, fairness and competence are the mainstays of the customer relationship – not least as a result of the crisis of conﬁdence in our sector. To live up to this challenge, we have modified our products and processes and made customer satisfaction one of the most important benchmarks. It is almost impossible to talk about banks’ corDelivering excellence porate responsibility without thinking about cusCustomer focus and customer satisfaction are also at tomer confidence. Commerzbank, too, has made the heart of an internal initiative to bring about immistakes here in the past. We have recognised them provements. Known as “Commerzbank Excellence”, and taken various steps to win back the confidence we the initiative was launched in August 2011. The objechave lost. Initial successes show that we are on the tive is to improve internal processes in order to make right track. us easier to contact, make lending processes more unIn developing a future-proof strategy, in 2012 derstandable and faster and avoid unnecessary process we consulted those who are targeted by this strategy: steps – in short, we simply want to offer our customers our customers. We conducted extensive market a better service. Since 2012 we have performed signifresearch involving thousands of interviews to find out icantly better in customer surveys and in external tests. what customers expect from a bank today. The answer This is due not only to our banking products but also, was as clear as it was simple: first and foremost they in no small measure, to these improvements to our want a fair and competent bank. Customers are looking processes. for dependable advice and products that they understand and need. Consequently, fairness and competence have been the central values in our new brand positioning since November 2012. We want to be regarded as a Fair products for private bank that is known for the fair and professional manner in which it deals with customers and that demonstrates customers a high degree of expertise when it comes to any finanOur advisory meetings with customers are the first step cial matter. Our range of products and services is in upholding our promise of being fair and competent. geared to the interests of customers. Their satisfaction The “Kundenkompass” (Customer Compass) was inhas become a yardstick for measuring our success. troduced in mid-2012 as a tool with which to analyse The new positioning is not just a label; it needs customers’ financial and personal circumstances within to be put into practice when we advise our customers a few minutes and then to find solutions tailored speci– whether in the branch, in meetings with corporate fically to their individual wishes and goals. customers or over the internet. That is why we have We begin by reviewing the customer’s personal discontinued products and business lines that no situation with them: what do they want and what are longer fit with our promise and have launched new their plans? What is their personal and financial situaproducts and services. In private banking, for example, tion? Where are their financial assets? It takes just we have introduced free current and business accounts 20 to 30 minutes to produce a comprehensive financial with a satisfaction guarantee, home finance that is not analysis – one that is easy to understand, clear and welltied to a provider and a free 30-day trial for consumer structured. After the analysis, it is time to put forward loans. individual recommendations based on the information On the right track The results of neutral tests and our growth ﬁgures show that mid-2013). We also came out top in a service test carried out by our efforts are paying off. Since mid-2012, we have gained an the Deutsches Kundeninstitut (DKI, German customer institute) average of 3,000 new private customers per week and up to in May 2013, which looked at aspects of investment certiﬁcate 1,000 new corporate customers per month. Introducing nontrading, such as transparency and product information. Our emcaptive advice on home ﬁnance products quickly enabled us to ployees also believe in us: the Commerzbank Monitor published increase our share of this market by around 60 percent. In the in June 2013 revealed a sharp rise in employee commitment, City Contest 2013, a study conducted by the Institut für Vermöparticularly in the Private Customers segment. Employees’ willgensaufbau (IVA, institute for wealth management) that assessed ingness to recommend the bank to friends and family as a comthe quality of advice given in 1,300 bank branches in approxipetent ﬁnancial service provider offering attractive products and mately 300 towns and cities, the number of our branches being services has almost doubled compared with the previous survey, crowned the local winner rose substantially. Our overall average which was carried out in 2011. rating was 2.4 – making us the highest ranked bank (as at 22 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Customer review The Customer Compass is the starting point for providing fair and competent advice in our Private Customers segment. * The accolade from Focus-Money is based on the certiﬁcation awarded to the Customer Compass by the Institut für Vermögensaufbau (IVA, institute for wealth management). Products offered by other providers were not tested. supplied by the customer. During the advisory meeting, native products available from competitors. One of financial aspects and recommendations are looked at in the areas in which we do this is non-captive advice on greater depth, solutions are identified and discussed and real estate finance: our “CobaHyp” service uses a vast the next steps are planned. At the end, each customer is database to compare the conditions offered by given a clearly laid out and understandable record of the 250 banks. And we offer more than just market transmeeting. Wealth Management uses a similar tool, the parency because we also give customers the option “Strategiedialog”, for high-net-worth private customers. of signing up to competitors’ products directly And, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we are launching a through us. Customer Compass for our corporate customers too. Commerzbank customers also have a wide range of funds to choose from. Based on 10,000 or Customer Compass comes out top so fund products that are registered in Germany, our In September 2012, the Munich-based Institut für selection process enables a recommendation to be Vermögensaufbau (IVA, institute for wealth accumulamade about investments with good prospects soon tion) thoroughly tested the Customer Compass on beafter a fund is launched. half of Focus Money magazine. The tool achieved an above-average result in every area, was described as Benefits for existing customers too “excellent financial analysis” and earned five out of The free current account with a satisfaction guarantee five stars in the test. But what is even more important is another of our fair products. New customers receive to us is that customers also highly rate the advice they €50 as a starting balance. If they are not satisfied after receive: in a survey conducted in March 2012, 70 peractively using the account for a year and decide to cent of customers said that, after attending a meeting close it, they receive €50 as a “dislike” bonus. This at which the Customer Compass was used, they would rule has applied to all free “Giro” and “Aktiv” current recommend Commerzbank to others. accounts opened since November 2012. We have also Providing fair advice can also mean showing offered this guarantee with new business accounts customers not only our own products but also alteropened since the start of 2013 and, since May 2013, › 23 with “Start” accounts – our target-group-specific proin November 2012, we discontinued the handling fee duct for young people at school, in training or at for new loans and, since March 2013, customers have university. been able to trial our loan products free of charge for a In January 2013, we introduced a fixed-interest 30-day period. Our existing customers gain a small savings product with a one-year term for new and extra benefit here as current account holders obtain a existing customers alike. This product is particularly 0.5 percent lower interest rate as a loyalty bonus. attractive in view of the current low level of interest rates. We also attach great importance to fairness and Complaints management improved competence in our new lending products. For examIf a customer is not satisfied despite all the improveple, we enable customers to make additional repayments to our products and advisory processes, the ments on their home finance loans on generous terms. efficient management of complaints can be a lifeline Finally, we have also modified our consumer loans: for the customer relationship. We also assessed these Sabine Schmittroth, Head of Sales Management for private customers, examines the dilemma: Are products that are good for the bank good for the customer, too (and vice versa)? “Banks only sell those products that will benefit them explaining the aim of these changes. “As customers’ most” – a familiar statement for disappointed bank cusfirst port of call, our advisors are responsible for this.” tomers who have had these and similar experiences in She adds that, besides applying new statutory regularecent years. This opinion about banks has become entions regarding customer advice (e.g. documentation trenched in many customers’ minds, thereby harming of the advice provided), it is a question of “empowering confidence in their own banks. One of the possible and enabling employees to work in a more customerreasons for this poor state of affairs are incentives for focused way”. Commerzbank also made changes to sales staff that combine the sale of certain investment sales management in 2011. As well as introducing a products with quantitative targets. Consideration of customer-oriented advisory process, the focus was on whether these products were right for a specific cusenshrining customer satisfaction as an integral element tomer’s requirements was not always a priority. of sales management. The team also measures, and is “We have set a new course,” explains Sabine accountable for, sales targets. Schmittroth, Head of Sales Management for Branch Schmittroth does not find it contradictory that Banking at Commerzbank. The Customer Compass banks make money from their customers: “Our enables customers’ wishes and requirements to be doccustomers know that a bank is not a charitable organumented in a structured manner, serving as the basis isation.” But a banking product must be of value to for the advice then offered. Since 2012, we have also inboth parties. Ultimately, Schmittroth does not see the creasingly been offering customers non-Commerzbank question posed in the title as a dilemma because she products, such as home finance, if these prove a better believes that “only products that are good for the cusmatch with customers’ specific needs. tomer can be good for the bank in the long run.” “A long-lasting successful customer relationship is based on trust and satisfaction,” says Schmittroth, 24 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report processes in terms of fairness and competence in 2012. Companies need a bank they can depend on, particuOur new processes enable customers to make a comlarly during difficult economic periods. The general plaint via any channel – in person, over the phone, by economic and industry-specific crises of recent years e-mail or by letter. We believe that it is no longer about have been challenging for many companies. Because justifying the action that the customer is criticising but German SMEs largely fund their capital spending by taking out loans, we have continued to support our customers in tough times, provided they have a compelling busiFewer complaints ness model. Conversely, SMEs The number of customer complaints remained loyal to Commerzbank when we received govdeclined by around 40 percent in 2012. ernment aid in 2009 in order to maintain our corporate banking business. One of the main topics about restoring customer satisfaction. That is why we on which we are giving advice in 2013 is the Single equipped our employees with more authority and Euro Payments Area (SEPA), which brings together the additional options when it comes to showing goodEuropean payments markets. The transitional period will in the event of a dispute. Should direct contact for phasing out the existing national payments not result in a solution, customers can turn to the processes and formats in the eurozone countries ends Commerzbank customer advocate. Overall, customer on 31 January 2014. A customer survey conducted in complaints were down by approximately 40 percent February 2013 found that three quarters of companies in 2012. had not yet dealt with the SEPA changes. We are ful› Customer advisory council www.commerzbankThe customer advisory council, which has had ﬁlling our responsibility to provide information through kundenbeirat.de new members since May 2012, is also fostering the our dedicated website, a special newsletter and an bank’s move towards greater customer focus. It repreextensive test & migration suite, plus a high number of sents customers’ interests by holding regular meetings advisory meetings with individual customers. and workshops at which it discusses ideas and recommendations relating to improving and developing Convinced customers products, advisory services and other services. Our customers appreciate Commerzbank’s competence, as underlined by a customer satisfaction survey in 2012 in which approximately 7,000 corporate customers rated us as excellent. Of those surveyed, 90 percent said they would definitely or probably continue to work with us Through thick and – an even higher proportion than in previous years – thin with our corporate while 80 percent would actively recommend the bank to others. Conducted by market research institute TNS customers Infratest, the survey attributed the high level of customer satisfaction to the good standard of advice, flexibility Commerzbank is Germany’s leading bank for small and and proactive and individual customer care. medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Supporting emThese results were backed up by the 2012 cash ployment and the economy in this way brings with it a management survey organised by international trade special responsibility. Fairness, competence and, as journal Euromoney (October 2012). In this survey, a corollary of these values, customer satisfaction guide 16,000 ﬁnance managers from more than 110 counus here just as much as they do in private banking. For tries were asked about the performance and quality of example, we avoid particularly risky investment opbanks’ cash management and – as in the previous year – tions for our customers. We also assist our customers the Mittelstandsbank segment was rated one of the with their ﬁnancial management so that they can focus leading banks in the Best Domestic Cash Manager entirely on their operational business. At the same Germany category. › time, we use everything at our disposal to protect them against risk and help them during crises. 25 Competent international support According to an Infratest study, around a quarter of Corporate customers particularly value Commerzbank export-oriented SMEs believed that conditions were for its foreign trade expertise. When it comes to pronot favourable for setting up international operations cessing export payments and letters of credit for exat the start of 2013. This study, which we commisports, we are one of the leading ﬁnancial institutions sioned as part of our “UnternehmerPerspektiven” iniin the euro area. Nowadays, even small enterprises are tiative, put questions to, among others, 4,000 owners increasingly doing business in non-European countries and managing directors of SMEs in Germany as well in order to capitalise on sales opportunities in markets as 145 respected economists. They reported that the outside the largely stagnant eurozone. They receive main difficulties were a lack of legal certainty, trade support from the 11,000 members of staff working in barriers and currency risk. At the same time, 85 perour branches, representative ofﬁces, subsidiaries and cent of those surveyed called for the stepping up of afﬁliates in more than 50 countries as well as from a foreign trade outside the European Union. These comglobal network of correspondent banks. In 2012, we panies’ expansion plans therefore involve a number of made particularly strong inroads with small enterprises risks, although Commerzbank offers expert advice in whose local or regional bank cannot offer international this area. business services that are as closely aligned as ours with the requirements of this segment. Dipl.-Ing. MBA Lutz Goebel, Commerzbank customer “Banks must flag up problems” Mr. Goebel, what is expected of an SMEGerman chambers of commerce. And Commerzoriented bank today? bank is clearly in a strong position in many It must offer me competitive conditions markets. But it is not only Asia where you have to and its lending decisions must be transparent – in consider the risks. Even the United States has other words, it needs to be able to explain the entirely different rules in areas such as product reasons behind these conditions. I also need perliability and warranties, not to mention customer sonal continuity in the account manager assigned care, where many services are expected to be to me, a long-term relationship based on trust. free of charge. The situation is different to the After all, a bank should not “abandon ship” if the one with which we are familiar in Germany. Dipl.-Ing. MBA Lutz Goebel is Managing Director of Henkelhausen company gets into difficulties. What about countries with unstable or GmbH & Co. KG in Krefeld, Given the sales crisis in the eurozone, corrupt governments? How can companies President of the Family Businesses – ASU association and a customer of many SMEs are now trying to gain a foothold avoid involuntarily contributing to environCommerzbank. in Asian or American markets directly, without mental pollution or human rights violations? starting off in Europe. However, they can face That’s a very important matter. If banks all kinds of unknown risks as a result. Do you can use their business experience to make imexpect banks to provide advice on such matportant recommendations to us, then so much ters, too? the better. Banks must flag up any problems of I think it’s great that the banks are offering which they become aware. advice, in addition to the worldwide network of 26 26 Bericht 2013 zur unternehmerischen unternehmerischen Corporate Bericht zur Responsibility Report 2013 Verantwortung 2013 Verantwortung Future prospects for Africa “Our customers have told us in many advisory meetOur activities abroad are not limited ings that they are happy to be looked after by a bank to our banking operations and the that thinks like a bank for corporate customers and not operations of our customers. We are like an investment bank – in Germany and abroad.” also committed to fulﬁlling our social responsibility. In 2012 and 2013, we supported selected SOS Children’s Village projects in Ghana and Liberia as part of the “Africa – Big Five” camMarkus Beumer, Member of the Board of Managing Directors of paign through which the Financial Commerzbank AG with overall Institutions operating unit in the responsibility for the Mittelstandsbank segment Mittelstandsbank segment intends to expand corporate banking in Africa. Donations of €100,000 were used to buy state-of-the-art IT equipment for schools and to parks operated by institutional investors, municipal install photovoltaic systems in the Children’s Villages. utility companies, energy conglomerates and private With 500 banking customers and 250 institutional cusinvestors. Commerzbank supports the funding of such tomers, Commerzbank is the biggest German-speaking plants through non-recourse project ﬁnance in Gerbank for corporate banking in Africa. For example, we many and abroad. handle 11 percent of all euro payments originating in Africa. Opportunities for investing in renewable energies We give institutional investors, such as insurers and pension funds, the chance to participate in the funding of large-scale investment projects in renewable energy on the basis of portfolio or individual transaction modMaking the switch to els. One of these innovative models is the €87 million renewable energy sources Green Loan Fund platform, which was launched in 2013 and is set to be expanded in the future. One of the Mittelstandsbank segment’s main ﬁelds of In February 2013, our subsidiary Commerz Real activity is the advancement of renewable energies. This Fonds Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH (CFB) launched sector has become increasingly important since Gerits ﬁfth closed-end solar investment fund: the “CFBmany’s decision to abandon nuclear power and the Fonds 180 Solar-Deutschlandportfolio V” is investing subsequent shift in the country’s energy policy. Thanks in eight solar power plants on the former Templin milto its Center of Competence for Renewable Energies itary airbase in Brandenburg. We expect this fund – like (CoC RE) in Hamburg, Commerzbank has been one of its four sister funds – to perform far better than the world’s largest providers of funding for renewable planned, not least because its launch in autumn 2013 energies for over 25 years. The CoC RE’s core business means high remuneration rates were secured under the is the provision of ﬁnance for wind farms and solar German Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG). › Sustainability for investors Sustainability is becoming an increasingly important factor for collection of data to generate a tailored risk/return proﬁle for banking. Commerzbank has been offering its customers bespoke each customer. asset management involving investments in ethically sustainable Since mid-2013, institutional customers have also been securities since mid-2013. To conduct the individual sustainable to invest in a sustainability-oriented, open-ended special ability analyses, we have teamed up with one of the most exreal estate fund from the bank J. Safra Sarasin. This group of perienced partners in the market, oekom research AG. This ratcustomers, which includes church-run organisations among ings agency continually assesses the conduct of around 3,000 others, increasingly demands sustainability in asset managecompanies from 52 countries in terms of ethics and sustainment, which is why we have added an endowment fund ability. Asset managers at Commerzbank use the resulting vast “Catella-Multitenant-Stiftungsfonds” to our product portfolio. 27 Shift in German energy policy We are a major partner for the construction of renewable energy generation plants. Center of Competence Our Center of Competence Renewable Energies is one of the largest providers of finance for renewable energies worldwide. while pilot projects began in various Chinese provinces. Other countries are developing similar solutions, including Australia, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and South Korea. Nonetheless, the market is plagued by uncertainty, especially in Europe. This led Our pioneering role in environmental matters was to a substantial rise in the number of customers also conﬁrmed by Bloomberg Markets’ ranking of the requesting advice in 2012 and 2013. world’s top 40 green banks in 2012. In 2013, Commerzbank climbed into the top 20 for the ﬁrst time. Funding of sustainable technologies outside Germany One of the main factors in our good rating was our Commerzbank also encourages the use of sustainable commitment to renewable energies. technologies in the fast-growing markets of Latin America. For example, Commerzbank Financial InstiEmissions trading: strong demand for advice tutions and Inter-American Development Bank are Commerzbank remains one of the leading players in together making US$ 200 million available to Brazil’s the trading of European emissions permits. Although a Banco Itaú in 2013. This money is earmarked for pronew, legally binding agreement had not been reached jects throughout Latin America involving renewable in the international climate negotiations by mid-2013, energies, improvements in energy efﬁciency and envisigniﬁcant progress has been made at national level. In ronmentally friendly production engineering. Further 2013, emissions trading was launched in California, loans of this kind are being examined. 28 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Trust: What do customers expect? Bank customers are an ambivalent species. On the one hand, most of them are satisfied with their own bank. And empirical research and the overall trend indicate that the relationship between the two is improving again. German bank customers are among the most loyal in the world. At the same time, however, their trust in financial service providers is at an all-time low. By Hans-Jürgen Kräh During the financial crisis of 2008 such as when customers meet with their are the one risking a loss! And bank cusand 2009, their trust in the banks advisors in thousands of branches every tomers have a lot to lose: their savings, a declined like never before – only day. It is based on the characteristics that nest egg for their children’s education or 42 percent of investors are still willing to funds for their retirement: in the worst rely on their advisor’s recommendations. case, a substantial proportion of their Psychologically speaking, customers now financial livelihood. This was revealed by perceive themselves to be “above” the banks the crisis many times over. and the banks’ advisors but, systemically, As there is no alternative to using a they continue to depend on them. They bank, customers look for one that will have to en“trust” their money to the banks “serve” them and that they can trust. They even though the necessary trust in fact no want modern banking combined with longer exists. Whereas the Germans once traditional values. Today, they expect extrustingly went to their banks to make use cellent customer care and a reduction in of a full range of services, today they are incomplexity. Availability and convenience creasingly walking away from the relationare also important. Although technological ship: a growing number of customers are innovation must not be neglected, it is less looking for a new partner for their money, of a priority overall. Customers are comwith more than five million people switchparatively indifferent to performanceing their bank accounts every year. Hans-Jürgen Kräh is head of ﬁnandriven products. Satisfaction and trust are therefore cial market research at TNS Infratest If a bank’s own customers – and in Munich. two very different animals. While satisfactinterested members of the public – place ion is a prerequisite for trust, it is not the their trust in the bank, it will establish a only requirement. If there is a lack of trust, customers ascribe to their advisors, above good reputation. And a good reputation even a generally satisfied customer will be all competence and integrity. Customers helps the bank to avoid losing customers. willing to battle through the red tape inwant to be given guidance because of the But more importantly, it also makes the volved in moving their bank account. Given complexity and wide range of available bank more appealing to prospective new the uncertainty that currently prevails, the banking products. They want things to be customers who have stopped trusting their very least that people want is a trust-based made simpler, preferably by an advisor current bank. Customers seek out highly relationship with their bank. Restoring this who communicates with them as an equal regarded brands, especially when it comes trust is a major task without clearly defined partner. to their finances. Professional reputation boundaries. This means that expectations are management is therefore one of the main The problem with trust is its latency. crucial. Do I have sufficient trust in the challenges for banks, along with offering Trust can neither be ordered nor purexpertise and goodwill of my advisor to suitable products and services. They need chased, nor can it be demanded or conexpose myself to the risk? Ultimately, trust to convey an impression of competence structed. You either have it or you don’t. is only needed where the person doing the and integrity and to demonstrate these Trust is formed in interactive situations – trusting has more to lose than to gain – they qualities on a consistent basis. Management and employees Modern leadership, responsible management Looking ahead to the future – this is the objective that guides human resources activities at Commerzbank. The focus is just as much on the opportunities for employees as on the development of the bank as a whole. We use creative ideas to maintain this balance between different perspectives and expectations. Human resources Working for Commerzbank gives free rein to employees’ creativity. Continuity and focus on the future take on a Our skills training and CPD activities have been special role in HR during periods of upheaval. grouped together in the Commerzbank Academy since Besides eliminating uncertainties, we also need last year. It offers a broad spectrum of opportunities to boost employee motivation and commitment. We for all employees, from foundation-level and specialist firmly believe that, despite changes to the workforce, skills training to specific career paths for managerial, Commerzbank is an employer of choice because of its project-based and specialist roles. A course on the diverse development activities, training and continuing basics of banking provides an insight into the banking professional development (CPD) opportunities, perbusiness for those employees who do not have a formance-based pay, above-average employee benefinancial role at Commerzbank. It also gives employees fits and – last but not least – its corporate culture: who are switching to a different job within the bank an Commerzbank is known for the particularly responsible overview of other departments. The two-module course and collaborative way in which it treats its staff. was taken almost 4,800 times in the first twelve months The task of Group Human Resources is to after its launch in April 2012. It also includes an incooperate with other areas of the bank in order to depth unit on sustainability, offering information on the increase Commerzbank’s competitiveness. To this end, five spheres of activity in this area: governance, market we use state-of-the-art HR tools that enable our manand customers, environment, employees and society. agers to always deploy the right number of employees We also established a specialist career path in the sumwith the necessary skills where they are needed. After mer of 2013. It sets out clearly structured development all, we know that the bank’s performance depends opportunities for all those who are not interested in heavily on the capabilities and long-term commitment project-based or management careers. of its employees. The Commerzbank Management Programme (CMP), part of the Commerzbank Academy, equips emLaunch of Commerzbank Academy ployees with the skills they need to become managers. High-quality training and development provides the This programme also saw the launch of several new foundations for our HR activities. At Commerzbank, activities in 2012, such as preparatory workshops and skills training starts with recruitment. Our marketing opportunities to practise and to share experiences with work aimed at schoolchildren is a way for us to find other participants. Employees now start this skills young talent for the future. But it also includes training training only once the decision to appoint them to a on how to apply for jobs, thereby helping them to management position has been made, i.e. not until they prepare for the world of work. In this context, we use definitely need the training. social networks such as www.probier-dich-aus.de and Our employees can also prove their leadership › Self-Assessment exhibit at trade fairs. We also support the Boston Conskills on the Management Experience programme, in www.probier-dich-aus.de sulting Group’s Business@school initiative, which helps which managers-to-be are temporarily appointed to pupils in their final years of school to gain practical management positions that are vacant, for example due experience of financial matters (read more about our to parental leave. During this period, they receive supinitiatives for schoolchildren on pages 40 and 77). port from mentors every step of the way. For their part, 32 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report managers on parental leave receive a guarantee that have offered not only childcare in crèches but also they will be able to return. They can also stay up to date places in 13 different kindergartens and have expanded through the Keep in Touch programme. This prothe care available outside term time. The second year gramme is not only available to managers: eligible of after-school care for children at primary school employees – male and female – are given a part-time began in 2012, ensuring they are looked after and fed contract for 10 or 20 percent of their normal working once the school day has finished. hours so that they can attend training courses or mainWe are also promoting diversity in the bank by tain contact with their departments in other ways. Our actively supporting employee networks. “Arco”, the gay Keep in Touch programme goes above and beyond our and lesbian network, celebrated its tenth anniversary legal obligations in Germany. in 2012. The women’s network “Courage” expanded its international presence, staging its second global Promotion of diversity conference in London. Fathers working at CommerzOur employees are a highly valuable asset, irrespective bank in Frankfurt and Hamburg met for lectures, opof their gender, age, nationality, religion, world view portunities to exchange experiences and workshops. and sexual orientation, or whether they have a disabilAfter winning the Max Spohr Award in 2010 for ity or not. This diversity has a positive impact on motiits commitment to homosexual employees, Commerzvation, innovativeness, performance and atmosphere bank hosted the award ceremony again in 2012. It also in the workplace. Global Diversity Management is a platform that we created “As an international company, we enshrine the principles of diverin 2012 to enable six resity and run diversity programmes at every site across the Group. gional diversity councils to That is why we have set up six regional diversity councils that run our diversity activities cover Germany, London, western Europe, eastern Europe, New in the bank, including at York and Asia. Representatives from these councils meet at least international level. twice a year to discuss what action to take regarding diversity Increasing the proissues they consider to be important. The current focus and the portion of women in manpriority set by the Board of Managing Directors is how to promote agement positions remore women to management positions and how demographic Barbara David, Head of Diversity Management mains an important area change might impact on individual sites in future. In addition, each of activity. At the end of council deals with topics that are specific to them because each last year, 24 percent of region has its own challenges. It is also important that there is permanagement positions at sonal dialogue so that the councils can learn from one another. Commerzbank in GerAfter all, we don’t want to keep having to reinvent the wheel!” many were filled by women – one of the highest levels among the DAX companies – while the received the Total E-Quality Award for equal proportion in our international operations was opportunities in human resources policy for the sixth 25.7 percent. The target for 2015 is 30 percent worldtime. wide. Commerzbank Mentoring is another key tool alongside the Keep in Touch and Guaranteed Return WikIdee: rewarding creativity after Parental Leave programmes that will help us to Besides cultural diversity, another way of generating achieve this target. Under this scheme, members of the creative input in the bank is targeted ideas manageBoard of Managing Directors and people at the second ment. We launched WikIdee in September 2011 as an and third management levels are assigned one or two inhouse online platform for collecting and discussing mentees for a year. Half of the mentees should be suggestions for improvement. WikIdee gives employwomen. The first year of the programme, during which ees the chance to play a greater role in improvements 353 mentors supported a total of 573 mentees, ended than in the past and ensures that the ideas submitted, in September 2012. and their status, are more transparent. More than The advancement of women in their careers at 550 of the 5,252 ideas collected in 2012 were put into the bank also promotes the objective of improving empractice. The discussions held by employees on the ployees’ work-life balance. In 2012, for example, we platform resulted in approximately 9,000 comments again increased the number of crèche and kindergarten and almost 60,000 ratings of the ideas submitted. Our places that we make available. Since mid-2012, we previous online suggestions portal, ComIdee, has now 33 Well looked after – and not just financially Any organisation seeking to attract and retain motivated and committed people has to offer the right package of financial and non-financial incentives. For most people, earning money may be the main reason for going to work. But for our employees, there are also other factors involved, such as promotion opportunities and company benefits. Progressive remuneration and benefits Even at Commerzbank, however, discussions about compensation and performance incentives begin with money. That is why we were particularly pleased about a development that occurred in 2012. In order to comply with the European Banking Authority’s (EBA) sudden raising of capital requirements, we developed a programme of variable remuneration paid out in shares. This programme was taken up by 90 percent of eligible employees. This high take-up rate shows the level of commitment staff feel towards the bank. At Commerzbank, the package of financial and other benefits is particularly wide-ranging. As part of Childcare total remuneration, we offer staff a wide range of comIn recent years, Commerzbank has considerably pany benefits. These range from a pension scheme, expanded the childcare that it provides for employees’ children. employee recognition scheme and transport benefits to technology and insurance. In addition, managers can thank their staff for showing extra commitment by giving them vouchers worth €150. Other benefits include a leasing scheme for high-value IT equipment under been migrated to WikIdee. This means that suggestions preferential conditions. for improvement can be submitted directly to the relevant department or can be developed by discussing Net Promoter Score: customer satisfaction pays them with colleagues. Around 40,000 bank employees dividends currently have access to WikIdee, which was initiated In 2012, Commerzbank changed its remuneration sysunder the auspices of Group Human Resources and the tem for sales staff in the Private Customers segment. “Excellence” programme (cf. page 22). Customer satisfaction has become a significant assessIn March 2013, the Ideas Management Centre of the German Institute for Ideas and Innovations Management awarded WikIdee the accolade “Best Ideas New management remuneration principles Management 2013” in the banking and insurance sector. The expert judges were particularly impressed In mid-2013, Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank, DZ Bank, HSBC by the opportunity to discuss and rate ideas on an Trinkaus & Burkhardt and HypoVereinsbank undertook to creonline platform. They also highlighted the high level ate an ethical framework for management remuneration. They of acceptance enjoyed by ideas management among issued a joint policy paper in which they made a commitment to performance-based and value-oriented leadership. In fuemployees and managers. ture, managers’ performance assessments and pay will be based not only on business targets but also on ethical aspects of their conduct. Essentially, the objective is to make remuneration systems transparent and to eliminate inappropriate incentives. The process was facilitated by the Wittenberg Centre for Global Ethics. 34 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ment criterion. Now it is not just about the extent to 50 percent, the employee will receive 75 percent of which income and growth targets are met, but the their usual salary. At the end of the care period, the extent to which customers are satisfied with the service salary top-up paid during that period will be deducted they receive from their branch. The yardstick used here from the employee’s full pay. Since September 2012, is the Net Promoter Score (NPS), an internationally acthe company agreement for this scheme has also cepted standard for measuring customer satisfaction. established that the bank will pay the premium for the This target variable is now an integral part of flexible employee’s statutory insurance during the period pay for all managers and staff in private customer sales. the employee is providing family care. Care of family dependants “Many of our employees are currently going through a very stressCommerzbank is also ful time. Commerzbank understands that, as an employer, it must breaking new ground lay the groundwork for employees to stay healthy as well as remain with the services it offers interested in and committed to their work. It has often been ahead to help staff care for of, and gone further than, the lawmakers when it comes to the benedependants. With the fits and services that it offers so that employees can combine work demographic changes and home life more easily. At the same time, however, there should currently taking place, not be a trade-off between salary and employee benefits – both the care of dependant need to be right.” Uwe Tschäge, Chairman of the General and Group Works Council relatives is now becoming as important an issue as childcare. It is not just the workforce that is ageing: Health Management now certified by TÜV the proportion of those requiring care is also rising. Commerzbank attaches particular importance to proMore and more employees now need to care for family moting its employees’ health. From company sports members in addition to going to work. to addiction prevention, staff can take advantage of a In the interests of accommodating all the life range of services. In this way we can help our staff stages that employees go through, Commerzbank is the to feel capable and motivated and to give their best first company in Germany to offer staff with dependent at work. Our Health Management programme is confamily members a programme comprising emergency stantly being updated to keep pace with the evercare, day care and a “care check-up”. The programme changing demands of the workplace, and this is where is currently being run as a pilot project. This service, our Employee Council on Health has a role to play. On which is being offered in partnership with providers the council, 45 employees from nearly every segment Pme-Familienservice and Agaplesion Group, began on and division of the Group discuss workplace health 1 April 2013 and will initially run at head office in issues of particular concern to them with the member Frankfurt. The bank has already been working with of the Board of Managing Directors responsible for Pme for some years to provide advice and referral serHR and the Chairman of the General Works Council. In vices. Pme operates a 24-hour emergency care hotline this way, the bank can stay in close contact with its on our behalf, provides short-term emergency home employees in relation to health issues. care and offers a home alarm system. Our other partCommerzbank’s Health Management proner, Agaplesion, provides day care from its own pregramme has four areas of focus: nutrition, exercise, mises. The administrative costs of the service are met addiction prevention and stress management. To make by the bank. We reimburse the employees for their own employees more aware of their health, we launched share of the costs (i.e. the part that is not met by the Health at Commerzbank in 2011, a three-part intercare fund) for up to ten days per year. active training course covering the practice and theory In order to provide care, employees can also of good health. › take up to six months’ unpaid leave or reduce their working hours. Then there is the bank’s policy on family-friendly working hours. For a maximum of 24 months, staff with dependants needing care can reduce their working week to a minimum of 15 hours. During this time we will pay half of the portion of the salary that the employee has foregone. So, for example, if working hours are reduced from 100 percent to 35 Albert Reicherzer, Divisional Board Member Group Human Resources, examines the dilemma: Can we be a responsible employer when we are cutting posts at the same time? With its strategic agenda up to 2016, Commerzbank is ally higher interest rates. “Unfortunately we can’t see aiming to meet the challenges of the future. The necesthe markets rallying any time soon,” says Reicherzer. sary restructuring of the bank involves reducing staff So what can we do? Reicherzer is not in any costs as well. Several thousand posts must be cut by doubt. “HR is as responsible as any other area for mak2016. Against this background, can a company still ing a company fit for the future. In certain areas we claim to be a responsible employer? have to lose roles in order to secure the remaining “The most important thing is how responsibly ones. At the same time, we owe it to our staff to pursue we deal with this difficult situation,” says Albert all avenues for achieving the job losses required withReicherzer, Divisional Board Member Group Human out having to make redundancies. And that is also my Resources at Commerzbank. “Job losses are not the own personal aim.” same as redundancies. So far Commerzbank has never The new Commerzbank initiative “Perspektiven had to make anyone redundant. We have adopted a raft schaffen” (”Creating Perspectives”) is helping to achieve of measures to enable us to achieve the reduction in a this aim. Among other things, the initiative is consocially responsible way.” siderably simplifying the process for filling internal For some time now, the whole financial sector vacancies with current employees. But it is even more in Germany has had to come to terms with the issue of important to offer staff new perspectives by improving job cuts. Current bank staffing levels have been inhertraining opportunities throughout the bank and highited from a world that was quite different from today’s. lighting clear development paths. For this is what disPrivate customers were investing more in the capital tinguishes a responsible employer: a forward-looking markets and using the branches much more. At the HR policy that safeguards the future of the bank and of same time, banks were earning more thanks to generits employees. And in September 2012 we launched a seminar on To this end, we developed a raft of measures allowing being a successful and healthy manager, where senior us to achieve the necessary job losses in a socially managers learn how to recognise and engage with responsible manner. We provide support and advice if challenges faced not only by them but also by their staff wish to pursue their careers outside the bank. We staff. In February 2013, the company health manageoffer attractive packages and solutions for preretirement programme was certified by the standards body ment part-time employment. The principle of mutual TÜV SÜD as the first programme of its kind to be agreement prevails in these cases: both sides must offered by a DAX company. agree to any solution. And we use the internal job market to try to offer employees a new role within the bank, Job losses without redundancies as a reduction in some areas has been matched by an In June 2013, Commerzbank and employee represen(admittedly smaller) increase in other areas. tatives came to an agreement on the implementation of the strategic agenda up to 2016. Essentially, this was about adapting our business model, organisational structure and costs to changed market conditions and customer needs. These committee-based agreements reached a consensus regarding the operational adjustments that needed to be made and the HR measures that would be necessary to achieve them. Together we are aiming to avoid redundancies wherever possible. 36 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Confidence: Courage in the face of change Five years on from the start of the global financial crisis, people have a right to feel their confidence restored once again. We seem to have become accustomed to living in a world of bad news: unresolved (fiscal) crises of all kinds and, in banking, a misguided bonus culture and a questionable understanding of responsibility and cultural change. Are there any grounds for confidence? By Professor Julian Nida-Rümelin If everything were to remain as it If we are to begin again; if we are to have only maxims that should guide one in life was, we certainly would have confidence and transmit this confidence via should be those by which everyone is able reasons to be very worried. But a managers and staff to customers, there to live. According to this theory, reason, recognition that our previous ways of doing freedom and duty constitute binding oblithings were wrong is the first step towards gations. This is what feeds the confidence making changes. Philosophy teaches us and optimism of Kant’s philosophy: it is that we have to start again from scratch, possible for humanity to behave rationally, and that the past is no guide to the future. respect the dignity of others and live freely So says Descartes, for example, in his writin a democratic society. The possibility of ing on epistemology, and Thomas Hobbes freeing oneself from “self-imposed disenin his political theory. These are two franchisement” imbues Kant and the entire thinkers with whom modern European philosophy of the European Enlightenment thought began. According to these two with confidence. philosophers, starting again means going This project remains incomplete to back to first principles and using them as this day. In fact, it is now facing one of its the basis for all future knowledge. No more biggest tests: the global financial markets vague suppositions: just precise, irrefutable must not be allowed to operate in isolation. knowledge. Modern science and econoThey must be embedded within a legal, mics are offshoots of this “rationalist” idea. social and moral framework. The idea of Professor Julian Nida-Rümelin is professor It is built on trust in reason: the theoretical of philosophy at the Ludwig Maximilian influencing human behaviour on the basis University of Munich. reason of judgement and the practical of measurable criteria at the individual level reason of decision-making. is a route to nowhere, as the all-pervasive For many years now, the finance must be change. And change involves risk. culture of competition endangers both coindustry has failed to pay sufficient regard However, confidence does not come from operation and sustainability. to the ethical preconditions of economic fearful avoidance of any risk but from a Only when a bank has learned lessuccess. For despite what the radical marbelief that it can be controlled. Justifiable sons from the crisis, has shown the courage ket ideologies of previous decades wanted confidence therefore has two prerequisites: to change, scrutinised its incentive strucus to believe, finance is not a morality-free first, the certainty that life’s circumstances tures, and thereby proved itself to be capazone. On the contrary, a financial sector can be shaped; and second, that in purble of making theoretical and practical that absolves itself of all social and moral suing their goals, people will pay due rejudgements – then, and only then, is a restraints has forfeited its most important gard to others. return to confidence appropriate. capital: trust. With the result that it will Probably one of the greatest thinkers ultimately fail to achieve economic success. of the European Enlightenment, the philosopher Immanuel Kant, developed a theory of “practical reason”, whereby the Dialogue and society Socially committed and fit for the future Commerzbank maintains many links to the social environment in which it operates. Working in partnership with politicians and trade associations, it shapes the parameters within which it operates. Through its commitment to social causes it also develops and improves the living and working conditions of the under-privileged. In its various functions as employer, taxpayer Commitment to education and sport and business partner, Commerzbank plays an Social commitment has long been a part of the corpoimportant role in Germany’s economy. But its rate culture at Commerzbank. In numerous projects corporate responsibility does not stop at the economic and initiatives undertaken with partners from politics, benefits it provides. Economic benefit alone does not business and civil society, we helped to solve real guarantee sustainability. We can only achieve sustainproblems. Above all, this means overcoming the disability by reducing our operational risks and taking advantages that prevent certain groups of people from a stand for the issues that we have identified as having a social and economic stake in society. Our aim important for us and our environment. These include is to create long-term benefits by integrating these relentless customer focus, responsible treatment of groups of people into society in a meaningful way. our employees and a long-term commitment to environmental protection, in addition to the wider social A new focus for education concerns that affect our ability to live together as The lack of equality in education – particularly when it a community. comes to the transition from school into work – is bemoaned by academics, politicians and society as a Maintaining an active dialogue whole. Around 53,000 young people in Germany are Making active corporate social responsibility a reality still leaving school every year without any basic qualialso involves seeking regular dialogue with internal and fications – about 6.5 percent of school leavers in each external stakeholders. We take part in selected initiayear group (German Federal Statistical Office, 2012). tives that are suggested to us by external parties and Their subsequent path through life is often all too pre› Commerzbank in dialogue host our own discussion forums. The “Commerzbank dictable, ending, in many cases, in unemployment. www.commerzbank-imdialog.de in Dialogue” series of talks deals with issues of importOur new Commerzbank education mentoring ance to our stakeholders. In 2012, four events took programme aims to address precisely this problem. › UnternehmerPerspektiven www.unternehmerperspekplace dealing with topics such as investor and conSince 2013, bank employees have been providing suptiven.de sumer protection and financing the switch to renewport for young people in danger of dropping out of › The Prince’s Trust able energy. school or who may not find a training place. Commerzwww.princes-trust.org.uk We maintain contact with our SME customers bank education mentors guide their protégés for a year, not just in the course of business but also, thanks to a show them new career paths and help them to appreseries of events and workshops entitled Unternehmerciate their strengths and develop self-confidence. The Perspektiven, via a wide range of regional forums. education mentor is essentially a coach and acts as an From October to December 2012, a survey was underadvisor outside the young person’s normal school and taken asking 4,000 companies about the opportunities training environment. and risks of internationalisation for the SME sector. The bank ensures that the mentors have the The results of the survey were widely discussed. right qualifications for the task and gives them the necessary time off work. As part of a pilot phase for 2013, 40 education mentors have been deployed in the four German federal states of Berlin, Hamburg, North Rhine-Westphalia and Hessen. The programme is due London: supporting young people In March 2013, Commerzbank’s London ofﬁce began a new tor or providing training. For example, they run workshops in partnership with The Prince’s Trust. The UK’s leading youth which they explain how to apply for jobs correctly and how to charity helps young people enter, or return to, the world of work, perform well in job interviews. After the partnership was anfocusing above all on the unemployed, underachievers in edunounced, around 100 employees quickly expressed an interest cation and ex-offenders. We do not simply support the organiin joining in with one of the activities. Thirteen employees took sation ﬁnancially: our employees also get involved directly, part in the ﬁrst two training workshops, which were held in July whether by participating in a charity cycle race, acting as a men2013 for 16 young people from The Prince’s Trust. 40 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Sports sponsorship Commerzbank’s focus on education also includes developing young talent as part of its commitment to mass participation sports. DFB junior coaches Across Germany, more than 1,000 schoolchildren are to be trained as junior football coaches in their own schools in the 2013/2014 school year. to be rolled out to other federal states in the autumn Qualifying as a trainer of 2014. Various local youth initiatives already in Vocational training for young people is also an imporoperation have been chosen as partners for the protant part of the DFB Junior Coach project that the › DFB junior coach initiative www.sponsoring. gramme. German Football Association (DFB) is providing, with commerzbank.de Commerzbank’s support, as a new pillar of its trainer > DFB-Premium-Partner Sponsorship is more than marketing qualification programme. As part of a project begun in At Commerzbank, sponsorship is not just about inApril 2013 at a pilot school in Mainz, school children creasing brand awareness and sales. It’s about targeted aged 16 and over are being trained at their own school commitment to make a positive difference to people on to be youth coaches. In the 2013/14 school year, over the ground. As well as classic sponsorship, we are prin1,000 pupils in more than 50 schools throughout cipally involved with youth work and the promotion of Germany are expected to take part. The ultimate goal regional clubs and associations. is to extend the project to 200 schools. The aim of the DFB is to address the challenges that lie ahead for football in Germany, such as demographic change and the decline in volunteering. Commerzbank is concen› 41 A long-standing partnership Girls’ and boys’ teams have been competing for the coveted Drumbo Cup for almost 40 years. We have awarded the “green ribbon” to clubs that demonstrate excellence in nurturing young talent since 1986. trating on other types of training. We provide pupils Encouraging staff involvement with a grounding in the principles of finance and use Whether it’s through the Commerzbank education mentoring, work placements and advice on making job mentor programme or one of our other social initiaapplications to prepare them for the world of work. tives, our staff are very keen to get involved. The bank In June 2013, the first 20 DFB junior coaches from supports corporate volunteering by providing facilities Mainz’s Otto Schott secondary school attended the and allowing staff time off work. One of our biggest › Malteser Social Day Backstage job application workshop on the 49th floor projects was to take part in the Malteser Social Day in www.malteser-socialday.de of Commerzbank headquarters in Frankfurt. Part of our 2012 and 2013, which saw a total of around 1,000 trainer education, these measures are laying the founCommerzbank employees take part in 80 projects at dations for young people’s personal and professional 20 locations across Germany. For two years running, development. we were the biggest group of participants in the event. Commerzbank employees repaired and redecorated schools, nurseries and other childcare facilities, helped out at social care institutions and cared for the needy. Many of the bank’s employees also devoted their own free time to good causes throughout the year, donat42 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report ing not just their time but also the expertise and spehas been commended by UNESCO. During this time cialist skills they have developed through their work at over 1,300 interns have demonstrated their committhe bank. This is something we find so inspiring that ment to the environment in the unique national parks, we encourage employees to share their experiences. nature reserves and biosphere reserves that take part We frequently feature the best examples of volunteerin the programme. ing in our staff magazine and encourage others to follow suit. We also launched a special employee volunteering portal on the Commerzbank intranet in April 2013. The portal is the central source of information Long-running projects for those who are already doing voluntary work or are planning to do so in the future. Staff can use it to proWe take pride in the fact that some vide details of their projects and initiatives and to make of our projects have been running targeted appeals for support. Those intending to volunteer and looking for a suitable project can also use it for decades. In March 2013, we to search for an opportunity. The portal also features organised the 39th Drumbo Cup Commerzbank corporate volunteering projects as well in Berlin, Germany’s largest indoor as other potentially interesting organisations and initiatives that work with volunteers. News and informafootball tournament for primary tion about volunteering round off the range of features schools. offered by the portal. Long-running projects Corporate citizenship is at its most sustainable when Foundations promoting the common good conceived for the long term. We take pride in the fact The Foundation Centre provides an administrative that some of our projects have been running for framework for Commerzbank’s charitable foundations. › Environmental internship www.umweltpraktikum.com decades. In March 2013, we organised the 39th It comprises the Commerzbank Foundation, Dresdner Drumbo Cup in Berlin, Germany’s largest indoor footBank’s Jürgen Ponto Foundation, Dresdner Bank › Sponsorship www.sponsoring. ball tournament for primary schools. Around 100,000 Dresden Cultural Foundation and six social founcommerzbank.de pupils have taken part so far. For 27 years we have dations. › The green ribbon been organising the “green ribbon” competition, The largest of these, with an endowment capital www.dasgrueneband.com which rewards clubs that demonstrate excellence in of around €58 million, is the Commerzbank Foundanurturing young talent. Run in conjunction with the tion. For over 40 years it has been involved in charitaGerman Olympic Sports Confederation, it recognises ble projects in science, culture and the community, sports clubs who have made a special contribution to with the emphasis on Germany. It supports exemplary youth work and the management of young talent in Germany-wide initiatives and aims to make a sustainthe arena of competitive sport. Another long-running able contribution to the ability of society to face the project is the Commerzbank environmental internchallenges of the future. It works with various experiship, which has been running for over 20 years and enced partner organisations in the fields of science and › Donations to flood relief The severe ﬂooding along the Danube, Elbe and Oder rivers in nantly using the money to renovate childcare centres and faciliJune 2013 caused signiﬁcant damage to private property and ties for the elderly. Affected employees who wished to play an the economy. Only some of the losses are covered by insurance active role in ﬂood defence measures were given time off work or government loans. That is why Commerzbank called on its during the period of ﬂooding. In addition, Commerzbank made employees and customers for donations. The joint appeal with €25 million available for an instant loan programme, in which the disaster relief charity Johanniter Unfallhilfe generated funds each household could borrow €10,000 without interest or reof €300,000, including donations from Commerzbank’s Board payments for the ﬁrst six months that they then repay free of of Managing Directors. A large part of this amount came from charge over a ﬁve-year period. employees and customers. Johanniter Unfallhilfe is predomi43 learning (e.g. the Dresden University of Technology of Berlin, will be bringing his expertise to bear on the and the Frankfurt School of Finance & Management) foundation’s activities in the field of academia. Petra and in culture and the arts (the German Foundation Roth, former mayor of Frankfurt and until 2011 presifor Monument Protection, the Reading Foundation dent of the German Association of Cities (Deutscher (Stiftung Lesen), the St. Thomas Choir in Leipzig and Städtetag), is responsible for the Foundation’s social selected museums). Our partners in the social sphere projects. Klaus-Peter Müller, Chairman of the Superinclude those offering famine relief, the SOS Children’s visory Board of Commerzbank, has been Chairman of Villages, the German Stroke Association and the Senthe Board of Trustees of the Commerzbank Foundation ior Experts Service. since January 2001. Martin Blessing, Chairman of the Three new members of the board of trustees Board of Managing Directors of Commerzbank, is also – Birgit Mandel, Jan-Hendrik Olbertz and Petra Roth – a member. took office on 1 January 2013. Birgit Mandel, professor of cultural management at the University of Hildesheim in Germany, will mainly be responsible for cultural issues at the Commerzbank Foundation. JanHendrik Olbertz, President of the Humboldt University Doris Schwerdtfeger, Divisional Head of Corporate Affairs and Head of the Commerzbank Foundation Centre, examines the dilemma: Is it really responsible to invest in social projects when the money is needed elsewhere? In times of strict cost management, is it really respon“Moreover,” says Schwerdtfeger, “we can’t simply sible to invest in projects that have no direct benefit behave as if certain social problems don’t concern us. for the bank? Should we not be directing all available Commerzbank is part of society and, as such, we rely resources towards strengthening the company’s profiton it to work properly.” If the bank supports sport, for ability? example, then at the same time it is also strengthening “That’s a fair question,” says Doris Schwerdtvalues such as team spirit and fairness, which are also feger, Divisional Head of Corporate Affairs and Head of valued qualities in everyday life, and not least in busithe Commerzbank Foundation Centre. “But it doesn’t ness. And employees, too, expect the company they take account of the whole picture.” Firstly, the Foundafeel a part of to make a contribution. tion’s assets are independent of the ups and downs of In this way, corporate citizenship pays dividends Commerzbank AG’s commercial success. But even when through a combination of reputational issues, longit comes to Commerzbank AG’s own corporate citizenterm economic benefit and a sense of identification ship projects, Schwerdtfeger does not see them in this among employees. “Of course, there are still many light: “It’s far more useful to ask whether these projects problems that need solving,” Schwerdtfeger concedes. are actually making a difference.” When, for example, For that reason, Commerzbank intends to focus even Commerzbank provides support for vocational training more strongly on areas where there is a real need. for socially disadvantaged young people, that is of inWhat could these be? “Access to education, for examdirect benefit to the economy and there is less strain on ple,” says Schwerdtfeger, “tackling disadvantage, not the social security system. So we can achieve a positive only in the major urban centres ...” It’s a long list. result without having to spend a lot of money. 44 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Foundation Centre Getting young people interested in classical art, such as the paintings on show in Frankfurt’s Städel Museum, is one of the many projects supported by our foundations. Since 1977, the Jürgen Ponto Foundation, which has Social foundations helping employees in need a capital endowment of €11.8 million, has focussed The initiators of Commerzbank’s six social foundations on the sponsorship of young artists in the fields of are all former executives of Commerzbank or Dresdner music, literature and the visual and performing arts. Bank who have passed away. The foundations are named The Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Foundation, after them and have been endowed with their assets. which has an endowment capital of €7.7 million, has Five of these funds support current and retired been promoting new ideas for Dresden’s cultural and employees of the bank and their immediate family › Foundation Centre www.commerzbank.com academic life since 1991. members who are in difficulties due to unavoidable cir> Our responsibility Current examples of the foundation’s sponsorcumstances such as serious illness. The purpose of the ship activities can be found on page 76 onwards as well sixth fund, the Max Grunow Foundation, is to provide as online. financial assistance to trainees at Commerzbank Berlin who find themselves in need. Over the decades, a selfhelp network has grown up on the principle of “by employees for employees”. Today it is coordinated by the Commerzbank Foundation Centre in Frankfurt. Sandra Schojohann, Commerzbank sales advisor “The best present” No one is immune to falling on hard times, which the costs were met by her health insurance comcan often come out of the blue. Such was the case pany. The Dr. h.c. Hugo Zinsser Foundation, one with Sandra Schojohann, a former Commerzbank of Commerzbank’s six social foundations, met the sales trainer. In October 2010 she was diagnosed remaining costs. “I got the approval in November with a rare form of motor neuron disease (MND), 2012 on my birthday,” says Sandra. “That was the which attacks the nervous system and leads gradbest present I could have had.” ually to the paralysis of the body’s muscles. In order to remain mobile and work from home in her current role as a sales advisor, she needed an Sandra Schojohann, Commerzbank sales advisor electric wheelchair, for which only a small part of 45 Sustainability performance in accordance with GRI The following part of the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report is › Global Reporting Initiative based on the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global www.globalreporting.org Reporting Initiative (GRI). Complementing the preceding chapters, it contains facts and ﬁgures relating to our ﬁnancial, environmental and social performance. All of the GRI performance indicators that are required to reach the highest application level (A) are included and have been arranged by subject. The GRI has conﬁrmed this reporting level in a statement (page 85). The GRI index (pages 80 to 83) indicates which parts of the report (preceding magazine section and this performance section) relate to the GRI performance indicators and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Strategy and programme Strategy and programme Over the past few years, we have created structures guiding principles: we want our corporate responsibiland cross-functional management processes to enable ity to be upheld in every area of the bank and at every us to implement sustainability as one of the bank’s level of our business operations. CR milestones 1989 – 2004 2005 – 2008 2009 –2011 1989 › First initiative: ”Women in modern 2005 › Establishment of the Reputation 2009 › Commerzbank climate strategy banking” and Sustainability Management adopted with a target of reducing department CO2 by 30 percent between 2007 1990 › Adoption of a Group Mission Stateand 2011 ment containing a commitment to › Publication of the first Corporate socially responsible and environmenResponsibility Report › Certification of the Environmental Management System in accordance tally compatible progress › ”Kids & Co.” childcare centre opened with ISO 14001 › First major German bank to appoint an environmental officer › ”Commerzbank in dialogue” events 2006 › United Nations Global Compact launched › Launch of the Commerzbank environsigned mental internship in partnership with › Emissions trading integrated into the German National Parks Associa2007 › Founder member of the ”Finance the range of products and services forum: climate change” initiated by offered by Commerzbank tion the German Ministry of Education 1992 › Commerzbank becomes a founder and Research (BMBF) 2009 – › Establishment of a customer advisory member of the UNEP Finance Initia2010 council and appointment of a cus› Introduction of a code of conduct for tomer advocate tive all employees at Commerzbank 1996 › Publication of the first Environmental › Start of forums between banks and 2010 › Group Environmental Committee Balance Sheet Report NGOs on topics such as woodpulp/ established forestry, sustainable funding deci1997 › The bank moves into the world’s first 2010 – › Start of the Board of Managing sions, biofuels and nuclear energy 2011 Directors ”Women in management ”green” skyscraper (based on a positions” project; joint declaration design by Lord Foster) 2008 › Electricity supply to Commerzbank head office entirely converted to cerby DAX 30 companies committing 1999 › ”Kids & Co.” emergency childcare tified green energy from the region to the advancement of women service for employees established managers › ”Diversity Charter” signed 2000 › Beginning of Commerzbank’s › Development of guidelines and 2011 › First carbon-neutral Annual General commitment to microfinance banks Meeting held policy papers, e.g. on human rights, in south-east Europe armaments deals, conflict zones, › Launch of a sustainability portfolio › Initiative for the promotion of volunfossil fuels, power generation, for private investors and structured tary work in sport established indigenous peoples, agriculture and sustainability screening for all equiforestry, palm oil, mining and toxic ties recommended by Commerzbank 2001 › Center of Competence Renewable substances Energies (CoC RE) established 2002 › Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for the first time 2004 › Involvement in the development of a code of conduct for debtor countries and investors in order to avoid crises in emerging markets 47 Strategy We want to nurture the sustainable development of we want to use everything at our disposal to minimise our bank and the environment in which we operate. And the risk for our business and reputation while, at the we do so by setting up efficient management systems, same time, seizing opportunities to equip ourselves for offering sustainable products and services, raising emthe future. ployees’ awareness and establishing close ties between As a key player in economic development both Commerzbank and society. To ensure we take a sysin Germany and internationally, we can influence how tematic approach in these areas, we have defined five economic processes are structured. Our involvement in spheres of action. They constitute our key challenges certain forms of interaction in the financial sector and but also provide a framework for how we respond to in the real economy depends, to a significant extent, on these challenges. We have examined the risks and opwhether they are tolerated by society. portunities in each of the five spheres of action because Governance In the governance sphere, particularly as far as Reputational Risk Management is concerned, › Governance we closely follow discussions on such matters as agricultural commodities, human rights www.nachhaltigkeit. and armaments deals. Building on those discussions and taking account of the different commerzbank.de points of view, we then decide on our own position and define the limits and conditions of > Governance our business activities accordingly (cf. page 10 onwards). › Market and customers www.nachhaltigkeit. commerzbank.de > Market and customers Market and customers The growing importance of sustainability also presents opportunities for us as a bank: the › Environment shift in German energy policy and reduction in CO2 emissions call for new technologies and www.nachhaltigkeit. products that entail substantial capital investment. Moreover, interest in sustainable forms commerzbank.de of investment is growing among private and, above all, institutional customers. In the market > Environment and customers sphere, we are developing products and services that take the change in › Employees demand for finance and new opportunities for returns into account, e.g. finance for companies www.nachhaltigkeit. and projects at every stage of the renewable energies value chain (cf. page 20 onwards). commerzbank.de > Employees › Society www.nachhaltigkeit. Environment Energy efficiency is also a relevant cost factor when it comes to the running of Commerzbank. commerzbank.de In the environment sphere, we constantly look for ways of reducing energy consumption > Society even further. Our climate strategy includes ambitious targets for reducing our carbon footprint, which we intend to achieve by consuming less energy and offsetting unavoidable CO2 emissions (cf. page 16 onwards). Employees In the employees sphere, we examine the impact of demographic change, such as the increasing average age of the workforce and the resulting need for lifelong learning. We constantly work on solutions relating to health management, diversity and continuing professional development (cf. page 30 onwards). Society We also see sustainability and corporate responsibility as an opportunity for us to have a positive social impact. After all, our trainees, employees and customers are all part of the society to which we belong. That is why we contribute to the common good in all kinds of ways in the society sphere, for example through educational, sports and corporate volunteering activities (cf. page 38 onwards). 48 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Materiality analysis Our five spheres of action involve a wide range of susThe issues that were of equally high importance to us tainability issues whose importance to Commerzbank and our stakeholders in 2012 mainly related to the varies – for different reasons, including how they are market and customers sphere of action, for example viewed by society. We reviewed the relevance of these customer satisfaction and consumer protection. By conissues for our stakeholders and the bank again in 2012. trast, environmental issues were less significant because The results were aggregated to form a materiality our banking operations have a comparatively low impact matrix. This matrix plays a substantial role in the on the environment. advancement of our corporate responsibility strategy. Commerzbank’s 2012 materiality matrix Very high Customer satisfaction J Remuneration J Reputational Risk Management J J Consumer protection J Job losses Sustainable products (and also investments and services) J J Compliance J Governance Energy and greenhouse gas emissions J Diversity and equal opportunities Data protection J J Relevance for stakeholders J Business travel Employee satisfaction J Corporate citizenship J J Talent Management Protection of human rights and the environment by suppliers J J Contribution to the political process J Demographic change J Consumption of materials J Participation J Health Management J Water consumption and sewage Ozone depletion and air pollution J J Impact on biodiversity Very high Relevance for the bank 49 CR programme Our CR programme sets out our objectives and action a more extensive, overarching CR strategy, following on steps for improving our contribution to sustainable from the reorganisation of sustainability management development. It provides information about the status in 2012 and the update to the materiality analysis. The of ongoing action and lists any new objectives. CR programme now only includes our main objectives The reworking of our CR programme and conand no longer involves individual activities that are solidation of our activities within the five spheres of already covered by regular processes outside the CR action represented major steps towards implementing strategy. Objective Action Deadline Status Governance Enhance the Analysis of the bank’s sustainDecember › Update the materiality matrix company-wide ability management as a basis 2012 › Revise the CR programme in order to manage the CR strategy CR strategy for the strategy during the reporting period Implementation and extension Ongoing › Process 2,600 queries in 2012 of the Reputational Risk Manage› Continue to produce a quarterly reputational risk newsletter aimed ment concept at increasing employee awareness › New exchange-traded investment products based on food staples have not been issued since November 2011 › Since August 2012: assurance that third-party securities products in private customer business also no longer include staple foods Systematise and Organise ”political breakfast” Ongoing › Four ”Commerzbank in dialogue” events held in 2012 on topics intensify stakeholder and ”Commerzbank in dialogue” such as consumer protection and the shift in German energy policy dialogue events at the liaison ofﬁces in › Nine ”political breakfast” events held in 2012 Berlin and Brussels Strengthen the Implementation of a cross-organiEnd of 2013 › Analyse the regulatory requirements compliance culture sational function to coordinate, › Prepare for implementation, using the processes and structures facilitate and report on compliance already in place with the main legal requirements Strengthen groupCompliance with Ongoing › Implement the ”Guideline on Sanctions Due Diligence for Docuwide compliance sanctions/embargoes mentary and Guarantee Business” globally, focusing on documentary measures business › Carry out benchmarking of the systems for transaction monitoring in cooperation with SWIFT Prevention of money laundering Ongoing › Strengthen customers’ duties of care › Introduce a new system to screen existing customers for new negative information › Collect data about the beneficial owner for existing customers (requirement of the German Act on Optimising the Prevention of Money Laundering, GwOptG) Fraud prevention Ongoing › Incorporate the revised Anti-Fraud Policy into the Global Compliance Manual as part of the 2013 update › Start the next two-year wave of training for 46,000 employees › Implement the minimum absence requirement for all employees and managers in mid-2013 (cf. page 56) Securities compliance and Ongoing Advise and support business units on implementing the Investor investor protection Protection and Capital Markets Improvement Act (AnsFuG): › Registration of the approx. 12,000 Commerzbank investment advisors › Establishment of processes for showing customer complaints related to the German Securities Trading Act (WpHG) brought in connection with advice 50 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Objective Action Deadline Status Market and customers Increase the focus of Range of new sustainable Ongoing › Bespoke asset management based on sustainable investments core business on and innovative products and has been available to private and corporate customers since customer needs and services mid-2013 sustainability › A sustainability-oriented, open-ended special real estate fund ”Catella Multitenant Stiftungsfonds” has been available to institutional customers since mid-2013 Continuation and intensiﬁcation Ongoing › New members and focus for the customer advisory council, strengthof cooperation with the customer ening of dialogue with specialist managers, involvement in the early advisory council stages of the development of products and services › Work with the customer advisory council on the new strategy for private customers, develop further measures to improve the quality of advice Transformation of sales 2012 › Make customer satisfaction a key performance indicator in sales management in the Private › Implement a customer-focused advisory process (use of the Customer Customers segment Compass in advisory meetings) › Extend the advice provided to cover products from third-party providers, e.g. in home finance Regular dialogue with SMEs at Ongoing › Twelfth UnternehmerPerspektiven study ”Good Debts, Bad Debts: UnternehmerPerspektiven events Entrepreneurship in Uncertain Times” with 18 main branch events as well as with economics experts and around 35 regional dialogue events and representatives from trade › The results of the 13th study ”New Markets, New Opportunities – associations, academic institutions Internationalisation as a Driver of Growth” were presented in April and politics 2013, accompanied by 18 main branch events and 35 regional dialogue events as well as an event in Zurich Emissions trading – continuation Ongoing › Maintain position as one of the leading players in the trading of of the bank’s pioneering role in European emissions permits actively managing carbon risks on › Respond to increased demand from customers for advice behalf of its customers Expansion of corporate and Ongoing › Adjust the original objective of doubling the portfolio by 2012 on the project ﬁnance along the whole basis of a modified business model (”originate and manage”). The of the renewable energies value objective is now long-term, sustainable growth. In 2012, the volume chain of the CoC RE’s credit portfolio was approx. €5.1 billion › 18 loans with a total volume of almost €28 million as part of SolarLight in 2012 Environment Systematically Consolidation of the existing Ongoing Successful renewal of the Environmental Management System’s expand environmental environmental management certiﬁcation in accordance with ISO 14001 in 2013 protection activities system in line with the latest standards Provision of information and Ongoing Raise awareness about economical and eco-friendly paper consumption action to increase awareness among employees; communication on environmental topics Extend the implemenCO2 reduction of 70 percent 2020 Formulation of a new climate target by the Group Environmental tation of the groupby 2020 (from base year 2007) Committee because the old climate target (CO2 reduction of 30 percent wide climate strategy between 2007 and 2011) was reached earlier than planned Supply of green electricity to the End of 2012 Obtain certiﬁcates of origin for green electricity generated from whole of Commerzbank hydropower at all premises in Germany by 2015 Offset for unavoidable carbon Ongoing 2012 Annual General Meeting was made climate-neutral emissions 51 Objective Action Deadline Status Environment (continued) Communication and dialogue Ongoing Hold an event on the environment and sustainability ratings at on climate protection Commerzbank’s head ofﬁce for members of the environment and sustainability network of the Rhine-Main environment forum (UFO) and interested guests Use energy-efﬁcient Increased use of particularly Ongoing As part of LEED certiﬁcation, check the energy efﬁciency of electronic technology in energy-efﬁcient technology equipment purchased and make improvements as required operations and Increased energy efﬁciency in Ongoing › Reduce average fuel consumption to 5.5 litres/100km (according to transport business transactions, including data from the manufacturers) vehicle policy based on energy › Launch of the car-pooling scheme in mid-2013, which was efﬁciency for company cars and developed in cooperation with students from Darmstadt Technical pool cars University Expansion of supply More stringent requirements Ongoing Preferred use of eco-friendly hotels for business trips since 2013 and demand for enviand controls on the standards ronmentally friendly for sustainable procurement products in the bank Employees Implement the new Implementation of reduction 2016 Reach agreement with employee representatives on reducing strategy in a socially in employee numbers without headcount under the new strategy responsible manner compulsory redundancies; interim targets to be achieved by 2016 Continuously improve Closer alignment of continuing Ongoing › Launch of the Commerzbank Academy in July 2013, which brings Talent Management professional development together all inhouse skills training and CPD activities activities with employees’ needs › Implement a specialist career path (Commerzbank expert programme, CEP) alongside the project-based and managerial career paths Expand collaborative Ongoing Expand 34 university liaison programmes, including six at European activities with universities universities outside Germany, with a stronger focus on disciplines to facilitate contact with that do not appear directly relevant to banking young talent, especially in view of demographic change Increase the range Information for female Ongoing Continue bank-wide programmes such as Keep in Touch, of opportunities for employees on maternity leave Guaranteed Return after Parental Leave and Management Experience improving work-life and for any employees opting balance for part-time work under parental leave regulations Create a multi-faceted Expansion of the commitment Ongoing › Set up a global diversity council and six regional diversity councils corporate culture by to diversity and ongoing support › Establish a women’s network at various sites outside Germany fostering the diversity for diversity networks (London, New York, Singapore, Prague) of the workforce › Host the Max Spohr Award with IBM to promote equal opportunities for gay and lesbian employees › Achieve 70 percent participation in diversity training (from the Board of Managing Directors to the fourth management level) Support for professional 2015 › Comply with the plan for recruitment quotas by 2015 women with segment-speciﬁc › Launch of a broad-based mentoring programme involving approx. targets by 2015 550 mentees Target: 30 percent of 2015 › Arrange career days and “business lounges” at which women can management positions discuss career opportunities with senior management to be held by women › Organise dialogue events on women and careers at the bank for all (voluntary commitment segments and with different formats by the DAX 30 companies) 52 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Objective Action Deadline Status Employees (continued) Promote and Close dialogue between the Ongoing › Close dialogue between the bank and the Employee Council on Health maintain the health bank and employees with regard › Give a presentation on health management at the bank at events for of employees to health issues managers Expansion of the range of services Ongoing › Extend the range of seminar topics offered as part of a fully integrated › Take greater account of regional requirements in health management health management system at the bank (lectures, introductory events, seminars etc.) › Continue to offer inhouse sports and the ComGames › Obtain certification for health management at the bank Support employees Introduction of new care April 2013 Implemented; to be expanded throughout Germany if feedback who provide care for modules at head ofﬁce is positive family members Ascertain what Regular and systematic employee Ongoing Survey held in spring 2013 as scheduled (participation rate: employees think are surveys, use of results to make 68 percent) the strengths and improvements weaknesses and draw up improvement measures Society Fulﬁl corporate social Commerzbank environmental Ongoing › The Commerzbank environmental internship was presented at responsibility, above internship offered to 50 or so Schloss Bellevue to mark Environment Week in 2012 all in the areas of edustudents each year in a German › Improve the internship by entering into new partnerships with the cation and sport national park, biosphere reserve Universities of Flensburg and Freiburg as well as the German Sport or nature reserve University Cologne Promotion of general ﬁnancial Ongoing 33 Commerzbank employees volunteer as school mentors as part of education in society the Business@school initiative Continued support for sports as a Ongoing › Support for the DFB Junior Coach project since April 2013 premium partner of the German › Support for young talent in competitive sports in cooperation with Football Association (DFB) and a the DOSB as part of the “green ribbon” project, which has been partner of the German Olympic supporting clubs that demonstrate excellence in nurturing young Sports Confederation (DOSB) talent since 1986 Corporate citizenship focused on Ongoing › A dedicated mentoring programme for helping young people make equality of access to education the transition from school to work (Commerzbank education mentors) was initiated in mid-2013; Launch of pilot phase involving 40 education mentors in Hessen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Hamburg and Berlin › Collaborate with the Joblinge programme and the START foundation › Offer career guidance, training on how to apply for jobs, work experience and traineeships Donations following disasters Ongoing › An appeal for flood victims in Germany collected a total of approx. €300,000, including donations from employees and customers › A special loan programme with a volume of €25 million was launched in June 2013 for those affected by flooding Expand the Establishment of a central Ongoing The employee volunteering portal was launched on the intranet corporate platform for employees wishing in May 2013 volunteering to volunteer programmes Involvement in the Malteser Ongoing 430 employees at 17 sites took part in 34 projects as part of the 2012 Social Day across Germany Malteser Social Day. This was the ﬁrst time that Commerzbank employees had got involved in this event organised by the Malteser medical aid charity. The 2013 Malteser Social Day involved 500 employees at 18 sites and 46 projects 53 Governance Commerzbank’s efforts to make its business operations › The Reputational Risk Management department sustainable go beyond simply complying with applicable analyses transactions and products, above all to check laws and external regulations. It has also made volunwhether they are compatible with our sustainability tary commitments, such as to the UN Global Compact, principles. It also works closely with the bank’s traand introduced various internal policies that provide ditional risk management functions and liaises with the bank’s employees with clear guidance on how to connon-governmental organisations on relevant issues. duct themselves. These guidelines relate to the management of not only the bank’s economic performance › The Foundation Centre coordinates the activities of but also its non-ﬁnancial performance. The main guideCommerzbank’s various foundations: Commerzbank lines are: Foundation, Jürgen Ponto Foundation, Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Foundation and six social founda› ComWerte, tions. › Corporate culture › Business Conduct Guidelines, www.nachhaltigkeit. commerzbank.de › Corporate Responsibility Guidelines, To prevent fraud, we have created a “central ofﬁce for > Employees › Policies and positioning on sustainability-relevant the prevention of miscellaneous criminal activity” as › Compliance issues, part of compliance management. Another new body, the www.commerzbank.com > Group › Commerzbank environmental guidelines, bank’s internal anti-fraud network, develops and im› CR strategy and management › Procurement guidelines, which include ethical plements measures to prevent the risk of fraud caused www.nachhaltigkeit. guidelines. by fraudulent activity. It also helps to identify fraudulent commerzbank.de activity, responding in an effective and coordinated > Governance Our aim is to embed sustainability and compliance in manner to any economic crime discovered. › Environmental policy Commerzbank’s culture and in the actions of all employwww.nachhaltigkeit. commerzbank.de ees. Moreover, we expect responsible, sustainable Reputational Risk Management > Environment behaviour from our business partners. We will not Criteria relating to sustainability and integrity are inteenter into or continue any business relationship that gral elements of our risk management. The managedoes not comply with applicable laws. ment of reputational risk throughout the group ensures that environmental, ethical and social concerns are Organisational changes factored into the business activities of Commerzbank To achieve these aims, the corporate responsibility (cf. page 12 onwards). functions at Commerzbank were reorganised with Reputational Risk Management is a department effect from 1 January 2013. They are managed by within Group Communications and is therefore the reGroup Communications. sponsibility of the Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors. It forms part of our overall risk strategy and › The Corporate Responsibility department is reis subject to standard internal and external checks, sponsible for the coordination and strategic focus of such as those conducted by the internal audit function the bank’s economic, environmental and social susand regulators. The reputational risks identiﬁed and tainability performance. It is also in charge of cordealt with by the department are included in a quarterly porate citizenship activities. The department mainreport on non-quantiﬁable risk to the Supervisory tains a dialogue with stakeholders and is responsible Board’s Risk Committee. for internal and external communications on corporate responsibility. 54 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index Organisational structure of corporate responsibility at Commerzbank CEO Group Environmental Committee (headed by the COO) Responsibility of the Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors Joint approval of CR-relevant targets Group Communications Corporate Reputational Liaison ofﬁces in Foundation Centre Media Relations ... and others Responsibility Risk Management Berlin and Brussels Close cooperation Ongoing dialogue with all group units relevant to sustainability Audit Center of CompliCorporates Human Investor Legal MittelPrivate Risk Environ... and Compeance & Markets Resources Relations standsCustomers Managemental others tence bank/ ment ManageRenewable Financial ment Energies Institutions In 2012, we thoroughly examined around 2,600 indiThe techniques used to extract natural resources come vidual transactions and products to ascertain whether under especially close scrutiny. Given the debate on the they were compatible with existing sustainability princarbon footprint of the extraction of oil from tar sand ciples, including those relating to human rights. On avand the contentious issues surrounding similar erage, approximately 10 percent of incoming enquiries processes for extracting oil and gas, Reputational Risk are rated negatively, the consequences of which may exManagement has decided to avoid all ﬁnancial transtend as far as rejection of the transaction or even teractions connected with such techniques. mination of the business relationship. This is the case for transactions linked to nuclear power stations or Compliance controversial weapons, for example. Commerzbank’s business activities are rooted in the conﬁdence of customers, shareholders and business Climate change risks partners that all employees will act in a proper and We intensively analyse and carefully assess loans and legally compliant manner. Among other tasks, the combusiness relationships where aspects of climate change pliance management function focuses on preventing, play a signiﬁcant role. This can also lead to the transidentifying and tackling economic crime, in particular action in question being rejected. corruption. We analyse funding for CO2-intensive types of energy particularly carefully. In the case of fossil fuels Detailed risk analysis (crude oil, natural gas, coal), Reputational Risk ManagePotential compliance risks are assessed and mitigated ment undertakes a range of investigations including on the basis of a risk analysis. It is conducted once a how a company operates its oil and gas ﬁelds or coal year for the entire group, covering all group companies, mines and whether it treats high conservation value branch ofﬁces and other afﬁliated or dependent comareas and UNESCO World Heritage sites appropriately. panies in Germany and abroad that are considered to be 55 compliance-relevant. The analysis also encompasses Minimum absences as a protective measure fraud risk – particularly corruption – and evaluates the Another effective way of strengthening internal control segments’ activities to monitor such risk. In 2012, 62 of and protective measures is to ensure that staff are abthe bank’s units were included in the risk analysis. sent from the workplace for a minimum of ten consecThe bank regularly reviews the preventive meautive working days per year. This rule was tightened in sures derived from the risk analysis and supplements 2013 and is now applicable to all employees and manthem if necessary. This review also takes account of agers. Technical restrictions are in place in trading and information obtained in the course of regular dialogue trading-related units to ensure that employees cannot with other companies and experts. Commerzbank analyaccess banking systems or use the bank’s technical ses identiﬁed and suspected cases in order to improve equipment during their absence. its preventive measures and to rule out the possibility of future risk – particularly corruption risk – as far as Penalties possible. In the 2012 reporting year, we did not become aware of any material penalties or ﬁnes incurred by CommerzZero-tolerance approach bank. Nor were any material ﬁnes imposed on CommerzCommerzbank explicitly does not tolerate corruption or bank in connection with the provision and use of other criminal acts carried out by employees. We take Commerzbank products and services or as a result of a zero-tolerance approach to any crimes that are disnon-compliance with environmental laws. covered. Any employee who is found guilty of such offences must bear the consequences under criminal, Data protection employment and civil law. The Head of Division, Group Security simultaneously Because it is committed to being a fair player in holds the position of data protection ofﬁcer at Commerzthe marketplace and to ﬁghting corruption, Commerzbank. The employees in the Data Protection department, bank observes the OECD Guidelines on Multinational which is the responsibility of the data protection ofﬁcer, Enterprises. It has also signed up to the ten principles monitor compliance with all data protection requireof the UN Global Compact (which include ﬁghting corments, guidelines and procedures. The bank ensures ruption) and to the principles of Transparency Interthat personal data and customer data is protected by national. technical and organisational measures in accordance with the law. In addition to controls on physical access Comprehensive training to data centres, the protection measures include: The programme of compliance training that all employees have to complete every two years is one of the › access controlled by passwords, authorisation syscornerstones of fraud prevention. The web-based traintems and other mechanisms, ing (WBT) draws employees’ attention to compliance is› restrictions on the forwarding of data, for example by sues and raises their risk awareness. Corruption has encryption of transmission channels, been one of the main topics covered by the programme › checks on data entry by the logging of access to since 2010. The target groups for training are derived data, from the job descriptions in the different units. More › checks on contracts by the monitoring and control of than 46,000 Commerzbank employees regularly receive outsourcing contractors, such training. › availability controls based on business continuity management (BCM) measures, › separation controls achieved through separate storage of databases used for different purposes. 56 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index In 2012, 178 complaints were received regarding the Board. Shareholders can have a say in the matters disprotection of customer data. In most cases, the comcussed at the Annual General Meeting by submitting plaint was that the data had fallen into the hands of an counter-motions or supplementary motions for the unauthorised third party. Of the complaints received, agenda. An extraordinary general meeting may also be around 85 percent were considered to be justified. convened at the request of shareholders. 4 percent were made by regulatory authorities directly Commerzbank staff have a substantial right of or at the behest of customers. Some of those cases were codetermination as far as the composition of the also due to customer data being obtained by unauthoSupervisory Board is concerned: half of its members are rised third parties. Other reasons were incorrect inforelected by employees. A Conciliation Committee has mation about reversals of direct debits, allegedly unbeen formed in accordance with section 27 (3) of the necessary collection of data and enquiries about logging German Codetermination Act, but it did not need to hold of online banking transactions. any meetings in 2012. One of Commerzbank’s key objectives in the future will be to continue to ensure that customer data are protected, both in Germany and abroad. We have recently stepped up the training that we provide on data protection. One of the most important initiatives is a training course on data protection practices, which is run by the Commerzbank Academy. Business partners Commerzbank also expects its business partners to be honest and to comply with the law. It therefore includes integrity clauses in its agreements with suppliers, service providers and other contractual parties that oblige them to prevent corruption and report any instances of corruption that they identify. Breaches of these integrity clauses are always followed up and may lead to immediate termination of the contract. Opportunities to exert influence Commerzbank’s shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders are able to submit criticism and recommendations to the Board of Managing Directors at any time. The bank’s quality management unit has primary responsibility for dealing with any written submissions from customers. Shareholders may put forward their opinions and questions for the Annual General Meeting by letter or email, or may present them in person. Comments and responses are given directly by the Board of Managing Directors or Supervisory 57 Market and customers In the interest of creating a sustainable operating polProduct usage: private customers icy, Commerzbank attaches great importance to customer satisfaction and long-term customer loyalty. We 2012, % aim to act as a fair and professional partner to our customers. In order to understand their needs and interests, Finance 10 we conduct regular customer surveys. These form the Payments basis for product improvements, which are often carried processing 43 out in consultation with representatives from our customer advisory council. Investment business 18 We take into account sustainability issues both in the analysis of financial risks and in the choice of Deposits 62 investment products. The range of sustainable products and services will be further expanded in the future. We Pensions 12 help our private and corporate customers to invest in renewable energies and make meaningful use of them. In the interest of our customers and to facilitate long-term planning, we regularly hold discussions with Product usage: wealth management national and international regulators, supervisory authorities and decision-makers in the political arena so 2012, % we can work towards clarity and consistency in the regulation of products and services. Finance 15 Payments Customer structure processing 76 Commerzbank has one of the most extensive branch networks of any private bank in Germany. Our approxInvestment business 43 imately eleven million customers are served by 10,000 advisors in 1,200 branches. In our Private Customers Deposits 47 segment, high-net-worth individuals and small enterprises are treated as business customers. The MittelPensions 8 standsbank segment particularly includes SMEs with annual revenue between €2.5 million and €500 million and major enterprises with annual revenue of more than €500 million. The bulk of our volume of lending to Product usage: business customers customers in our German SME and corporate customers & international divisions is posted in Germany. 2012, % The rest is primarily attributable to western Europe as well as Asia and eastern Europe. Finance 21 Payments processing 64 Investment business 10 Deposits 36 Pensions 9 58 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index Breakdown of Mittelstandsbank product and service portfolio credit insurer as part of the process for issuing the by size of customer guarantee. In Germany, the checks are carried out by a consortium comprising Euler Hermes and PricewaterhouseCoopers AG. 2012, % Finance Sustainability products in the Private Customers 71 29 segment Payments Since 2004, Commerzbank has offered an independent processing 73 27 and objective choice of funds. On the basis of scientifInvestment ically based key indicators, we evaluate funds registered business 74 26 in Germany and select for our customers fund managers International with above-average results. In addition, our capital business 56 44 markets experts carry out ongoing targeted market Risk monitoring. In 2011, we incorporated a comprehensive management 66 34 sustainability check into our investment advice process. SMEs In order to be accepted into the Commerzbank susMajor enterprises tainability portfolio, shares have to go through a threestage selection process (cf. page 15). For our wealth management customers, we will undertake at their Sustainability in lending and in project and export request a comprehensive tailored risk analysis of their finance securities account. The quantitative assessment inA decisive factor for Commerzbank’s lending is and cludes a risk overview and the volatility range of the always will be the ability to repay. In line with our sussecurities. The qualitative assessment includes the istainable operating policy, our corporate customers’ suer risk and interest-rate risk. This analysis of the prospects for delivering a sustainable business perportfolio’s strengths and weaknesses means we can formance will be factored into their credit rating in then make recommendations backed up by facts. future. These prospects will be evaluated using their Commerzbank offers its customers the opporforecasts and the outlook for their sector as a whole. tunity to invest in solar energy companies. This inAround 90 percent of our cash-flow-oriented cludes the CFB 179 – Solar-Deutschlandportfolio 4 project finance and structured finance is transacted in fund, which invests in the Düsseldorf-based HAJOLUCA Europe. In these cases we carry out due diligence to Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Solarkraftwerke ensure that national environmental regulations are obKG. For the year under review (2012), the placement served. We commission external experts to provide an volume was around €7.9 million. This equates to about opinion on the possible environmental risks. Only in ex17.4 percent of the entire product class (€45.1 million). ceptional cases does Commerzbank finance projects Commerzbank also offers a range of other susin developing countries. If we do finance such projects, tainable investment funds. Products include: we work with either supranational bodies such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) or national ex› Sarasin OekoSar Equity – Global, port credit insurance agencies. Therefore, the standards › Pioneer Funds Global Ecology, applied by the supranational institutions or national › Pictet Water. export credit insurance agencies (OECD Common Approaches) automatically apply. Sustainability considerations also have a bearing on When it comes to processing export payments other finance products aimed at our private customers. and letters of credit for exports, Commerzbank is one Commerzbank’s home loans savings business, for exof the leading institutions in the eurozone. For the example, totalled €1.98 billion in 2012, while personal port of durable capital goods, the Mittelstandsbank pension products and insurance against risk have insegment supports its customers, who are predomicreased in significance in recent years. Riester pension nantly based in Germany and other European countries, products and the home-based Wohn-Riester product, by offering loans or credits linked to the delivery of the which allows the customer to include their own home goods. They are largely secured by guarantees provided in the state-backed government pension plan, are inby the exporting countries. In its assessment of the tended to help people avoid poverty in their old age. environmental relevance of transactions, the bank relies Riester savings products at Commerzbank are currently on the checks conducted in all cases by the national worth a total of around €400 million. The total volume 59 of agreements signed in 2012 was €160 million. use of proven technology and partnerships with exCommerzbank’s provision scheme also includes inperienced experts. As part of SolarLight, Commerzbank capacity, care and life insurance. In the area of pension offers up to 17 years’ financing and includes, where posprovision, Commerzbank offers products with an ensible, loans from Germany’s KfW Development Bank on vironmental focus, such as fund-linked insurance prodfavourable terms. In total, 52 loans with a total volume ucts like Allianz RCM Global Sustainability and Allianz of €57 million have been approved since the product Global Ecotrends. was introduced in October 2010. In 2012 alone, 18 loans with a total volume of almost €28 million were Financing renewable energies arranged. At the end of 2012, the annual CO2 saving Commerzbank’s Center of Competence Renewable across all projects that had received funding from Energies (CoC RE) makes it one of the world’s largest SolarLight was around 24,634 tonnes. providers of finance for renewable energies (cf. page For private and corporate customers, Commerz27 onwards). In 2012, the CoC RE’s credit portfolio bank offers financing as part of various environmental amounted to around €5.1 billion, of which €3.6 billion and energy saving programmes. Where applicable, we was in the form of project finance and €1.5 billion in the may, in partnership with public-sector development form of company finance. Broken down by technology, banks, finance photovoltaic installations or assist with 66 percent of project financing went to wind energy the purchase of low-emission commercial vehicles. (61 percent onshore and 5 percent offshore), 29 percent Commerzbank offers institutional investors such as to solar energy and the remaining 5 percent to bioinsurers and pension funds the opportunity to take on energy, hydropower and other technologies. part of its portfolio in the form of a green loan fund In total, the wind, solar and bio-energy facilities (cf. page 27). financed by Commerzbank save 10,170,384 tonnes of CO2 emissions every year. This equates to approxiEmissions trading mately 10 percent of all CO2 emissions saved in As one of the leading players in the European emissions Germany in 2012 by the use of green power. trading market, Commerzbank offers its customers a Generating power from photovoltaic installaprofessional service for managing CO2 risk. In Septemtions, especially for their own consumption, is becomber 2011, working with the airberlin airline, we coning an increasingly attractive option for SMEs. cluded the first ever deal for emissions rights for EuroCommerzbank’s SolarLight product provides a streampean air travel. The deal with European Union Aviation lined, standardised process for funding installations Allowances (AEUAs) was an important milestone in the from a volume of €250,000 upwards. Schemes are apdevelopment of the EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (EU proved quickly and processed efficiently thanks to the ETS). European emissions trading is still the world’s largest emissions market, despite the fact that in the CoC RE portfolio overview by market past two years the price per tonne of CO2 has fallen from €20 to €4. % 2010 2011 2012 Germany 65 65 61 Customer satisfaction Europe (excl. Germany) 22 22 25 We measure customer satisfaction among our private North America 3 3 5 customers with the Net Promoter Score (NPS), an inRest of world 10 10 9 ternationally recognised standard. Every month, around 14,000 customers are asked in a short teleCoC RE portfolio overview by technology phone interview whether they would recommend their Commerzbank branch to others. In 2012, our NPS % 2010 2011 2012 rose by 33 percentage points. Solar 19 26 29 In the Private Customers segment, a new adWind 73 68 66 vice procedure, rigorously focused on customer needs, of which offshore 0 3 5 was introduced in 2012. The IT-supported Customer of which onshore 73 65 61 Compass guarantees consistent, structured and comOther 8 6 5 prehensive advice in every Commerzbank branch (cf. 60 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index page 22 onwards). By the end of 2012, it had been used Anlageberatung guides our advisors through customer in more than 750,000 customer meetings. Our private meetings. This computer application produces a record customer advisors had received two to three days’ trainof the advice provided and sends it to the customer ing on how to use the Customer Compass beforehand. along with all the relevant product information. During In November 2012, we also introduced a satisfaction the meeting, the customer can follow all of the steps in guarantee for new current accounts (cf. page 23 onthe advisory process on the computer screen. wards). The new German Investor Protection and Capital A telephone survey of customers in the MittelMarkets Improvement Act (AnsFuG) requires proof of standsbank segment is conducted at least once a year subject knowledge for all employees involved in proto gauge satisfaction with Commerzbank and its prodviding investment advice. At the end of 2012, over ucts and services. The most recent customer survey 94 percent of our advisors in the Private Customers took place at the end of 2012 and canvassed almost segment had the necessary training and professional 7,000 companies (cf. page 25). experience. Around 100 employees went on additional In order to underline its importance for training courses. In line with regulations, all CommerzCommerzbank, customer satisfaction will in future be bank advisors were registered with the Federal Finana factor in the variable pay for all sales staff working in cial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) by 1 November 2012. the Private Customers segment (cf. pages 24 and 35). Advice for foundations and churches Customer complaints Commerzbank’s foundation management unit currently Protecting our customers’ financial security is one of provides a service to some 300 independent and affiliCommerzbank’s principal concerns. Commerzbank was ated charitable foundations. A wholly-owned subsidiary one of the first banks to appoint a customer advocate, of the bank, CommerzStiftungsTreuhand GmbH, funcwhose job is to protect the customer’s interests and tions as the sponsor for the affiliated foundations. In mediate between both sides for any particularly comaddition to supporting day-to-day operations and proplex complaints that require further resolution (cf. page posing portfolio investments that are suitable for a 25). In especially difficult cases, the advocate will seek foundation, Commerzbank provides comprehensive the advice of the arbitration council, a group of cusadvice on the setting up of new foundations. Adhering tomer representatives who also belong to the customer strictly to their objectives and internal investment guideadvisory council. In the period under review the cuslines, the bank also advises churches and church-run tomer advocate dealt with over 600 cases. institutions, for example, with regard to its sustainOn the expiry of the customer advisory council’s ability-oriented products (cf. page 27). first term, which occurred during the year under review, we revised its membership and remit (cf. page 25). Its Best of European Business award 25 unsalaried members advise the management team In March 2012 Commerzbank won the Best of European in the Private Customers segment and help to develop Business (BEB) award for its successful and sustainable and improve products, services and processes. business strategy in Africa. The award, which was The number of customer concerns and comhanded out by international strategy consultancy Roland plaints in the Private Customers segment fell by 40 perBerger for the seventh time, goes to German companies cent in 2012. that implement innovative business models in Africa, are committed to sustainability, and work in partnership Product responsibility with African economies. Commerzbank provides its customers with full and accurate information regarding the upside and downside of financial products. Our marketing material makes all the relevant information available in plain, easy-to-understand language. We also keep a record of our advisors’ meetings with customers. In addition to the Customer Compass (cf. page 22 onwards), specialist software called EVA61 Environment Since 2008 Commerzbank has been using an environbank can have a direct impact on the environment. Our mental management system that is ISO 14001-certiprimary objective is to reduce CO2 emissions as part of fied. The current focus of our efforts in this area is the our overall climate strategy. This encompasses the folreduction of energy consumption in our buildings and lowing four areas: business travel. At 61 percent and 31 percent respectively, they account for the vast majority of our green› environmental management in the bank; house gases (carbon footprint). › offsetting of unavoidable CO2 emissions; Environmental initiatives in our banking busi› environmentally responsible products and services; ness concentrate on the financing of companies and › communication on climate protection. projects concerned with the expansion of renewable energies, increases in energy efficiency and the reducFrom our climate strategy we extrapolate concrete tion of CO2 emissions (cf. page 27). measures whose effectiveness can be measured, › Environmental policy Commerzbank has laid down clear rules for conamong other ways, in terms of our greenhouse gas www.nachhaltigkeit. ducting business in an environmentally responsible emissions. commerzbank.de > Environment way. The updated environmental guidelines were As part of the CDP initiative (formerly known as › CDP signed off in November 2011 by the Board of Managing the Carbon Disclosure Project), we improved our diswww.cdproject.net Directors and can be read online on our sustainability closure score by two points to 79 out of a possible 100 portal. in 2012. However, we have yet to feature in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), which we took Environmental responsibility part in for the first time last year. The minimum disCommerzbank regards environmental protection as closure score for the index is 81, which is significantly a managerial responsibility. Therefore all managers higher than last year’s 73. There are two reasons for – top-down, beginning with the Board of Managing this: the overall quality level has risen; and the sample Directors – are accountable for the implementation population is now larger thanks to the inclusion of of the environment targets we have agreed. EnvironSwitzerland in the evaluation (now: Germany, Austria mental protection in the bank comes under Group and Switzerland). Services – Organisation and is led by the bank’s designated environmental officer. Those responsible for CDP environmental protection in the bank liaise with all the relevant areas of the business and the general CDP is an international charitable organisation that every year asks companies about the opportunities and risks of works council. They meet on a regular basis on the climate change, about CO2 emissions and about their Group Environmental Committee. Chaired by Frank climate change targets and activities. This information is Annuscheit, a member of the Commerzbank Board of primarily used by institutional investors to make decisions Managing Directors, the committee met twice during on issues such as investment and insurance. The disclosure the period under review. Among topics discussed were score indicates the detail and transparency of their climate reporting. the external certification of the environmental management system in 2012, preparations for recertification in 2013 and the formulation and sign-off of the bank’s new climate targets (cf. page 17). Environmental management The environmental management system introduced by Climate protection Commerzbank AG in Germany in 2008 has been cerBecause we are a financial service provider, our entified in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard by vironmental protection activities focus on optimising Det Norske Veritas (DNV). As in the previous year, all energy consumption. Facilities management and busiemployees were covered in 2012. Recertification by ness travel are two areas in particular where CommerzDNV was completed in June 2013. 62 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index All the environmentally relevant data are requested by mix accounted for by renewables, i.e. a weighted figure the Environmental Management team and then colof 2.3 percent) and since 1 January 2013 has been at lected, analysed and quality-assured by the individual 100 percent. departments. Environmental Management then valiIn order to promote investment in more renewdates the data, uses them to calculate the resulting CO2 able energy power plants and thereby aid the shift in emissions and determines the bank’s carbon footprint. German energy policy, Commerzbank issued an invitaThis, along with the way the data are assessed, is verition to tender for the supply of green electricity that is fied externally by DNV. Since 2010, this procedure has certified as originating from new hydroelectric power been based on ISO 14064-3. plants for the period 2013 to 2015. This specifies that only new facilities (generating units and power plants) Energy consumption be used. Repower AG will be providing certificates of Direct consumption of fossil fuels increased by 2.5 perorigin from the hydropower plants in Norway chosen to cent on the previous year, primarily due to increased supply the entire volume for all properties in Germany consumption of vehicle fuel. Commerzbank is keen to for 2013 to 2015. increase its use of district heating. Oil heating systems are gradually being replaced by less environmentally Energy consumption by source of energy damaging techniques and now account for less and less of our energy consumption. Meanwhile branch MWh mergers have contributed to a reduction in gas con133,463 135,027 sumption. 94,069 Energy consumption in the form of both elec312,424 307,488 tricity and district heating declined significantly in 285,131 2012 (cf. page 64). Total indirect energy usage fell by 14 percent. In 2012, the proportion of our indirect energy usage met by green electricity was 91.8 percent 2,100 1,744 (89.5 percent hydroelectric plus 22 percent of the fuel 2,367 151,368 138,357 137,840 Direct energy consumption at Commerzbank AG (Germany) 4,585 1,682 5,630 60,935 61,944 64,016 0 33 199 MWh 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Natural gas 151,368 138,357 137,840 District heating Electricity Heating oil Heating oil (heavy, light) 2,100 2,367 1,744 Natural gas Petroleum Diesel Diesel for back-up power – 33 199 Diesel for back-up power Diesel (fuel)1 60,935 61,944 64,016 1 Petroleum (fuel) 4,585 1,682 5,630 Total 218,988 204,383 209,429 Proportion of electricity derived from hydro generation 1 The calculation of petroleum and diesel consumption for the vehicles is based on the business mileage proportion for bank vehicles and the consumption for all pool vehicles. The former MWh accounted for 55.6 percent of total mileage in 2012. 272,434 273,062 255,276 Indirect energy consumption (electricity and district heating) by Commerzbank AG (Germany) MWh 2010 2011 2012 Energy consumption (electricity) 312,424 307,488 285,131 from hydroelectric power 272,434 273,062 255,276 from mixed-source electricity Germany 39,990 34,426 29,855 39,990 34,426 Energy consumption 29,855 (district heating)1 133,463 135,027 94,069 Total 445,887 442,515 379,200 2010 2011 2012 1 Electricity derived from Electricity mix Under the VfU 2013 standard, the standard fuel mix for heating is hydro generation assumed to be the mix from a gas-ﬁred power plant with combined heat and power. 63 Since the adoption of the new branding in 2011, Difference in CO2 emissions 2007 – 2012 Commerzbank has made an annual saving of 5.3 million kilowatt hours of electricity. In place of light bulbs 0 and fluorescent lighting, energy efficient LEDs have J –6.08 J been producing light for branch windows and exterior 247,498 –17.82 J lighting. Their longer lifespan also results in reduced 232,446 203,392 maintenance costs. As part of a series of long-term tests and pilot –48.60 J –51.73 projects, we are also trying out LEDs for our indoor J –56.70 127,224 J spaces. As well as the strength of the light and the qual119,475 107,114 ity of the colour rendering, which are crucial for our employees’ working environment, we are also measuring the electricity used. Commerzbank could save between 280,000 and 350,000 kilowatt hours of electricity per year in its Frankfurt head office alone. We 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 are conducting similar tests in the self-service zone of CO2 emissions in t one of our Frankfurt branches. Change in % compared with 2007 Green IT was another area where we were able to make significant savings in the year under review. As a result of converting from absorption to compresOur CO2 emissions were measured in accordance with sor refrigerators at our service centre in February 2012, standards developed by the German Association for the PUE (power usage effectiveness) score fell from Environmental Management and Sustainability in 1.99 in 2011 to 1.71. Other savings included a yearly Financial Institutions (VfU). Information was taken reduction of 21,188,000 KWh of district heating. The from the update of key figures carried out in April cumulative cost saving is €1,444,000. Simply put, the 2013. PUE value shows the amount of energy that is needed In our reporting on greenhouse gas emissions, to cool the appliance’s reference amount, where 1.0 we distinguish between the following kinds of emisrepresents ideal usage. We are continuing to pursue sions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) our goal of reducing our PUE score to 1.6 in 2013. Protocol: CO2 emissions › Scope 1: all direct emissions; By 2010 Commerzbank had already achieved its goal of › Scope 2: all indirect emissions, for example created achieving a 30 percent reduction in greenhouse gas by the production of electricity, steam or heat sourced emissions by 2011 when measured against 2007 levby the company from external suppliers; els. And with a reduction of around 52 percent by the › Scope 3: all other indirect emissions created in the end of 2011, that goal was comfortably exceeded area of logistics and the use of materials as well as (cf. page 17). The reduction had reached 56.7 percent supply and disposal. This also includes emissions by 2012. that occur within service and production companies For our new climate target we analysed all the and their upstream supply chains. relevant key figures and saving potentials in order to devise further reduction measures. It is our intention In the year under review we were again able to reduce to reduce our CO2 emissions by a further 20 percent by absolute greenhouse gas emissions by around 10 perthe year 2020, thereby achieving a total reduction of cent from 119,475 tonnes of CO2 (2011) to 107,114 70 percent from 2007 levels. tonnes (2012). This was primarily attributable to a reduction in scope 2 emissions thanks to energy efficiency measures and branch mergers. Another factor was reduced emissions from Germany’s electricity mix because of the higher proportion of renewable energies. 64 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index Carbon footprint by scope Direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at Commerzbank AG (Germany) t of CO2 equivalent 2010 2011 2012 t of CO2 equivalent Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions 48,009 45,519 Energy for buildings 31,293 28,732 28,504 47,961 Natural gas 30,728 28,086 27,981 Heating oil 565 637 469 1 Diesel for back-up power – 9 54 43,832 40,169 Business trips (cars) 16,716 16,787 17,417 Bank vehicles2 14,921 15,010 15,753 24,659 Pool vehicles 1,795 1,777 1,664 Coolant and fire extinguishing agent losses3 – – 2,040 35,383 33,788 34,494 Coolants – – 2,040 Fire extinguishing agents – – 0 Total for scope 1 48,009 45,519 47,961 Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions 2010 2011 2012 Energy supply 43,832 40,169 24,659 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Electricity 30,699 26,882 16,898 4 District heating 13,133 13,287 7,761 Total for scope 2 43,832 40,169 24,659 Carbon footprint by type of consumption Scope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions Paper usage5 6,123 5,875 5,238 2012, % and t of CO2 equivalent Energy supply 8,451 7,749 12,205 Coolant and ﬁre extinguishing agent losses Water consumption Natural gas (upstream and downstream emissions) 8,346 7,629 7,600 2% | 2,040 t < 1% | 363 t Heating oil (upstream and downstream emissions) 105 118 87 Diesel for back-up power Transport 31% | 33,823 t (upstream and downstream emissions) – 2 10 District heating (upstream and Buildings downstream emissions)6 – – 1,496 energy supply Waste 61% | 65,368 t < 1% | 282 t Electricity from renewable energies Paper consumption (pre-products and conversion losses)6 – – 3,012 5% | 5,238 t Business travel 7 18,961 18,912 16,406 Air travel 5,502 6,021 4,093 Rail travel 1,414 1,402 1,177 Proportion of energy sources in carbon footprint Cars (upstream and downstream emissions) 7,591 7,623 7,908 Business trips with indirect impact8 4,454 3,866 3,228 Water 449 407 363 2012, % and t of CO2 equivalent Waste disposal9 1,399 845 282 District heating Total for scope 3 35,383 33,788 34,494 14% | 9,257 t Electricity Total for scopes 1 + 2 + 3 127,224 119,476 107,114 30% | 19,910 t 1 A valid procedure for measuring the volume of consumption was implemented at the beginning of 2011. Emissions were therefore calculated and veriﬁed in full for the ﬁrst time for the 2012 reporting year. Natural gas Heating oil 2 The business mileage proportion of journeys made in bank vehicles was assumed at 55.6% of total 55% | 35,581 t 1% | 556 t mileage for 2012 and was taken into account on this basis. This is based on statistics from Germany’s Federal Motor Transport Authority and Federal Statistical Ofﬁce and calculations from the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin. 3 Coolant and ﬁre extinguishing agent losses was recorded for the ﬁrst time in 2012 based on the new VfU standards. 4 Reduction in district heating levels due to refrigeration conversion and deployment of more efﬁcient IT hardware (which requires less cooling) in the data centre. 5 Paper consumption excluding printing obtained from external contractors. 6 The current key ﬁgures take greater account of upstream and downstream emissions. 7 Journeys by rail and air have reduced considerably as part of a programme to manage operating costs. 8 Business trips made by private car; since 2012, also including taxi and hire car journeys. 9 The fall in CO2 emissions caused by waste in 2012 can be attributed to the completion of the Silver Tower construction project and the decommissioning of a large building in the previous year. 65 As our data included losses of coolants and fire extinDistances travelled, by mode of transport guishing agents for the first time, scope 1 emissions rose by around 5 percent compared with 2011. Our km scope 3 emissions also rose, mainly due to inclusion of 100,915,370 99,210,057 additional upstream and downstream emissions. 100,187,070 Business travel At about 31 percent, business travel by staff accounted for a significant proportion of our greenhouse gas emissions. The majority of journeys were made by car. 43,811,958 47,267,014 Another significant contributor was business travel by 32,628,584 air, even though the resulting emissions were 32 percent lower than in 2011. 29,566,676 29,325,573 Commerzbank’s travel guidelines state that fly24,617,857 ing should be avoided as far as possible for short-haul journeys, travel sharing opportunities should be inves2010 2011 2012 tigated and, where feasible, alternatives such as video Cars Air travel Rail travel and teleconferencing technology should be used. We provide employees with information about the various alternatives on our intranet. For long-haul journeys, Commerzbank provides incentives for staff to travel by train, which has less environCarbon footprint from travel, by mode of transport mental impact than flying. A scheme enabling staff to exchange their BahnCard (German railcard) for the enhanced benefits of BahnCard Business attracted 2012, % and t of CO2 equivalent much attention and demand among employees rose Rail travel Air travel 4% | 1,177 t considerably. In 2012, the total distance travelled on 12% | 4,093 t domestic German flights fell by over 3.9 million kilometres, or 38 percent, compared with 2011. As Commerzbank is a member of Deutsche Cars Bahn’s corporate customer scheme, all the long-dis84% | 28,553 t tance rail journeys undertaken by our staff since April 2013 have been 100 percent powered by green electricity. Since December 2012, when using their BahnCard to book a ticket on the German rail network, customers also get a “city ticket” for use on the local transBusiness travel at Commerzbank AG (Germany) port network at both their departure point and destination. km 2010 2011 2012 Since 2011, Commerzbank’s Travel ManageCars (AG, Germany) 100,915,370 99,210,057 100,187,070 ment department has made compliance with environBank vehicles (AT Leasing) 76,128,161 76,581,976 80,379,607 mental standards a condition of negotiations when it Pool vehicles 9,160,274 9,064,911 8,482,136 invites bids to provide hotel accommodation. Although Km accounted for as private 15,626,935 13,563,170 10,094,946 initially voluntary, the supply by hotels of information Hire car and taxi journeys1 – – 1,230,381 on their environmental commitment has been compulAir travel (group) 56,472,616 57,026,623 40,662,206 sory since 2012. Since 2013, this information has been AG, Germany: 43,811,958 47,267,014 32,628,584 used as a selection criterion. If two hotels are offering Subsidiaries (Germany) 12,660,658 9,759,609 8,033,622 the same rates, the contract is awarded to the one with Rail travel (group) 33,006,470 31,773,573 26,042,417 higher environmental standards. AG, Germany 29,566,676 29,325,573 24,617,857 Subsidiaries (Germany) 3,439,794 2,448,000 1,424,560 1 Taxi and hire car data was collected for the ﬁrst time in 2012. 66 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index Company cars Paper consumption A further contribution to energy savings and emissions In 2012, there was a marked reduction in overall paper reductions is made by our sustainability policy for veusage of 10.8 percent against the previous year. The hicles. By deliberately choosing fuel efficient bank reduction in virgin fibre paper usage was even greater vehicles and pool cars, and by operating an incentive at 14.8 percent. Although at 4.9 percent (unchanged system, we were able to reduce average fuel confrom 2011) the proportion of CO2 emissions accounted sumption per 100 kilometres (according to data from for by paper usage is a relatively small part of the the manufacturers) from 5.6 litres in 2011 to 5.5 litres group’s overall carbon footprint, we do not ignore its in 2012. This equates to a reduction in CO2 emissions environmental impact. from 149 grams per kilometre to 145 grams. The CO2 Commerzbank stresses the importance of using emissions of new vehicles ordered within the reporting environmentally responsible paper. Back in October period amounted to an average of 137 grams per kilo2008, when we were introducing the new branding, we metre. established sustainability standards for printer and Bank vehicles constitute an optional company copier paper. These stipulate that, for internal use, we benefit for all bank employees outside the collectively use only recycled paper certified under Germany’s agreed pay scale. The flat rate for fuel, which employBlue Angel scheme and, for external use, paper certiees must pay alongside the leasing costs for the vehified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Since cle, is determined by their vehicle’s CO2 output. January 2012, automated bank documents have been When we configure the vehicles, we attach an printed on paper certified by the Programme for the energy efficiency label so that potential drivers can see Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). the car’s fuel consumption at a glance. Since the end of Various communiqués issued during the year 2011, it has also been possible to order gas-fuelled as under review have made our staff more aware of this well as hybrid vehicles. issue, and management trainees from the Organisation We intend to continue to adapt our vehicle polunit have issued signs making staff aware of the need icy to environmental requirements and make employto use recycled paper. ees increasingly aware of fuel consumption. InformaWherever possible, we operate the principle of tion is available on the intranet and is also given in the the paperless office. Since 2012, itemised phone bills vehicle wallets. from our corporate mobile phone provider have only been available in digital form, saving our provider some Other emissions 42,000 sheets of paper every month. In calculating our carbon footprint, we also factor in, in addition to CO2 emissions, the CO2 equivalents of Paper and toner consumption, together with the use of recycled paper at Commerzbank AG (Germany) two greenhouse gases that were named in the Kyoto Protocol – nitrous oxide (N2O) and methane (CH4) – in 2010 2011 2012 proportion to their contribution to atmospheric warmPaper consumption ing. Virgin fibre, ECF1 (t) 4,259 4,055 3,453 The use of ozone-depleting substances does › of which not certified 2,260 895 169 not apply to Commerzbank. We are now using chloro› of which FSC-certified 1,999 2,872 2,322 difluoromethane, which is no longer permitted in new › of which PEFC-certified 0 288 962 equipment, in fewer and fewer of our air conditioning Recycled paper (t) 836 833 906 systems. As part of a bank-wide project, we are exTotal consumption (t) 5,095 4,888 4,359 changing the legacy equipment within the statutory Recycled paper proportion, transitional period. Blue Angel-certified (%) 16.4 17.0 20.8 We are aiming to gradually offset those of our Virgin fibre proportion, FSC-certified (%) 39.2 58.8 53.3 greenhouse gas emissions that cannot be avoided. The Toner consumption (t)2 105 96 72 relevant procedures are being worked out in close for printers (no. of cartridges) 79,904 73,513 54,676 cooperation with the Center of Competence Renewable for copiers (no. of cartridges) 603 615 448 Energies (CoC RE) and our carbon trading division. As in the previous year, we made our 2012 Annual General 1 ECF manufacture using elemental chlorine-free or low-chlorine bleached wood pulp. Meeting carbon-neutral. 2 Cartridge including toner. 67 Our employee newsletter has also been available as an These measures, together with more detailed requests online app since the start of 2013. As well as the for data and the closer involvement of those providing resource consumption of the print run itself, paper the data, enabled us to increase the transparency of usage and transportation are also avoided. waste-related information during the reporting period. Order volumes for copier paper fell by 17 perOver 96 percent of waste in 2012 was recovered cent in 2012, helped by the fact that the default setting and sent for recycling. In our banking operations, we of the printers was changed to double-sided printing. are mainly dealing with paper that has to be disposed off under strict adherence to the German Federal Data Waste disposal Protection Act (BDSG). The coordinated and proper disposal of waste, including the recycling of nearly all categories of waste, is Waste at Commerzbank AG (Germany) by category part of Commerzbank environmental management prot 2010 2011 2012 gramme. Our waste strategy, formulated in 2010, inHazardous waste1 491 170 122 volves adapting and simplifying our disposal processes Non-hazardous waste 15,428 33,755 16,522 (such as the disposal of toner cartridges and hardTotal waste 15,919 33,925 16,644 drives at our head office), using the smallest possible 1 number of waste management companies and ensurIn 2012 around 66 tonnes of hazardous waste resulted from the disposal of vending machines at Commerzbank head ofﬁce ing those companies serve the whole of Germany. We (electrical waste). have therefore put all our waste management services out for re-tender. Since April 2012 we have used only providers operating a nationwide service. Water In its buildings, Commerzbank uses drinking water Waste at Commerzbank AG (Germany) by type of disposal only. In 2012 we used 485,178 cubic metres (2011: 543,419 cubic metres). At our larger locations, monthly t 2010 2011 2012 inspections of water consumption take place so that, Waste for re-use/recycling1 13,186 32,555 16,106 where there is a high degree of usage, optimisation of which paper 6,144 9,618 8,369 measures can be put in place. of which electrical waste – – 156 In 2012 our water usage was responsible for Waste for incineration 2,407 1,006 461 around 452,177 cubic metres of run-off into the main Waste to landfill2 325 264 72 drainage system (2011: 509,668 cubic metres). This Hazardous waste3 1 101 5 figure is about 33,000 cubic metres less than our fresh Waste total 15,919 33,926 16,644 water usage. One reason for this is that some water 1 The reduction in waste is primarily due to the conclusion of renovaevaporates from cooling towers and therefore does not tion work on the Silver Tower, a building that belonged to the former drain back into the main drainage system. Dresdner Bank, and the one-off effect of the decommissioning of a large building in 2011. At 96.8 percent, our recycling rate was slightly higher than the previous year’s rate of 96 percent. Biodiversity 2 Waste to landﬁll predominantly resulted from construction and Our business activities do not have any direct influence demolition work. 3 The hazardous waste reported for 2011 was the hazardous waste on biodiversity. Nonetheless we support its preservaresulting from the renovation of the Silver Tower. The marked fall tion. Since the end of 2010 we have been a member of was due to the conclusion of this construction project. The extensive renovation of the 166m Silver Tower, built in 1978, was completed the biodiversity forum at the German Association for on 31 December 2011. The building has been certiﬁed in accordance Environmental Management and Sustainability in with the standards published by the German Sustainable Building Financial Institutions (VfU) and have been involved in Council (DGNB). developing biodiversity maintenance principles specifically for the financial sector. Any resulting action will not affect Commerzbank’s buildings as such, but rather the banking business itself, where biodiversity risks 68 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI index and opportunities will need to be factored into investOur internal environmental guidelines were distributed ments and project finance to a greater degree. Checks to our 100 most important suppliers and service in relation to environmental risk (including aspects of providers at the beginning of 2012. For quality assurbiodiversity) are carried out as part of Reputational ance purposes, suppliers were also sent an electronic Risk Management. self-declaration questionnaire that contained questions on sustainability. Among other questions, suppliers Property portfolio optimisation were asked about the proportion of their products that The optimisation of buildings is one of the most imporare recycled. tant goals for environmental management in the bank. By 2015, Commerzbank is aiming to have the Gallileo Capital spending on environmental protection tower in Frankfurt – former head office of Dresdner Environmental protection in the bank incurs capital Bank – certified in accordance with the internationally costs. Annual expenses incurred in connection with recognised sustainability standard for Leadership in centralised environmental management are about Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) in the Exist€650,000, although this does not include additional ing Building in Operations and Maintenance category. costs involved in the procurement of environmentally Alongside assessment of building performance in areas responsible materials. Waste disposal costs have fallen such as energy and water usage, there is also analysis from around €2,000,000 in 2010 to €1,705,000 in and evaluation of operational and facilities manage2012. The sourcing of green electricity in 2012 ment processes (such as technical operation and purinvolved additional costs of €590,000. chasing or utilities and waste disposal strategies), which are audited for the extent to which they meet sustainability requirements. Areas for improvement have already been identified in instrumentation engineering and building control systems. Sustainable procurement Commerzbank introduced a sustainable procurement standard back in 2006. It supplements our purchasing guidelines and is regularly updated. Products and services that we obtain should have as little impact as possible on the environment and climate and not constitute a health hazard. They must be produced under decent labour conditions and must be suitable for recycling wherever possible. The purchasing of office equipment, electrical appliances, lighting, building materials and food is audited for the purposes of LEED certification. The disposal of these items is also analysed to see where improvements can be made. 69 Employees Commerzbank’s HR policy is based on ensuring a trustTotal workforce of Commerzbank AG by type of employment based corporate culture. A collegiate and equitable 2010 2011 2012 approach is a precondition for our long-term success. total % total % total % Group Human Resources plays an essential role in Employees not looking after and developing our staff. Among its most on collectively important aims are the responsible implementation of agreed pay scale 18,251 46.0 18,046 46.4 17,574 46.7 the strategic agenda up to 2016, the optimisation of Employees training and development, work-life balance and proon collectively agreed pay scale1 21,008 52.9 20,431 52.6 19,764 52.4 motion of diversity in the workplace. We also place Non-salaried great emphasis on the improvement of occupational employees/other 436 1.1 380 1.0 330 0.9 health and safety. Total 39,695 100 38,857 100 37,668 100 1 Including apprentices. Employee structure As at 31 December 2012, Commerzbank AG employed 37,668 people, 1,189 fewer than at the end of 2011. Employment split (full time, part time) at Commerzbank AG The majority have a permanent employment contract. 2010 2011 2012 Almost a quarter of the workforce works part-time. total % total % total % This presents plenty of opportunity for flexible Full time1 27,565 75.6 27,797 78.0 26,465 76.8 working. Variable hours are used in nearly all parts of Part time1 8,888 24.4 7,834 22.0 8,003 23.2 the bank. Teams are responsible for ensuring staffing levels each day within the defined bandwidth of flexi1 Excluding trainees. ble working hours. We also use sabbaticals, teleworking, a system of annual working hours and a range of Commerzbank AG workforce by type of contract part-time models. Needless to say, senior staff can also (permanent/temporary) take advantage of these arrangements. 2010 2011 2012 total % total % total % Employees at Commerzbank AG Permanent Headcount 2010 2011 2012 contracts 36,940 93 35,304 91 34,203 91 Total number of Fixed-term employees Group 59,101 58,160 53,601 contracts 2,755 7 3,553 9 3,465 9 Total number of employees AG (Germany) 39,695 38,857 37,668 Total workforce by gender 2010 2011 2012 People % People % People % Men 19,851 50 19,345 50 18,628 49 Women 19,844 50 19,512 50 19,040 51 Commerzbank AG employees by place of work 2010 2011 2012 total % total % total % Frankfurt 14,603 36.8 13,329 34.3 12,887 34.2 Rest of Germany 25,092 63.2 25,528 65.7 24,781 65.8 70 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Employee turnover Employee turnover at Commerzbank AG by age The rate of employee turnover in the year under review 2010 2011 2012 was 4.1 percent. This is down 0.7 percent on the pretotal % total % total % vious year. Since 2011, we have been using an online Employees questionnaire for systematically recording employees’ under 30 reasons for leaving, and using the results to make leaving 394 5.2 506 1.5 302 10.1 improvements. In some cases, we also conduct interEmployees views. Some respondents cite limited prospects and aged 30-50 leaving 768 3.2 806 2.5 734 3.5 career progression opportunities within the bank; Employees others say their performance is not being adequately aged remunerated. But most of the reasons cited for leaving over 50 leaving 555 8.1 262 0.8 314 3.5 are more subjective and personal, such as a desire for Total number a change of surroundings. Many employees say in of employees leaving 1,717 4.3 1,574 4.8 1,350 4.1 the interviews that they would not exclude the possibility of returning to the bank one day. In selected cases, Commerzbank stays in contact with former Employee turnover at Commerzbank AG by gender employees. 2010 2011 2012 total % total % total % Working with employee representatives Female Employee/employer cooperation at Commerzbank is employees based on critical yet trust-based partnership. Company leaving 792 4.0 690 2.1 570 3.8 agreements between the employer and employee repMale resentatives take account of the bank’s aims as well as employees leaving 925 4.7 884 2.7 780 4.5 the employees’ wider needs. That will continue to apply Total number in the future. of employees In January 2013, Commerzbank entered into leaving 1,717 4.3 1,574 4.8 1,350 4.1 negotiations with the employee representatives on the implementation of the strategic agenda up to 2016. Agreement was reached on this point in June 2013 (cf. Employee turnover at Commerzbank AG by region page 36). This included, among other provisions, con2010 2011 2012 ditional protection against job losses: the bank will not total % total % total % lay off any staff protected by German redundancy law Frankfurt 434 3.0 454 3.8 499 4.2 in the period up to 31 December 2014, provided it can Rest of make a reduction of 350 full-time equivalents (FTEs) Germany 1,283 5.1 1,120 5.4 851 4.1 by 31 December 2013. This protection will be extended Total 1,717 4.3 1,574 4.8 1,350 4.1 by one year if a reduction of 1,500 FTEs has been achieved by the end of 2014, or will be valid until the end of 2016 if a total reduction of 2,500 FTEs has been Employee turnover at Commerzbank AG by reason for leaving achieved by the end of 2015. 2010 2011 2012 total % total % total % Contract terminated by employee 668 1.7 820 2.2 628 1.9 Contract terminated by employer 12 0.03 15 0.04 21 0.1 Amicable agreement 607 1.5 468 1.6 627 1.9 (Early) retirement/ partial retirement 119 0.3 99 0.9 86 0.3 Incapacity for work/death 1 0.01 31 0.2 74 0.2 71 Diversity Commerzbank AG workforce by age and gender In 2006, Commerzbank signed up to Germany’s Diver% 2012 sity Charter, a corporate initiative that aims to promote men women diversity in companies. In doing so, we have pledged up to 19 318 354 our commitment to a culture that recognises the 20 – 24 1,434 1,605 unique value of every individual employee. Diversity 25 – 29 1,266 1,495 management at Commerzbank aims to foster this 30 – 34 1,471 1,716 recognition and break down prejudice so that we can 35 – 39 2,192 2,272 use our diversity for the good of our business. 40 – 44 3,158 3,419 The setting up of the Global Diversity Council in 45 – 49 3,716 3,656 March 2012 formalised the groupwide implementation 50 – 54 2,826 2,648 of diversity measures and embedded it in our corpo55 – 59 1,990 1,707 rate strategy (cf. page 33). The participation of all busiAged 60 or above 257 168 ness units and support from regional diversity councils have enabled us to take account of country-specific differences and accommodate individual needs. Age structure of Board of Managing Directors Commerzbank is aiming to achieve a balance 2010 2011 2012 between the number of men and women at all manAged 60 or above – – – agement levels across the group (cf. page 33). The indi50 – 59 years old 2 2 5 vidual business units have set their own targets for 40 – 49 years old 8 7 4 2015. This has led to a target for the bank as a whole: 30 – 39 years old – – – 30 percent of managerial positions must be held by up to 30 years old – – – women by the end of 2015. We slightly exceeded our target for 2012 by achieving 25.7 percent. The following areas of focus were identified in In 2012, Commerzbank had a total of 1,870 positions the various countries. In the US, discussions are takfor disabled employees. 1,845 of them were occupied ing place with management as to how a diverse workand 25 unoccupied. force can contribute to the success of the business. In In 2012, nearly 4.93 percent of roles were occuthe UK, the focus was on childcare facilities, which pied by employees with severe disabilities and employhave since been introduced. Asia is drawing up comees whose disability is classified as being equivalent munication and training plans to make staff aware of to a severe disability. The statutory quota for disabled diversity activities. Training is also a top priority in staff was therefore almost reached in 2012. In addition, western Europe, while training, a Keep in Touch proour accessibility project team continued to work to sysgramme and new working-time models are being tematically reduce or remove existing barriers in order developed in eastern Europe. to provide sustainable support for the benefit of customers and staff. Proportion of female employees at Commerzbank AG (Germany) by management level Remuneration Over 97 percent of the workforce are covered by col% 2010 2011 2012 lective bargaining arrangements. Salaries at lower Proportion of women salary levels are governed by the framework collective in overall workforce 50 50.4 50.8 agreement for banks in the private sector. The two Proportion of women at management levels (MLs) employees at the lowest salary level are currently in 1 – 4 in total 23 23.1 24.0 salary bracket 1 in their eighth year of employment Management level 4 29 28.8 28.9 (€2,402 per month). There are therefore no employees Management level 3 13 14.1 16.9 at any of the bank’s locations on the minimum wage. Management level 2 11 11.7 11.9 Employees on higher salaries are paid at rates outside Management level 1 5 9.3 4.7 the collectively negotiated pay scale. In order to underline its importance for Commerzbank, customer satisfaction will in future be a factor in the variable pay for all staff working in private customer sales (cf. pages 24 and 35). 72 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Salary structure at Commerzbank AG (Germany): gender breakdown within the pay-scale categories covered by collective bargaining agreements 2010 2011 2012 men women men women men women Apprentices1 1,100 1,197 1,204 1,139 1,205 1,068 > Scale 1 – 3 16 39 20 66 20 102 > Scale 4 – 6 1,389 4,564 1,302 4,326 1,222 4,077 > Scale 7 – 9 4,192 8,676 3,991 8,523 3,848 8,348 > Outside scale2 13,015 5,243 12,693 5,356 12,221 5,357 Hourly, monthly and other wages 139 125 135 102 112 88 1 Apprentices are shown separately for the ﬁrst time. 2 Details adjusted against previous report to account for apprentices being shown as individual posts. Company benefits Commerzbank offers staff a comprehensive and attracing career opportunities in the bank. The bank also tive range of company benefits as part of their total employed an average of 164 employees as manageremuneration. These benefits strengthen employees’ ment trainees, while an average of 373 students loyalty and help them to identify with the bank (cf. page belonged to the Commerzbank study group. Around 34). The bank aims to continually improve the range of 750 people completed internships at Commerzbank as benefits and reach as many staff as possible. However, part of their studies during the year under review. the occupational pension scheme is available only to employees with a permanent employment contract, Apprenticeships at Commerzbank AG (Germany) including trainees. 2010 2011 2012 Total number Employee satisfaction of apprentices 2,299 2,343 2,273 The results of the employee survey of autumn 2011 Ratio of apprenticeships show a high level of satisfaction with the immediate to other employees (%) 6.8 6.7 6.7 working environment. Corporate culture and employPercentage of apprentices ees’ relations with one another were seen in a positive offered permanent positions 66.3 66.0 65.8 light. Many teams are working well together, performance expectations are high and there is strong cusCommerzbank supports its young professionals from tomer focus. At the same time, managers in particular the moment they join and offers attractive development identify strongly with the bank. Opportunities for options as part of a specialist, managerial or projectcareer development received more criticism and in based career path. Managerial and project-based order to improve them, one of the initiatives we have career paths involve comprehensive skills development developed is the Commerzbank Academy (cf. page 32). courses. Both the Commerzbank Management ProThe follow-up survey on employee engagement in the gramme (CMP) and the Commerzbank Project Manspring of 2013 showed a clear improvement, especially agement Programme (CPP) are divided into two sepain the Private Customers segment (cf. page 22). rate phases: a development programme before the employee takes over the target function; and then a Training and development professional programme (cf. page 32). Of the 37,668 people employed by Commerzbank AG The first year of the bank’s largest ever mentorin Germany as at 31 December 2012, 2,273 were ing programme finished in September 2012. 353 menapprentices. In 2012, we hired around 900 apprentices tors guided 573 mentees in their personal and profesand students pursuing integrated work/study courses. sional development. In the future, the Board of ManThey are taking apprenticeships in banking, office comaging Directors, managers at levels one and two and munications and property. We generally train more level-two project managers will be available as menapprentices than we need for our own requirements, tors. The mentees are managers at levels two, three enabling us to offer this opportunity to as many schooland four as well as employees pursuing a specialist or leavers as possible. During the year under review, we project-based career path. They come from a different hired two-thirds of all the apprentices who applied after board area than the mentor, who is two management they had finished their training, offering them promislevels higher. 73 Average no. of hours spent in training and development Ideas management per employee 1 In 2012, we took our ideas management to the next stage, transforming our intranet portal ComIdee into 2012 WikIdee (cf. page 33 onwards). After deduction of all No. of hours per year 25.4 costs, the benefits achieved through ideas manage1 Calculation method: Total no. of hours ment in 2012 amounted to around €3.22 million (based Total no. of employees on an average usage period of five years). In recent years the number of successfully completed Feedback culture training courses has shown a steady increase. In 2012, At Commerzbank, open and clear feedback is a given. our staff attended almost 62,000 training events. We meet annually with every employee to assess their performance and attainment of goals. An integral part Completed courses and training events (yearly comparison) of management development at the bank is 360° degree feedback. The methodology involves the Board of Managing Directors, executives and level-two manNumber completed agers and project managers receiving comprehensive 70,000 feedback from superiors, colleagues and staff. From 61,870 60,000 58,300 J 2013, 360° feedback will be given regularly every two J 51,007 years. 50,000 J 46,858 45,009 44,269 J J J J J 44,479 40,000 39,253 J 39,043 J 42,621 Occupational health and safety 35,618 J 33,565 J 37,760 31,194 J 32,352 J J 32,645 This is one of the major priorities for the Group Organ30,000 J 28,021 26,480 J J J J isation and Group Human Resources units. Since 2012, 21,085 26,713 27,077 J 22,864 J 22,216 20,000 16,245 J J J we have been enhancing health protection and pre13,960 18,743 J 20,705 J J 18,539 9,478 8,477 J J 15,492 ventative measures by conducting risk assessments 10,000 13,198 J J 4,025 3,818 J 5,567 based on a circular model. In this way we aim to sysJ 3,817 0 tematically identify physical and severe mental stress Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec points in the workplace and either reduce or eradicate 2012 total 2011 total 2010 total them in the future. Commerzbank was the first DAX company in Germany to have its health management function certified by the standards body TÜV Süd ManIn order to nurture new talent, one of the tools Commerzagement-Service. bank uses is a Facebook page called Commerzbank On the Employee Council on Health, 45 employCareer, which has around 13,000 fans (as at mid-2013). ees from practically all areas of the business discuss We are one of the most active DAX companies when it the most important health issues with the member of comes to social media and have a presence on seven the Board of Managing Directors responsible for HR platforms. We also engage directly with pupils and stuand the chairman of the general works council. dents. In the year under review, we ran numerous Commerzbank’s sickness rate for 2012 was events in schools on how to apply for jobs and took part 4.1 percent, although this does not include long-term in programmes for developing the next generation of sickness. In 2012, the accident rate at Commerzbank talent (cf. pages 32 and 77). in Germany was 14.6 per 1,000 employees (2011: 15.0) The Management meets Campus project takes and therefore once again at a low level, certainly below in 34 university liaison programmes, including six in the target levels specified by the employers’ liability European countries outside Germany. Working with insurance association. In the year under review, there interdisciplinary university teams, managers from the were no accidents resulting in death. bank give guest lectures, present case studies and take workshops. 74 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Number of workplace accidents by region 2010 2011 2012 Frankfurt Rest of Total Frankfurt Rest of Total Frankfurt Rest of Total Germany Germany Germany Workplace and commuting accidents (more than three days’ absence) 106 228 334 95 176 271 80 162 242 of which purely workplace accidents 23 59 82 26 40 66 13 49 62 The activities of our dedicated internal health and Our company doctors provide tips on eating healthily, safety specialists are central at the bank: these spepreventing addiction and developing strategies for copcialists carry out regular inspection tours in all units ing with stress. To avoid health complaints developing, and can provide advice on all matters related to health we offer regular eye examinations, blood pressure and safety. checks, weight control and measures for the prevenCommerzbank offers training, counselling and tion of diabetes. health promotion services. To help with difficulties in We promote sporting activity among staff their personal and professional lives, employees and through our largest employee network. Commerzbank family members living in the same household can has 160 inhouse sports groups across Germany. They access an external counselling service known as the offer all of the most popular sports and have a total Employee Assistance Programme (EAP). The EAP will of around 17,000 members. About 1,000 members provide employees with the right person to talk to help with the management and administration of about issues such as stress, addiction or family probthe groups on a voluntary basis. In the Commerzbank lems. Anyone feeling discriminated against or bullied sports tournament known as ComGames, our sportscan also access the programme. The experts on the men and women can demonstrate team spirit and put programme will answer all questions in confidence, themselves to the test in a Germany-wide competition. provide information and help the person affected find solutions to his or her problems. There were over Return-to-work and disability management 500 counselling sessions in 2012. Commerzbank’s return-to-work and disability manageIn 2011, the bank’s general works council and ment programme applies to all employees who have health management team set up the Horizont network been off sick for more than six weeks within a twelvefor people affected by burnout. Horizont offers those month period. Individually tailored solutions and preaffected an opportunity to talk and get information. It is ventative measures are developed together with the also in close contact with the works council and health employee. Our aim is for people to find their feet again management team. quickly when they return and to remain healthy in the In 2011 we launched the interactive training long term while working at the bank. course on health at Commerzbank to make employees more aware of their health. The programme, which can be accessed on the intranet, also offers practical tips on health in the workplace, stress management, exercise, nutrition and addiction prevention. And in September 2012 we launched a seminar on being a successful and healthy manager (cf. page 36). 75 Society Commerzbank knows that it can only succeed as part of Foundations a cohesive and future-focused community. It helps As far as Commerzbank is concerned, a commitment create this type of community by providing financial to foundations forms an integral part of its corporate support and the expertise of its people. Its social comsocial responsibility. The bank’s various foundations mitment finds expression in the activities of nine foun– the Commerzbank Foundation, the Jürgen Ponto dations, support for staff volunteering and a wide range Foundation, Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Founof cooperative and sponsorship projects. It is largely dation and the six charitable foundations – are all determined by Commerzbank’s donations policy as brought together under the umbrella of the Commerzwell as the constitution and founding principles of the bank Foundation Centre. Decisions on which projects foundations. to support are taken by the individual foundation’s The Corporate Responsibility department, which board of trustees in accordance with the objectives of is part of Corporate Communications, is in charge of the foundation concerned. For the charitable foundacarrying out the programme. It seeks approval from HR tions, decisions are taken by the board of trustees. for employees wishing to volunteer and from the sponsorship team for requests for sports sponsorship. The Breakdown of funding provided by the Foundation Centre Foundation Centre provides a framework for the foun€ 2010 2011 2012 dations, which operate independently. Commerzbank Foundation 1,463,000 1,417,000 1,385,000 Jürgen Ponto Foundation 198,000 243,000 422,000 Donation policy Dresdner Bank In June 2012, Commerzbank introduced a donation Dresden Cultural Foundation 318,000 242,000 225,000 policy that sets out a clear framework for donations. In Charitable foundations 408,500 493,000 502,000 particular, donations must not conflict with CommerzTotal 2,387,500 2,395,000 2,534,000 bank’s standards of business and conduct, compliance principles (e.g. the Global Anti-Fraud Policy and the Global Anti-Corruption Policy) or any specially defined Endowment capital of the Foundation Centre exclusion criteria. Donations that might cause a con€ million 2010 2011 2012 flict of interests are to be avoided. Commerzbank Foundation 58.0 58.0 58.0 Commerzbank forbids donations to recipients Jürgen Ponto Foundation 11.8 11.8 11.8 such as associations and sects monitored by the FedDresdner Bank eral Office for the Protection of the Constitution and Dresden Cultural Foundation 7.7 7.7 7.7 organisations for which the German Central Institute Charitable foundations 20.2 20.2 20.2 for Social Issues (DZI) has issued a warning. The Total 97.7 97.7 97.7 bank’s donation policy is also followed by the foundations. Commerzbank does not give any money to political parties, affiliated institutions or politicians. Commerzbank Foundation The Commerzbank Foundation, established in 1970, supports projects in the areas of science and culture as well as social initiatives. In 2012, it began a project with the Foundation for German Business, the first time it had entered into a long-term cooperative project. The aim of “The universe of economics. Inspiration for tomorrow’s teachers” is to improve teachers’ know76 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index ledge of economics and provide them with practical Commerzbank’s charitable foundations opportunities for integrating business issues into their Commerzbank’s six charitable foundations provide teaching. At the current time, the programme is open financial assistance for the bank’s employees, retirees to trainee teachers in Berlin and young teachers workand their families who find themselves in need through ing in all subjects and types of school. no fault of their own (cf. page 45). Commerzbank Foundation donations breakdown Endowment capital of the social foundations Recipients 2010 2011 2012 € million 2010 2011 2012 Community work (%) 23.2 14.2 15.3 Bankdirektor Amandus Art and culture (%) 41.2 40.7 39.9 de la Roy Foundation 11.2 11.2 11.2 Education and research (%) 35.6 45.1 44.8 Meier Bruck Foundation 4.5 4.5 4.5 Total donations (€) 1,463,000 1,417,000 1,385,000 Hugo Zinsser Foundation 3.3 3.3 3.3 Alfred Prahm Foundation 0.6 0.6 0.6 Max Grunow Foundation 0.3 0.3 0.3 Jürgen Ponto Foundation Charlotte Seibold Foundation 0.3 0.3 0.3 Since 1977, the Jürgen Ponto Foundation has supTotal 20.2 20.2 20.2 ported promising young artists in Germany. Donations breakdown for the Jürgen Ponto Foundation General financial education The 2008/2009 crisis has shown that many of the finanRecipients 2010 2011 2012 cial market’s institutions, products and processes are Community work (%) – – – now so complex that they can no longer be understood Art and culture (%) 100 100 100 by most customers. Commerzbank therefore aims to Education and research (%) – – – make a contribution towards general financial educaTotal donations (€) 198,000 243,000 422,000 tion, especially at school level, and has initiated and supported various projects to that end: Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Foundation The Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Foundation has › Business@school: this Boston Consulting Group been promoting cultural and academic projects in (BCG) project aims to bring business issues to life in Dresden for the past 20 years. In the winter semester of a vivid and practical way. It gives senior high school 2012/2013, the Foundation, working closely with the students the opportunity to get a closer look at busiAcademy of Fine Arts and the city of Dresden, created ness over the course of a year. In the 2012/2013 the new Schools of Art bursary programme, which aims school year, 33 Commerzbank employees volunto promote artistic exchange among European univerteered as school advisors and 51 have already sities. volunteered for 2013/2014. Senior managers are also taking part voluntarily as judges for the regional Dresdner Bank Dresden Cultural Foundation donations heats and European final. breakdown › Commerzbank meets school: the bank’s “target Recipients 2010 2011 2012 school” concept allows pupils to get an early glimpse Community work (%) – – – into the world of work to help them decide on a Art and culture (%) 93.1 91.5 81.2 choice of career. Commerzbank managers take on Education and research (%) 6.9 8.5 18.8 the role of “target school captains”: they provide job Total donations (€) 318,000 242,000 225,000 application workshops, lead exercises involving case studies and give presentations on specialist subjects at the schools taking part. 77 Equality of access to education Sports sponsorship In 2013 there was a change of strategy in our approach We regard our sports sponsorship projects as a contrito promoting education. We shall continue to ensure bution to promoting team spirit and fairness in society. exceptionally able pupils have every opportunity to progress. But in future we shall focus our efforts on › Since 1986 Commerzbank has been recognising firstequality of access to education (cf. page 40 onwards): class youth training in competitive sport by awarding We want to help young people from immigrant or its “green ribbon” to clubs that demonstrate exceldeprived backgrounds have access to training that lence in nurturing young talent. The competition is enhances their opportunities: hosted annually in conjunction with the German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB). Grants of › Education mentoring programme: since 2013, €5,000 are given to 50 clubs, regardless of their size Commerzbank employees have been helping educaor the popularity of their sport, that have distintionally disadvantaged young people make the transguished themselves through excellent youth training fer from school to work (cf. page 40 onwards). as well as through sporting success. › Joblinge initiative: initiated by the Boston Consulting › Another initiative, the Girls Wanted football project, Group (BCG) and the Eberhard von Kuenheim Founwhich we have been supporting since 2011, is aimed dation, this project enables pupils who are in danger at girls aged eight to 16. Three-day football camps of dropping out of school to get key qualifications, and an annual soccer festival attracting over learn social skills and work to gain an apprenticeship. 600 participants give the girls the opportunity to Every pupil on the scheme is assigned a mentor and learn not just about football but also about values this is another area where Commerzbank employees such as team spirit, tolerance and achievement. volunteer. So far, numerous young people on the scheme have taken part in career orientation at › We also support the development of young talent Commerzbank and completed an internship lasting through the German Football Association’s DFB several weeks. In August 2012, three of them began Junior Coach project (cf. page 41 onwards). an apprenticeship with us. Employee commitment › START bursary programme: in partnership with the Commerzbank supports corporate volunteering by givSTART Foundation, a subsidiary of the Hertie Founing its employees time off and bearing the associated dation, Commerzbank offers committed young peocosts (cf. page 42 onwards). ple from an immigrant background the opportunity to go to college or university. We are primarily involved › One of the biggest events to take place during the rein training participants to apply for jobs and we also porting period was the Malteser Social Day. For the offer career orientation events. Since 2012 we have first Social Day Week from 17 to 24 September 2012, also been helped by an employee who is a START 430 employees took part in over 30 events at 17 difalumnus. ferent locations across Germany. Commerzbank environmental internship › As part of the “Business gets down to business” Since 1990 the bank has been offering an environproject, which began in 2011, seven projects were remental internship to students with an interest in this alised nationwide in 2012. A total of 116 employees area. Every year, around 50 students from various from Commerzbank and its corporate customers faculties complete an internship of several months’ helped renovate playgrounds, kindergartens and duration in one of 25 German national parks, nature schools. Around €55,000 was donated for building reserves or biosphere reserves. The bank provides materials. financial resources and administrative services. In 2007 the internship was adopted as an official project for the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development. In 2012 we presented it in the park of Bellevue Castle in Berlin during the German Federal President’s Environment Week. 78 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Political dialogue We are also members of the following initiatives: For the purposes of political dialogue, Commerzbank maintains liaison offices in Berlin and Brussels. In 2010 › CDP – previously the Carbon Disclosure Project (since Commerzbank launched the Commerzbank in Dialogue 2002) initiative, a forum in which decision-makers from poli› UN Global Compact (since 2006) tics, business and society can discuss current social › VfU’s Finance Forum: Climate Change – previously in and business policy challenges. Events took place in the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (since Berlin and Brussels again in 2012. One of the topics 2007) discussed in Brussels was the European sovereign debt › Germany’s Diversity Charter (signed 2008) crisis. Present at the talks along with Commerzbank’s › Climate and Finance campaign week organised by the head Martin Blessing were Jörg Asmussen, a member German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature of the ECB Executive Board, Robert A. Pollard, member Conservation and Nuclear Safety (January 2010) of the US mission for the EU, MEP Alexander Graf › DAX 30 declaration regarding women in managerial Lambsdorff and EU commissioner Günther Oettinger. positions (signed 2011) Another format is the “political breakfast” held regularly in the Berlin liaison office. In 2012 there was a Contribution to infrastructure total of nine such events. The range of high-value financial services that we offer to people throughout Germany is something that we Membership of organisations consider to be an important contribution to the counCommerzbank takes its responsibilities as a financial try’s infrastructure. Of all private sector banks in service provider very seriously, as evidenced by its Germany, we have one of the most extensive branch membership of some respected initiatives and associnetworks. The planned job cuts will not result in ations: Commerzbank reducing its presence on the ground or closing branches. › German Association of Environmental Management In order to make our services available to all (BAUM) (member since 1985) parts of the community, we place great emphasis on › German Association for Environmental Management the accessibility of our branches, particularly when it and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (member comes to refits and new builds. For cash machines, we since 2006) are focused on providing an easily understandable user › Environment and Sustainability Network (NeUN) – interface and maximum accessibility for all user previously the Rhine-Main Green Office and Building groups. Network (NGB) (member since 2006) › Rhine-Main Environmental Forum (member since 2009) › German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) (member since 2010) › Transparency International (member since 2011) › UPJ – German network of socially aware businesses and non-profit organisations (member since 2013) As a member of these organisations, Commerzbank plays an important role in the development of new standards and topics for discussion. In May 2012, for example, we held an event at Commerzbank’s head office on the environment and sustainability ratings for members of the Environment and Sustainability Network (NeUN) of the Rhine-Main Environment Forum (UFO) and interested guests. 79 GRI Index Global Index according to GRI AchievePage Compact ment principles 1 Strategy and analysis 1 – 10 1.1 Introduction by the Board of Managing Directors c 4 onwards Introduction 1.2 Key sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities c 10, 12 Sustainable corporate management, 48 Strategy, 50 onwards CR programme, 54 onwards Governance, organisational changes 2 Organisational proﬁle 2.1 Name of organisation c 1 About this report 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services c 6 onwards Commerzbank: a partner for private and corporate customers, structure and organisation 2.3 Divisions and operational structure of the organisation c 6 onwards Structure and organisation 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters c 6 Commerzbank: a partner for private and corporate customers 2.5 Number and name of countries where the organisation has major operations c 6 onwards Structure and organisation 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form c 6 Commerzbank: a partner for private and corporate customers, shareholder structure 2.7 Markets served c 6 onwards Commerzbank: a partner for private and corporate customers, strategic agenda up to 2016, 58 onwards Customer structure 2.8 Scale of the organisation c C2 Selected key ﬁgures; AR 76 – 78, 185 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes to the organisation or c 7 Rights issue in April 2013; AR 68 – 70, 194 its ownership structure during the reporting period 2.10 Awards received c 22 onwards On the right track, Customer Compass comes out on top, 25 onwards Convinced customers, 34 WikIdee: rewarding creativity, 61 Best of European Business Award; AR 13 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period c 1 About this report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report c 2011 (detailed), 2012 (status report) 3.3 Reporting cycle c 1 Format and use of language 3.4 Contact c 84 Contact information and legal notice 3.5 Processes for deﬁning report content c 1 Qualitative and quantitative information in this report, 49 Materiality analysis 3.6 Accounting boundary of the report c 1 About this report 3.7 Any speciﬁc limitations on the scope of the report c none 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures etc. c 1 About this report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations c 1 Qualitative and quantitative information in this report, 62 onwards Environmental management, energy consumption, CO2 emissions, 73 onwards Training and development, occupational health and safety 3.10 Re-statements or changes in the presentation of c 73 Remuneration information compared with earlier reports 3.11 Changes in the themes covered or c 64 onwards CO2 emissions, business travel the measurement methods applied 3.12 GRI index c 80 – 83 3.13 External veriﬁcation of statements c none 4 Governance, commitments and engagement 1 – 10 4.1 Governance structure including responsibility for sustainability c 54 Organisational changes; AR 17 onwards, 32 onwards 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board c AR 335 4.3 For companies without a supervisory board: independent c 57 Opportunities to exert inﬂuence; AR 335 members of the governing body 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide c 57 Opportunities to exert inﬂuence recommendations to the Board of Managing Directors 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of senior management c 34 onwards New management remuneration principles, with attainment of sustainability objectives Net Promoter Score: customer satisfaction pays dividends, 61 Customer satisfaction; AR 35 onwards 80 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Global Index according to GRI AchievePage Compact ment principles 4 Governance, commitments and engagement (continued) 4.6 Avoidance of conﬂicts of interest c AR 33 1 – 10 4.7 Expertise of governing bodies in the area of sustainability c 54 onwards Governance, organisational changes, Reputational Risk Management; AR 30 onwards 1 – 10 4.8 Mission statement, corporate values and codes of conduct c 12 onwards Values and policies, policies and positioning 4.9 Procedures at the level of the Board of Managing Directors/Supervisory Board c 35 onwards Health Management now certiﬁed by TÜV, 54 onwards for monitoring environmental, economic and social risks and opportunities Reputational Risk Management, 62 Environmental responsibility 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the Supervisory Board c AR 33 7 4.11 Approaches for preventative action c 48 Strategy, 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management, compliance 1 – 10 4.12 Participation in and support for external initiatives c 56 Zero-tolerance approach, 79 Membership of organisations 4.13 Memberships in associations and interest groups c 79 Membership of organisations 1 – 10 4.14 Stakeholder groups c 1 About this report 4.15 Identiﬁcation of relevant stakeholders for the organisation c 1 About this report 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement c 26 Competent international support, 33 onwards WikIdee: rewarding creativity, 40 Maintaining an active dialogue, 49 Materiality analysis, 57 Opportunities to exert inﬂuence, 61 Customer satisfaction, 71 Working with employee representatives, 73 Employee satisfaction, 79 Political dialogue 1 – 10 4.17 Statement on the key concerns of stakeholders c 1 About this report, qualitative and quantitative information in this report, 49 Materiality analysis 5 Management approach and performance indicators 1 – 10 Product and service impact – management approach c 12 onwards Values and policies, strengthening sustainability in core business, minimum standards for palm oil, policies and positioning, OECD guidance on precious metals, 15 Avoiding sustainability risks in our investments, 48 Strategy, 54 onwards Governance, Reputational Risk Management FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by region, p1 58 onwards Customer structure size and sector 1–6 FS7 Monetary value of products and services that deliver a social beneﬁt c 59 onwards Sustainability products for private customers 7–9 FS8 Monetary value of products and services that deliver c 59 onwards Sustainability products for private customers, an environmental beneﬁt Financing renewable energies 1 – 10 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation c 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures 1 – 10 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio p2 12 onwards Strengthening sustainability in core business, with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental 15 Avoiding sustainability risks in our investments, or social issues 27 Sustainability for investors 1 – 10 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative c 15 Avoiding sustainability risks in our investments environmental or social screening 1 – 10 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or c none social issues in respect of shares held 1, 6, 7 Environmental performance indicators – management approach 48 Strategy, 58 Customer structure, 69 Sustainable procurement, 72 Remuneration, 76 Society EC1 Value generated and distributed c C2 Selected key ﬁgures, 7 2012 business performance, 76 onwards Foundations; AR 181 7 EC2 Financial implications of climate change c 55 Climate change risks, 60 Financing renewable energies 1, 6 EC3 The organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations c 73 Company beneﬁts; AR 251 onwards EC4 Financial assistance received from government c No signiﬁcant assistance received in the year under review. For current status of the German government’s shareholding see page 6 onwards Shareholder structure, rights issue in April 2013 1, 6 EC5 Standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage c 72 Remuneration EC6 Payments to locally based suppliers c No policy; 69 Sustainable procurement 6 EC7 Hiring of senior management from the local community c No policy EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily c 78 Commerzbank environmental internship for public beneﬁt EC9 Indirect material economic impacts n 7–9 Environmental performance indicators – management approach c 51 onwards CR programme, 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management, penalties, 59 onwards Sustainability products for private customers, ﬁnancing renewable energies, 62 onwards Environment, environmental responsibility, environmental management, energy consumption, CO2 emissions, business travel, company cars, paper consumption, waste disposal, water, biodiversity 81 Global Index according to GRI AchievePage Compact ment principles 5 Management approaches and performance indicators (continued) 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume c 67 Paper consumption 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials c 67 Paper consumption 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption c 63 Energy consumption 209,429 MWh = 753,944.4 GJ 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption c 63 Energy consumption 379,200 MWh = 1,365,120 GJ 7 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and c 16 Environmental management aids efﬁciency measures, efﬁciency improvements 64 Energy consumption 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or c 59 onwards Sustainability products for private customers, ﬁnancing renewable energy-based products and services renewable energies 8 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption c 66 Business travel 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source c 68 Water 8 EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water n 8 EN10 Water recycled and reused n 8 EN11 Plots of land in or adjacent to protected areas c no sites 8 EN12 Impact on biodiversity in protected areas c 68 onwards Biodiversity 8 EN13 Habitats protectedor restored n 8 EN14 Strategies,current actions andfuture plans for managing impacts on biodiversity n 8 EN15 Endangered species, level of extinction risk n 8, 9 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions c 64 onwards CO2 emissions 8 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions c 65 CO2 emissions 7–9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions c 64 CO2 emissions, 66 onwards Business trips, company cars 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances c 67 Other emissions 8 EN20 NOx, SOx and other signiﬁcant emissions n3 8 EN21 Water discharge by type and quantity c 68 Water 8 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method c 68 Waste disposal 8 EN23 Release of contaminants c none EN24 Weight of transported hazardous waste n EN25 Water bodiesandhabitats signiﬁcantly affected by discharges of water n 7–9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts c 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management, of products and services 59 onwards Sustainability products for private customers, ﬁnancing renewable energies EN27 Percentage of products whose packaging n3 was recycled EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental c 56 Penalties laws and regulations 8 EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting goods and people c 65 onwards CO2 emissions, business trips, company cars 7, 8 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments by type c 69 Capital spending on environmental protection 1, 3, 6 Working environment and conditions – management approach c 48 Strategy, 52 onwards CR programme, 70 onwards Employees, working with employee representatives, diversity, training and development, occupational health and safety LA1 Details of total workforce c 70 Employee structure 6 LA2 Employee turnover c 71 Employee turnover LA3 Beneﬁts provided only to full-time employees 1, 3 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements c 72 onwards Remuneration 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding c 71 Working with employee representatives operational changes LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented n in health and safety committees that monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes 1 LA7 Lost days, injuries and number of fatalities c 74 onwards Occupational health and safety LA8 Healthcare, advisory services c 74 onwards Occupational health and safety LA9 Health and safety agreements with trade unions n LA10 Hours of training/continuing professional development by employee category p4 74 Training and development LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning p 32 onwards Launch of Commerzbank Academy, 73 onwards Training and development LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular c 74 Feedback culture performance and career development reviews 1.6 LA13 Workforce structure/diversity of management c 72 Diversity 1.6 LA14 Remuneration by gender and employee category c 73 Remuneration 82 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategy and programme Governance Market and customers Environment Employees Society GRI Index Global Index according to GRI AchievePage Compact ment principles 5 Management approaches and performance indicators (continued) 1–6 Human rights – management approach c 12 onwards Values and policies, policies and positioning, 48 Strategy, 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management, 69 Sustainable procurement, 72 Diversity 1–6 HR1 Investment agreements that include human rights clauses c 54 onwards Reputational Risk Management or have undergone human rights screening 1–6 HR2 Screening of suppliers for compliance with human rights c 69 Sustainable procurement 1–6 HR3 Training on aspects of human rights p 12 Strengthening sustainability in core business 1, 2, 6 HR4 Number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken c 75 Occupational health and safety 1–3 HR5 Freedom of association and freedom to undertake collective bargaining c 69 Sustainable procurement, 71 Working with employee representatives 1, 2, 5 HR6 Principles and measures preventing child labour c 69 Sustainable procurement 1, 2, 4 HR7 Principles and measures preventing forced labour c 69 Sustainable procurement 1, 2 HR8 Human rights training for security staff n HR9 Violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken n 10 Society – management approach c 48 Strategy, 53 CR programme, 54 onwards Governance, compliance, detailed risk analysis, Zero-tolerance approach, comprehensive training, penalties, 58 Market and customers, 76 Society SO1 Programmes and practices that assess and manage c 38, 40 Socially engaged and ﬁt for the future, the impacts of operations on communities 79 Contribution to infrastructure FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically c 79 Contribution to infrastructure disadvantaged areas FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services c 79 Contribution to infrastructure for disadvantaged people 10 SO2 Analysis of the risks of corruption c 55 onwards Detailed risk analysis 10 SO3 Training in anti-corruption c 56 Comprehensive training 10 SO4 Anti-corruption measures c 56 Zero-tolerance approach 1 – 10 SO5 Political opinion forming and lobbying activities c 58 Market and customers, 79 Political dialogue SO6 Total value of contributions to political parties, politicians etc. c 76 Donations policy SO7 Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour and their outcomes c 56 Penalties SO8 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations c 56 Penalties 1.8 Product responsibility – management approach (incl. FS15) c 48 Strategy, 54 onwards Governance, compliance, data protection, 58 Market and customers, 61 Customer satisfaction, product responsibility 1.8 PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products are assessed n3 PR2 Non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety n3 8 PR3 Product and service information c 61 Product responsibility PR4 Non-compliance with regulations concerning product c 56 Penalties and service information and labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction c 61 Customer satisfaction FS16 Initiatives to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type of c 77 General ﬁnancial education beneﬁciary PR6 Programmes for adhering to statutory regulations, c 61 Product responsibility standards and voluntary codes of conduct governing advertising PR7 Non-compliance with regulations concerning advertising c 56 Penalties PR8 Total number of data protection complaints c 56 onwards Data protection PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations c 56 Penalties concerning the provision and use of products and services c = completely, p = partly, n = not at all; AR = 2012 Annual Report = Additional indicators. 1 We have not yet reported a breakdown of business by sector as the data is not currently available. We are planning to collect this data within the next one to two years. 2 We have not yet reported the number of companies with which we have interacted as the data is not currently available. It has proved more difﬁcult than expected to collect this data, with the result that we will not be able to report on this matter in 2014 as originally planned, and will probably not be able to do so until 2016. 3 As Commerzbank is a company in the ﬁnancial sector, this indicator is not relevant. 4 We have not reported hours broken down by employee category as the data is not currently available. However, the bank plans to be able to collect the relevant data within the next two to three years. 83 Contact information and legal notice Publisher Image credits Disclaimer Commerzbank AG Jack Affleck (title) Reservation regarding forward-looking statements Kaiserplatz contrast photo agency This report contains forward-looking statements on Frankfurt am Main (page 42 bottom picture) Commerzbank’s business and earnings performPostal address: 60261 Frankfurt, Germany Thomas Dashuber (page 4) ance based on the bank’s current plans, estimates, Tel.: +49 69 136-20 Family Businesses – ASU forecasts and expectations. These statements are www.commerzbank.com association/Maria Schulz (page 26) subject to risk and uncertainty as there are a variCharlie Dombrow/F1online (page 28) ety of factors that affect Commerzbank’s business Managing department Bernd Euring (page 36) and to a great extent lie beyond the bank’s control. Group Communications Getty Images 2013 (page 41) Such factors include, primarily, economic trends, Corporate Responsibility Markus Hintzen (page 10/11, 20/21, the state of global financial markets and possible 30/31, 44) loan losses. Actual performance and results may Contacts for information Marc Jacquemin (page 45 top left and right) also turn out to be substantially different from Heike Heuberger Thomas Klewar (page 15) current assumptions. Such assumptions therefore Thekla Wießner Catrin Moritz (page 27) only apply on the date of publication. We give no Stefan Gringel Picture Alliance/DSM (page 42 top picture) undertaking that the forward-looking statements Tel.: +49 69 136-44552 plainpicture (page 38/39) will be updated in the light of either new informaFax: +49 69 136-56928 Jens Storkan, Storkan Illustrationsdesign tion or unexpected events. nachhaltigkeit@commerzbank.com (page 8/9) Andre Zelck (page 45 bottom) Content, concept and GRI consultancy All other images: Commerzbank Group akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbH, Munich Paper Circlematt White, Design 100% recycled, recognised by the wirDesign Berlin Brunswick German Blue Angel environmental standard and EU Ecolabel, FSC certified Printing Zarbock GmbH & Co. KG, Frankfurt am Main This report is also available in German. Both language versions and further information on corporate responsibility can be found on Commerzbank’s continuously updated sustainability portal: www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de 84 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Commerzbank AG Head office Kaiserplatz Frankfurt am Main www.commerzbank.com Postal address 60261 Frankfurt am Main Tel.:+49 69 136-20 info@commerzbank.com Corporate Responsibility Tel.:+49 69 136-44552 Fax:+49 69 136-56928 nachhaltigkeit@commerzbank.com
