ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 summary Values and Purposes 3 Environment 63 Message from the Board 3 Climate Governance 63 Message from the CEO 4 Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Actions 67 Mission, Vision and Practices 6 Intangible Assets 7 Generation of Value 73 Commitment to Sustainability 9 Market Context 73 Highlights of 2012 15 Strategy and New Business 78 Awards and Recognition 16 Financial & Operating Performance 79 Investiments 97 A Oi 17 Capital Markets and Ownership Structure 98 Company Profile 17 Balance Sheet 100 The History of Oi 20 Corporate Governance 23 About the Report 103 Corporate Reorganization 23 Profile of the report and application level 103 Governance Structure 24 Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders 105 Support to Decision-Making 27 Remissive Index GRI 107 Continuous Development 28 Corporate information 117 Internal Audit 30 Risk Management and Internal Controls 30 Ethics and Anti-Corruption 32 Information Security 33 Innovation and Technology 34 Institutional Relations 35 People 38 Relations with Employees 38 Relations with Suppliers 48 Relations with Customers and Consumers Relations 51 Relations with Society 56 Oi Futuro 57 Annual Social Balance Sheet 62 “We need to expand our view as employees to think about sustainability in an integrated Values and Purposes way, involving the daily actions of the various areas.” Employee The triple and quadruple play offers, which associate Message from the Board fixed-line telephony to mobility, broadband and pay [GRI 1.1] TV products, leveraged results in the Residential segment. In the Personal Mobility sector, focus on high-end customers drove good performance, with growth among post-paid plans and significant Economic growth and consolidation of strategic expansion of market share in this category. operations characterized the performance of Oi in Significant in the Business/Corporate segment 2012. A key milestone in the year was conclusion of was provision of fixed-line, mobile and broadband the corporate reorganization, with simplification of services to both small and medium-sized businesses capital structure, and in April the company began to and large corporations. list ordinary and preferred shares in through Oi S.A. in two markets. On the BM&FBovespa, shares are Throughout the year the company continued its traded by means of new tickers OIBR3 and OIBR4, strategy of incorporating sustainability into its and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), business as part of an ongoing maturing process. through OIBR.C and OIBR. Sound sustainability management is reflected in the permanence of shares in key portfolios linked The restructuring process began in 2011. In February to the theme on the BM&FBovespa: ISE (Corporate 2012, the General Meetings of TMAR (Telemar Norte Sustainability Index), for the fifth consecutive year, Leste S.A.), Coari (Coari Participações S.A.) and and ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency Index) for the third TNL (Tele Norte Leste Participações S.A.) approved year running. Oi Futuro, which coordinates social incorporation of the latter two and their subsequent responsibility actions for the Company, completed termination and universal succession by the 11 years of operation with financing of important Company. TmarPart (Telemar Participações S.A.) projects in areas of culture, education and became the direct controller, with TMAR a sustainability. full subsidiary. On all fronts, Oi continues to successfully move Another important achievement in 2012 was resumed forward as planned, always in line with the interests growth. RGUs (Revenue Generating Units) closed out of customers, staff, shareholders and other the year at 74.34 million. Pro-forma net revenue for stakeholders. Achievements in 2012 confer trust in the year totaled R$ 28.14 billion, pro-forma EBITDA management and strengthen the belief in successful R$ 8.9 billion, with total investments of R$ 6.56 actions to ensure sustainable growth in operations. billion1. Such performance demonstrates the assertiveness of the strategy and capacity for execution across all product segments (Residential, Personal Mobility and Business/Corporate) 1 As a result of conclusion of corporate reorganization on February 27, 2012, this report is based on the financial statements of Oi S.A. (remaining company and new name for Brasil Telecom S.A.) at the end of December 2012. However, to facilitate understanding, consolidated equivalent pro-forma statements of TNL (terminated) and physical numbers, income, costs and overheads (EBITDA), indebtedness, investments and cashflow, as if the incorporations had taken place on January 1st, 2011. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 3| Values and Purposes structure and the qualification of people. This is how Message from the CEO we put our growth strategy into practice maintaining [GRI 1.1] sustained profitability and providing quality services through an integrated, committed team. 2012 also saw continuation of our public 2012 was a year of important achievements for Oi commitments. We completed three years as in the effort to strengthen the pillars of a good signatories of the United Nations Global Compact. relationship with its stakeholders. The corporate In this message we reiterate our continued support of reorganization process, consolidated throughout the the initiative and our commitment to its ten year, rendered the Company yet more transparent and principles. Actions taken by the Company over the attractive to investors and improved access to the course of the year to put such principles into practice capitals market. We were listed on Level 1 of are detailed in this report. Corporate Governance of the BM&FBovespa, with shares traded as part of the Special Corporate In the area of social responsibility, the Oi Futuro Governance Stock Index (IGC). institute, which completed 11 years in 2012, accomplished its mission to employ new From a customer relations standpoint we sought communication and information technologies in to enhance the quality of our services by providing development of projects in education, culture, sport, them with simple solutions. We moved forward with the environment and social development – always our strategy of convergence of services and achieved with a view to promote across-the-board access to sound results. We have attained growth in the knowledge and shorten geographical and social post-paid sector and profitability of pre-paid services distances, with special focus on young people. among mobile telephone clients; we have increased our market share, delivering comprehensive On evaluating prospects for 2013, we can glimpse solutions to customers in the Business/Corporate great opportunities to increase and consolidate our segment, and have expanded provision of broadband market share, offering high-end services to our and pay TV services to our Residential customers. To customers. We plan to continue with implementation this end, we can affirm with great satisfaction that of our marketing plans and updating of our networks our 2012 results are in line with expectations and – seeking to achieve efficiency in our operations, reflect the capability and effectiveness of Oi in its while expanding the services on offer to meet the operational segments. demands of all of our clients. We believe that enhanced quality of We are also doing our part to minimize the telecommunications can only be achieved through environmental impacts of our operations. In a pioneer commitment to innovation. In this vein, we were the initiative in the telecommunications sector, we are first large-scale telecommunications operator in financing construction of five recycling plants in Brazil to roll out a cloud computing service, and have Brazil as part of a partnership with a reverse logistics intensified our research and development activities. company specializing in collection, waste Through programs such as Inova and the Innovation management and recycling of electronic products as Incentive Program, we have fostered creation of new we seek to contribute to implementation of the ideas both within and outside the Company to National Policy on Solid Waste. underpin development of products and services. As official sponsor and service provider to Rio+20 We invest in the quality, speed and scope of our (United Nations Conference on Sustainable network, in refining our programming, our point-of-sale Development), Oi had the opportunity to contribute OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 4| Values and Purposes to the event with quality service. We also participated – seeking to achieve efficiency in our operations, in discussions on sustainable development and while expanding the services on offer to meet the eradication of poverty held at the conference, signing demands of all of our clients. a letter of commitment to Rio +20, organized by the Brazilian network of the Global Compact. We assure our stakeholders that Oi continues to apply its strategy with focus on sustainable growth, [GRI DMA EC] Continuing with our regulatory obligations, in provision of quality services and in the ongoing Oi returns a part of the wealth generated by its quest for innovation and best practices. These activities in Brazil to society. With the Program for pillars will continue to define Company strategy Broadband in Schools, run in partnership with the for the coming years. Federal Government, we promote digital inclusion for more than 30 million students and have Thinking long-term, considering impacts, mitigating connected over 51,000 schools to the internet. socio-environmental risks and seeking to satisfy In 2012, through the National Broadband Plan, we clients with each relationship opportunity are the reached 2,440 cities participating in the process of foundation blocks for the new growth cycle, already multiplying internet access in Brazil by increasing under way. As you read this report you will better access to broadband, promoting new beginnings understand each Company initiative in the effort in the digital experience and reducing social and to achieve these goals. regional inequality across the country. Happy reading. These initiatives and progress in sustainability as a Company strategy contributed to the presence of Oi on two share portfolios linked to this theme on the M&FBovespa. For the fifth consecutive year, we are listed on the ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index), and on the ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency Index) for the third year running. Our maintained position on these indices represents an ongoing challenge for the José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha Company, because we know the importance of promoting continuous improvement of our initiatives. CEO Also in 2012, further advances were made in the quest for sustainable results. For the first time in our history we organized a panel for dialog with stakeholders to hear the perceptions of different parties affected by our operations. This discussion also provided the materials to define primary issues to be dealt with in our sustainability report which, for the second year running, observes international Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. On evaluating prospects for 2013, we can glimpse great opportunities to increase and consolidate our market share, offering high-end services to our customers. We plan to continue with implementation of our marketing plans and updating of our networks OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 5| Values and Purposes Mission, Vision and Practices [GRI 4.8] MISSION To surprise our Customers every day with simple solutions for communicating and connecting. VISION To be the Customers’ preferred Telecom, offering complete services with excellence. PRACTICES • Customer at the center of everything • Surprising people • Making things happen with excellence • Sustainable results OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 6| Values and Purposes its digital sales channels. The initiative was Intangible Assets supplemented by tele-agents on the internet, who helped to disseminate information on hotsites, content networks and sponsored link campaigns. Human capital The Company reinforced its innovative character on With a diversified in-house staff and presence in all migrating the Oi FM project to digital channels and Brazilian states, Oi considers human capital to be maintaining programming quality, rendering the radio one of the most valuable and relevant assets for an important asset for the brand. Development of business success, and focus on people is one of the Mundo Oi environments was in line with key Company’s key principles. Best market practices communication trends on bringing together service drive policies and practices in terms of well-being and engaging content. One example is Oi among employees, health and safety management Applicativos, which favors the use of smartphones and skills development. and tablets to their full potential. Click here to find out more about the human Of note among publicity initiatives is Orelhão resources management and development strategies Mágico (Magic Payphone), specially geared for the The brand and presence on the internet internet. The video topped viewing figures on YouTube in December 2012 and gained the approval of 97% In 2012, Oi reinforced its brand presence in the of users. The positive repercussions went beyond digital world with actions setting us apart from the digital borders and generated spontaneous, positive competition, such as refining of purchasing, customer media for the brand through over 70 vehicles in service and relations channels. Brazil and internationally. The Company – the first in the sector to provide an Sponsorship application to obtain its services via Facebook, Rio+20 – In 2012, Oi was official sponsor and encouraged dialog and invested in engagement actions service provider of telecommunications and IT through initiatives such as Ligados no Carnaval services for Rio+20 (United Nations Conference on (Switched on to Carnaval) and Torpedos até o Fim Sustainable Development), held in Rio de Janeiro. (Text Messages to the End). Without recourse to heavy Over the ten days of the event, the Company investment in publicity, Oi increased its fan base on provided service to some 50,000 people in official this social network from 3,000 to over 800,000 forums held at the Riocentro. Coverage for the during the year. Constant customer service availability concurrent program of responsibility in civil society continued on Twitter through the tag @DigaOi. and at hotels and airports increased this number by a further 150,000 people. Oi opted for special, more impactive formats in promoting products and offers on such means of For the high quality of services provided, Oi received communication, resulting in increased profitability of a letter of thanks signed by United Nations head of investments. The synergy between offline and online technology Malcolm Chapman. The speed of WiFi vehicles ensured greater efficiency for construction of internet provided at the event was also the subject of these messages. In a customer survey, conducted in a report in the New York Times. partnership with a specialized institute, the brand was perceived by the consumer as “The Most More than 500 Oi employees were involved in the Complete” in the segment. With new investments in project. In the Riocentro alone, facilities included 7 sponsored links, the Company has re-established its kilometers (4.3 miles) of optical fiber and 225 km presence in SEM (Search Engine Marketing) and SEO (140 miles) of network cable. Three Long Term (Search Engine Optimization) and provided a boost to Evolution (LTE) sites were installed, enabling the OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 7| Values and Purposes public to learn about and use 4G technology during Lollapalooza Brasil – This rock festival, a success in the event. In addition to providing infrastructure, Oi the USA for over 20 years, was held for the first time launched the official Rio+20 application for in Brazil in April 2012, with sponsorship from Oi. smartphones, with useful information for visitors Well-known Brazilian bands and figures from the new (hotels, airports, banks, visas etc.). generation of international artists took to the stage over two days of partying at the Jockey Club de São As a Rio +20 sponsor, the Company sought to Paulo, with around 140,000 people in attendance. contribute to discussions on sustainable The initiative was aligned to the Company strategy of development. The initiative was aligned to concern supporting culture and music, particularly Brazilian, for reduction of environmental impacts. Oi and strengthening cultural unity in the country. inventoried its carbon emissions during the conference and applied reverse logistics to cables Sogipa – Since 2003, Oi has been proud to sponsor and wires used, which were sent to the supplier for the Sogipa (Porto Alegre Gymnastic Society) judo treatment and recycling. team, contributing to development and consolidation of the sport in Brazil. At the 2012 London Olympic Externally, Oi reaffirmed its position by signing the Games, team athletes Felipe Kitadai and Mayara letter of commitment to Rio+20, which brought Aguiar won two bronze medals for Brazil. together contributions from companies committed to sustainable development and eradication of poverty. Oi Athina Onassis Horse Show – Latina America’s biggest equestrian event and an important stage for sport-based entertainment was held for the sixth time at the Brazilian Equestrian Society in Rio de Janeiro. Around 15,000 people participated in the activities, boosting tourism and service sectors such as hotels, restaurants and shops. The event was broadcast to an audience of over 300 million people in 80 countries. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 8| Values and Purposes Also a participant in ISCV (Innovation and Commitment to Sustainability in the Value Chain), developed by Sustainability GVCes (Getúlio Vargas Foundation Center for Sustainability Studies), the Company is involved in actions to stimulate innovation for sustainability. Efforts are concentrated on small and medium-sized [GRI 1.2] To Oi, sustainability means changing the way ventures within the value chains of large we do business and including, in company corporations. Among specific aims of the project management, social responsibility actions, responsible are: generating knowledge on the theme, stimulating use of natural resources and initiatives to reduce the exchange of experiences and mobilizing large environmental impacts of operations, ensuring corporations to adopt sustainability strategies in economic profitability. The Oi Sustainability Policy, their productive chains. drawn up in 2009, steers Company actions and its commitment to putting this guideline into practice. In Oi also voluntarily provides data to CDP (Carbon 2012, sustainability goals were maintained for various Disclosure Project), a global, not-for-profit internal departments, consolidating the importance of organization which seeks to enhance the exchange the theme in the management model. of information between companies and shareholders on the impacts and opportunities for businesses To see the Oi Sustainability Policy, click here. in respect of climate change. Through its Sustainability Trail, the Company seeks In 2008, to promote safe internet use, Oi signed to disseminate sustainability concepts among up to the Joint Cooperation Agreement against employees and engage them in actions. Based on pedophilia which brings together telecommunications an online knowledge platform, the program produces companies, the Federal Prosecutor’s Office, Federal committed leaders and encourages identification of Police and the Safernet Brasil organization. Through corporate opportunities and actions directly linked to this initiative companies, society and government join business. The project is phased and includes online forces to prevent and tackle crimes committed training, forums, videos, infographs, games and other against children and teenagers using the internet. interactive elements. At the end of 2012, after two years of program implementation, 16% of employees In addition to education and prevention, this joint had begun training. effort makes for more effective tracking of the origin of internet connections by which such crimes Scope expansion are committed. To this end the Company invests In addition to putting sustainability into practice in in improving its network and techniques for its business, Oi participates in volunteer initiatives identification of offenders against children and which aim to stimulate in-depth discussions on the teenagers, along with communication actions to theme and engage new agents in actions. Networking advise parents, children and teenagers on safe widens the scope of initiatives and multiplies the use of the internet. effects of the quest for more balanced business relationships and models. In 2012, Oi published educational messages on the theme in Oi Fixo fixed line bills, in the subscribers’ [GRI 4.12] Since 2011, Oi has been part of the business newsletter and on the Oi TV customer telephone line, platform EPC (Businesses for Climate), which brings also launching telephone cards with information on together Brazilian companies to discuss innovation channels available to report such crimes. Oi also and adaptation strategies in light of the challenge of participated in World Safer Internet Day, a forum held climate change. in more than 65 countries to discuss methods of OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 9| Values and Purposes preventing internet crimes. Through such actions, Oi principles in operations, the in-house culture and in provides an incentive to society to report the practice decision-making processes of the Board. On an of pedophilia crimes. annual basis, the Company publishes accounts in its Progress Communication on advances achieved in [GRI 4.12] Global Compact practices related to the initiative. More relevant In 2009, the Company signed up to the United actions are provided in the table below and can be Nations Global Compact, which promotes multilateral seen in more detail throughout this publication. dialog between businesses, civil society organizations, unions and the UN itself with a view to constructing As a signatory, Oi participated in talks promoted by a more inclusive market. Launched in 2000, the the Brazilian Global Compact Committee in 2012, Compact is today the world’s leading volunteer which resulted in the letter of commitment to corporate sustainability initiative and has more than Rio+20. This document, presented to the Brazilian 7,000 signatory companies. It is structured on ten government, brought together the contributions of principles in aspects of human rights, work, the companies committed to sustainable development environment and the fight against corruption. and eradication of poverty. In day-to-day management, the Oi commitment to the Global Compact translates into firm actions for implementation, disclosure and promotion of the Progress Communication Correlation with Principles of Global Compact Correlation with Milennium Objectives OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 10 | Values and Purposes Actions/Initiatives Correlation with the Correlation with Annual and Global Compact Principles the Millennium Sustainability Development Goals Report 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Education Program Values and Purposes​​ for Sustainability > Commitment (Sustainability Trail). to Sustainability Insertion of the People > Relations Sustainability Module with Employees in the Generation Program (Trainees and members of the PDA). Sustainability Policy Values and Purposes​​ > Commitment to Sustainability Code of Ethics Oi > Corporate Governance > Risk Management And Internal Controls Actions of Agents of Oi > Corporate Ethics Governance > Ethics And Anticorruption Actions of Ethics Oi > Corporate Committee Governance > Ethics And Anticorruption Online training Oi > Corporate (e-learning) of Ethics Governance > Ethics And Anticorruption Sustainability in the People > Relations Supply Chain With Suppliers Oi Novos Brasis People > Relations With Society > Oi Futuro Oi Program of Cultural People > Relations Incentive Sponsorships With Society > Oi Futuro Actions of Internal Corporate Auditing Governance > Internal Audit Inventory of GHG Environment > (Greenhouse gases) Climate Governance emissions Volunteer Program in People > Relations association with Junior With Employees Achievement. NAVE Advanced Center People > Relations in Education With Society > Oi Futuro Sports Incentive People > Relations Sponsorship With Society > Oi Futuro OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 11 | Values and Purposes Actions/Initiatives Correlation with the Correlation with Annual and Global Compact Principles the Millennium Sustainability Development Goals Report 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Collective Working People > Relations Agreements and With Employees Workday Agreements 2010/2012 Oi Kabum! Schools of People > Relations Art and Technology With Society > Oi Futuro Compliance to the Values And Purposes​​ corporate platform > Commitment to of Companies for the Sustainability Climate (EPC). Waste Management Environment > Environmental Impacts And Mitigation Actions > Waste Management Selective waste Environment > collection in the main Environmental administrative buildings Impacts And Mitigation Actions > Waste Management Asta Network Environment > Partnership Environmental Sustainable Gifts Impacts And Mitigation Actions > Waste Management Channel on website for Oi > Corporate accusations Governance > Governance Structure Freedom of Association People > Relations to unions and collective With Employees bargaining > Freedom Of Association My Oi People > Relations With Customers And Consumers Actions to reduce GHG Environment > (Greenhouse gases) Climate Governance emissions Action to reduce Environment > electrical power Climate Governance consumption Action to reduce water Environment > consumption Environmental Impacts And Mitigation Actions Green IT Environment > Climate Governance OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 12 | Values and Purposes Actions/Initiatives Correlation with the Correlation with Annual and Global Compact Principles the Millennium Sustainability Development Goals Report 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Collection and special Environment > disposal of batteries and Environmental handsets. Impacts And Mitigation Actions Fleet Renewal Project Environment > Climate Governance Using Returnable Environment > Envelopes Environmental Impacts And Mitigation Actions Using bags made of Environment > recyclable materials Environmental Impacts And Mitigation Actions Broadband in Schools People > Relations Program With Society > Digital Inclusion Statement of Mutual Values And Purposes​​ Cooperation Against > Commitment To Pedophilia Sustainability Accessibility for People > Relations Customers With Customers And Consumers Sponsorship, supply, and Oi > Institutional actions at events of the Relations FifaTM World Cup 2014 Inova Program Oi > Innovation And Technology Incentive to Innovation Oi > Innovation And Program Technology Donation of Phone Environment > Books to NGO doe Environmental seu lixo Impacts And Mitigation Actions Use of Environment > videoconferencing Climate Governance Mapping of corporate Oi > Corporate risks Governance > Risk Management and Internal Controls Executive Group on Oi > Corporate Sustainability Governance Medications of People > Relations Continuous Use Program With Employees Program for Healthy People > Relations Living With Employees Preventive Activities People > Relations (Regular Exams) With Employees > Health And Safety OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 13 | Values and Purposes Actions/Initiatives Correlation with the Correlation with Annual and Global Compact Principles the Millennium Sustainability Development Goals Report 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Agreement with the Oi > Institutional Brazilian Navy Relations Antarctic Base Accusation channel of Oi > Corporate the Fiscal Council Governance > Governance Structure Actions of the JOIA People > Relations Program Oi's Way to With Customers And Serve and Learn Consumers Vocational Training People > Relations Examination Center With Suppliers (CEQUAL) User Council People > Relations With Customers And Consumers Environment of internal Oi > Corporate controls in conformity Governance > Risk with Sarbanes-Oxley Management And Certification Internal Controls Information Security Oi > Corporate Management Governance > Information Security Telecommunications People > Oi Futuro > Museum and Art Culture Exhibits Access to Information in People > Relations Remote Areas With Society > Infrastructure Adherence to ISCV Values And Purposes​​ > Commitment To Sustainability Recycling Factory Values And Purposes​​ > Commitment To Sustainability Employee Development People > Relations Programs With Employees OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 14 | Values and Purposes Digital media Highlights of 2012 Subscriptions to the online customer relations site Minha Oi grew by 150 % in 2012, with 4.6 million customers registered and management of 11.2 million terminals. Such expansion, driven by its ISE user-friendliness and security of transactions, For the fifth consecutive year, Oi is listed on the reinforced the importance of this channel for portfolio of ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) customer relations. Official Oi profiles on Facebook, of BM&FBovespa), which highlights sustainability Twitter, Google+ and Orkut totaled 885,000 followers performance in economic efficiency, environmental and 83,000 customer service actions. balance, social justice and corporate governance. Forty companies participate in the ISE and are Corporate reorganization selected from among the 200 most liquid shares In 2012, the Company completed its corporate traded. This new portfolio, in effect from 2013, reorganization and simplification of Oi S.A. This includes 37 companies from 16 sectors. process began in 2011 with the aims of simplifying the decision-making structure and increasing liquidity. Corporate Governance Level 1 In December 2012, Oi was listed on Level 1 Latin America’s leading WiFi network of Corporate Governance of BM&FBovespa, and In July, Oi integrated its WiFi networks throughout Company shares became part of IGC (Special Brazil, an action which confirms its position as the Corporate Governance Stock Index), which seeks most comprehensive provider of internet access in to measure a theoretical portfolio comprising shares the country and the most extensive integrated WiFi of companies with good governance levels. network in Latin America. IR Global Rankings (IRGR) Oi received three awards in the 2012 edition of the IR Global Rankings, which recognize Investor Relations (IR) best practices. In Latin America, Oi was singled out as one of the five companies with best IR website and won first place in best online annual report – financial director Alex Zornig was voted the best CFO in Latin America. Recycling of electronic devices Through a strategic partnership with the company Descarte Certo, Oi is financing construction of five recycling plants in the country to ensure appropriate management of solid waste in its product and services chain and in other operational and administrative processes. Descarte Certo is part of the Ambipar Group and specializes in waste collection and management and in recycling of electronic devices. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 15 | Values and Purposes • 6th Top of Mind Internet São Paulo – Voted the Awards and Recognition most-remembered brand by internet users in the [GRI 2.10] category Mobile Telephony/Operator. Awarded by: Instituto Datafolha • 17th Top of Mind Minas Gerais Successful Brands • ISE – Corporate Sustainability Index – – Second place as the brand most remembered by fifth consecutive year. people from Minas Gerais state in the category Awarded by: BM&FBovespa and the Getúlio Vargas Excellence (Fixed-line, Mobile Phone and Foundation Center for Sustainability Studies (GVces) Broadband Operator) and awarded in the Leadership category (Long-Distance Telephone Operator). • ICO2 –Carbon Efficiency Index – Awarded by: Mercado Comum National third consecutive year. Economics and Business Magazine BM&FBovespa and BNDES (National Economic and Social Development Bank) • Top of Mind Rio Grande do Sul – Winner in categories Broadband and Fixed-line. • Empresas do Bem – Considered one of the 50 Awarded by: Grupo Amanhã “Empresas do Bem” (Good Companies), singled out for its involvement in social and cultural areas, • Top of Mind Rio Grande do Norte – Most primarily with programs devised by Oi Futuro. remembered company by consumers in the Mobile Awarded by: IstoÉ Dinheiro Telephone category. Awarded by: Foco Nordeste magazine • IR Global Rankings – Category – Five Best Companies, with best IR website, Best Online • 12th Top Correio Award – Winner in two Annual Report and Best CFO in Latin America. categories: Most Remembered Brand by the Awarded by: Global Rankings people of Sergipe state for Fixed-line and Internet (Velox) Services. • 18th Abemd Award – Special recognition for Best Awarded by: Correio de Serviço newspaper of the Best in Customer Relations Management/ Database, awarded for the case study “Intelligence in Broadband Sales”. Awarded by: Brazilian Direct Marketing Association • 7th Annual Hot Companies and Best Products Awards – Winner in category Suitable for Latin America for the solution of ultralow latency between the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and that of Brazil (BM&FBovespa). Awarded by: Network Products Guide • GTB Innovation Award Wholesale Service Innovation Category. Awarded by: Global Telecom Business • 17th Top of Mind Bahia Award – 17th place in the Mobile Telephone Operator segment. Awarded by: Marketing Consultoria, in partnership with Painel Brasil OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 16 | Values and Purposes “We, investors with a focus on the long-term, began to incorporate ESG* aspects into our ANALYSIS.” Oi Investor * Social, Environmental, and Corporate Governance Company Profile [GRI 2.5] Since 2009, Oi has also operated the Globenet (full subsidiary of Oi S.A.) underwater optical fiber cable network which links Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Bermuda and the United [GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.6, 2.7 and 2.8] Oi S.A. is Brazil’s leading States. Globenet and Metrored networks are part of telecommunications service provider, offering a wide the Oi data backbone2, making it the biggest and range of convergent products (those that can be most expansive data coverage in Brazil, with more offered together to a single customer), including than 176,000 kilometers (109,000 miles) (23,300 traditional fixed line and mobile telephone services, kilometers (14,500 miles) of international backbone data transmission, broadband internet access, from Globenet, 32,600 km (20,250 miles) of internet and TV provider. The company services Brazilian national backbone and 120,300 km residential and small, medium and large-scale (74,560 miles) of state and metropolitan networks). corporate users, government agencies and telecommunications companies. Oi holds the fixed With Oi TV as part of the complete portfolio of line concession in 25 Brazilian states (all except São services, Oi has become Brazil’s first quadruple play Paulo) and in the Federal District. company, with combined offer of fixed line, mobile, broadband and pay TV, the latter available in the With acquisition of stock control of Brasil Telecom Federal District and the brazilian states, except S.A. in 2009, Oi consolidated its national presence São Paulo, at 2012. in mobile telephone and data transmission services with a unified portfolio across all regions of coverage. The availability of services on a national scale gives Oi the scope required to compete on equal terms with key international competitors operating in Brazil. A pioneer and, in fact, the only integrated operator in Brazil, Oi believes in offering convergent services as an important competitive advantage to win customer loyalty. 2 Central call-making system in a wider network, typically high performance. On an internet grid on a planetary scale there are, hierarchically divided, intercontinental (international) and national call backbones. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 17 | OI [GRI 4.13] Participation in associations • Ceará Commercial Association; Oi actively participates in various associations and bodies which dialog on themes relevant to the • Sergipe Business and Commercial Association; Company, its business area and relations with different consumer groups, and key among these • Rio Grande do Sul State Industry Center; organizations are: • Ciesp São Paulo State Industry Center; • ABDTIC (Brazilian Legal Association of Information Technology and Communications); • Citel (Inter-American Telecommunication Commission); • Abrasca (Brazilian Association of Public Companies); • São Paulo State Federation of Industries – • ABTA (Brazilian Pay TV Association); Instituto Roberto Simonsen; • Acieg (Goiás Commercial and Industrial Association); • Mato Grosso Federation of Industries; • ACM (Maranhão Commercial Association); • Fieb (Bahia State Federation of Industries); • ADVB (Association of Sales and Marketing Directors • IBGC (Brazilian Institute for Corporate Governance); in Brazil) – Bahia; • Ibrac (Brazilian Institute for Studies into • ADVB (Association of Sales and Marketing Directors Competition, Consumption and International Trade); in Brazil) – Pará; • Brazilian Institute for Finance Executives • ADVB (Association of Sales and Marketing (Espírito Santo); Directors in Brazil) – Santa Catarina; • Espírito Santo in Action Ação Business Movement; • AHCIET (Ibero-American Association for Research Centers and Telecommunications Companies) • Seta (National Union of Pay TV and Conditional Access Operators); • Amcham (Americana Chamber of Commerce) – Bahia; • Sinditelebrasil (National Union for Telephone • Bahia Commercial Association; as Mobile and Personal Service Companies); • Maceió Commercial Association; • Telcomp (Brazilian Association of Competitive Telecommunications Service Providers); • Porto Alegre Commercial Association – Policy/Business Contribution– Federasul; • Telebrasil (Brazilian Telecommunications Association). • Vitória Commercial Association; OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 18 | OI [GRI 2.3 and 2.9] Regionalization [GRI 2.8] Revenue Generating Units The Company management model was refined in 2012 to provide support to the 2012-2015 growth Residential: (includes 74.34 plan. Among key changes are the process of million TUP –Public Utility Telephone) regionalization, with administrative division into Business/Corporate nine regional units (see map), which began in 2011. Personal mobility This decentralization enhances Oi presence in the 46.30 Total million various regions of operation and brings the Company closer to its customers. Efforts are being made in-house to standardize operations and speed up the 19.10 decision-making process. The outcomes of these million changes are already being seen in practice, with 8.97 million speedier exchange of information, time-saving and enhanced integration. AREA OF COVERAGE North Regional Unit: Amazonas, Pará, Amapá and Roraima Bahia Regional Unit: Bahia Ceará Regional Unit: Ceará, Maranhão and Piauí Mid-West Regional Unit Federal District, Goiás, Tocantins, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso, Acre and Rondônia Minas Gerais Regional Unit: Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo Pernambuco Regional Unit: Pernambuco, Alagoas, Paraíba and Rio Grande do Norte Rio de Janeiro Regional Unit: Rio de Janeiro South Regional Unit: Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Paraná São Paulo Regional Unit: São Paulo Services • Internet provider • Fixed line and mobile telephone • Pay TV • Data transmission • Broadband internet access OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 19 | OI The History of Oi • Telemar is inaugurated, with operations over 64% of Brazil. • Telemar opens on the New York Stock Exchange. 1998 • Brasil Telecom comes into being, with operations across 30% of Brazil. • Roll-out of regional long-distance codes: 31 by Telemar 1999 and 14 by Brasil Telecom. • Telemar constructs digital backbone with fiber optics. • Telemar enters the high-speed internet market. • Contax starts up. • Brasil Telecom forms a corporation in iG. 2000 • Brasil Telecom acquires and incorporates CRT. • Launch of Telemar Education Project (PTE) – the Company’s first social responsibility initiative. • Telemar and Brasil Telecom launch ADSL broadband access. • Telemar expands fixed-line to all locations with over 600 inhabitants in its region. 2001 • Brasil Telecom lists shares on the New York Stock Exchange. • Telemar concludes its Program of Target Anticipation (PAM). • Creation of Instituto Telemar. • Oi mobile is born. • Telemar obtains authorization to operate national and international long-distance services. 2002 • Telemar inaugurates unified Network Management Center (CGR) in Rio de Janeiro. • Brasil Telecom acquires fiber optic cable systems from Globenet and permits to operate mobile telephony. • Telemar launches first offer of convergent services. 2003 • Inauguration of the Kabum! School of Art & Technology. • Brasil Telecom acquires Ibest and Metrored. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 20 | OI • Oi reaches the milestone of 5 million mobile telephone clients. • Instituto Telemar signs up to a partnership with states and municipalities to install broadband in public schools. 2004 • Unification of mobile (Oi) and fixed-line (Telemar) operations. • Brasil Telecom acquires iG. • Brasil Telecom rolls out GSM operation. 2005 • Oi Internet ISP launched. • Telemar Group signs partnership to provide fixed-line, mobile and broadband at the Comandante Ferraz Antarctic Station. • Telemar Group acquires Way TV. 2006 • Launch of Oi Paggo. • Brasil Telecom inaugurates unified Network Management Center in Florianópolis (SC). • Inauguration in Recife of the Advanced Education Center (Nave). • Unique Milestone – unification of Telemar Group brands under the Oi brand name. • Launch of Oi TV and inauguration of Oi TV Móvel. • Oi is official provider and sponsor of the 2007 Pan-American games. • Oi Futuro inaugurates Telecommunications Museums 2007 in Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte. • Brasil Telecom launches IPTV. • Brasil Telecom reaches the milestone of 4 million mobile telephone clients. • Oi acquires Paggo Empreendimentos S.A. • Fixed-line operators complete the conversion from pulse to tone. • Oi acquires Amazônia Celular. • Brasil Telecom and Oi roll out 3G. • Oi begins mobile telephone operation in São Paulo. • Inauguration of Nave in Rio de Janeiro. 2008 • Brasil Telecom creates a Globenet subsidiary in Colombia. • Oi becomes part of ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) of BM&FBovespa. • Telephone operators commence number portability. • Oi takes control of Brasil Telecom and begins to operate over 100% of Brazilian territory. • Brand Oi present across Brazil. • OiTV launched with Direct-to-Home (DTH) technology. 2009 • Globenet expands operations in Colombia. • Oi signs Global Compact and internally launches Sustainability Program and policies. • Oi reaches the milestone of 60 million clients. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 21 | OI • Announcement of proposal for strategic alliance with Portugal Telecom. • Oi is named an official provider and sponsor of FifaTM World Cup 2014. • Oi signs partnership with Banco do Brasil and Cielo 2010 to offer services of payment by mobile phone. • IG celebrates ten years. • Oi becomes part of ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency Index) of BM&FBovespa. • Expansion of DTH OiTV across 14 Brazilian states. • Portugal Telecom buys into Oi capital. • Oi expands international operation with share acquisition in Portugal Telecom. • Oi commences corporate reorganization proposal. 2011 • Oi Futuro is ten years old: in addition to educational projects and sponsorship of sports, culture and social actions, the institute issues a bid invitation for environmental projects • First large-scale telecommunications operator in Brazil to roll out a cloud computing service Oi Smart Cloud. • Implementation of new Oi management system – Management Control Items (ICG). • 2nd Oi Investor Day 2012 in Rio de Janeiro and New York. • Oi is official sponsor and service provider of telecommunications and IT services for Rio+20. • Inauguration of the first concept store (technology within reach of customers) in Brazil at Shopping Iguatemi, São Paulo. • Launch of pay TV via internet protocol (IPTV) and broadband 2012 of up to 200 Mbps, by means of a fiber optic network run into client residences (FTTH). • Oi listed on Level 1 Corporate Governance of BM&FBovespa. • Oi Group undergoes corporate reorganization. • Oi enters into strategic partnership for construction of e-waste recycling plants. • Oi Kabum! receives the Construindo a Nação (Building the Nation) award, promoted by the Instituto da Cidadania Brasil with CNI-Sesi, in the public policy category. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 22 | OI This new framework, answering to the Executive Corporate Governance Committee, seeks to foster business sustainability. Its primary duties are to aid integration of the theme into strategic direction; evaluate socio-environmental risk management; recommend continuance of and/or new The corporate system in which Oi operates public commitments; define the stakeholder relations encompasses its bylaws, ownership and strategy; leverage sustainability actions and monitor organizational structures and a number of policies, performance through follow-up of indicators; evaluate procedures and practices which interconnect and investments in sustainability such as sponsorship, complement each other, leading to the achievement new business, products and services, and keep the of social goals and business longevity. Sustainability Policy updated. [GRI 4.6] In 2012, the Company advanced in its [GRI 2.9] Corporate Reorganization process of continuous institutional framework In 2012, Oi completed the reorganization process improvement which guides its operations, approving begun in 2011, with the aim of simplifying the the Policy on Transactions with Related Parties and ownership structure and governance of Oi Companies Situations Involving Conflict of Interests. Its aims are (as the group of subsidiaries TNL, Coari, BRT and to establish rules and consolidate procedures while TMAR is known), increasing liquidity for all preserving process transparency. As such, decisions shareholders. The reorganization includes joint and will be taken in the best interests of the Company, its inseparable transactions: the merger of Coari and senior management and its shareholders. At the end TNL into BRT and the partial spin-off TMAR, with the of the year, Oi was listed in Level 1 of Corporate merger of its shares into Coari. Governance of the BM&FBovespa, with its shares included in the Special Corporate Governance Stock BRT now concentrates its stock holdings in the Oi Index (IGC). Furthermore, was created the Policy of Companies and has become the only among them to Shareholders Compensation. be listed on the stock exchange – the company is now known as Oi S.A. The retention of control of Oi In addition, the ownership structure was simplified, exclusively by TmarPart served to meet legal and adding value to shareholders and rendering the regulatory obligations to Anatel (for approval of the company more attractive for investors, with improved reorganization). It was incumbent upon TmarPart and access to the capital market. its direct or indirect shareholders to ensure retention of control and compliance with legal obligations Sustainability including, potentially, exchange of preferred shares Sustainability management structures also underwent held for common shares held by its direct or indirect changes in 2012. The Committee on Governance, shareholders. Disclosure and Sustainability was dismantled and gave way to the Executive Sustainability Group, staffed by executives in departments such as Treasury and Investor Relations, Property and Logistics, Human Ressources, Network Operations, Network Development and Engineering, Corporate Communication, Procurement and Oi Futuro. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 23 | OI On February 27, General Meetings at Coari, BRT, TNL TNLP4, COAR3, COAR4, BRTO3 and BRTO4. As of and TMAR approved the corporate reorganization April 9, only the Company’s common and preferred transactions. TMAR was thereby partially spun-off, shares (OIBR3 and OIBR4) were listed on the with its shares merged into Coari. TNL and Coari were BM&FBovespa S.A., while its ADSs (American merged into BRT, being wound up and universally Depositary Shares) representative of Oi stock were succeeded by BRT, which was renamed Oi S.A. Oi listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) S.A. is directly controlled by TmarPart and TMAR is under codes OIBR and OIBR.C. its wholly-owned subsidiary. Further details on the corporate reorganization Until April 5, 2012, TMAR, TNL, Coari and Oi process are available in the Material Fact on the shares continued to be traded on the stock exchange Investor Relations website. under tickers TMAR3, TMAR5, TMAR6, TNLP3, [GRI 4.1] Governance Structure Shareholders Meeting Board of Fiscal Directors Council Independent Finance, Monitoring Auditors and Budget Committee HR and Compensation Committe Executive Officers Risk and Contingencies Disclosure Committee Committee Engineering & Networks, Internal Technology & Innovation, and Auditors Service Offering Committee OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 24 | OI [GRI 4.9 and 4.10] Board of Directors: approves policies Fiscal Council: a permanent, independent body, as and strategies and monitors the general progress of defined by the bylaws. Its primary responsibilities are the business in all dimensions, the strategic plan, to monitor management activities, examine financial budgets and financial policies. The Board comprises statements and communicate its conclusions to up to 17 effective members and an equal number of shareholders. alternates, elected by shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting. Preferred shareholders have the Council members self-assess their performance in right to elect a member by a separate vote. compliance with the US Sarbanes-Oxley law in order to certify the effectiveness of internal controls, The Board’s duties include authorizing investments in efficiency of operations and compliance with new businesses and creating subsidiaries; it is also applicable laws and standards. responsible for approving strategic decisions such as investment and divestment in other companies in an [GRI 4.4] Pursuant to the requirements of the SEC amount beyond the scope of authority of the Board of (Securities and Exchange Commission), the Fiscal Executive Officers, acquisition of fixed assets and Council also performs the role of Audit Committee, signing of contracts in an amount beyond the scope in addition to being responsible for the Complaint of authority of the Board of Executive Officers, and Channel, available on the Company website. This the Company sponsorship policy along with gratuitous channel receives complaints exclusively regarding acts for the benefit of employees or the community in accounting, internal accounting controls or audit accordance with Oi’s social responsibility guidelines. matters and confidential and/or anonymous reports from employees of the parent company or its affiliates There are no mechanisms for evaluation of Board on questionable accounting or audit issues. performance, but the internal regulations provide for annual self-assessment. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 25 | OI Board of Directors3 Member Alternate José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha (Chairman) 4 José Augusto da Gama Figueira João Carlos de Almeida Gaspar Antonio Cardoso dos Santos Zeinal Abedin Mahomed Bava Luis Miguel da Fonseca Pacheco de Melo Shakhaf Wine Abílio Cesário Lopes Martins Armando Galhardo Nunes Guerra Junior Paulo Márcio de Oliveira Monteiro Sergio Franklin Quintella Bruno Gonçalves Siqueira Renato Torres de Faria Carlos Fernando Horta Bretas Rafael Cardoso Cordeiro André Sant’anna Valladares de Andrade Fernando Magalhães Portella Carlos Jereissati Alexandre Jereissati Legey Carlos Francisco Ribeiro Jereissati Pedro Jereissati Cristina Anne Betts Cristiano Yazbek Pereira Erika Jereissati Zullo Fernando Marques dos Santos Laura Bedeschi Rego de Mattos José Valdir Ribeiro dos Reis Luciana Freitas Rodrigues Carlos Fernando Costa Marcelo Almeida de Souza Carlos Augusto Borges Alcinei Cardoso Rodrigues [GRI 4.2 and 4.3] 3 Board members are not executives, i.e. are not part of the Board of Executive Officers and do not perform any direct management function in the Company. 4 After the Board Meeting of January 22, 2013, José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha took office as CEO of the Company and subsidiaries, replacing Francisco Tosta Valim Filho. José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha stepped down from the post of Chairman of the Board, with his alternate José Augusto da Gama Figueira nominated assume this role. To find out more about the professional career paths of Board members, click here. Fiscal Council Member Alternate Sidnei Nunes Aparecido Carlos Correia Galdino Allan Kardec de Melo Ferreira Newton Brandão Ferraz Ramos Ricardo Berretta Pavie (Vacant) Marcos Duarte Santos Peter Edward Cortes Marsden Wilson OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 26 | OI Board of Executive Officers Francisco Tosta Valim Filho5 (CEO) Alex Waldemar Zornig (CFO and IRO) Francis James Leahy Meaney Pedro Santos Ripper Julio Cesar Fonseca Eurico de Jesus Teles Neto João de Deus Pinheiro Macedo Bayard de Paoli Gontijo Tarso Rebello Dias 5 Replaced by José Mauro Mettrau Carneiro da Cunha as of January 22, 2013, pursuant to a Board decision. To find out more about the career of our Executive Officers, click here. [GRI 4.1] Support to Decision Making The Finance, Monitoring and Budget Committee A set of structures provides support to the focuses on the financial aspects of strategic planning, decision-making process by the Company’s senior financial strategy, annual budget, tax planning, management. The main structures are detailed below: and business performance. Disclosure Committee: staffed by the CEO, CFO, The Human Resources and Compensation Committee treasury, investor relations, corporate communications, helps supervise the human resources strategy controllership, legal-corporate and marketable and issues related to major changes to the securities executive officers, and is executive in organizational structure, compensation strategy nature. Its duties include: approving and reviewing and performance assessment. risk management and internal controls of relevant processes and the flow of public information The Risk and Contingency Committee assists disclosure, including the Annual Management Report the Board in issues related to internal audits, and the reports submitted to the CVM (Securities and compliance with laws, regulations, policies and Exchange Commission), SEC and Anatel (National the code of conduct, information disclosure, Telecommunications Agency). The committee oversees corporate risk management and contingency compliance with the legal standards and regulations management and control. on disclosure and validates conference calls and the analyses of recommendations of risk rating agencies; The work of the Committee of Engineering and ensures the accuracy and reliability of managerial, Networks, Technology and Innovation and Service financial and operational data used internally, as Offerings is related to the operational aspects of well as of the information disclosed or published; strategic planning, commercial strategic positioning and reviews the processes for the issue of annual of business units, operational quality indicators, certificates required by law, among other tasks. innovation cycle and new businesses, new partnership opportunities with suppliers and Board Committees: there are four structures which other entities, network and platform strategies, assist the board in overseeing the different aspects IT architecture, opportunities for collaboration of planning and implementation of the strategy. and synergies with the operating partner. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 27 | OI Continuous Development structures that support the Company’s governance. In line with best market practices, Oi invests in Key development milestones since the continuous improvement of the systems and 2001 are as follows: 2001 • Social Responsibility Institute Oi Futuro 2002 • Fair disclosure policy • Code of Conduct and Transparency – CVM Instruction 358M 2003 • Disclosure Committee • Identification of risks and SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley) controls 2004 • Fiscal Council adjustment to SOX requirements (Audit Committee) 2005 • SOX pre-certification • First SOX certification 2006 • Complaint Channel – Fiscal Council • Code of Ethics (extensive to suppliers) 2007 • Stock Option Plan •  Advisory committees to the Board OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 28 | OI • Information Security Policy 2008 • Listed in the ISE (Corporate Sustainability Index) of the BM&FBovespa • Committee of Corporate Governance, Disclosure and Sustainability • Methodology and Policy of Corporate Risk Management and Internal Controls 2009 • Health, Safety and Environmental Policy • Policy of Scope of Authority • Governance Portal • United Nations Global Compact (joined) • Sustainability Policy •  Inventory and disclosure of greenhouse-gas emissions • GHG Protocol Program (joined) 2010 • Listed in the ICO2 (Carbon Efficiency Index) of the BM&FBovespa • Creation of the COO (chief operations officer) position • Strengthening of Board with strategic shareholder (Portugal Telecom) 2011 • EPC Program – Companies for the Climate (joined) • Committee of Engineering and Networks, Technology and Innovation and Service Offerings (advisory to the Board) • Education for Sustainability Program • Corporate reorganization of the Group • First sustainability report in accordance with GRI standards • Policy on Related Parties • Business Continuity Management System 2012 • Code of Ethics (new version) • Listed in Governance Level 1 of the BM&FBovespa •  Internal Audit is now subordinate to the Board •  Policy of Shareholders Compensation OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 29 | OI Internal Audit In order to mitigate identified risks, Oi designs and Linked directly to the Board of Directors and implements controls adapted to its business and indirectly to the CEO. It acts independently of constantly monitors its internal environment with operations with the aim of reviewing processes and a view to prevent losses and preserve assets. In systems and recommending improvements. This body addition, the corporate Risk Management system is driven by the principles and best practices of the brings together essential, reliable and updated Institute of Internal Auditors, an organization based information, providing enhanced transparency in the United States and present in Brazil, regulating and security to the decision-making process. the internal audit profession. Its structure is divided according to area of operations – IT and Operations, In 2012, the Company improved its controls by Compliance and Processes and Business – and has a creating the Business Continuity Committee. This support arm that uses sophisticated data mining and new structure operates in line with ABNT – NBR programming techniques to facilitate the work of ISO 15999 and adopts a comprehensive approach. auditors and maximize audit results. In addition to the focus on business, which aims to preserve the integrity of personal, material and Operations in this area cover a wide spectrum financial assets, the Committee observes and of auditing which includes the dimensions of seeks to mitigate potential risks to society and sustainability and social responsibility. Its annual the environment. work plan is approved by the Board – through the Risk and Contingency Committee – and by the Fiscal In monitoring this new risk context, Oi modified Council, which is authorized by SEC to operate as an and intensified processes to identify, analyze Audit Committee. and deal with risks. By adopting the Business Continuity Model in the strategic, tactical and Risk Management and Internal Controls operational dimensions, Oi seeks to boost its Oi’s Risk Management Model is periodically refined resilience against the manifestation of serious and in compliance with best market practices, such risks. Business continuity strategies and plans have as the Brazilian Risk Management Standard (ABNT been established for the assets that support Oi’s – NBR ISO 31000), Internal Control – Integrated key processes, with a view to maintaining the Framework by Coso (Committee of Sponsoring availability of services to customers. Organizations of the Treadway Commission), and Cobit (Control Objectives for Information and Related The systematic supervision of controls related Technology). Oi processes undergo external audit to the treatment and disclosure of financial annually in accordance with representativeness of information have made for appropriate conformity the related accounting records. In parallel to this, certification regarding operation of the control the Internal Audit examines all processes regardless environment in the Company. of accounting record representativeness. [GRI SO2] The ISO 31000 methodology provides the basis for identification of risks and controls related to corruption, fraud, collusion and improper actions. Probability and impact analyses conducted between 2010 and 2012 have guided mitigation actions in 60 processes related to SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley Law) certification. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 30 | OI Financial risks reduce exchange-rate risks or risks linked to interest Financial risk management takes into account the rates, and leverage through such transactions is consolidated structure of the Oi Group at strategic, not permitted. tactical and operational levels. In the Hedge policy, credit and liquidity risks are In the strategic dimension, the Board of Executive controlled by stress reports, in which risk factors Officers agrees with the Board on the risk policies experience both favorable and unfavorable shocks. to be followed each fiscal year. The Company also observes the counterparts limits in the execution of contracts and implementation of On a tactical level, supervision is the responsibility operations, besides considering the ratings of those of the Financial Risk Management Committee, involved, guarantees tendered and financial staffed by the CEO, CFO, planning and transaction thresholds. performance, controllership, regulatory affairs, legal, taxation and treasury executive officers. The In relation to the market, the identification of risk committee meets once a month, with the Audit factors is based on the characteristics of the financial officer as a passive participant. transactions contracted and to be contracted each fiscal year. The simulation of different scenarios Operational control is carried out by the Financial using statistical models serves as a basis for Risk Department, which monitors the compliance of measuring impacts on the Group’s financial financial operations with the Hedge Policy. Approved performance. Such analysis guides the risk policy, in October 2009, this policy contributed to the approved annually by the Board of Executive Officers monitoring of risks related to liquidity, credit and and the Board of Directors. market in conjunction with the Investment Policy. To define the risk policy, the Company considers the Investment Policy: this is aligned with Oi’s strategic worst expected impact of the financial result on the objectives and focuses on conservatism and achieving Group’s net income, with 95% reliability. In this liquidity and suitable profitability. It controls liquidity manner, the Hedge Policy aims to ensure the Group’s risks by establishing maximum grace periods and maximum net financial expense each fiscal year. approval limits. To mitigate credit risks, it defines the limits of concentration for financial institutions and To put the risk policy into practice, the Treasury minimum credit ratings. Focused on market risks, the department may contract protection instruments, policy identifies eligible and non-eligible instruments. including financial investments and derivative transactions, such as swaps, NDF (non-deliverable Hedge Policy: this policy sets out guidelines for the forwards) and options. The main permitted financial management of financial risks related to the capitals instruments include: interest rate swaps (IRS), plain market, formalizes the management of exposure to vanilla currency swaps or cross currency swaps (CCS), risk factors and determines the procedures and series swaps, NDFs (non-deliverable forwards) and controls required to identify, measure and minimize maintenance of cash in dollars (natural hedge). financial risk factors. The aim is to ensure a healthy cash flow, limiting the impacts of financial result volatility to predetermined levels. This policy is based on two assumptions: the Brazilian Real is Oi’s functional currency and Treasury has the responsibility to contract derivatives to limit unwanted risk and replace it with acceptable risk. The sole purpose of derivative transactions is to OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 31 | OI Ethics and Anti-Corruption Oi repudiates the practice of false, conspiratorial and [GRI DMA HR and DMA SO] Ethics is an important theme in vindictive reports. Committee decisions are Oi management, guiding the standard of conduct and transparent, and are published for in-house relations within the Company. The Code of Ethics, consumption. To this end, the Company maintains launched in 2007, was reformulated in 2012 in a permanent structure to monitor and deal with joint action between Ethics Agents, the Ethics questions received to ensure the credibility of its Committee and representatives from various company code and the actions of the Ethics Committee. departments. This new version comprehensively covered current issues such as conduct on social The Committee also nominates Ethical Agents, a networks, digital relations, brand protection, volunteer team of employees which works to promote competition compliance, sustainability and the the ethics culture in-house, and advise employees on fight against corruption. the guidelines of the code. The 1st National Meeting of Ethics Agents, held in January in Rio de Janeiro, [GRI HR3 and SO3] To reinforce the values set out by the marked formation of a new group of agents. code, Oi has provided online training (e-learning) in Ethics and Anti-Corruption, with case studies Legal compliance dealing with topics such as socio-environmental [GRI DMA SO] Oi observes relevant laws and respects responsibility, the fight against corruption, relations free competition in the conduct of its business. Oi with customers and suppliers, confidential repudiates any violation of trade secrets or improper information, attitude, use of resources and human obtaining of confidential information on products and rights issues, tackling discrimination, slave labor and services, and its Code of Ethics prohibits any exploitation of child labor. In 2012, 3,095 behavior which may cause the public to consider employees completed this training. it unethical, anti-competitive or contrary to the laws governing the market. Training in human rights and anti-corruption policies and procedures, including online Code of Ethics and [GRI SO7] In 2012, the Company defended three sustainability platforms, generated 5,642 study lawsuits (two related to unfaithful competition and hours for 28% of the total company headcount in one regarding publicity harmful to the competition). 2012. 786 employees took part in face-to-face These cases, as at the end of 2012, are still awaiting Ethics training. final decision. Monitoring The Oi Ethics Committee, comprising five directors, oversees compliance with the code and analyzes reports of violations received via the Complaints Channel. The channel is open to all groups on the Company website and is also available for employees on the intranet. Any reports can be made anonymously or in guaranteed confidence. [GRI HR4 and SO4] In 2012, the channel received 11 accusations on practices of discrimination and corruption. All accusations were analyzed and appropriate measures taken, including termination, warning and communication to the enforcement agencies when necessary. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 32 | OI Information Security related to SOX (Sarbanes-Oxley). In order to protect [GRI PR1] The initiatives to ensure information security internal information throughout the product and apply especially to the areas of Business, Information service lifespan and prevent improper accesses, Oi Technology and Engineering and are aimed at invests in security tools and in the automation of supporting the development of products and services, processes and concession of access, as well as in the defining technological standards across the network guarantee of access to mainframe systems. and raising awareness among teams as to the importance of this matter. This work is based on legal Internally, control of access to information is equally standards and best and current control practices. strict. BI (Business Intelligence) information systems control access by personal password and logging of In 2012, the challenge was to intensify the synergy of transactions. Access to reports containing personal actions focused on security with strategy, management client data require authorization from a manager, and quality of service to internal and external clients. acting within the regulations of an information Employees in the area of Information Security confidentiality agreement. The BI area also issues participated in the development of products launched informative reports with client data, such as CPF by Oi, making recommendations on security controls (Individual Taxpayer’s ID) and call history, to be used and improvements to development processes. as a basis for business analyses and decision making. Externally, information security management guides As with all the other employees of the Company, security services provided to cyber and corporative Information Security professionals undertake to clients. In 2012, Oi operated the telecommunications comply with Oi’s Code of Ethics, which requires network for Rio+20 (United Nations Conference on confidential treatment of client data. To reinforce Sustainable Development). To provide this service, awareness of this theme, in 2012 Oi promoted Oi made available its entire information security a training session with a view to minimizing its equipment to protect the network from hacker attacks. potential negative impacts on its business and products, primarily in relation to fraud. The Company seeks to minimize risks related to the definition of security parameters and detect and prevent problems, in addition to applying and monitoring business rules and internal controls OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 33 | OI winner of the cycle and is forwarded for analysis by Innovation and the department it was designed for. Once the head of Technology the department approves the idea, it is analyzed by the Innovation Committee, which decides about the possibility of implementation. The Innovation Initiative completed its first cycle in September Digital revolution and technology are the 2012, and 56 new ideas were forwarded for analysis. leading aspects of the development in the telecommunications sector. In order to preserve its Other Initiatives leading position in the domestic market, Oi keeps Throughout 2012, Oi continued to implement the an eye on new standards and tries to anticipate Program for Encouraging Innovation. Since 2011, market demands based upon pioneering efforts and this program has provided financial support to creativity. In terms of management routine, this technology research conducted in partnership with attitude translates into several actions that create the STIs (science and technology institutes), public or Company’s Innovation Ecosystem. private research centers, and universities. These joint efforts bring the market needs closer to the long-term In 2012, service prospecting and focus on research vision, ensuring mutual gains. Oi benefits from the and development were enhanced with the creation expertise of these partner institutions at the same of the Inova program, which was divided into time as these partners receive financial support three different types of innovation initiatives. The to develop their research. In 2012 alone, some Incremental Innovation is focused on the Company’s R$ 144 million were invested in 63 projects. daily routine and continuous improvement; the Planned Innovation is aimed at medium-term actions Another highlight of the year was the launch of the based on the development and launch of new app Oi Spot for mobile phones, which is able to products and services; and the Exploratory Innovation detect problems in the use of the mobile network and tries to approach new business models, trends, and makes it possible for the Company to get information technology, laying the groundwork for long-term about the users’ perception of the voice and mobile evolution. Together, these three types of innovation internet services. When the users experiences initiatives drive the Company into the future. problems to make phone calls, get mobile signal, or internet access, the system identifies the users’ The activities developed in the Incremental geographical location and the type of environment Innovation are aimed at getting the internal public where the problem occurred, and such information engaged in the process of searching for solutions help to improve the services. for the daily challenges. All employees can participate in these activities. During an activity Focusing on the increased use of the internet, the called Market of Ideas, participants develop their Oi Wi-Fi project started to be tested. This project own virtual “portfolio” of ideas, which is periodically will enable the use of public phones as hotspots assessed by their co-workers. Every time an idea is for wireless internet access. Six prototypes will approved by most team members, it is considered the be tested in 2013. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 34 | OI • Political, strategic and institutional scenario: Institutional analyzes different scenarios and situations Relations at diverse levels. • Institutional tools: consolidates and improves the relationship asset. [GRI DMA SO] The telecommunications sector is a key driver of the economic and social development of • Business strategy support: analyzes possibilities of Brazil and may strongly contribute to build a more partnerships and identifies business opportunities sustainable society by increasing access to between Oi and institutional stakeholders. information, strengthening interpersonal connections, and enhancing knowledge exchange using technology. Oi tries to play this role in a professional and Professional Training transparent manner, actively participating in the discussion of relevant policies for the Brazilian society. Considering the strategy of offering the staff with professional training, in 2012 all The area of Institutional Relations of the Company employees working in Oi’s area of Institutional is constantly in contact with several levels of the Relations took a training course specially Executive, Legislative and Judiciary branches of the designed to meet the needs of this area. government, sectoral forums, regulatory agencies, This training program was called IR Academy. and entities representing different sectors of society. It offered a course on Institutional Relations The activities are based on a set of internal policies, Scenario and Activities comprising four areas such as the Institutional Relationship Guide and the (communication, business administration, Code of Ethics. In 2012, this system was enhanced political sciences, and law) and had the by the creation of the Oi Policy of Institutional participation of educational institutions that Relations, which is based on eight areas of operation: are well-known for their competency: ESPM (Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing), • Government Relations: brings the Company closer IAG-PUC (Instituto de Administração e to government agencies, creating long-term value. Gerência da Pontifícia Universidade Católica), Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, and • Relationship with entities: guarantees a direct and General Coordination of Specialization Courses active participation in important multi-sectoral of PUC-SP. This course consists of more than forums about industry-based topics within the 400 class hours. The distance learning method institutional and governmental dimensions. was used because the participants were distributed all over the country. • Internal mobilization: shares technical knowledge with its internal structures and relationship experiences with its stakeholders. • Corporate sustainability: provides visibility to the Company’s commitment to corporate sustainability. • Corporate institutional relationship: is focused on compliance with the Company’s operation policies and achievement of business goals, creating credibility at different corporate levels. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 35 | OI Partnerships [GRI SO5] Dialogue and Mobilization [GRI EC8] In 2012, the Company established a closer Oi monitors and analyzes the proposed changes relationship with consumer protection agencies. The in laws and regulations at the federal, state and intention was to make consumer protection agencies municipal levels through the Caple (Monitoring and state prosecutors’ offices more familiar with the Committee of Legislative Proposals), composed Company’s institutional and corporate profile, as well of members of the following executive committees: as the projects conducted by Oi, providing them with Executive Planning, Regulatory and Sectoral Policy, useful information for the communities served by the Legal, Regulatory, Government Relations, and Company. One of the projects consisted of a booklet Institutional Relations. In 2012, the Caple analyzed containing explanations on the rights and duties of 113 proposals from a set of 2,074 bills that were the consumers. being monitored. Another important partnership was established with The most important topics discussed with the the Ministry of Health to produce telephone cards for political leaders were: use in public telephones containing informational and awareness messages. In 2012, the theme • proposals of laws to reduce theft of cables approached by Oi was the fight against dengue. and batteries; • laws restricting the expansion of mobile Oi set a cooperation agreement with the Brazilian telephony; Navy to provide telecommunications services to the EACF (Comandante Ferraz Antarctic Station), which • adherence to the 38/2009 Agreement of Confaz is being rebuilt after a fire earlier this year. Through National Council of Finance Policy for tax this agreement, the Company reinforces its exemption for broadband services; commitment to actively participate in projects that • federal bill PLS 293/12 on policies related to the bring benefits to the Brazilian society and cooperates installation of telecommunications infrastructure; once with the Brazilian Navy in the implementation and maintenance of new telecommunications • federal bill 2,126/2011 (Civil Rights Framework infrastructure for integrated voice, data, internet, for Internet); and mobile services, as well as TV reception solution, • federal bill 5,476/2001 (prohibition of monthly which have been provided to the Station since 2006. basic subscription); • provisional measure 563/12 on tax cuts for telecom, converted into law 12,715/2012; • creation of laws to foster the investment in culture and sports. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 36 | OI Oi also participates in the discussions of the FifaTM World Cup CGPID (Steering Committee of the Digital Inclusion Because of the urban interventions underway Program), pursuant to what is established in in several Brazilian cities with the purpose of the contract of adhesion to the PNBL (National preparing for the 2014 FifaTM World Cup , Oi has Broadband Plan) signed with the Ministry of been asked to perform relocation and removal of Communications and Anatel (National telecommunications infrastructure. The mapping Telecommunications Agency). of costs, impacts and risks enables a transparent dialogue with the agencies involved and the joint [GRI SO6] It is worth mentioning that any relationship search for solutions. with the government is based on dialogue and joint development, not involving financial assistance In 2012, the Special Secretariat for the 2014 whatsoever. Oi strictly follows the provisions of law World Cup (Secopa) of the state of Mato Grosso, 9,504, effective as of September 30, 1997, which for example, requested the removal of a telephone prohibits the utility concessionaires to directly or station that serves the data network of the state and indirectly donate to candidates or political parties. covers the major bodies of the state government, as well as fixed telephony and/or broadband services of official bodies, schools, and retail business. The technical complexity of the operation and the risk of temporary interruption of the services provided to important state and federal agencies, as well as corporate and retail customers in the state, and the high cost involved were the key factors considered in the discussions and helped to define alternatives to the removal of the telephone station. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 37 | OI “The CONVENIENCES that people, entities and companies have because of the service provided by Oi People facilitate business development and stimulate the economy.” Organized Civil Society Relations door-to-door sales, besides a greater focus on business and corporate markets. The Company’s with Employees initiatives also included the BPO of the internal support areas, with the purpose of achieving greater focus on core business. [GRI 2.8 and LA1] Oi invests in the development of its [GRI LA1] INTERNAL PUBLIC PROFILE employees by offering them structured programs aimed at different functional levels, with a focus on EDUCATION LEVEL skills improvement and service efficiency. Likewise, the Company also promotes initiatives to attract and retain the best professionals, and always tries to offer 54% a stimulating and motivating work environment. 49% These conditions are essential to achieve good 37% business performance, pre-established goals, 31% and continuous improvement of services. [GRI 2.8 and LA1] The Company ended 2012 with 15,146 13% 12% employees, representing an expansion of the labor force of around 15% compared to 13,224 employees 1% 1% 1% 1% in 2011. Considering staff mobility, 5,742 Elementary High College Graduate Master’s professionals were hired, while 3,791 people school school (undergraduate program/ degree program) MBA voluntarily left the company, were dismissed, retired or died. The net expansion was 1,951 new jobs. 2011 2012 In addition to the full-time employees, mentioned above, 721 interns and 104 technical apprentices number of employees also were part of the staff working in all states and the Federal District. Oi also had 166,253 outsourced 15,146 workers, working at call centers, asset management, 13,224 sales channels, and maintenance operations. The year 2012 marked the history of Oi with the launch of a new strategic plan, which includes increased investments in infrastructure, process improvement, and customer service, entry into new markets and strengthening of consolidated segments. The company expanded the teams of nine regional 2011 2012 units and increased the number of sales channels, with the opening of 127 Company-owned stores, a larger number of franchise units and expansion of Note: The numbers related to the chapter Relations with Employees include the following companies: Oi SA, Telemar Norte Leste S/A, TNL PCS S/A, Paggo Administradora de Credito, Brasil Telecom Celular S/A, Brasil Telecom Comunicação Multimidia Ltda, Brasil Telecom Cabos Submarinos Ltda and Globenet Internacional, on 31/12/2012. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 38 | people FUNCTIONAL CATEGORy Employees by Region 8,869 9,436 13,520 15,146 13,224 12,100 1,406 2,015 1,576 1,332 1,293 770 904 240 596 1,079 114 126 508 713 Top Management Supervision/ Functional Total management Coordination Staff Southeast Mid-West Northeast North South 2011 2012 2011 2012 Note: Including analysts, assistants, lawyers, experts, salespeople, and technicians. [GRI 2.5] Note: In addition to the employees working in Brazil, Oi also has 60 employees in the USA, five in Colombia, two in Bermuda, and seven in Venezuela. [GRI LA2] Staff Movement Admissions 2011 Admissions 2012 Dismissals 2011 Dismissals 2012 By gender Men 1,336 2,938 1,019 2,033 Women 1,657 2,804 657 1,758 By age group Under 30 years 1,787 3,469 563 1,761 Between 30 and 50 years 1,180 2,219 1,007 1,826 Over 50 years 26 54 106 204 By region South 313 631 139 347 Southeast 2,177 3,493 1,185 2,835 Mid-West 267 523 176 282 Northeast 132 832 94 227 North 82 243 77 85 United States 19 15 4 10 Colombia 2 1 0 2 Bermudan Islands 0 1 1 1 Venezuela 1 3 0 2 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 39 | PEople Turnover by gender 2011 2012 Male 9.50% 17.64% Female 9.40% 16.19% Turnover by age group 2011 2012 Under 30 years 9.50% 18.56% Between 30 and 50 years 8.90% 14.36% Over 50 years 0.50% 0.92% Note: (1) The turnover rate calculation applies the methodology proposed by the ABRH, Brazilian Human Resources Association, a common practice among Brazilian companies that allows comparison between different segments and sectors. (2) These data cover only internal employees. There are no official figures on the staff turnover rate of outsourced companies and suppliers. Diversity and Inclusion Once a week, the Company discloses employment Oi also has established partnerships with employment opportunities in the Sine-RJ and at the Deficientes placement agencies specializing in recruiting people with Online website. Throughout the year, Oi set up booths special needs, such as Soluções Sustentáveis and AME. in public places to collect professional resumes. The aim of these partnerships is to define strategies for It also has a section in its Intranet focused on the hiring professionals, helping to address one of the major discussion of inclusion of people with special needs challenges for many companies today. A program into the work routine. established with the non-governmental organization Centro de Vida Independente (Independent Life Center), for [GRI LA13] An employee from Human Resources example, facilitated the search for professionals with department works full time on recruitment and special needs meeting the requirements Oi was looking for. inclusion of people with special needs. In 2011, Oi After hiring these employees are trained for four months had 265 employees with special needs and in 2012, and then are allocated to several departments of the this figure reached 268 employees. Company. Every month, new managers also participated in workshops to raise awareness about the issue. [GRI LA13] Diversity in the staff and corporate governance Gender General picture 2011 2012 Men 60% 58% Women 40% 42% Gender (%) in each line: men+women = 100% Women % Men % Board of Directors6 0 16 Top management 12 0.08% 114 0.75% Management 244 1.61% 660 4.36% Supervision/Coordination 247 1.63% 349 2.30% Functional Staff 5,826 38.47% 7,694 50.80% Total 6,329 41.79% 8,817 58.21% 6 The Board of Directors is not included in the total number of employees OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 40 | PEople Women holding executive positions (%) 2011 2012 25% 25% Age Group General picture 2011 2012 Up to 30 years 27% 28% Between 30 and 50 years 62% 61% Over 50 years 12% 11% Board of Top Supervision/ Functional % Age Group % Directors7 management Management Coordination Staff Up to 30 years 28 0% 0% 1% 29% 30% Between 30 and 50 years 61 56% 69% 88% 66% 59% Over 50 years 11 44% 31% 11% 5% 11% Total 100 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 7 The Board of Directors is not included in the total number of employees Training contributes to improved alignment of each [GRI LA11] Oi invests in the training and professional manager with their team members, with managers growth of its employees. Among the programs taking closer control of processes under their for all employees, there are the Tracks for responsibility and focusing their actions on dealing Development of Technical Competencies, spot with root causes of deviations and implementation training, development of leadership, e-learning of structured action plans to improve performance programs, contract training, on-demand training, and achievement of results. continuing education and online English courses. The training sessions focused on technical skills Programs offered to new managers: and continued education actions amounted to 311,550 hours in 2012. • all managers participated in the Welcome to Managers, a personalized hiring process for new Geared to managers, the Academia de Liderança the managers; (Leadership Academy) promotes and consolidates a corporate culture focused on services based • the Leadership Program for New Managers reached on a methodology exploring the daily operational 65% of newly hired or promoted team managers – experiences. In 2012, 93% of the managers were its aim is to educate new leaders about their role trained, totaling 31,785 hours, an increase of and develop behavioral aspects of people 11% over the previous year. This was possible management, instructing them in Oi human thanks to the offer of specific programs for the resources processes. diverse profiles of Oi’s management. Programs offered to functional managers: In order to align leadership with Company strategic guidelines, 92% of managers were trained in 2012 • Impact and Influence Program: enhances to use a management tool (ICG) which supports communication skills, impact, and persuasion. development of goals and is based on the principle In 2012, it reached 93% of favorability. of continuous improvement. The new tool facilitates daily routine management and OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 41 | PEople • Oi Leader Program – People: provides Regarding the top management, work continued on management tools and featured specific groups the process of executive career development with the and content for team managers, managers of completion of the Annual Meetings which dealt with managers, and functional managers. About 75% the following topics: validation of the competency of eligible employees were trained, and this was mapping of 120 executives, identification of prepared also the first program offered to the regional units. successors, and definition of PDIs (Individual Development Plans) for future positions. As a tool for employees’ career management, Oi uses a process of performance analysis that aims to evaluate professionals focusing on development. [GRI 2.8 and GRI LA1] Average number of training hours per employee Employee Category 2010 2011 2012 Top management 18 29 30 Management 40 40 57 Supervision/Coordination 57 Functional Staff8 34 20 21 Total 35 21 23 8 Including analysts, assistants, lawyers, experts, salespeople, and technicians. Note: The employees of Globenet are not included in the calculation of this indicator. Average number of training hours per employee Employee Category 2012 Technical apprentices 6 Interns 15 Total 14 [GRI LA11] The Corporate Education Program, available Company offers a high-quality training to its for employees, is aimed at leveraging the employees employees, giving them the opportunity to develop learning process, ensuring mapping and professionally while implementing projects that are dissemination of knowledge through educational relevant to the organization, mainly attacking the root practices and activities that encourage the creation, causes of problems in the processes. The program acquisition, dissemination, use, and sharing of has grown from 24 projects in 2011 to 174 in 2012 knowledge in order to support their employability. and was expanded to also cover projects developed in partnership with service providers, causing a Through the Seis Sigma Program, employees can significant cost reduction. suggest projects focused on revenue gains, cost reduction, quality improvement or risk mitigation. A total of 14,218 employees participated in at least Such projects are analyzed by a core team and the one instructor-based or online training. In addition, managers responsible for the processes in question. 680 employees participated in non-behavioral Once approved, the employees who suggested them training sessions, workshops, lectures, conferences are trained as Green or Black Belts. Thus, the or events; and 12 employees were granted OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 42 | PEople undergraduate program scholarships, six were granted interns). Conducted by the local leadership team graduate program scholarships, and one was granted with Human Resources support, approximately a language course scholarship. 85% of employees from each region attended. As an important aspect of brand consolidation, teams Approximately 130 internal employee engagement working at Oi-owned stores were specifically trained campaigns were launched in 2012, with over in client service. Representatives of the Human 630 advertising items produced, such as email Resources department at the regional units trained marketing, banner ads and pop ups used on the the managers in relevant topics such as awareness corporate intranet. about bullying, attendance control, and team leadership. The salespersons receive information To support the internal mobilization aimed at the about career opportunities and learn about the business expected results, dissemination and importance of keeping motivated. consolidation actions related to the Mission, Vision and Practices of the Company were carried out. A communication campaign invited employees to adhere to the guidelines containing the behaviors [GRI 4.16] ENGAGEMENT AND SOCIAL needed to transform Oi into the customers’ favorite RESPONSIBILITY telecommunications company. To reinforce the concepts behind the four Practices The Customer Oi’s Volunteer Program encourages its employees as the Center of Everything it Does, Making it to value volunteer work and understand the Happen with Excellence, People who Surprises, importance of good deeds. In 2012, about and Sustainable Results were disclosed explanatory 400 employees participated in this program, videos of projects that are based on the attitudes which theme was “The advantages of staying present in each of these practices, and online in school.” In all Brazilian states, 4,500 students training courses were developed to facilitate the from public schools, distributed in 55 classes, assimilation of these behaviors. were visited by Oi employees, who passed on their knowledge to the students. Approximately Remuneration Strategy 3,000 hours of classes were taught. Since [GRI DMA EC and GRI 4.5] Oi’s plan for jobs and salaries was it was implemented in 2003, Oi’s Volunteer structured according to the Hay Methodology of job Program has had the partnership of the NGO evaluation and aims to establish both internal Junior Achievement of Brazil. Oi allows their balance, defining levels grouping similar positions employees to participate in the program in terms of hierarchy, complexity and impact on the during office hours. business, and accurate parameters of comparison with the market. Compensation plans and programs are intended to ensure the competitiveness of the In 2012, national and regional schedules for remuneration to facilitate the attraction and retention relationship events and actions were implemented of qualified professionals with the purpose of based on three pillars: leadership alignment, achieving business goals. capillarity in regional units, and transparency in business transformation fronts. In addition, Oi has had a profit sharing plan since 1999. This plan stimulates the employees to meet In order to disclose Company results, monitor goals the targets set by the Company by aligning the and acknowledge local achievements, two series of interests of executives and employees with those Conectas Regionais were held over 17 events. This of shareholders. Profit sharing occurs when the initiative consists of an alignment meeting for all the performance targets set annually by the Board regional unit members (managers, employees and of Directors are achieved. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 43 | PEople [GRI LA14] At Oi, position and salary policy is not [GRI EC5] associated with gender discrimination. Considering Ratio of Oi’s lowest salary to national minimum salary the average salary per employee category, however, 2011 2012 it is possible to find differences due to the employees’ level of development and career AC 176% 167% experience. In 2012, the differences increased AL 183% 158% in some categories because new employees were AM 150% 119% hired and there an increase in the number of women AP 214% 113% starting out their careers or those newly promoted. BA 135% 116% CE 160% 119% Ratio of base salary of men to women DF 128% 136% 2011 2012 ES 159% 123% Top management 74% 70% G0 128% 129% Management 93% 93% MA 160% 119% Supervision/Coordination 100% 80% MG 128% 116% Functional Staff 91% 77% MS 176% 136% Note: Base salary is the monthly and minimum fixed value paid to an employee to perform his or her job. It does not include additional remuneration, such as MT 176% 129% that based on overtime pay, bonus, payment of benefits or any other assistance. PA 142% 119% PB 150% 119% [GRI EC5] In 2012, the lowest salary paid by Oi was 13% higher than the national minimum salary, while PE 160% 116% in the previous year the percentage was 17%. This PI 160% 158% reduction can be observed in most states thanks to PR 128% 129% the actual raise in the minimum wage for each RJ 128% 113% category in the country during the year. RN 150% 119% RO 188% 175% The employees’ remuneration is not based on salaries RR 191% 113% subject to the rules of the Brazilian minimum salary. The table below shows the variation in the proportion RS 128% 129% of lowest salary paid by the Company compared with SC 117% 129% the Brazilian minimum salary in 2012, in the states SE 143% 119% where it operates. Therefore, considering that the SP 128% 136% local minimum salaries (from the states) determined TO 188% 175% for only five Brazilian States are not the same inside Note: Interpreting the table: if the rate indicates, for example, 150%, it the same region and not applicable to the Company’s means that the lowest salary is 50% higher than the minimum salary. As the Company operates in the whole country, Oi does not apply the classification of sector of activity, in order to calculate this indicator, “important operational units”, and thus it shows the information per State. the Brazilian minimum salary was used. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 44 | PEople Internal Employees Movement In 2012, the Internship Generation Program was Oi has a policy of recruitment and selection expanded because the Company implemented the that values the internal repositioning of its own Technical Internship Generation Program again, employees. Most job openings are offered internally. which is aimed at the Departments of Engineering To make the hiring process faster, the Executive and Operations. Board of Gente da Oi is comprised of a team responsible for seeking qualified professionals, The following programs: Executive Trainee, Trainee mainly for the technical departments, whose labor Expert, Newly-Graduate Trainee, and PDA were force is scarce. implemented in 2010 and completed in March 2012. Of the 15 participants who passed the Irrespective of that purpose, in order to make part Executive Trainee Program, which aims to develop of Oi’s team of employees, the applicants must young talents with multifunctional profile to work meet the technical and behavioral requirements in different business fronts, 93% are still working set for the position. In 2012, 67.5% of the openings for the Company. for executives were filled by internal applicants through assessment. The Expert Trainee Program, focusing on the development of young talents with technical skills to Information on the Human Resources policies are support the technological evolution and innovation of made available on the intranet to make sure that the business, approved 28 candidates in 2010. Of all employees are always aware of the Company’s these, 89% are still on staff. procedures. Call centers are also available for the employees, such as the Gente Atende service, which Regarding the Program for Accelerated Development, can be used to clarify doubts and disseminate which started in 2010 with 27 participants, the relevant information. These tools are also used to percentage of retention was 78%. The purpose of this monitor daily processes such as control and signature program is to develop and retain employees with high of the timesheet, vacation management, access to potential and prepare them for the challenges of their and explanation about benefits and wellness and areas of activity. health programs. Oi also offers the Newly-Graduate Trainee Program, Attracting Talents which is aimed at employees at an early stage of Oi’s human resources management is also focused their careers. on seeking and retaining the best professionals in its different areas of activity. In order to hire young The 2011 and 2012 editions of the Executive people and position itself as an employer brand, the Trainee and Trainee Expert Programs (focused on the Company participated in 16 university fairs in six Departments of Engineering and IT), which are still in Brazilian states, always using high-quality and progress, selected a total of 64 people, and 97% of attractive booths. them are still working for Oi. These editions will be completed in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Oi also offers the Generation Program, which is aimed at meeting the need for key positions in the Benefits and Retirement organization by recruiting, identifying, developing, and [GRI LA3] All employees, except for technical retaining talents that stand out for their high potential apprentices and interns, receive benefits such as food for adherence to Oi’s Practices. The Program vouchers, medical and dental care, medication Generation is divided into three different groups: subsidies, child-care assistance, private pension Internship Generation, Trainee Generation, and PDA plan, and life insurance. The Company does not have Generation (Program for Accelerated Development). employees working part-time or for temporary periods. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 45 | PEople [GRI EC3] Oi also offers all its employees a voluntary [GRI LA8] In 2012, the Healthy Life Program gained private pension plan based on their variable new momentum. Employees and/or legally registered contribution, including retirement income, sickness family members with chronic diseases have their allowance, and death benefits. The Company health monitored permanently. With the help of contributes as much as the employee, which is health professionals, targets for the reduction of risk established by the basic contribution – equivalent to factors and improvement of the quality of life are 2% of the base salary – and the standard contribution established, such as stop smoking, physical exercise, – 3% of the difference between the employee’s base and weight loss. In some cases, the program provides salary and the portion of the pension. home care at no extra costs and specific drug subsidy, without co-participation, through the Furthermore, there is the possibility of an additional Program for Continuous-Use Medication. Those or occasional extraordinary contribution. However, the employees covered by the program can also use a Company has a maximum limit of contribution over 24-hour call center providing professional guidance the base salary. In case of extra contributions above on doubts regarding emergency situations. These this maximum limit, Oi is not required to contribute are some of the goals of the Healthy Life Program: the same amount. The investment of the benefit is engaging the participant in the process of continuous based on the financial resources of the Company. health improvement; strengthening the patientphysician relationship; increasing adherence to [GRI DMA LA] Health and Safety drug treatment, when prescribed; promoting the Health and safety are priorities for human resources performance of preventive examinations; providing management at Oi. The occupational health exams health education; and encouraging the adoption and are detailed and cover more aspects than those practice of healthy habits. required by the Brazilian laws and regulations. Employees undergo periodic exams, which serve as [GRI LA6] In terms of occupational safety, Oi has the basis for regular mini checkups. In addition to 36 CIPAs (Internal Commission for Accident the clinical examination, all employees undergo Prevention) across the Brazilian territory, including blood tests or additional exams in case of medical the buildings used by more than 50 employees. recommendation. Women should undergo preventive As required by the Brazilian law, the CIPAs represent gynecological examination, and when older than 45 100% of the employees of the units where they years old, mammography and treadmill test. Men over are implemented. The commissions comprise 261 45 years old must provide a PSA test and undergo professionals chosen by an annual open voting the treadmill test. process and trained in the prevention of occupational accidents. These commissions meet once a month Oi understands that it is not enough to offer a health and are monitored by safety technicians. care insurance benefit if it does not provide its employees with the possibility of prevention and maintenance of a healthy life. Therefore, Oi also offers health care, including medical care, dental care, and medicines, and it also extends the health insurance coverage to employees’ family members, according to the policy of the company, in co-participation system. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 46 | PEople The CIPAs help determine workplace safety [GRI LA9] These collective agreements cover issues conditions. The SIPAT (In-Company Week of On-therelated to working hours, health, occupational Job Accident Prevention) is held annually focusing on safety, and benefits such as medical, hospital, themes related to healthy living, health, and dental care, and medications, food, among others; occupational safety. Throughout the year, evacuations including eligibility rules and general conditions of of the main buildings are simulated with the co-participation. The profit sharing agreements are participation of the CIPAs and volunteer brigades. also negotiated annually with their respective unions. In 2012, Oi trained 2,233 employees in Fundamentals of Occupational Safety. This is a basic [GRI HR5] There are no operations in which the training, where employees can learn the basics of employees’ rights to exercise freedom of association occupational safety and accident prevention. Besides or collective bargaining are at risk. this training, 1,026 employees also took the course “Conscious and Defensive Driving”, reinforcing the Outplacement need for awareness while driving, whether at work or [GRI LA11] In order to support outplacement of the not. The course Fundamentals of Fire Fighting and professionals in cases selected by means of internal Prevention had 709 participants, and 276 employees decision, Oi has an outplacement program aimed at took the course for practical training of the Volunteer facilitating the search for a new productive activity. Fire Brigade, preparing them act in emergency situations and building evacuation. Legal Compliance [GRI SO8] The legal department of Oi acts in a Oi also offered the Occupational Safety Workshop in preventive manner to identify potential risks of labor the regional units of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, South claims. Oi tries to monitor the updates of labor law, region, Mid-West region, Pernambuco, Minas Gerais, advising its employees on possible changes in the Ceará, and North region, which was attended by 269 legal interpretations by the labor courts. At the end representatives of the leading service companies. The of 2012, there were 44,100 labor claims filed event aims to align occupation safety standards in force against Oi, most of them relating to complaints about in the Company with the changes in labor legislation. overtime, salary parity, and recognition of secondary liability (third party suppliers). Approximately R$ 1.5 [GRI DMA LA] Freedom of Association billion was allocated for occasional payments arising [GRI LA4 and LA5] The Company respects the employees’ from decisions of the Labor Court. right to union membership, and all employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Whenever significant operational changes are made employees and union representatives are properly informed. However, in Brazil minimum time limits for notification of changes are not usually set in the agreements. In addition, Oi keeps its employees well informed during negotiation processes, which take place annually, using its internal communication tools and meetings. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 47 | PEople [GRI HR1 and HR2] During the period, 1,912 contracts Relations with were signed with suppliers of services or products, Suppliers and 637 investment contracts were also signed, and all of them included the content related to human rights violations. [GRI DMA HR] The process of selection, recruitment Qualification Index and evaluation of Oi’s suppliers is based on strict [GRI HR2] In order to assess the quality of the services technical, professional and ethical criteria. This provided in accordance with what is established in process is conducted according to formally defined the contract, Oi uses the IQF Índice de Qualidade procedures and seeks to choose the best business dos Fornecedores (Suppliers’ Qualification Index). partners, since the image and reputation of the This process makes it possible to establish objective Company are also directly influenced by the quality and transparent criteria in the monitoring of service of their work. Therefore, Oi is constantly focused on provision), as well as to promote development, this matter in order to ensure they are aligned with creating conditions to hold long-term contractual its guidelines and objectives. agreements. The IQF consists of a formal, structured and regulated process that assesses suppliers The selection phase includes the economic and considering five pillars: operational efficiency, financial evaluation of each supplier and considers contract management, process compliance, customer the compliance with environmental criteria using a satisfaction, and management of human resources. sustainability questionnaire. The result of the socioenvironmental assessment is presented to Oi’s The management of human resources includes the employee responsible for procurement together with following is items: compliance with requirements of the evaluation of the supplier’s financial performance. health and occupational safety, as well as labor and In addition to identifying the supplier’s stage of social security legislation, provision for collective development, the tool discloses Oi’s sustainability agreements, and training. To facilitate Oi’s national policies to potential suppliers, emphasizing what is operation and its presence in all Brazilian relevant to the Company. municipalities, outsourcing of operation services becomes essential for equipment installation and The selected supplier must sign a contract and the maintenance. The IQF evaluates segments as Appendix Guidelines for Social and Environmental engineering, operation and maintenance of internal Contractors Social and Environmental Regulatory and external plant and others. In 2012, there were Requirements. This document includes clauses performed 74 IQF assessments in different segments. regarding social and environmental responsibility including requirements related to environmental protection and non-use of child labor, forced or compulsory labor. In 2012, a clause reinforcing the commitment to respect for human rights was included in all standard drafts of the Company. The change affected the contracts in force as well as the new contracts, both investment and supplier contracts, regardless of their size or nature. Contractors undertake to act in accordance with Oi’s Sustainability Policy and its guidelines of sustainable development. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 48 | PEople Auditing and Monitoring [GRI EC6] From 2009 to 2012, local suppliers accounted In addition to the control processes described above, in for 99% of the Company’s purchases. Since Oi 2012, the auditing processes of the Sustainable Supply operates in all Brazilian states, any company Chain Management project were implemented. The established in the national territory is considered initiative consists of checking a socioenvironmental a local supplier. checklist, prepared jointly by the departments of Governance and Sustainability, Benefits, Health and Safety, and Management of Subcontractors. This [GRI 4.16] Disseminating Good Practices analysis aims to monitor the compliance with the contractual clauses regarding environmental issues and To identify new opportunities, challenges and social responsibility in the activities performed by best practices, the Training of Subcontractors’ service suppliers. The Health and Safety team was department, created in 2012, strengthened trained to conduct audits based on the checklist and the relations with the HR departments of started field monitoring. Thirty-six units of 14 partner companies by means of weekly companies distributed in several states of Brazil were meetings addressing topics such as staff audited. The result of this analysis reveals the supplier’s retention, training initiatives, human resources stage of development in terms of sustainability issues. management, and leadership skills. Suppliers need to be aware of the possible social and environmental impacts resulting from their activities, and to this end Oi recommends that contractor [GRI 4.16] Professional Training employees acting on behalf of the Company receive Since 2000, Oi has been developing the Cequal training to deal with possible emergency situations and/ (Professional Qualification Test Center), the biggest or environmental accidents related to provision of professional certification program in Brazil, the contracted services. purpose of which is to guarantee excellent quality of customer service through outsourced labor. [GRI HR8] All outsourced professionals providing security services to Oi are trained in the Company’s This program has certified over 18,000 professionals procedures concerning human rights, such as that serving customers in the installation and repair given in the courses “Profile of a Differentiated services of fixed lines, Velox, and data, covering over Professional”, “Excellence in Customer Service” and 15 thousand technicians. “Basic Notions of Private Asset Protection”. The Company’s Security Policy, focused on life protection Oi is also investing in the expansion ofits certification and non-use of force, hires unarmed guard services. laboratories from 16 to 27, and increasing the Except for the buildings whose contractual number of approved schools. In 2012, there were requirements of clients require armed guard. 47 schools, and in 2013 the goal is to reach 57 schools nationwide. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 49 | PEople In 2012, Oi implemented the High Performance In 2012, the Company reviewed the syllabus of the Supervisor program which seeks to improve Customer Service Quality course and delivered the performance of services supplier supervisors in failure new version to external plant suppliers (network identification and treatment, thereby enhancing the service providers) with employees on the front line performance of field technicians so that they become of customer service. Groups of multipliers, suggested more assertive in solving customer problems during by the supplier companies, were trained and assigned the first visit. Multipliers at the nine regional units the task of passing on this knowledge to their teams. and 150 network service provider supervisors, The syllabus included sustainability, ethics and responsible for approximately 2,500 technicians, corruption issues, in addition to matters related to received training, to be extended in 2013 to over the style of customer service the Company expects 500 new supervisors. these professionals to provide. Technical Cooperation In 2009, Oi signed a Technical Cooperation Agreement with the MTE (Ministry of Labor and Employment). As a result, the MTE logo was authorized for use on the training certificate and for disclosure of Cequal’s actions. Since then, the Company has been able to develop activities of good practices, jointly with the MTE, focused on professional training and certification in keeping with the Federal Government’s National Plan of Training. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 50 | PEople In a scenario of constant change and innovation, Customer and Oi seeks to identify trends and anticipate market Consumer Relations expectations. As the most complete internet provider in Brazil, Oi is prepared to meet the growing number of consumers connected via laptops, smartphones, and tablets. Oi is a pioneer in offering telecommunications solutions. To continue to be recognized as the most comprehensive carrier in the market, on the one hand the Company invests in the improvement and new broadband standard innovation of its product portfolio to meet market needs and expectations and, on the other, in the Oi participated in the bidding for the license continuous improvement of customer relations, usage of the fourth generation (4G) mobile seeking to promote better communication and offer telephone services. The new standard in mobile improved service. broadband technology represents an evolution from 3G and offers up to 100-Mbps speed with Operating throughout the country in the Residential, data traffic. This opens opportunities to develop Personal Mobile, and Corporate/Business segments, services that require high-speed connection, Oi services customers with different profiles in terms such as video conferencing, games for mobile of age, income, and consumption. While presenting a phones and tablets, video on demand, and challenge, the heterogeneity of customers is an asset mobile device applications. Oi tested this new and stimulates development of new solutions based technology in the city of Rio de Janeiro. Until on the wide range of products and services. Operating April 2013, the networks will be available in the in a flexible and streamlined manner, Oi has gained six host cities of the Fifa Confederations Cup. the trust of many segments. According to a survey published in 2012 by Proteste, a consumer protection association, Oi offers the best mobile internet plans for three types of users – Relationship Channels connected, moderate, and superconnected. A survey [GRI 4.16] Oi sees the customer as the center of carried out by the consulting firms Pricez and Teleco everything it does. The company continually revealed that, in the mobile telephony segment Oi is invests in improving and diversifying its relationship the most competitive carrier in the several channels and offers different means and platforms consumption profiles considered in the survey, such as contact via telephone, website, email, including both medium and high consumption social networks or using exclusive mobile phone users and prepaid low monthly consumption users applications. (R$ 20 to R$ 30). The call centers are the main relationship channel. In 2012, the Company segmented its customer base Whenever necessary and depending on the user’s to understand the different needs and identify prefers, the service is provided by the call center business opportunities in the gaps left by the clerk, but currently for half of the calls the questions market. Oi is attentive to the economic growth of and requests are solved electronically through the Brazil and the increased purchasing power of the URA (Audio Response Unit) system. With a number population. Therefore, the Company seeks to provide of standart options covering the simplest and most the same quality in the different purchasing common needs, the URA ensures flexible and experiences offered. streamlined service. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 51 | PEople To improve telephone contact, Oi has begun to clarifying people’s doubts about the initiatives, such change the call center structure using an IP as popular access to broadband, providing service to platform (Internet Protocol), which reduces the people with hearing disabilities, collection of solid risk of interrupting a call before the service is waste, use of telecommunications as an educational completed, prevents the attendant from intentionally tool with the help of telecommunication services, terminating a call, and allows call-back in case of support to sports and culture. interruption. The new structure allows for service compartmentalization: calls can be transferred to [GRI PR6 and PR7] With the purpose of communicating attendants capable of answering specific questions. with different sectors of society, Oi uses simple Other advantages of the system are lower cost and message without jargon, always always observing the the possibility of providing remote service. The Conar (Brazilian Advertising Self-Regulation Council) migration process will be completed in 2013. regulations and applicable laws. Despite the care in the creation of advertising, the Company faced [GRI EN26] In the Company’s website, www.oi.com.br, six cases of penalties imposed by Conar in 2012, the customer can access the section Minha Oi, a based on articles of the Brazilian Advertising Selfpersonalized self-service area offering information Regulation Code. Five of them resulted in changes on contracted products, mobile recharge, and in advertising materials. In one case, the ad was not management of user’s data consumption in real time, allowed to be broadcast. invoice and balance viewing, and redemption of Oi Pontos, among other services. Users can also request Focus on Quality the online invoice and cancel the receipt of paper Oi’s concern with the quality of assistance serviceis invoices. With this option, Oi offers the customer the reflected in the training and qualification of opportunity to contribute to the Company’s efforts employees who work in the call centers. From January to reduce the consumption of natural resources. to December 2012, the staff has taken a monthly In 2012, the service reached 448,000 registered average of 13 hours of training. invoices, about 3.5 times higher than the previous year. The area Minha Oi is also available through To motivate teams of the call centers and engage an application designed for smartphones. them in the culture of excellence, Oi created the project You Are the Key Piece in a Complete Service, The Contact Us service, available at the website, which evaluates the clerk’s performance in a receives queries, complaints, and suggestions, qualitative manner based on customer satisfaction which may be sent by e-mail or letter. and the clerk’s problem solving ability. At the end of each call, the user is asked to answer a satisfaction The Company is present on major social networks survey, and each clerk’s performance is monitored (Facebook, Twitter, Orkut, and Google+), through daily. Periodically, the Company rewards those which it interacts with customers and inform them employees who were best evaluated and sends those about products and services. In 2012, the content who have a higher incidence of negative evaluations posted by Oi on social networks was seen by over to refreshment courses. 63 million users. Two other programs, created in 2012, complement Humanized Communication the work of continuous improvement. [GRI DMA PR] Respect for its stakeholders and society is the focus of Oi’s communication channels, and the relationship with the consumer is humanized. More than just boosting sales, the Company’s initiatives are aimed at communicating relevant issues and OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 52 | PEople In the Bom dia, Oi, the CEO meets weekly with Brand Ambassadors members of various departments, such as IT, Logistics, Billing, Engineering, Product, Operations, With the Joia (The Oi Way to Serve and Learn) Processes, Segments and Relation with Customers, program, all employees act as Oi brand to discuss the problems faced in the past week. Daily, ambassadors, responding to requests or the executive boards receive the list of reasons for recurrent complaints of friends, acquaintances, customer calls; and on the next day, these boards and family members. The program provides monitor the evolution of situations and analyze the contact through two fronts. In the Joia Service, solutions and measures taken. the employee contacts the customer on the phone. Using the tool Atalho Joia , the The Rate program focuses on the solution of complaint is recorded through the corporate persistent structural problems on several fronts intranet. From Monday to Saturday, the office billing, repairs, sales quality, offers, and customer of the Ombudsman contacts the employee service – and it seeks to reduce the number of calls involved to keep one informed on the related to these problems. The work begins with developments of the request. In 2012, 52,539 an analysis of the reasons for the calls. Next, in customer complaints were forwarded by the meetings with the various departments of the employees using the Joia program. Of these, Company, such as Products, Services, Operations, 31,701 used Atalho Joia and 20,838 were Sales, Logistics, Billing and Network, the corrective forwarded by the Joia Service. actions are discussed, and the impacts of the initiatives implemented in the contact rate (indicator that counts the calls made by ​​ customers to the call Satisfaction center) are monitored. The following are some [GRI PR5] To measure customer satisfaction, Oi examples of actions suggested by the Rate Program conducted two types of surveys in 2012: SGA in 2012: doubling the capacity of self-service for the (Overall Satisfaction with Customer Service), registration of prepaid mobile phone users (who used conducted based on a random selection of c to need to call the call center to register) and the ustomers who contact the call center, and SGC provision of customer migration from post-paid (Overall Customer Satisfaction), which considers service for unlimited data packages, which reduced broader aspects of the relationship, such as the number of calls concerning charges for excess satisfaction, loyalty, and recommendation. Data use of internet on mobile. were collected by specialized external institutes and subsidize initiatives to improve customer service and technical services. In the three editions of the SGA survey conducted in 2012, the overall average satisfaction was 59.7 points. In the SGC survey, the average customer satisfaction was 72.3 in the Retail segment and 65 in the Corporate segment. The results use a score ranging from 0 to 100 and indicate neutrality. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 53 | PEople Proximity In November 2012, Oi opened the first flagship of the Oi opened 127 new Company-owned stores in 2012, brand in São Paulo, a store that offers the ultimate reaching a total of 187 units in this model. The in technology. In this flagship store, consumers can Company-owned stores are equipped to carry out all try the services and devices of Oi’s portfolio. In the stages of relationship – such as customer service, middle of the store there is a touchscreen table sales and post-sales – and offer complete offering smartphones and tablets for testing. The telecommunications solutions, which include creation of this new unit is aligned with the goals the following services: fixed line, mobile, Internet, of reducing the environmental impact of the Oi TV, 3G, and Wi-Fi. The aim of this format is to Company: the lighting project was created using LED strengthen Oi’s positioning of becoming increasingly (light emitting diode), which consumes less energy, closer to its customers. and paper use was reduced by online simulation of discount plans and the Oi Bazaar magazine, whose content is available in digital format. Services for People With Special Needs Structures and services tailored to the needs of people with special needs bring these customers close to the Company. For the visually impaired customers, Oi offers contracts and invoices in Braille, and the users of postpaid service receives bonus information via audio. People with hearing and speech impairments can use the Alternative Plan of Service, with a monthly package of one thousand text messages (SMS), contributing to their communication and social integration. This initiative complies with Resolution 477 of Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency). In the Oi Atende stores, the salespersons are trained in the Libras (Brazilian Sign Language) system and there are terminals adapted to be used by deaf people. In most stores, the physical structure was also adapted to accommodate people with walking difficulties, in accordance with Resolution 426 of Anatel. For the third consecutive year, this report is also accessible to visually impaired customers, following the recommendations of the W3C, the leading global benchmark for internet accessibility. Respect for Consumers Each year, Oi redesigns its activities of relationship [GRI DMA PR and GRI PR3] In all services, Oi is compliant with consumer protection agencies, helping to with the Brazilian General Telecommunications Law provide information so that these agencies can and the Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency) provide advice to complaining customers. The standards, which provide for the rights and duties of relationship with units of Procon (Foundation users and the service provider. Users have the right to for Consumer Protection), courts and civil courts receive an invoice containing a detailed description of changed in 2012, with the introduction of a workflow services and the corresponding values charged, as well of cases. Complaints forwarded by these bodies as receipts containing the identification of taxes on started to be identified by means of an internal services. Among the duties of the service provider, it protocol, which allows the Company to monitor is important to highlight the offer of customer service the measures adopted for the solution. via call center, internet, and Company-owned stores. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 54 | PEople By monitoring the process of regionalization, Oi chose The processes of collection, calculation, some employees to strengthen the relationship with consolidation and delivery of its quality indicators to the consumer protection agencies (Procon) of all Anatel have valid certifications for SMP (Mobile states. In a preventive action, a work group also Personal Service), STFC (Switched Fixed Line participates in meetings preparing product launches, Telephone Service), and STVA (Pay TV Service) in promotions, and campaigns to better understand compliance with Resolutions 335, 417 and 411, the products and services and identify possible respectively, as provided in Anatel’s PGMQ (General causes of complaints. Plan on Quality Goals). COMPLIANCE User Councils [GRI PR9] In 2012, the Company paid R$ 3.84 million The User Councils of the STFC (Switched Fixed Line in fines for violations of the rights and guarantees of Telephony Services) of Oi, regulated by Resolution the users. In 2013, Oi aims to reduce the liability of 490/2008 of Anatel (National Telecommunications fines acting internally to solve issues generating Agency), are composed of users and associations or infractions, and seek agreements with Anatel entities intended to defend the interests of the (National Telecommunications Agency), consumer. They are consultative by nature and aim to demonstrating the solutions found for the problems. orientate, analyze and evaluate the services and the quality of service by the provider, as also the There are still some legal proceedings under analysis, formulation of suggestions and proposals to improve regarding questions about legality and dosimetry for these services. administrative sanctions imposed by Anatel because of an alleged breach of regulations. In 2012, in the concession area of the​​ Company there were 31 User Councils (27 of them were active Oi, similarly to other telecommunications carriers, at end of the year), with a total of 158 members was forbidden to sell its chips of prepaid plans by (120 users and 38 consumer protection agencies). Anatel in the period between July 23 and August 3. The punishment was based on the amount and The main activities during the year were: degree of consumer complaints regarding the services discussions about technical and customer services provided. All companies involved, including Oi, and improvement suggestions; design of materials presented a network improvement plan and regained and consumer education campaigns; visits and authorization to sell their chips. The Company and monitoring of customer service at Oi Atende stores; Anatel meet quarterly to assess compliance with the visits to the call center and telephone stations; plan based on fortnightly and monthly result reports. meetings and discussions with social entities; and forward of suggestions to Anate (National Certifications Telecommunications Agency). The Company has the ISO 9001:2000 certification for operation of providers of services to customers. To learn more about the User Council, please go to: Compliance with this standard confirms that Oi has http://www.oi.com.br/conselhodeusuarios. the management systems, knowledge, and skills necessary to provide telecommunication services. The fixed line billing process is also certified according to the demands of Resolution 426 of Anatel; the certification was also granted to the billing process of mobile telephony, which is not required by the regulations of the sector. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 55 | PEople Relations with Society will be provided free of charge to federal, state and local government until 2025. The Company has also signed 4,745 terms of [GRI DMA EC] Based on direct investments or in adhesion to multi-media communication services, partnership with other organizations and active donating modems as well to educational institutions participation in initiatives coordinated by the from the state and municipal level. In general, government and society, Oi contributes to the approximately R$ 20 million were invested in the economic and social development of the regions initiatives of Broadband Program in Schools. where it operates and the whole country. Although is not measured by specific studies, the indirect Also focusing on digital inclusion and reduction of economic influence of the business can be seen in social inequalities, Oi signed an agreement with the concrete actions. In partnership with various Ministry of Communications and Anatel (National government bodies, the Company offers its high Telecommunications Agency) to contribute to the coverage to contribute to public interest initiatives. PNBL (National Broadband Plan). The PNBL was created by the Federal Government to ensure the The social responsibility projects funded or supply of high-speed internet at affordable prices. conducted by the Oi Futuro Institute, the supply The maximum cost to users is R$ 35 a month for of Internet service to the public schools, the 1-Mbps speed access, which can be reduced to participation in federal programs, such as the R$ 29.90 in the states where there was tax exemption. National Broadband Plan, and the collaboration with various levels of government are some of the main In 2012, Oi surpassed the target set for the year and initiatives detailed in this section. reached 2,440 municipalities with supply of Oi Velox according to the PNBL. With this result, Oi reached [GRI EC8 and EC9] Digital Inclusion 51% of the municipalities in its area of ​​operation, Oi integrates the Broadband Program in Schools, which should be fully covered by 2014. About 40% which in 2012 supplied high-speed Internet to more of the municipalities served are located in the North than 51,000 urban public schools, in 4,700 and Northeast regions. By the end of the year, Oi had municipalities, reaching the coverage target set by invested approximately R$ 73 million. The Company the Federal Government. continues making an effort to disseminate the initiative so that other municipalities also participate. The program bases were established by the Presidential Decree 6424, effective as of 2008, Oi negotiates with various state departments of which resulted in the change of the concession Treasury to expand the supply of Popular Broadband. contracts with fixed lines carriers of STFC (Switched This approach has stimulated more states to FixedLine Telephony Services). Based on this participate in the agreement signed with the Confaz program, the carriers took on the commitment to (National Council of Finance Policy), which enables deploy backhaul9 in the city halls and install highthe publication of specific legislation regarding tax speed connection (starting with 1 Mbps and then exemption, resulting in reduced sales price. In 2012, expanding to 2 Mbps) in urban public primary and Oi offered Popular Broadband featuring speeds up to secondary schools by 2010. Initially, the goal was to 1 mega and free-of-charge modem to the states of reach 56,000 schools, but that number was reduced Bahia, Espírito Santo, Goiás, Pará, Pernambuco and to 51,000 by the Ministry of Education. The services Rio de Janeiro. 9 Infrastructure of support network of Switched Fixed Line Telephone Service for broadband connection, interconnecting access networks to the backbone of the operator. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 56 | PEople The Company has also contributed to the Universal Services modernization of some state and municipal Through the General Plan on Universal Services, departments by providing tablets and smartphones signed with Anatel (National Telecommunications at lower costs. These initiatives contribute mainly Agency), Oi invested more than R$ 16 million in the to the monitoring and functioning of the cities, since installation of public phones in localities with more they allow for the optimization of the initiatives based than one hundred inhabitants, reaching 418 new on the use of technology. cities by the end of 2012. Infrastructure Throughout 2012, Oi started to offer by the Aice In the North region, Oi integrates a cooperation New Low-Cost Phone, benefiting more than 60,000 agreement with local governments to build people, including more than 8 million eligible infrastructure that will provide the population of customers in the Single Registry of MDES. According remote locations with access to internet by means to this plan, the value of access to a telephone line is of fiber optic networks. In 2012, the Company R$ 9.90 (excluding taxes). established partnerships in Rondônia with DNIT (National Department of Transport Infrastructure), [GRI EC9] Oi Futuro IBAMA (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and In the area of corporate social responsibility, Oi Renewable Natural Resources), Eletrobras, CERR acts through Oi Futuro, the fantasy name of Telemar (Energy Company of Roraima), Funai (National Indian Institute, a non-profit entity which was certified Foundation), State Department of Infrastructure, and as an OSCIP (Civil Society Organization of Public Femact (State Foundation for the Environment, Interest). Set up in 2001, the mission of Oi Futuro Science and Technology). In Amapá, the partnerships is to democratize access to knowledge in order to involved Funai (National Indian Foundation), Imap accelerate and promote human development, with (Institute of the Environment and Spatial Planning) nationwide projects in the fields of Education, and State Department of Transport. Culture, Sustainability, and Sports. By means of Oi Futuro, Oi plays its role of corporate responsibility In partnership with the government of Amapá, to the full, building a fairer and united society. Eletronorte/Telebras and Guyacom (telecom operator from the French Guyana), Oi builds a network that will [GRI EC4] The value of the investments of Oi Futuro cross the state and reach Fortaleza, going through the for the benefit of society totaled R$ 85.63 million in Guyana. The project is part of the commitment with 2012. Of this amount, R$ 65.34 million came from Anatel (National Telecommunications Agency) to tax incentives, and R$ 20.29 million originated from supply broadband internet to all states in the country. use of its own financial resources. The Company has invested R$ 32 million in the project and will receive a financial incentive of 50% from the government of Amapá. Oi Futuro – Investments 2011 2012 Direct investment R$ 30,515,204.00 R$ 20,290,628.00 Tax incentives R$ 82,910,732.00 R$ 65,338,809.00 Total R$ 113,425,936.00 R$ 85,629,437.00 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 57 | PEople Education the purpose of transferring the Nave methodology Oi Futuro supports and develops educational projects to two of its state schools (in Porto Velho and based on new information and communication Ariquemes); at the same time, the 2011 edition of technologies as a way to transform the school the Enem (National High School Exam), disclosed in environment and empower young people for future 2012, the School José Leite Lopes was ranked first careers. Among the initiatives, it is important to in the classification of the SEEDUC/RJ (State highlight the programs Nave (Advanced Education Department of Education of Rio de Janeiro) and the Center) and Oi Kabum! School of Art and Technology. Technical School Cícero Dias was ranked first place in the classification of the SEEP (State Department The Nave program is conducted in partnership with of Education of Pernambuco). the state departments of Education of Rio de Janeiro and Pernambuco and was implemented in two public The Oi Kabum! School of Art and Technology offers schools. It is based on three pillars: Integrated High youngsters from popular urban communities an School, offering technical vocational courses in the education in courses of graphic design, computer areas of game programming; scripting for multimedia; graphics, video, photography and web design. Research and Innovation; and Dissemination. Students or former students from public schools Approximately 850 students participate in classes aged between 16 and 21 years can participate. The taught by 80 teachers. The activities involve several courses take one year and a half to be completed partners such as C.E.S.A.R. (Center for Advanced and are offered to 360 ​​youths in the units of Rio Studies and Systems of Recife), VisionLab visual de Janeiro, Recife, Salvador, and Belo Horizonte. effects laboratory at Pontifícia Universidade CatólicaRio – and Planetapontocom, a renowned organization After the course is completed, graduates can choose in the field of scripting for multimedia. to keep studying and take a second training module for a period of 6 to 18 months, during which they The program aims to contribute to the quality and work on projects related to languages of the schools. innovation of education in the country. It suggests The aim of this course is to encourage youths’ artistic a new model of vocational high school and and cultural production, with the purpose of making systematization of good practices for replication them enter the job market through partnerships and in other schools. In the Nave program, digital connections with institutions and companies. technologies serve as learning tools to bring youths closer to their areas of interest in the In 2012, the program was granted the award school environment. Construindo a, awarded by the Instituto da Cidadania Brasil, the CNI/SESI (National Confederation of The initiative has received several recognitions. Since Industry/Industrial Social Service), in the category 2009, the Nave program is part of the Innovative Public Policy. The award recognizes initiatives that Schools program of Microsoft. The unit of Rio de encourage public and private schools to develop Janeiro was selected among the 130 most innovative projects aimed at developing citizenship. schools in the world by the program, and, in 2010, it was chosen Mentor School. In 2012, it was the Another highlight the Oi Kabum! program in 2012 was only school in Brazil to join the exclusive group of the the engagement of schools in the production of book World Tour program, which promotes exchange visits trailers of the videos about the books that won the between schools of excellence. Portugal Telecom award. The award ceremony took place in November in São Paulo, with the presence The results have been beneficial even to Brazil: in of the president of Portugal Telecom, Zeinal Bava. 2012, the Government of the State of Rondônia signed a cooperation agreement with Oi Futuro, with OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 58 | PEople Sustainability Ceará Through the Oi Novos Brasis program and donations Rede de Jovens Empreendedores Rurais no Semiárido to the Childhood and Adolescence Councils, Oi Cearense (Network of Young Entrepreneurs in the Rural Futuro financially supports environmental projects Semiarid of the state of Ceará): trains young rural developed by nonprofits organizations. entrepreneurs in the Micro region of Middle Curu, aiming to improve the productive activities in their The selection of the projects funded by the Oi Novos communities and to increase productivity and Brasis program is focused on three main areas of profitability in the farming activity of families. activity: assurance of rights by means of social inclusion initiatives; employment and income; and Minas Gerais education for sustainability focused on environmental Jogos do Vale – Fabriqueta de Jogos Digitais (Games of issues. Some of the selection criteria are: innovative the Valley Digital Games Factory): empowers youth to nature of the initiative, its potential for replication, create digital educational games. Focused on training and use of information technology and communication young professional from Vale do Jequitinhonha and to reduce inequalities and bring people together. The dissemination of educational games for teachers from bid invitation is published annually, and financing is all over Brazil. valid for a maximum period of 15 months. Mato Grosso do Sul From 2010 to 2012, 39 projects were supported Oficina Panificadora (Bakery Workshop): prepares teens by the institute, with more than 6,000 direct to work professionally in the bakery sector. beneficiaries throughout Brazil. Only in the 2012/2013 bid invitation, 17 initiatives were Paraíba included as follows. Convivência com a Realidade Semiárida – Socializando Saberes (Living in the Semiarid Reality Socializing Alagoas Knowledge): aims to improve the quality of life and Guardiões do Vale do Jacuípe (Guardians of Vale do local development through the construction of cisterns Jacuípe): trains and engages multipliers for the and strengthening of traditional folk knowledge. preservation of the environment, life protection, and prevention of floods, using the community media. Piauí Um Olhar para a Cidadania (A Vision of Citizenship): Bahia enables visually impaired people to work on the radio Aroeira – Centro de Diversidade (Aroeira – Diversity and on the internet and encourages analysis of the Center): aims to create a unit to demonstrate citizenship of blind people in the media. sustainable practices based on agroecological principles, strengthening the exchange of knowledge Paraná and social organization of farmers. Espaços de Juventude e Cidadania – Estreitando as Tramas da Rede Juvenil Chão de Sonhos (Youth and Formação de Jovens Empresários Rurais (Training of Citizenship Settings Strengthening the bonds of Young Rural Entrepreneurs): focuses on retention of the Floor of Dreams Youth Network: promotes young people in the countryside by strengthening entrepreneurship among youths from four regions the farming activities of families. of southern Brazil, encouraging relationships through social networks. Joias do Quilombo (Jewels of the Quilombo): proposal of employment and income generation for traditional communities and quilombolas. Includes the production of bio-jewelry and digital inclusion initiatives, which encourage the sale of jewelry. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 59 | PEople Rio de Janeiro O Bom Combate – Mapeamento Digital dos Diabéticos Audioteca Sal & Luz (Salt & Light Audio Library): (The Good Fight Digital Mapping of Diabetics): intended for the production of audio books, journals development of a website to provide a digital map and texts, making them available for people with including laws, bills, clinical protocols, civil lawsuits, visual impairment and low vision. and addresses of interest to people with diabetes. Eco Rede – Rede Comunitária de Desenvolvimento Two projects approved in the 2012/2013 bid Socioambiental (Eco Network Community Network for invitation received awards. The project A Vision of Social and Environmental Development): promotes the Citizenship, supported in Piauí, which had been development of the local communities Cidade de awarded in the state, was recognized again in 2012 Deus e Complexo da Maré, in Rio de Janeiro, by and received the award granted by A Rede magazine means of environmental education initiatives and in the category 3rd sector Accessibility. Likewise, jobs and income generation. the project Floor of Dreams, developed in Rio Grande do Sul, to support young rural entrepreneurs, received Instituto de Aprendizagem Cidadania XXI (Institute for the award Anu Gold granted by Cufa. Learning Citizenship XXI): digital inclusion and preparation of socially vulnerable youngsters from The 2012/2013 bid invitation had 578 applicants São Gonçalo (RJ) to the job market. from all over Brazil. The list of those selected will be disclosed in the second quarter of 2013. Jovens Construtores (Young Builders): trains youths’ living in Complexo do Alemão, in Rio de Janeiro, to work in the construction industry and encourages their active participation in the construction of RIGHTS OF CHILDREN AND ADOLESCENTS affordable and sustainable community assets. By means of donations to the FIAs ​​(Funds for Sergipe Children and Adolescents), Oi contributes to Conectado ao Brasil (Connected to Brazil): vocational the implementation of ten-year plans of the training for deaf people and people with no hearing Municipal and State Councils of Rights of impairment in network management, promoting Children and Adolescents in the whole country. social inclusion and dissemination of the Brazilian In 2012, the Company supported 28 council Sign Language. projects in 13 states: Alagoas, Bahia, Ceará, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, São Paulo Pará, Pernambuco, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, Construção Coletiva de Conhecimentos para Santa Catarina, Sergipe and São Paulo. a Sustentabilidade Socioambiental do Pontal do Paranapanema (Collective Construction of Knowledge for the Social and Environmental Sustainability of Pontal do Paranapanema): promotes open seminars and meetings to train teenagers in initiatives of conservation of water resources, forestry, and biodiversity in the region of Pontal do Paranapanema. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 60 | PEople Environment Highlights in the programming In 2012, Oi’s Program of Projects for the Environment merged with Oi Novos Brasis program, • Oi Futuro Flamengo: hosted Bill Lundberg and keeping the support to the 14 environmental projects Fabien Rigobert’s individual exhibitions for the selected in the 2010 bid invitation. The nationwide first time in Brazil and the High-Tech/Low-Tech initiatives benefited more than 9,000 people living and File Rio 2012 group exhibitions, including in all Brazilian biomes (Amazon, Caatinga, Cerrado, artists like Ricarda Roggan Ali Kazma and Alex Atlantic Rainforest, Pampas, Pantanal and Coastal Rudolf. The center also hosted two of the Zone) and a wide variety of target-publics. traditional selection of “Ten Best theater shows of the year”, published by the newspaper O Culture Globo: A Arte e a Maneira de Abordar seu Chefe Oi Futuro is the Manager of Oi’s program of Fostered para Pedir um Aumento e Ficção (The Art and Cultural Sponsorships, which selects pioneering projects Way of Approaching Your Boss to Ask for a Raise in the fields of visual arts, performing arts, technology and Fiction). The Nada project, based on the and new media through an annual public bit invitation. work of poet Manoel de Barros and created In 2012, the program sponsored 92 students. especially for the cultural center, was nominated for the Shell Prize of Performing Arts. The institute also supports three cultural centers, • Oi Futuro Ipanema: has established itself as an in Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro. Because they important project for contemporary music. The offer a diverse and high quality programming (see Levada Oi Futuro project included concerts of 20 box), these centers have gained people’s approval. musicians who outlined an overview of the new In a survey conducted between September and musical trends from all regions of the country. October by IBOPE (Brazilian Institute of Opinion The Novas Frequências project showed the and Statistics) with a hundred visitors of each center, international forefront in the musical scene. about 90% of respondents classified customer service at these venues as good (8, 9 or 10 scores). • Oi Futuro Belo Horizonte: the Pulso Iraniano (Iranian The quality of programming, the environment, and Pulse) exhibition showed the contemporary art from the infrastructure were mentioned spontaneously by Iran for the first time in Minas Gerais. The center also most respondents as positive aspects of the centers. hosted the first edition in Minas Gerais of the International Festival It’s All True, the most important Another cultural venue supported by the institute exhibition of documentaries in Latin America. is the Telecommunications Museum, established in 2007. It has two units one in Rio de Janeiro and one in Belo Horizonte that offer a high-quality and Sports innovative cultural programming. Throughout 2012, Since 2007, Oi Futuro has managed Oi’s program of the museum in Rio de Janeiro received 23,000 Fostered Sports Sponsorship. Once a month, it selects visitors, and the one in Belo Horizonte was visited sports and para-sports projects that serve as tools for by 17,000 people including groups individual visitors. social transformation among children and adolescents. For the third year running, Oi was granted the seal of “Sport-Friendly Business” from the Ministry of Sports, thus consolidating its position as an important Brazilian sports sponsor. In the 2012 edition, Oi was raked third in the category Best Friend of Sports in the whole country and second in the category Best Friend of Sports in the state of Tocantins. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 61 | PEople Annual Social Balance Sheet MAIN SOCIAL INDICATORS 2012 1 Basis of Calculation 2012 Value (R$ thousands) 2011 Value (R$ thousands) Net Revenue (NR) 25,169,230 27,906,989 EBITDA 10 8,801,175 8,765,993 Gross Payroll (GP) 2,000,818 1,678,074 Value % % Value % % 2 Internal Social Indicators (thousands) of GP of NR (thousands) of GP of NR Food 124,004 6.20% 0.49% 107,371 6.40% 0.38% Compulsory social levies 367,600 18.37% 1.46% 395,659 23.58% 1.42% Private insurance 47,581 2.38% 0.19% 56,731 3.38% 0.20% Health 79,977 4.00% 0.32% 71,631 4.27% 0.26% Occupational safety and medicine 8,262 0.41% 0.03% 7,664 0.46% 0.03% Education 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Professional Training and Professional Development 24,082 1.20% 0.10% 21,612 1.29% 0.08% Childcare or childcare assistance 8,866 0.44% 0.04% 7,438 0.44% 0.03% Sharing of results Provisioned 387,380 19.36% 1.54% 57,939 3.45% 0.21% Others 33,347 1.67% 0.13% 33,835 2.02% 0.12% Total Internal Social Indicators 1,081,099 54.03% 4.30% 759,880 45.28% 2.72% Value % of % Value % of % 3 External Social Indicators (thousands) EBITDA of NR (thousands) EBITDA of NR Education 15,241 0.17% 0.06% 18,110 0.21% 0.06% Sustainability 5,992 0.07% 0.02% 7,840 0.09% 0.03% Ethos Institute 15,2 0.00% 0.00% 15,20 0.00% 0.00% Culture 46,942 0.53% 0.19% 71,948 0.82% 0.26% Sport 17,439 0.20% 0.07% 15,512 0.18% 0.06% Total of contributions to society 11 85,629 0.97% 0.34% 113,426 1.29% 0.41% Taxes (including social levies) 9,070,971 103.07% 36.04% 10,545,456 120.30% 37.79% Total External Social Indicators11 9,070,971 103.07% 103.07% 10,658,882 121.59% 38.19% 4 Indicators Related to Employees Number of employees at the end of year 15,146 13,224 Number of admissions during the year 5,742 2,993 Number of outsorced personal 166,253 141,384 Number of interns/trainees 721 549 Number of women working in the company 6,329 5,297 % of leadership positions helds by woman 25% 25% Number of disabled or special-requirement 268 265 Responsible for accounting information: Marcelo Antônio Leal Gomes (CRC-RJ 083.182) 10 It was used EBITDA for this calculation, because the Corporate Restructuring. Further information on this process, can be found in the chapter About the Report. 11 These values include tax incentives and donations to Fund for Childhood and Adolescence FIA OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 62 | PEople “Because it is a major contractor, Oi has the power of A CHANGING AGENT to bring about integration of Environment sustainability in the way we operate.” Supplier Climate Governance Opportunities Changes in the global climate panorama are not just related to risks. Oi believes that it [GRI DMA EC and GRI 1.2 and EC2] As part of its position in favor can develop products and services adequate of sustainable development, Oi gives special attention for the new scenario and promote continuous to climate changes and its potential impacts on improvements to its operations in order to customers and the business. Risk management adapt to changes. Oi continually works through related to this topic is organized into four categories: its internal channels of communication, to operational, financial, strategic, and compliance. cause its employees to be aware about climate change and the risks and opportunities they The operational risks include material damages offer. The communication efforts give such as destruction of networks, centers, towers, information about the measures to minimize telecommunication antennas, and administrative the impacts of climate changes and buildings, as well as the interruption or delay in Oi optimization of the use and savings of services caused by rains, floods, landslides, winds, the Company’s internal resources. hurricanes, tornadoes, or lightening. Risks are also evaluated related to reduced useful life of the equipment because of increased humidity or salinity of the air and the potential drop in productivity due Greenhouse Gases to days of work missed by employees because of Oi has identified and recorded the direct and indirect sickness or epidemics of climatic origin. emissions resulting from its activities every year since 2009. The inventory of GHG (greenhouse gas) Among the financial risks is the lack of coverage emissions follows the standards of the Brazil GHG for certain assets and increased costs related to Protocol Program, which provides tools for reporting contracting insurance for equipment and installations and measuring emissions by adapting the methodology against damages caused by natural phenomena, as developed by the WRI(World Resources Institute). The well as related to the increase in the consumption of information is disclosed voluntarily on the public record water and electricity due to the increase in average of emissions with the Brazil GHG Protocol Program temperatures in the regions where Oi operates. itself and the CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project), which is a global initiative for monitoring climate governance. Strategic risks include potential loss of customers or damages to corporate image resulting from delays, Besides focusing on transparency with regard to the failures, or disruptions in services originating from communication of information, the Company also climate phenomena. The possibility of a crisis in actively participates in discussions and initiatives energy supply due to climate changes, which could related to climate change. To do so, it is part of the limit Oi’s growth, also fits into this category. EPC (Companies for ClimatePlatform), which is a forum of corporate proposals to reduce the emissions The main compliance risk is the possibility of the of greenhouse gases from companies and support Company receiving regulatory sanctions such as fines or the transition of the country’s economy towards a suspension of concessions for failing to meet minimum low-carbon economy, while also discussing solutions targets of quality and availability of services provided. and contributions to legislation on the subject. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 63 | Environment In 2012, Oi was selected to be a part of Emissions outside Brazil 2012 (tCO2e) BM&FBovespa’s ICO2 (Carbon Efficient Index) Country Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 portfolio for the third year in a row. The index USA 24.45 3,862.60 1,412.55 combines actions of companies that have already Venezuela 30.57 145.55 222.04 taken the first step towards this new economy by Colombia 0 6.31 196.69 monitoring and reporting their emissions. Bermuda 3.23 3,980.47 30.78 Although several actions have been taken to reduce Total 58.25 7,994.93 1,862.07 the Company’s emissions, in 2012 the numbers were higher compared to previous years. This increase Oi’s inventory regarding emissions in 2012 obtained of Scope 1 emissions can be justified due to the the certificate for external verification issued by increase of activities and the number of permanent Way Carbon. workers with SEREDE, a company from the Oi group engaged in maintaining the network in the state of Access the complete inventory here to get to know Rio de Janeiro that absorbed part of the activities the profile of all the Company’s emissions. performed by service providers in the past. In the indirect emissions (Scope 3), the growth of the [GRI EN18] Table of Scope 3 By category network, as well as the efforts to improve the quality Category Scope 3 tCO2e (2012) of customer service, resulting in increased fuel Goods and services purchased 124,297.04 consumption due to increased fleet of the network Transportation and distribution service providers. (upstream) 10,643.32 Business travel 8,656.09 [GRI EN16 and EN17] Total emissions (tCO2e) Commuting of employees (home-work) 9,202.55 Total 152,798.99 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 190,805.86 159,704.20 274,559.44 [GRI EN19] Table of Refrigerants FLUIDS ODS 152,798.99 (Ozone Depleting Substances) FLUID Tons CFC 11 Equivalent HCFC 22 53.32 2.93 114,093.75 HCFC 141 4.09 0.45 110,134.11 115,237.38 72,526.31 44,403.50 4,185.80 5,166.59 9,516.37 2010 2011 2012 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 64 | Environment [GRI EN26] Reduction of emissions • Contracting of a technological upgrade project The Company’s efforts to reduce GHG emissions of 35 storage equipment, totaling approximately related to the operation involve several areas of 1 PB. This update allowed a consolidation ratio of action. The main ones are listed below. 5:1 and an energy savings of over 80%. Rational use of energy Oi conducts studies to assess • Expansion of the use of virtualization of servers the actual consumption of each unit and to adapt with an increase of over 30% in the number of contracts without there being any waste of money virtual servers. Using virtual servers makes it and energy. The Company has implemented energy possible to optimize the use of the infrastructure, efficiency projects to reduce energy consumption reduce physical servers, and therefore reduce with light bulbs and air conditioners. energy consumption. [GRI EN3 e EN4] Most of the electricity consumed by Oi • Expansion of the initiative for recycling the is from power companies. In 2012, consumption structured cabling used in Oi projects with the reached 5,811,775 GJ (1,614,382 MWh). In the certification of Furukawa’s Green IT program. same year, 11 of its units migrated from the captive 7,743 kilograms of cables were recycled in just market to the free energy market. In the free market, the Rio+20 project alone. Oi entered in the category of special clients where the energy consumed comes from PCH (Small Hydro • Technological upgrade of over 7,000 desktop Power), sources funded by the government, monitors representing a savings of over 70%. renewable, and of low environmental impact because it does not use reservoirs. Oi also consumed • Use of automatic shutdown schedules of resources 128.538 GJ (35,705 MWh) from biofuels from in order to rationalize energy consumption a free market generator. throughout the entire park of microcomputers. [GRI EN5] The Energy Efficiency Project, which deals with In the coming years, the IT department will be the replacement of light bulbs and air conditioning involved with various infrastructure projects that aim systems in 32 of Oi’s units, made a reduction of to reduce the number of systems used and promote 56,746 GJ (15,763 MWh) possible in 2012. technological upgrading of systems and IT infrastructure. One of the tasks will be to reduce the [GRI EN7] Green IT The infrastructure required to relative consumption of energy used in the support activities related to information technology datacenters, while at the same that making sure that is, by its nature, a major energy consumer. Therefore, the growth of installed capacity is supported by the one of the main contributions of IT for sustainability least amount of energy possible. initiatives is the optimization of energy consumption. Some of these initiatives are as follows: • Inclusion of energy efficiency requirements in all processes for acquiring IT equipment. • Carrying out a project of technological upgrading and consolidation from 49 RISC servers to 6, thus reducing energy consumption by 75%. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 65 | Environment [GRI EN26] Reduction of fuel consumption In order to Even with this increase, the results obtained with reduce environmental impacts and costs from air fleet renewal and resizing made it possible to reduce travel, Oi has invested since 2011 in expanding the fuel consumption by 5.63% or 106,842.30 liters. use of videoconferencing for meetings. Thirteen new This means that every vehicle stopped consuming telepresence rooms were created for directors at the 105.57 liters of fuel in 2012 compared to 2011. subsidiaries, which also contributed to reinforce the integration between teams from several states. The These and other projects contribute so that Oi can average ratio between physical meetings and meetings achieve the goal of reducing energy consumption and held at-a-distance fell in 2012 compared to previous consequently the emission of greenhouse gases. years. In 2010, there were 4.56 trips for each videoconference held. This ratio fell to 3.85 in 2011, Fuel consumption and was again reduced in 2012, reaching 3.55. Type 2012 Diesel (l) 153,896.96 [GRI EN29 and EN26] Studies are carried out with a focus Ethanol (l) 93,149.71 on efficient management of transportation in order Natural Gas (m³) 1,155.58 to increase the operational efficiency of the external Gasoline (l) 1,543,289.83 equipment and reducing the need for technical visits and consequently the issuance of CO2. In 2012, the leading suppliers of transportation services met with the logistics department as part of preparing to establish indicators for monitoring their fleets. With a Fleet Renewal Project, the Company is looking to reduce its fuel consumption and thus emit less polluting gases. In 2012, Oi replaced its cars that were five or more years old with new vehicles after studies in the market identified specifications for savings and suitability to the job. The substitution also reduced the need for maintenance, which resulted in less volume of parts and components discarded every trip to the mechanic shop. Oi also conducted a study in 2012 for resizing its fleet that analyzed various factors, including productivity indicators, fuel consumption, along with indicators of spatial coverage and of quality. Once the project was complete, it was possible to reduce the fleet by 155 vehicles. Nevertheless, for strategic reasons, another 97 vehicles were purchased for the areas of Preposition, Sales Channel, and New Business, closing 2012 with 1,012 vehicles in total. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 66 | Environment developed of the operations whenever necessary. Environmental Impacts The process consists in publishing in major and Mitigation Actions newspapers the licensing information for installing equipment that improve the telecommunications and data systems. Informational brochures on what the equipment is and its relationship to human health [GRI DMA EN] Telecommunication activities are not are also distributed. considered effectively or potentially polluting according to Resolution No. 237/1997 from By determination of the government, in some cases CONAMA (National Environment Council), which informational hearings are also held and the people regulates environmental licenses. Oi, however, is in the households located in a radius of 500 meters aware of the potential environmental impacts of its from the site are invited to attend. In the specific administrative activities and operations for setting case of installations on top of buildings, an up and maintaining its plants, and it works hard extraordinary meeting for those using the building is to minimize them with effective management. called in order to present the project and give general explanations. Another measure adopted has been The main themes monitored are the generation of distributing pamphlets in all locations where solid waste, air pollution generated by motor vehicles it detects any kind of adverse reaction by the and generators, the emission of noise, and the visual population. Generally these pamphlets are given pollution of the ERB (Radio Base Stations) and to community centers or churches. antennas. Oi works to identify these risks and their impacts and monitor the evolution of public policies When the assignor of a site requests the removal of and laws that regulate corporate environmental the equipment, the Company makes the necessary management. adjustments in order to ensure coverage in the area and to maintain its services. The formal decision to The Company respects the normative initiatives of the leave a region also involves a previous agreement of regulating organization for telephone services and restoring ground cover, demolishing concrete bases, government agencies in order to incorporate the removing fences and gates, decommissioning energy, principles and criteria for environmental management and removing the meter. In some cases, some in carrying out its activities. The implementation of Oi element is maintained such as the utility power meter sites and new installations, as well as the licensing and the fence, always in agreement with the owner. process, follow the guidelines of the proper authorities. [GRI EN30] In 2012, Oi spent more than R$ 6 million [GRI SO1] Explanations are given to the surrounding on environmental protection. About 75% of these community and social communication plans are expenditures were focused on environmental licensing. Investments and expenditures with environmental protection Type Total (R$) Environmental licensing 4,855,000.00 Issuance of radiometric reports to monitor the quality of signals being broadcast 988,500.00 Costs with transportation and storage of solid waste 572,632.72 Environmental Consulting 69,570.45 Total 6,446,123.17 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 67 | Environment [GRI EN22] Waste Management Waste Management sales per type of material Initiatives to reduce the environmental impact of Oi’s operations include managing discarded materials. 0,41% The stationary batteries are repurchased as a take0,90% back action, and the assembly and maintenance 16,08% materials are sent for recycling. 0,32% 30,42% 0,39% The Company requires that these suppliers be in compliance with the current environmental standards and that they monitor this and adopt 13,97% any environmental corrective measures that may be necessary. Oi plans on monitoring all stages of the recycling and disposal process done by the service providers of its network beginning in 2013. 6,09% 9,92% In 2012, Oi generated more than 6,700 tons and 0,12% 19,26% 0,15% 312,000 items of waste. 0,16% 0,70% 1,11% Recycling of waste (t) Phone books 126.03 Aluminum scrap Cordage scrap Various waste selective waste collection 131.15 Coaxial cable scrap Telephone cable scrap Copper cable scrap Different cable scrap Sale of scrap 4,234.48 Optical fiber cable scrap Scrap Iron Lead coated wire scrap Mixed scrap Stationary batteries12 2,204.39 Lead coated wire scrap Electronic plastic scrap Copper scrap Plastic scrap Total (tons) 6,696.05 Electronic plastic scrap Recycling of waste (items) Devices, batteries, and their accessories 43,782 [GRI EN24] With the intention of ensuring the proper Light bulbs 14,981 disposal of waste generated by its activities, the Company promotes the re-purchase of unserviceable Various waste sold to auction 254,000 stationary batteries (used in antennas) by a specific Total (items) 312,763 supplier, duly certified by the competent national Note: Because of the waste management system used, it was not possible to segment all the items between hazardous and non-hazardous. organs, who offers adequate treatment in handling, 12 Waste considered to be hazardous. storage, collection, transportation, and recycling of the batteries acquired. It is also necessary for this In 2012, 4,234.48 tons of scrap were sold for supplier to be in conformity with the current recycling, which included materials such as copper, environmental standards and that they monitor this aluminum, and iron, fiber optic cables, batteries, and adopt any environmental corrective measures telephone cables, computer scrap, fiberglass, parts that may be necessary. In 2012, 2,204.39 tons of and accessories of vandalized public telephones, these batteries were repurchased and the same scraps of furniture, among others. From the recycling amount of waste considered hazardous was of these materials, it is possible to make street transported by Oi to the warehouses of the states in sweeping brooms, garbage bags, as well as recycled which the repurchase would be done. polyethylene and PVC. Oi also places bins in its stores to collect cell phones, batteries, and accessories. To encourage consumers OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 68 | Environment to dispose their electronic waste correctly, the Selective waste collection Company ran external communication campaigns per type of material with advertisements in newspapers, magazines, internet, and radio spots. It also has an informative Paper/Paperboard 0.75% 13.62% page on its website regarding collection points Plastic throughout the country. Oi extends this initiative also Metal 6.01% Glass to its employees, by making bins available in nearly 40 administrative buildings and issuing regular internal communications to make them aware of the importance of proper disposal of their cell phones, accessories, and batteries. Considering both administrative buildings and stores, 43,782 items were sent for recycling in 2012. As for the different types of light bulbs such as 79.69% fluorescent, mercury vapor, mixed light, sodium vapor, and other ones that burn, Oi is concerned about carrying out an environmentally friendly management. In 2012, approximately 14,981 light bulbs were sent to a company specialized in dealing with them. Complete management Oi also conducts the sale by auction of other waste With a strategic partnership signed with such as furniture, computer equipment, telephone the company Descarte Certo of the Ambipar equipment, outdated or defective cell phones, Group in 2012, Oi became the first telephone generators, and forklifts. In 2012, approximately company to present a strategy for complete 254,000 items were auctioned. management of the solid waste chain focused on collecting and managing waste as well as Besides all these actions, an internal selective waste recycling electric-electronic products. Five collection is done in the administrative buildings, recycling plants will be built and it will be resulting in collecting 131.15 tons in 2012 of up to Descarte Certo to provide the services recyclable materials, including paper/cardboard, of collection, reverse manufacturing, and final plastic, metal, and glass. disposal of waste produced by the Company and by suppliers, customers, and employees, as well as the management of the entire process. The plants are going to generate about 5,000 direct and indirect jobs with a processing capacity of 1,200 tons per month, nearly doubling the current installed capacity for processing electric-electronic scrap. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 69 | Environment Work in partnership Oi does not manufacture products. The monitoring Through a partnership with Asta, a fair trade network of materials consumed in the operation refers to that brings together cooperatives of seamstresses and items used for providing its services such as chips, artisans throughout the Country, Oi ensures the recharge cards for mobile phones, cards for public reutilization of materials used in their advertising phones, packaging, and items used in operations. campaigns. T-shirts, banners, and vinyl posters become ecobags, pencil holders, covers for tablets, [GRI EN2] When managing the consumption and key chains, and are then used in promotional of materials, Oi takes measures to prevent the activities once again. consumption of new raw materials. All the envelopes used for internal correspondence and the bags used The phone books no longer being used are passed on in all Oi stores are made of recycled materials. The to the NGO Donate Your Junk. In 2012, 126.03 tons internal circulation envelopes have a special layout of phone books with outdated information and other with spaces for different senders and receivers. This documents such as packing lists and delivery slips makes it possible for a single envelope to be used were donated. 12 times before disposal, as well as reducing printing costs and the amount of paper used. The bags [GRI EN1] Consumption of materials used in the Oi shops are not only made of recycled Materials used in operations material, but also the printing is done with Metal cables (meters) 10,306,948 water-based ink. Optical cables (meters) 7,662,949 Legal obligations Wire (meters) 215,593,010 [GRI DMA PR and GRI PR1] Oi’s Sustainability Policy guides Terminals (units) 1,458,086 the continual improvement process and preventive Seam set (units) 251,050 measures in relation to cell sites, ensuring alignment Others (units) 56,155,697 with the legislation and the National Policy on Packaging materials (units) Environment and minimizing interferences in Bags 106,840 the environment. Flyers 13 2,816,551 Law 11,934 of 2009 sets the limits of human Paper envelopes 455,155 exposure to electrical, magnetic and electromagnetic Cardboard boxes 588,400 fields based on the criteria of ICNIRP (International General materials (units) Commission of Protection Against Non Ionizing Internal circulation envelopes 40,000 Radiation) recommended by the World Health Chips for mobile phones 31,931,423 Organization (WHO). It should be emphasized Recharge cards for prepaid that there is no unanimous definition from the 1,962,690 mobile phones international scientific community regarding the Cards for public phones 40,726,177 potential risks of exposure to electromagnetism. 13 Postal envelopes used in sending some products such as chips, devices, All of Oi’s RBSs are in compliance with the law modems, and small equipment. and in comparison with radio and TV stations, emit significantly lower levels of radiation. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 70 | Environment [GRI 4.11] Oi’s RBSs have a coverage radius ranging [GRI EN28 and PR2] In the absence of a clear legal and from dozens of meters to about 5 kilometers. The definitive definition, the Company has opted not to electromagnetic emissions and noise levels of the make public in this report the amounts of infraction stations are measured continuously in order to notices that occurred in 2012, considering that the ensure compliance with the legal limits, which information is strategic. To disclose this information can be measured by Anatel’s inspection. The in the midst of changes in the legislation would Company also provides periodic reports to Anatel be a frivolous act and contrary to responsible on the intensity of the non-ionizing radiation fields management, which is Oi’s reputation. of the RBSs. Measures to reduce the noise level of the stations are also taken. [GRI EN13 and HR9] Restoration of areas Geotechnology systems make it possible to identify The operation is in accordance with the technical the existence of RBSs in environmental conservation parameters considered internationally safe as units to ensure conformity with specific defined by federal law and adopted by Anatel. environmental legislation for each conservation area. Because of conflicts of urban and environmental In 2012, there was a specific case that required competence among different governmental carrying out a Recovery Program of Degraded Areas in institutions, a discussion has arisen, including the vicinity of highway BR-147. The implementation in courts, about the possibility of states and of the backbone (Optical cabling and deployment municipalities to stipulate rules for additional of the underground optical network) in urban and protection beyond the federal parameter in order interurban stretches between Manaus (AM) and Boa to apply the precautionary principle. The concept Vista (RR) was approved in the license application was conceived during the Eco 92 and provides a for deployment and was authorized by IBAMA. guarantee against potential risks that, according to the current state of knowledge, cannot yet be As this stretch would pass through lands occupied identified. For Oi, this principle has already been by Waimiri Atroari Indians, a dialogue was had with widely covered in its current technical criteria. the leaders of the reservation, supervised by FUNAI. Oi negotiated before entering the lands belonging Because of a confusing and often contradictory to this tribe and established an agreement approved normative scenario, the Company is obliged to with all the leaders, pledging to provide a number ensure its right to provide the service either by filing of benefits to the local community. Some of the precautionary law suits or by exercising its right of benefits included providing a voice and internet defense in lawsuits in which it is a defendant. New telecommunications solution via fiber optics federal legislation should be coming out that could and satellite, as well as providing monitoring improve this scenario. and control systems. At the end of the year, a bill was under discussion All employees involved in the project attended a in Congress to regulate the installation of antennas lecture given by the Waimiri Atroari for clarification across the country effective 2013. Once the new law of standards and procedures, and all of them went is defined, Oi will assess its impact on the lawsuits through a health screening process, as was previously in progress in order to try to put an end to some agreed. In a second round of negotiations with the of the ongoing measures and minimize the impact Association of the Waimiri Atroari Community of fines levied in others through agreements (ACWA), a Term of Renegotiation was signed that or compliance of possible obligations. included additional requests, which were met by Oi within its technical possibilities. Without any friction or violation of rights, the deliveries planned are in OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 71 | Environment progress. Oi is continuously making contact with With the goal of reducing water consumption, FUNAI to provide information about the project. Oi promotes actions such as installing a telemetry system that monitors every month the water meters A mapping of the vegetation along the entire length in 22 buildings, making it possible to detect the of the intervention was done in partnership with a consumption and possible problems in supply. The consulting company. The phytosociological analyses Company also installed aerators and consumption outlined an overview of the intervention area and its reducers on its faucets and flushing devices, as well surroundings, making it possible to identify areas as optimized the orientation given to the cleaning with significant ecological importance. crews washing the patios. The recovery work done was along the road where A project of reusing rainwater to supply the cooling the characterization of these areas is highly diverse. towers of an administrative building in Rio de Janeiro The Backbone Project was done through land was implemented in 2012. It still has not been assigned to the highway and an area under the possible to measure the volume of water reused electrification network. The concern was that due to some actions that need to be implemented. the vegetation was composed of grasses with In 2013, a project will be tested of the self-filtering characteristics of decay in terms of impacts suffered of the water used in cooling towers of an by the highway. The recovery program has been administrative building in Rio de Janeiro. completed and the operating license of the stretch has already been issued by IBAMA. [GRI EN8] Water In 2012, 95% of the total water consumed in the administrative buildings came from the municipal supply. The other 5% came by groundwater at the branches of the Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Rondônia. Water consumption Source Total (m3) Underground water 80,960 Municipal supply or other water supply companies 1,562,026 Total 1,642,986 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 72 | Environment “When Oi ARRIVES IN A PLACE, it provides the population Generation of Value WITH AN INFINITUDE of information and benefits.” Customer Market Context As for the prospective scenario, the Focus bulletin points to a scenario of renewed economic activity in Brazil and forecasts GDP growth of 3.2% in 2013 and 3.6% in 2014. Contributing to this would be The scenario in 2012 was marked by greater volatility maintaining the Selic rate in 2013 at its current than in the previous year due to the expectation of a levels of 7.25%. According to the bulletin, the IPCA possible rupture of the Eurozone, the resumption of will not converge to the center of the target, closing U.S. economic activity, and Chinese economic growth, 2013 at 5.53% and 2014 at 5.5%, which should which is a major driver of the world economy. Recession contribute to the need for raising the Selic rate in and unemployment in Europe, sluggish economic 2014 to 8.25%. In the exchange rate scenario, the recovery, presidential elections, and the expectation of market consensus for the dollar is R$ 2.07 in 2013 a fiscal cliff in the United States, in addition to weather and R$ 2.05 in 2014, versus R$ 2.0435 in 2012. problems, which impacted the prices of global commodities, all marked the year 2012. The telecommunications sector In 2012, the total access of telecommunications In Brazil, the 3.75-percentage point reduction of the services in Brazil came to approximately 339.1 Selic rate by the Central Bank in 2012, from 11% million represented by 43.7 million fixed lines in to 7.25% per year, as well as specific interventions operation, 262 million mobile users, 19.2 million in the economy and the government’s successive fixed broadband internet users, and 16 million pay renewal of a number of benefits to some sectors of TV users. The 10.2% increase, which corresponds the economy were not enough to support the recovery to 31.6 million users compared to 2011, was mainly of the country’s economic activity. GDP (gross driven by significant net additions in the segment domestic product) and economic activity indicators of Personal Mobility. were continuously below market expectations. The external scenario of weak economic growth actually Fixed Telephony represented a limiting factor for the country’s The Brazilian fixed telephony market reached 43.7 aggregate demand. million operating lines in 201214, 2.7% up on the previous year. The segment is mature with only Despite the low economic growth scenario, inflation marginal growth since there is a global trend of traffic remained at a level uncomfortable for the government migration from fixed to mobile telephony. due to a buoyant labor market with unemployment at historically low levels and the population’s real income Fixed telephony concessionaires represented 70% on the rise. Although the IPCA index fell in 2012 of total fixed lines operating in 201214. (5.84%) compared to 2011 (6.5%), the following facts about this index should be kept in mind: (i) it incorporates a new calculation methodology (favorable), (ii) it remains above the Central Bank’s inflation target, and (iii) it is above the initial market forecast, which was 5.27%, according to the Central Bank’ Focus survey of March 16, 2012. 14 Latest information released by Anatel in September 2012. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 73 | Generation of Value Mobile Telephony The substantial growth of mobile broadband users With 262 million users in December 2012 and a was also noteworthy in 2012. With more than 1.2 penetration rate of 132.7% of the population, the million new additions from December 2011 to Brazilian mobile telephony market recorded December 2012, third generation (3G) users came substantial growth yet another year. Net additions 6.7 million at the end of the year. The significant totaled 25.690 million users in 2012, reflecting an 21.5% growth in the 3G base is evidence of this upturn of 8.1% over the previous year. The pre-paid market’s potential. segment represented 80.5% of total mobile users in December 2012 (81.7% in 2011), while post-paid users accounted for 19.5% of the total mobile base. ANNUAL GROWTH OF MOBILE TELEPHONY MARKET 39.3 29.6 41% 28.9 25.7 20.6 23.4 21.1 19.2 31% 13.7 24% 21% 19% 16% 16% 17% 8% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual growth Net Additions (MM) Fixed Broadband Pay TV Fixed broadband internet access continued to be one In December 2012, the pay TV user base increased of the sector’s growth drivers in 2012. At the end of by 3.4 million, or 27.03%, in 2012 (30.5% in 201215, the user base reached about 19.2 million, 2011). At the end of 2012, there were 16.2 million 16.7% up on 2011, which represented 2.75 million pay TV subscribers. new users. The penetration of broadband services in the country, considering the technologies for access This growth, for one more year, was driven by the through cable, ADSL, and radio, reached 31.3% in upturn in packages targeted to the population with Brazilian homes, evidence that there is still great lower purchasing power, where there is still strong potential for growth in this market. pent-up demand. The penetration rate reached 27% (21.2% in 2011), which proves the growth potential of this market. 15 Latest information released by Anatel in November 2012. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 74 | Generation of Value DTH (Direct to Home) technology accounted for especially, about the need to adjust the funding 61.7% of new users, followed by cable, with 38.3%. sources required to make the Plan viable, a It is important to note that the newcomers in the condition provided for by the Brazilian General market, including Oi, use DTH technology. Telecommunications Law. Regulatory Scenario In October 2010, the publication of the General The signature of new concession agreements only Regulation Updating Plan (PGR) completed two took place on June 20, 2011 due to discussions years of existence, at which time the conclusion of related to the proposal of a new General Plan on the short-term actions established in the Plan were Universal Services (PGMU) marked by differences expected to be concluded, including new regulations of opinion about the economic and financial impacts on highly important issues for the sector. Not all the arising from meeting the proposed targets and, actions were concluded. Status of the main issues on the agenda Regulations Description Mandatory and Free Provides the rules for phone directory distribution and provision of directory assistance of Charge Phone services. The public consultation (11/2010) has been concluded, but the regulation Directory has not been published. Numbering Provides a solution to guarantee numbering resources for mobile telephony services in the city of São Paulo (Brazilian area code 11). Public Consultation 13/2010 has been concluded and the regulation was issued in December 2010. The numbering of code 11 now has nine digits. The other codes of the state of São Paulo (12 to 19) will add the ninth digit by December 2013. In January 2014, the codes starting with number 2, which cover the states of Rio de Janeiro and Espírito Santo, will change. By December 2014, the ninth digit will be added in the North Region, except for Acre. Minas Gerais and the Northeast will have the ninth digit by December 31, 2015. The South and Midwest regions and Acre will be the last ones to receive the ninth digit, by December 31, 2016. Inspection and Public consultations concluded and regulations published (Sanctions Resolution Administrative 589/2012 and Inspection Resolution 596/2012). The regulations made it possible Sanctions (PC 21 and to reduce fines and enter into substitute agreements (TAC Term of Adjustment of 22/2010) Conduct), as well as provided for the development of a new methodology of fines. Local areas (PC New regulation published in January 2011 through Resolution 560/11 increased the 23/2010) geographical scope of local areas, causing changes in the number of long distance calls and the payment of the networks associated with these calls. Industrial Exploitation New regulation submitted to PC 50/2010 in late 2010 and approved pursuant to of Dedicated Lines Resolution 590/2012. The new regulation kept the possibility of charging special (EILD) EILD, but reduced the values in Anatel’s reference table by 17% on average and included the possibility of term and volume discounts. It should also be mentioned that there are new obligations for the supply of EILD arising from the approval of the PGMC (General Plan for Competition Resolution 600/12). OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 75 | Generation of Value Status of the main issues on the agenda Regulations Description Review of the PC 11/2011 was released on March 1, 2011, and the regulation was published Regulation on Special pursuant to Resolution 586/2012, defining the basic rules, demand requirements, Class Individual and characteristics for the supply, tariffs, quality, and form of payment for the Special Access (AICE) Class Individual Access (AICE) of the fixed switched telephone services designed to be used by the public in general and provided as a public utility. The AICE benefits low-income subscribers listed in the Single Registry for Social Programs of the Federal Government, which includes families earning up to three minimum wages. General Regulation Replacing the General Plan on Quality Goals for Fixed Switched Telephone Services, on the Quality of Fixed approved by Resolution 341, of June 20, 2003, and the Regulation on Fixed Switch Telephone Switched Telephone Service Quality Indicators, approved by Resolution 417, of Service Providers October 17, 2005, PC 16/2011 was launched on March 31, 2011, but the regulation has not yet been published. It proposes relevant changes to the conditions to measure the quality of the fixed switched telephone services provided. Criteria to adjust PC 37/2011 was released on October 11, 2011 with regulation issued on November PSTN call tariffs 4, 2011 establishing the criteria to adjust call tariffs of the Basic Plans of PSTN with SMP access Concessionaries involving SMP accesses for local and national long distance calls, pursuant to art. 108 of LGT and clause 12.3 of the concession agreements. Regulation of the PC 39/2011 was released on July 18, 2011, but the regulation has not yet been methodology for published. Its aim is to establish the criteria and methodology for calculating transfer calculating transfer factor x provided for in the contractual rules for the adjustment of PSTN tariffs in factor x applied to the accordance with paragraph 2 of clause 12.1 of PSTN concession agreements in force adjustments of PSTN as of May 2, 2011, in compliance with art. 7, item II of Decree no. 4733, of June tariffs 10, 2003. Reversible Assets PC 52/2010 was released at the end of 2010, but the regulation has not yet been published. It regulates the granting of prior consent to the replacement, encumbrance, and sale of reversible assets. It also establishes stricter conditions for the control of the concessionaire’s assets. Other Issues MVNO Mobile Virtual Approved in November 2010, Resolution 550 allows MVNO operators to provide Network Operator Mobile Personal Service (MPS). There are still no MVNO providers in partnership with Oi. Porto Seguro is the only virtual operator, and it has a partnership with TIM. Regulation on SCM PC 45/2011 was released on August 8, 2011, but the regulation has not yet been published. It provides for the introduction of resources to the regulation on SCM (Multimedia Communications Service) that meet the fundamental principles of the General Plan for Updating Telecommunications Regulations in Brazil (PGR) to promote mass access to broadband services, as well as complying with item V.20 of PGR’s short-term goals. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 76 | Generation of Value Status of the main issues on the agenda Regulations Description Regulation on SCM PC 46/2011 was released on August 9, 2011 and the regulation was published on Quality Management October 31, 2011. establishing quality goals and criteria for assessment, obtaining data and monitoring the quality of SCM providers. SeAC Conditional PC 65/2011 was released on December 19, 2011 and the regulation was published Access Service pursuant to Resolution 581/2012. The regulation implements what is provided for in Law 12,485, of September 12, 2011, regarding the audiovisual communication of conditional access. It presents the rules for this new service (SeAC), including provisions on service, installation and licensing of stations, channels with mandatory distribution and others issues, related to the reduction of possible barriers to the entry of new providers. Quality Management PC 26/2011 was released on May 23, 2011, but the regulation has not yet been of Pay TV Service published. It provides for the consolidation of current indicators and establishes the Providers Service Performance Index–IDA. New Regulations Concatenation of PC 34/2012 was released in November 2012 and the regulation was published in the calls of the MPS same month, in accordance with Resolution 604/2012, regulating the concatenation of all mobile calls with the same origin and destination with less than 120 seconds between them. Standard for using PC 53/2012 was released on December 11, 2012 with a deadline for contributions femtocells until January 25, 2013. The proposal, which is under public consultation, aims to improve and expand mobile indoor coverage and relieve traffic on the main RBS. Modeling of PC 26/2012 was released on July 4, 2012, but the regulation has not yet been telecommunication approved. The model proposes to understand the costs of regulated wholesale services costs in Brazil, including the fixed interconnection, mobile interconnection, and dedicated lines (EILD). Regulation on PC 8/2012 was released on February 15, 2012 and the regulation has not yet been providing PSTN approved. It aims to control PSTN service conditions in rural areas for both individual outside the basic and collective access, creating offers of service plans across the rural area and outside tariff area the basic tariff area. PGMC General Plan Planned in the PGR as a short-term action, the PGMC regulation was approved for Competition by Resolution 600/2012. The PGMC defined the relevant markets for the telecommunications sector, the rules identifying the corporate groups that have companies with SMP (Significant Market Power) and the obligations aimed at encouraging competition. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 77 | Generation of Value segments that complement the offer of services for Strategy and New clients are essential to ensure future growth. The Businesses Company periodically analyzes new business proposals that may have synergy with its activities and are able to leverage new sources of revenue and strengthen its position in the national and international The objectives to consolidate and expand its position in telecommunications scenario. the market, generating increasing value for its shareholders, guide the management of Oi and its In order to increase operational efficiency and achieve subsidiaries. The quest for leadership in the segment, economies of scale, Oi invests in improving its for the steady increase in competitiveness, and for an internal processes and reducing costs. The constant increasingly better economic performance with benefits improvement in customer care and services is another to employees, shareholders, partners and other strategic priority. stakeholders guides the Company’s strategy. Focusing on the short term, the Company evaluates The convergence of products and services—fixed and various development paths. In mobile retail, the mobile telephony, broadband, and pay TV—has acquisition of the 2.5 GHz license for providing become a key differential for Oi in relation to the fourth-generation mobile telephony services represents competition. It is also the main customer loyalty tool an important opportunity. This action is in line with and creates synergies between sectors, generating the goal of reinforcing its positioning in mobile data, savings in operations. The offer of convergence and complementing the bundle of convergent services innovative products also provides an opportunity for and aligning the strategy with the future of the profitable growth and contributes to the consolidation telecommunications market in which the Internet (fixed of leadership in this product segment. These and mobile) will be the main driver. In residential retail, advantages, combined with the focus on services and Oi works to complement the residential package of handset sales, increased market share and the services. It invests in improving the quality of pay profitability of operations. Oi will continue to explore TV, increasing the speed of fixed broadband with value added services and new products through its developments in xDSL technology (Digital Subscriber customer base, further boosting the expansion of its Line, digital data transmission using the phone network revenue and profitability. that reaches most homes) and laying fiber optics. Among these convergent products, broadband internet In the Corporate segment, the highlight is the is of special interest due its potential to leverage the structuring of a specific sales force to meet the needs Company’s growth and its strategic role in the future of this type of customer. The next steps will be to build of integrated communications services. Oi has the products even more adjusted to the segment and to largest network of fixed broadband access in the country expand the IT portfolio. The actions aim to strengthen with coverage in more than 4,600 municipalities. It Oi’s positioning as an integrated provider of basic and continually invests in new technologies and expanding advanced IT and telecommunications services. the offer high-speed Internet access, and its fixed and mobile broadband networks. The operating performance in 2012 shows that Oi going through the necessary changes, leveraging the creation New business opportunities in telecommunications and of value for all its stakeholders. adjacent segments, such as internet and IT are incorporated into the Company’s strategy, always with a focus on innovation and new businesses. Exploring new businesses from existing platforms and working in OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 78 | Generation of Value presented in this report represent Oi S.A. (surviving Financial & Operating company and new name of Brasil Telecom S.A.) at Performance the end of December 2012 compared to the end of December 2011 when the results of the other three companies were not incorporated. With the approval of the corporate restructuring on However, to facilitate understanding of the business, February 27, 2012, the shareholders of TNL (Tele we present the pro-forma consolidated results, Norte Leste Participações S.A.), Coari (Coari equivalent to former TNL’s figures, physical numbers, Participações S.A.), and TMAR (Telemar Norte Leste revenue, costs and expenses (EBITDA), debt, S.A.) became shareholders of Oi S.A. with TNL and investments and cash flow, as if the mergers Coari being wound up and TMAR becoming a whollyhad occurred on January 1, 2011. owned subsidiary of Oi S.A. Accordingly, the results [GRI 2.8] Consolidated Results OI S.A. Pro-Forma 2012 2011 YoY Revenue Generating Unit (‘000) 74,339 69,693 6.7% Residential 18,337 17,810 3.0% Personal Mobility 46,305 43,264 7.0% Business / Corporate 8,971 7,848 14.3% Public Telephones 727 771 -5.7% Net Revenue (R$ million) 28,142 27,907 0.8% Residential 9,974 10,501 -5.0% Personal Mobility 9,102 8,190 11.1% Business / Corporate 8,510 8,470 0.5% VAS and Others 556 746 -25.5% EBITDA (R$ million) 8,873 8,766 1.2% EBITDA Margin (%) 31.5% 31.4% 0.1% Net Earnings (R$ million) 1,785 1,006 77.4% Net Debt (R$ million) 25,068 15,627 60.4% Available Cash (R$ million) 7,804 14,092 -44.6% CAPEX (R$ million) 6,564 4,959 32.4% Note: net revenue is not pro forma. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 79 | Generation of Value Results in relation to the guidance Net revenue: the 2012 guidance of total net revenue At a meeting of the Board of Directors held on April of R$ 28.9 billion consisted of R$ 27.4 billion of net 16, 2012, Oi approved changes to the Material Act revenue from services and R$ 1.5 billion of revenue or Fact Disclosure Policy and Trading Policy for from handsets. Oi’s revenue from services was more Securities so as to include a section providing for the than R$100 million above the guidance, while possibility of disclosing Future Performance revenue from handsets was around R$ 900 million Projections (guidance). below the Company’s budget. It is important to point out that this is positive news both financially and Residential RGUs: Oi closed 2012 with 19.1 million from the market point of view as it demonstrates that Residential RGUs (Revenue Generating Units), Oi is attractive for its differentiated services and consisting of 12.5 million fixed lines, 5.1 million quality. The need to stimulate handset subsidies was broadband users, 757,000 pay TV clients, and lessened by the market’s positive response to the 727,000 pay phones. Given the reduction in the policy of simplifying offerings, creating regional units, number of fixed lines and the increase in the and increasing sales channel penetration. broadband and pay TV base, the Company recorded a 3% variation compared to the guidance. EBITDA: in 2012 EBITDA was virtually in line with the guidance due to revenue growth and the successful Personal Mobility RGUs: at the end 2012, Oi had 46.3 management of costs and expenses. This result was million Personal Mobility RGUs, with 39.8 million also impacted by non-core operations. pre-paid clients and 6.5 million post-paid clients. These figures came in around 500,000 higher than Capex: investments totaled R$ 6.6 billion in 2012, the guidance due to higher channel penetration, above the guidance, mainly due to the acquisition simpler offerings, the creation of regional sales of the 4G license. This underlines the Company’s forces, and handset subsidies. Although the latter commitment to investing in increasing coverage and was important to attract new post-paid clients, the network capacity, as well as improving service quality. strong contribution from the other strategies reduced the need for handset subsidies. Net debt: Oi closed December 2012 with a total of approximately R$ 25 billion, in line with the Business/Corporate RGUs: with an increase of almost disclosed guidance. 15% in the year, Oi had 9 million RGUs in this segment in December. The initiatives implemented led to a 3% variation in relation to the guidance. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 80 | Generation of Value Metric Guidance 2012 Result Change Revenue Generating Unit (RGU) Million 74.9 74.3 -0.8% Residential RGUs 16 19.8 19.1 -3.5% Personal Mobility RGUs 45.8 46.3 1.1% Business / Corporate RGUs 9.3 9.0 -3.2% Net Revenue – R$ Billion 28.9 28.1 -2.8% Service Revenue 27.4 27.5 0.4% Product Revenue 1.5 0.6 -60.0% EBITDA – R$ Billion 8.75 8.9 1.7% Investments (CAPEX) – R$ Billion 6.0 6.6 10.0% Net Debt – R$ Billion 24.9 25.1 0.8% 16 Includes Public Telephones Projections for 2013 According to Oi S.A.’s Material Act or Fact Disclosure Policy and Trading Policy for Securities, which provide for the disclosure of Future Performance Projections (Guidance), and according to the best corporate governance practices, the Company announces its operational and financial projections for fiscal year 2013, based on reasonable assumptions, subject to several factors, many of which are not and will not be under the Company’s control. Metrics 2013 Revenue Generating Unit (RGU) Million Range from 75.0 to 76.5 Net Service Revenue – R$ Billion Range from 28.0 to 29.0 EBITDA – R$ Billion Range from 9.0 to 9.8 Investments (CAPEX) – R$ Billion 6.0 Net Debt / EBITDA Less or equal to 3x Note: The following assumptions were used for preparing the above indicators Exchange rate: average USD of R$2.02 in 2013; Selic: average rate of 7.42% in 2013. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 81 | Generation of Value RESIDENTIAL 2012 2011 YoY Net Revenue (R$ Million) 9,974 10,539 -5.4% Revenue Generating Units (RGU) ('000) 18,337 17,810 3.0% Fixed Line in Service 12,478 13,046 -4.4% Fixed Broadband 5,102 4,412 15.6% Pay TV 757 351 115.7% ARPU Residential (R$) 66.6 67.1 -0.7% Note: The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures. In 2012, net revenue from the Residential segment This was due to growth for the third consecutive totaled R$ 9.97 billion, which represents a quarter of quarter growth, confirming the reversal 5% decrease compared to 2011. This result of the downward trend in revenue from this segment demonstrates a significant improvement in relation to and the success of the strategy of focusing on the 12% drop observed between 2010 and 2011. bundled services. Annual change in residential revenue (%) 2.1% -3.8% -7.6% -9.7% -10.8% -11.0% -11.5% -11.5% 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 Growth of RGUs Oi ended the year with 18.34 million RGUs in the Residential segment, an annual increase of 3%, driven Highlight by the consistent expansion of broadband (16%), the significant growth of pay TV (116%), and the strong The expansion of pay TV which more than slowdown in the churn of fixed lines in service. This doubled in 2012 led Oi to reach third place performance is explained by initiatives aimed at in market share by economic group. The reducing churn through client retention (convergence, Company launched Internet Protocol pay TV portfolio repositioning, and customer loyalty) and by (IPTV) and broadband of up to 200 Mbps leveraging sales of residential products with a strong using a fiber-optic network. focus on channel expansion, advertising campaigns, and investments in upgrading broadband speeds. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 82 | Generation of Value Annual change in ResidenTial RGUs (%) ANNUAL CHANGE IN FIXED RESIDENTIAL RGUs (%) 1.7% 3.0% -0.2% -2.3% -3.2% -4.4% -4.5% -4.2% -5.0% -4.4% -6.2% -7.3% -8.1% -8.4% -7.9% -7.8% Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 ANNUAL CHANGE IN FIXED broadband RGUs (%) Annual change in Pay TV RGUs (%) 16.4% 16.8% 14.9% 15.4% 15.6% 115.7% 11.8% 8.7% 75.1% 6.4% 36.0% 16.1% 6.9% 1.7% -7.0% -12.7% Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Oi closed 2012 with 5.10 million broadband of new customers in the loyalty programs, and to the customers in the residential segment, an addition migration of existing customers. The purpose of this of 690,000 in the year (15.6%). This growth is in initiative is to reduce churn and therefore maintain line with the Company’s strategy of increasing the high levels of growth. number of products per home. Note that the number of homes subscribing to Oi services that already One of the results of this strategy was that in 2012 have broadband increased by 6.7 percentage points., Oi recorded annual growth rates higher than 15% in reaching 40.4% of the base by the end of 2012. each quarter in the residential broadband segment, showing consistently strong performance and This result was primarily due to: (i) investments in substantial growth in comparison with 2011. network expansion and quality with a consequent upgrade in base speeds; (ii) the repositioning of the Oi Velox product and offerings in certain markets; (iii) channel expansion both for door-to-door sales and Highlight store sales; and (iv) customer loyalty initiatives such as plans that offer a monthly discount if the client The main factors that influenced 2012 subscribes to the plan for 12 months. results were new offerings, loyalty, investments, and channel expansion, resulting in annual During the year, the customer loyalty base practically growth above 15% in the broadband segment. doubled from nearly 30% to 60% at the end of 2012. This increase was due to both the addition OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 83 | Generation of Value Investments in networks and upgrade actions Oi TV penetration per household (%) Throughout 2012, Oi invested in expanding 6.0% broadband availability with higher speeds for the residential segment and strengthened its upgrade 4.7% and base protection initiatives. 3.8% 3.0% The percentage of customers with speeds of 5 Mb 2.6% 2.7% or more recorded a sequential increase during the year, despite the significant expansion in the overall residential broadband customer base. In 2012, this customer base grew by 7 percentage points, totaling 31% of the base (45% of this group has speeds Sep Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec above 10 Mb). 11 11 12 12 12 12 Fixed line: Residential Fixed Broadband RGUs – convergence and retention initiatives speed above 5Mb (%) The strategy of converging products guided Oi’s operations in the residential segment in 2012. Besides adding pay TV and broadband services to fixed lines, which reduces the churn of this product, the Company repositioned its portfolio and focused on service packages with unlimited minutes of use. 24% 24% 27% 29% 31% This strategy makes fixed lines more attractive for new customers and, at the same time, encourages the loyalty of existing customers. 11% 12% 13% 14% 14% Oi closed 2012 with 12.48 million residential Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec wireline consumers, 4.4% down in the year. This > 10MB 11 12 12 12 12 result represents a significant slowdown in the Average speed 2.5 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.1 (Mbps) year-over-year decrease in RGUs for this product. In 2012, net disconnections totaled 568,000, compared to 1,115,000 in 2011, a decline of nearly Growth of the pay TV base 50%. For comparative purposes, this reduction came The expansion of the pay TV segment is one of the to 7.9% in 2011. elements of the Company’s strategy, and its purpose is to increase the number of products per home, This result was primarily due to the repositioning of enhancing customer loyalty and retention and leading to the portfolio (convergence and flat-fee subscriptions), the sustainable growth of residential ARPU. Accordingly, the increased penetration of the door-to-door channel, the pay TV base ended 2012 with 757,000 customers, and more advertising campaigns during the year. an addition of 406,000 in the year (+115.7%), maintaining constant growth throughout 2012. The percentage of households with Oi products that already have pay TV also improved significantly, increasing by 3.3 percentage points to 6.0% at the end of 2012. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 84 | Generation of Value Net Disconnections in the last 12 months Consistent growth of ARPU Fixed residential RGUs Thanks to continued emphasis on increasing the number of homes with more than one Oi product (1P), the Company ended 2012 with more than 1P in 53% 1,210 of its total residential customer base, representing 1,193 1,110 1,115 1,084 6,744,000 out of 12,629,000 homes. Compared to 841 2011, this figure moved up by 6.8 percentage points, 667 due to the continued effort to leverage convergence 568 through broadband (fixed and mobile) and pay TV services, segments for which the new “Equal” campaign with a bundled concept (Oi Internet Total + Oi TV HD) brought increased demand for 3P packages, addressing 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 the market coming from other players (winback). Innovative offer of FTTH (fiber-to-the-home) Percentage of Households with more In keeping with Oi’s track record of innovation in the than 1P and Residential ARPU (% and R$) launch of offerings and business models and reinforcing its leadership in bundled services, the Company has been investing to take fiber optic lines to its customers’ homes, 65.0 64.8 63.1 64.5 65.8 69.2 providing access to several services such as super-high speed internet connection and Internet Protocol pay TV (IPTV). 53.4% 50.6% 52.2% 44.8% 46.6% 47.9% Plans for IPTV and ultra-broadband of up to 200 Mbps were introduced in December 2012. IPTV is a cuttingedge solution that offers greater channel surfing speeds and allows customers to record a program to watch later in any room of the house, going “back in time” and watching a program that has already aired, sharing content on social networks, among other features. Oi’s IPTV users will also have access to programs on TVs, tablets, and smartphones, and will be able to connect 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 to up to five connections with basic channels free of Residential ARPU >1p charge. This service is available in certain neighborhoods in Rio de Janeiro. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 85 | Generation of Value Residential ARPU Strengthening of sales channels As a strategic pillar of the operations, the Company Residential ARPU is calculated by dividing the improved its sales channels and increased their segment’s total revenue by the average number penetration throughout the year, led by Companyof homes served by Oi. This revenue comes from owned stores, which reached 187 in December fixed line services, fixed broadband, and pay TV. 2012, well above the 60 existing in the same month of the previous year, and the door-to-door channel, In line with the Company’s strategy for the which increased from 4,100 in 2011 to 6,700 at the Residential segment, which aims at leveraging end of 2012. This has resulted in increased sales of ARPU through bundling residential services, fixed line, broadband, pay TV and bundled services. residential ARPU was R$66.6 in 2012, a drop Also, the beginning of sales of residential products at of 0.7% compared to 2011. the Company’s stores (owned and franchised) contributed to the positive results in 2012. This movement was due to the downward trend in the fixed market, partially offset by an increase in the number of households with more than one product and pay TV and broadband growth. PERSONAL MOBILITY 2012 2011 YoY Net Revenue (R$ Million) 9,102 8,189 11.1% Services 6,276 5,755 9.1% Network Usage 2,337 2,398 -2.5% Sales of handsets, sim cards and others 489 36 1,258.3% Revenue Generating Units (RGU) ('000) 46,305 43,264 7.0% Pre-Paid Plans 39,832 37,978 4.9% Post-Paid Plans 6,472 5,285 22.5% Note: (1) The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures. (2) Post-paid plans include: high value post-paid plans; Oi Controle; convergent mobile terminals (Oi Conta Total and Oi Internet Total), and 3G (mini-modem). OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 86 | Generation of Value Focus on high-value customer Personal Mobility Post-paid RGUs (thousands) During 2012, Oi executed a number of commercial and operational initiatives related to its strategy focused on the high-end segment and the increased 11.9% 12.3% 12.6% 12.2% 12.6% 12.8% 13.4% 14.0% penetration of data and value added services (VAS) in its customer base. The successful execution of this 6,472 6,085 strategy resulted in a year of strong growth in the 5,791 5,285 5,570 post-paid segment, reflected on the improved revenue 5,141 4,660 4,823 profile (lower dependence on revenue from pre-paid and interconnection services, and higher contribution from post-paid, data and value added services). In 2012, net revenue from the personal mobility segment totaled R$ 9.1 billion, 11.1% higher than last year. This performance was due to higher revenue 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 from subscriptions and data, associated with the increase in the post-paid base, and resale material, Post-paid / total Post-paid RGUs personal mobility linked to handset sales as of 2012. Trajectory of consistent The simplification of post-paid plans in 2012 and profitable growth improved sales force communication and customers’ The Company closed the year with 46,305,000 understanding of the offerings. The key plans in this RGUs in the Personal Mobility segment, an annual portfolio are: Oi Conta, offering unlimited local calls increase of 7.0%, driven by the strong expansion of to Oi mobile and fixed lines of any operator, mobile the post-paid segment, which moved up 22.5% in internet, SMS messages, and Oi WiFi; and Oi the period. Net additions in Personal Mobility Smartphone, offering the same services with discounts reached 3,041,000 in 2012, 1,187,000 of which for post-paid customers to purchase handsets. post-paid and 1,854,000 pre-paid. For customers looking for a bundled service solution, Post-paid Oi offers Oi Conta Total (OCT) plans, which include Oi closed 2012 with 6.47 million customers, fixed line, mobile, and broadband services, and the representing 14.0% of the Personal Mobility base option to buy additional services such as Oi TV, Oi (12.2% in 2011); 1.19 million post-paid users were Velox, 3G and unlimited SMS messages, unlimited added in the year, which is more than three times the long-distance calls, and unlimited mobile internet. figure for 2011. This result was driven by a significant increase in gross additions (due to the remodeling of offerings and increased channel penetration), and a reduction in churn (due to a proactive approach in choosing the best plans for customers based on an analysis of their consumption profile and customer base loyalty). OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 87 | Generation of Value Pre-paid Highlight The pre-paid base totaled 39.83 million consumers at the end of 2012. Gross recharge volume continues Oi ended 2012 with 187 Company-owned to grow consistently in line with the customer base, stores, more than three times the number thanks to a growth strategy focused on profitability. recorded in December 2011. Other important drivers of growth in the pre-paid segment were: simplification of offerings, strong OVERALL MOBILE BASE presence in Brazilian retail stores (large retail Post-paid market share growth chains), and increased penetration of points of sale At the end of 2012, the mobile customer base that sell recharges and SIM cards, translating into (Personal Mobility + Business/Corporate) reached greater convenience for customers. 49.26 million users, 46.30 million of which were Personal Mobility users and 2.95 million were Sales channels and 3G coverage Business/Corporate users. As part of the initiatives to strengthen Oi’s presence in the high-end segment, the opening and expansion The post-paid segment grew substantially in 2012. of Company-owned stores were essential to: The focus on growing in the high-end market by seeking a fair-share in the post-paid segment • Provide first-class customer service to high-end continues to be sustained by increased channel customers, bringing the Company closer to penetration, simpler plans, handset discounts, these clients. and more advertising campaigns. • Support the return to the handset market. In December 2012, Oi was the operator with the largest market share gains in the post-paid segment, • Serve as a model for operational management, recording growth of 2.8 percentage points compared commissioning policy, and standardization of to December 2011. Oi closed December 2012 with franchised stores. a 16.3% post-paid mix, a significant upturn in relation to December 2011 (12.5%). Another strategic pillar of the high-end segment is the expansion of the 3G coverage. Focusing on the growth of the post-paid segment and on the increased penetration of data services and VAS in its base, Oi closed the year with coverage in 692 municipalities, comprising 73% of Brazil’s urban population, an increase of 420 municipalities and 30 million people in comparison with 2011. This led to significant growth in revenue from mobile data services and VAS, which in 2012 accounted for 14.9% of service revenue, 4.1 percentage points up on 2011. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 88 | Generation of Value POST-PAID MARKET SHARE EVOLUTION YTD (bps) TRENDS IN MOBILE POST-PAID MIX IN 2012 (%) 280 bps 24.7% 20.0% 30 bps 0 bps 16.3% 15.3% -310 bps dec11 mar12 jun12 sep12 dec12 dec11 mar12 jun12 sep12 dec12 Oi Player A Player B Player C Oi Player A Player B Player C Source: Anatel Source: Anatel Mobile ARPU Mobile ARPU considers total revenue from the mobile division (Personal Mobility + Business/Corporate) as if it were a separate company, i.e. it includes revenue from intercompany traffic with the fixed line division. Following the same logic, revenue from long-distance calls originating from mobiles that are part of the STFC license (fixed voice concession) is not included in that calculation. The amount is then divided by the average base to calculate mobile ARPU. Mobile ARPU in 2012 was R$ 21.60, with a slight decrease of 0.6% in relation to 2011. BUSINESS/CORPORATE 2012 2011 YoY Net Revenue (R$ Million) 8,510 8,470 0.5% Revenue Generating Units (RGU) ('000) 8,971 7,848 14.3% Fixed Line in Service 5,422 5,083 6.7% Fixed Broadband 594 523 13.6% Mobile 2,955 2,242 31.8% Note: The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 89 | Generation of Value Repositioning leverages the customer base Corporate In 2012, revenue reached R$ 8.5 billion, R$ 40 In the Corporate segment, which caters to large million higher than in the previous year, chiefly due corporations, Oi continued with its strategy of helping to the increase in revenue from data in mobile and customers leverage their revenue and rationalize their fixed telephony, which was greater than the drop in costs through the innovative use of technology. fixed telephony traffic. Operating highlights in the year were led by the In relation to the operating performance, the 69.7% upturn in the post-paid base and the 40.0% Company closed 2012 with 8.97 million RGUs, increase in fixed line digital trunks. Furthermore, an increase of 14.3% compared to 2011, with the development of other services such as VPN growth in all lines. networking and IP internet access positively contributed to this segment’s performance. Business In relation to fixed telephony, growth was One important development was the IT and telecom sustained, with RGUs moving up by 6.5% over service agreement entered into with Arena Castelão, the previous year, consolidating the reversal of host of the Fifa Confederations Cup and World Cup in the decline in the base observed until 2011. Fortaleza, Ceará State. Oi is bringing the best On the broadband front, the upward trend was technology available in the market to Arena Castelão, maintained with RGU growth of 17.2% in the year. including telecom (local networks and telephone systems) services and local infrastructure In the fixed line data market, continued implementation and management (CCTV, digital improvements in the sale and delivery processes, in signage, and access control, among others). With addition to investments in equipment and network this, Oi is the first carrier to offer this type of service facilities, sustained the growth in sales and in soccer stadiums in Brazil. reduced the cancellation of circuits. IP services grew by 38% in the year. In 2012, new data circuit Another highlight is the beginning of the connections followed investments in the implementation of the PE Conectado project for development of a dedicated sales force and the Pernambuco State government, a world-class training programs. benchmark of service convergence in a single platform, which is unprecedented in the public It is important to mention the development of sector. This project provides for the expansion partnerships with large hardware suppliers and of data (internet capacity and dedicated access), technology integrators, which provide a greater telephone (fixed line, mobile, and toll-free), and presence with synergic, high value solutions. complementary services (urban and building video monitoring, among others). At the end of 2012, Oi introduced Oi Smart Cloud, a cloud computing product already offered to the In December, Oi was recognized by Frost & Corporate market, in the Business segment. This Sullivan as offering the most innovative IT and reinforces the strategy of being increasingly Communications product portfolio among Brazilian present throughout its customers’ IT and telecom carriers. The highlights of that portfolio are Oi Smart service chain. Cloud and Oi Gestão, introduced in the first and second quarters, respectively. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 90 | Generation of Value FINANCIAL PERFORMANCECOSTS AND EXPENSES Outsourced Services In 2012, expenses with outsourced services totaled Interconnection R$ 8.2 billion, an increase of 8.3% over 2011, Interconnection costs totaled R$ 4.4 billion in 2012, mainly due to higher spending on facility upkeep, 5.1% less than in the previous year, mainly due to commission and selling expenses, and content the fall in the fixed-to-mobile termination rates. hired for pay TV. Personnel PDA (Provisions for Doubtful Accounts) In 2012, personnel expenses totaled R$ 2.0 billion, In 2012, provisions for doubtful accounts reached growing 7.0% over 2011, driven by the headcount R$ 595 million, a 28.0% reduction compared with 2011, increase in Company-owned sales channels (stores chiefly due to more efficient collection methods, and door-to-door), the creation of regional offices, especially in the Business/Corporate segment. and the recruiting of staff at Oi’s external network maintenance company. Other Operating Expenses (Revenue) Other Net Operating Expenses totaled R$ 1.02 billion Handset Costs and Others (COGS) in 2012. This expense line was positively influenced The Company ended 2012 with R$ 542 million in by the sale of a subsidiary that owned approximately handset costs and COGS. Compared with 2011, there 1,200 mobile, non-reversible towers. The total was an increase of R$ 310 million, mainly due to the amount involved in the transaction, and already resumption of handset sales in 2012, in line with the received by the Company, was R$ 516 million. strategy of focusing on high-end customers. The result seen in the P&L is the proceeds of the sale deducted of its book value and taxes. This operation is in line with Oi’s strategy in monetizing non-strategic assets, generating resources to be invested in the Company’s core businesses. Breakdown of Operating Costs and Expenses (Oi S.A. pro forma) Item R$ million 2012 2011 YoY Operating Expenses Interconnection 4,414 4,651 -5.1% Personnel 2,016 1,884 7.0% Materials 156 191 -18.3% Handset Costs/Other (COGS) 542 232 133.6% Third-Party Services 8,236 7,607 8.3% Marketing 475 559 -15.0% Rent and Insurance 1,813 1,658 9.3% Provision for Bad Debts 595 826 -28.0% Other Operating Expenses (Revenue), Net 1,021 1,532 -33.4% Total 19,269 19,141 0.7% Note: The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 91 | Generation of Value Other Items in the Result In 2012, net revenue totaled R$ 28.1 billion, Highlight R$ 235 million higher than in 2011, reversing the downward trend of recent years. The 11.1% rise Operating costs and expenses totaled in revenue from the Personal Mobility segment R$ 19.27 billion in 2012. and the slower decline in the Residential segment were the main drivers of this result. Breakdown of Net Revenue (Oi S.A. PRO FORMA) r$Million Year % 2012 2011 YoY 2012 2011 Residential 9,974 10,501 -5.0% 35.4% 37.6% Personal Mobility 9,102 8,190 11.1% 32.3% 29.3% Services 6,276 5,757 9.0% 22.3% 20.6% Network Usage 2,337 2,398 -2.5% 8.3% 8.6% Sales of handsets, sim cards and others 489 36 1,258.3% 1.7% 0.1% Business / Corporate 8,510 8,470 0.5% 30.2% 30.3% Other Services 556 746 -25.5% 2.0% 2.7% Public Phone 79 194 -59.3% 0.3% 0.7% Other 476 552 -13.8% 1.7% 2.0% Total Net Revenue 28,142 27,907 0.8% 100.0% 100.0% Note: The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures. Annual change in total net revenue (%) 6.2% 1.5% 1.2% -1.9% -2.4% -2.9% -3.8% -4.0% -4.7% -5.5% -7.1% 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 92 | Generation of Value EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Oi S.A. Pro-Forma 2012 2011 YoY EBITDA (R$ Mn) 8,873 8,766 1.2% EBITDA Margin (%) 31.5% 31.4% 0.1% Oi S.A. Consolidated 2012 2011 YoY EBITDA (R$ Mn) 7,988 2,612 205.8% EBITDA Margin (%) 31.7% 28.2% 3.5% Highlight In 2012, Oi’s EBITDA totaled R$ 8.9 billion, virtually stable over 2011, even taking the non-core results into account in 2012. by 10.6%, primarily due to capital market funding Financial Result& Debt transactions: 5.75% bonds (US$ 1.5 billion), and Oi S.A. Consolidated R$ Million 2012 2011 debentures pegged to the CDI interbank deposit Net Interest (on fin. investments and loans and financing) -1,551 -65 rate (R$ 400 million) and to the IPCA consumer Net FX result (on fin. investments price index (R$ 1.4 billion). Furthermore, the and loans and financing) -484 -49 Company received disbursements from the BNDES Other financial income / expenses -180 42 (R$ 2 billion). Net Financial Income (Expenses) -2,216 -72 Foreign currency-denominated debt represented Oi S.A.’s consolidated net financial result is not 39.1% of total debt at the end of the year. However, comparable given that in 2011 the financial result only 1.4% of gross debt (1.1% in Dec/11), equivalent referred to former Brasil Telecom, which, at the time to R$ 466 million, was exposed to currency had a net cash position since it did not consolidate fluctuations. It is important to mention that derivate the rest of the group. transactions and cash held in a foreign currency offer protection against currency fluctuations for this Debt & Liquidity portion of the debt. The Company’s consolidated gross debt closed 2012 at R$ 32.9 billion. Consolidated net debt was The effective cost of the debt remained stable R$ 25.1 billion in the year. throughout the year. At the end of the year, the debt average term was 5 years (4.5 in 2011), maintaining Compared to pro-forma debt in December 2011, the trend towards extending the debt profile the Company’s consolidated gross debt increased established in recent quarters. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 93 | Generation of Value debt (Oi S.A. pro forma) Debt dec/12 dec/11 % Gross Debt Short Term 2,783 4,579 8.5% Long Term 30,088 25,140 91.5% Total Debt 32,871 29,719 100.0% In Local Currency 20,497 21,120 62.4% In Foreign Currency 12,849 8,648 39.1% Swaps -475 -49 -1.4% (-) Cash -7,804 -14,092 -23.7% (=) Net Debt 25,068 15,627 76.3% Note: The results for 2011 are pro-forma figures. Gross Debt Amortization Schedule 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 onwards Total Schedule for the Amortization of Gross Debt Local Currency Amortization 2,438 3,093 1,554 3,675 3,974 5,764 20,497 Foreign Currency Amortization + swap 345 705 921 855 2,310 7,237 12,374 Gross Debt Amortization 2,783 3,798 2,475 4,530 6,284 13,000 32,871 Breakdown of Gross Debt (R$ million) 1,081 10,289 32,871 8,221 1,499 2,625 6,864 4,454 Gross Hedge and Bonds Debentures Asia ECAs National Commercial Debt Borrowing Development Europe Development Banks Costs Banks Banks OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 94 | Generation of Value Net Income Note that the 2012 numbers of net income already Oi S.A. posted a net income of R$ $ 1,785 billion reflect the reversal of the step-up in basis of assets in 2012. arising from the acquisition of Brasil Telecom S.A. in 2009. It is important to mention that this reversal Net income in 2012 is not comparable with the does not have any fiscal effect. figure in 2011 because of the completion of the corporate reorganization on February 27, 2012. Net Income (Oi S.A. Consolidated) Net Income 2012 2011 Net Earnings (R$ Mn) 1,785 1,006 Net Margin 7.1% 10.9% Earnings per Share (R$) 1,088 1,705 Note: The 2011 results refer to former Brasil Telecom’s results and do not include Telemar’s results. Cash Flow (OI S.A.) R$ Million 2012 Cash BoP 14,092 Operational Cash Generation (EBITDA) 8,873 Assets in Escrow -1,753 Taxes Payment -1,153 Capital Expenditure -6,258 Working Capital -1,412 Distribution of Profits (Dividends/ Interest on Equity/Bonuses) -3,032 Disbursements from Corporate Restructure -2,745 Sale of non-core assets 610 Funding net of interest and principal payments 582 Cash EoP 7,804 Note: The results for 2012 are pro-forma figures. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 95 | Generation of Value [GRI DMA EC and EC1] Added value Of the added value to be distributed, no less than In 2012, Oi generated consolidated added value 50.9% went to the government under several of R$ 17.83 billion, demonstrating its ability to forms of taxes. distribute the wealth generated by its activities. Oi S.A. Consolidated R$ million 2012 GROSS REVENUE 39,910 Gross Revenues after deduction 34,002 Other Revenues and expenses 1,394 Third-part inputs -14,448 GROSS VALUE ADDED 20,948 Retentions -5,394 NET VALUE ADDED GENERATED 15,554 Value added from transfer 2,275 Added Value Demonstration 2012 % Total Value Added to be Distributed 17,829 100.00 Personnel and Charges 2,001 11.2% Taxes, Charges and Contributions 9,071 50.9% Interest and Financial Expenses 4,318 24.2% Rent and Insurance 1,602 9.0% Minority Interest 0 0.0% Employee profit sharing 0 0.0% Minority Interest 417 2.3% Retained earnings 421 2.4% Distribution of the value Employees 50.9% Government Outsourced Shareholders Dividends 33.2% Retained 11.2% 2.3% 2.4% 0.0% Note: There is no history of the indicator for 2011 because of the reorganization process during the period. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 96 | Generation of Value Research and Development Investments Since its inception, Oi has worked hard to stand out and remain in the leadership in the domestic market through its innovative actions and attitude. That is why it makes significant investments in innovation In 2012, investments totaled R$ 6.6 billion, 32.4% up and R&D. In 2012 alone, a total of R$ 144 million on the previous year, due to the expansion of 2G and was invested in 63 projects. 3G networks, fixed line data network improvements, and Oi TV improvements and coverage expansion, as well as In order to achieve its innovation targets, in 2012 Oi IT system optimization, the 4G license, and the intensified the process of exploration of innovative increase in Company-owned stores. Note that more than services and developed innovation, research and 70% of investments in 2012 went to expanding the development activities, fostering its innovation network and improving its quality. ecosystem through the Inova Program, based on three innovation factories. INVESTMENTS R$ Million 2012 2011 YoY • Incremental Innovation: to encourage and develop Network 4,772 3,890 22.7% innovation in daily processes at Oi (focus on the IT Services 336 286 17.5% short term). Others 1,456 783 86.0% Total 6,564 4,959 32.4% • Planned Innovation: to develop projects to implement innovative products, services, and Note: (1) The results for 2012 and 2011 are pro-forma figures processes at Oi (focus on the medium term). (2) Includes 4G licenses. • Exploratory Innovation: to evaluate and define the positioning of new trends, technologies, and business models that can be implemented in the long term. Further information on Research and Innovation at Oi may be found in the chapter ‘Oi’ in this Report. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 97 | Generation of Value Capital Market and Ownership Structure At the end of 2012, the Company’s capital was represented by 1.797 billion shares, 599.0 million of which common (ON) and 1.198 billion preferred (PN). Ownership Structure Controlling Direct Capital Treasury Shares controllers17 Free-Float Common 599,008,629 84,250,695 290,549,788 61,995,173 162,212,973 Preferred 1,198,077,775 72,808,066 0 441,556,694 683,713,015 Total 1,797,086,404 157,058,761 290,549,788 503,551,867 845,925,988 Note: Shareholding position on December 31th, 2012. 17 Telecom, Andrade Gutierrez, BNDES, Bratel, Funcef, La Fonte Telecom, LF TEL, Petros e Previ. [GRI 2.3] Ownership Structure PT AG Tel LF Tel FAT 12.1% 19.3% 19.3% 11.5% BNDES Previ Funcef Petros 13.1% 9.7% 7.5% 7.5% 100% Telemar Participações (TmarPart) 17.7% Oi S.A. (OIBR) 100% Telemar Norte Leste Listed company Note: (1) Includes minority interests in PT, AG, LF, FATL, BNDES, and Pension Funds (2) Former Treasury OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 98 | Generation of Value shares18 and media professionals attended the event in On the BM&FBovespa, Oi’s shares ended 2012 at Rio de Janeiro, while in New York participants came R$ 9.16 (OiBR3) and R$ 8.32 (OiBR4), 13.0% to over 150. The event’s greenhouse gas emissions and 15.2% up, respectively. The Ibovespa closed were neutralized. the same period with an increase of 7.4%. [GRI 4.4 and 4.16] The main communication channels for On the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the the relationship with investors and/or analysts are Company’s ADRs appreciated by 2.82% (OIBR) and available on the IR website (www.oi.com.br/ri). 1.40% (OIBR.C) in 2012. Information about shareholder services can also 18 Source: Economática. be found on the same website. Investor Relations Dividends Oi’s Investor Relations (IR) department has The payment of dividends for the fiscal year ended in the mission to develop and execute an appropriate 2011 was approved at the Annual General Meeting of and consistent policy of transparency information April 2012. The payment of dividends was made in disclosure, in addition to maintaining close May 2012, in the total amount of R$ 2.0 billion, relationships with analysts and investors and being equivalent to R$ 1.219487094508 per common the Company’s main communication channel with and preferred share. national and international capital market agents. The payment of dividends was approved in August, Among the activities performed by the IR area 2012 at the Annual General Meeting and the are meetings with national and foreign investors, amount of R$ 507,715,614.95 was paid, meetings of the Association of Capital Market equivalent to R$ 0.309577473963 per common Analysts (APIMEC) and participation in conferences and preferred share. and roadshows in Brazil and abroad, as well as congresses for investment and capital In addition, there was the payment of the redemption market professionals. of classes B and C preferred shares as a bonus to the holders of the Company’s common and preferred In 2012, the IR team attended 17 conferences shares for a total amount of R$ 492,284,385.05, in Brazil and abroad, meeting with about 1,300 equivalent to R$ 0.300168346034 per common investors and analysts. and preferred share. In April 2012, the Company held Oi Investor Day for the second time in its history. The event was held in the cities of Rio de Janeiro and New York with the presence of representatives of Oi’s controlling shareholders and top executives. The main objective was to present to the market in general its long-term strategic plan, which included disclosure of future performance projections (guidance) for the 20122015 period. Oi Investor Day also featured the disclosure of the Dividend Policy for the next three years and the presentation of the latest technologies developed by Oi. Over 250 investors, analysts, OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 99 | Generation of Value Balance Sheet Oi S.A. Consolidated R$ Million Income Statement 2012 2011 Net Operating Revenue 25,169.2 9,245.3 Operating Expenses -17,181.0 -6,633.7 Cost of Services Provided -5,611.2 -2,009.4 Cost of Goods Sold -507.5 -23.8 Interconnection Costs -3,914.5 -1,711.2 Selling Expenses -4,737.8 -1,154.3 General and Administrative Expenses -2,519.9 -1,249.0 Other Operting (Expenses) Revenue, net 109.9 -486.0 EBITDA 7,988.2 2,611.5 Margin % 31.7% 28.2% Depreciation and Amortization -3,228.1 -1,044.2 EBIT 4,760.1 1,567.3 Financial Expenses -4,490.9 -1,477.8 Financial Income 2,275.4 1,405.9 Income Before Tax and Social Contribution 2,544.6 1,495.4 Income Tax and Social Contribution -759.7 -489.6 Net Income 1,784.9 1,005.8 Margin % 7.1% 10.9% Outstanding Shares Thousand (ex-treasury) 1,640.028 589,789 Earnings per share (R$) 1.0883 1.7052 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 100 | Generation of Value Oi S.A. Consolidated R$ Million Balance Sheet 12/31/12 12/31/11 Total Assets 69,150 31,664 Current 21,138 12,246 Cash and cash equivalents 4,408 6,005 Financial investments 2,426 1,084 Derivatives 640 7 Accounts Receivable 7,018 2,010 Recoverable Taxes 1,726 353 Other Taxes 1,557 783 Inventories 385 13 Assets in Escrow 2,068 1,651 Other Current Assets 909 339 Non-Current Assets 48,012 19,418 Long Term 20,534 12,531 Recoverable and Deferred Taxes 8,316 4,982 Other Taxes 738 179 Financial investments 64 13 Assets in Escrow 9,723 4,955 Derivatives 349 0 Financial Assets Available for Sale 906 0 Other 439 2,402 Investments 180 8 Property Plant and Equipment 23,103 5,794 Intagible Assets 4,196 1,085 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 101 | Generation of Value Oi S.A. Consolidated R$Million Balance Sheet 12/31/11 12/31/11 Total Liabilities 69,150 31,664 Current 17,093 8,619 Suppliers 4,658 1,841 Loans and Financing 3,114 1,144 Financial Instruments 310 26 Payroll and Related Accruals 773 130 Provisions 1,569 1,283 Pension Fund Provision 104 78 Payable Taxes 1,066 179 Other Taxes 2,248 1,445 Dividends Payable 655 308 Authorizations and Concessions Payable 1,059 132 Other Accounts Payable 1,538 2,054 Non-Current Liabilities 40,948 12,456 Loans and Financing 30,232 6,962 Financial Instruments 205 0 Other Taxes 2,239 503 Contingency Provisions 4,850 3,132 Pension Fund Provision 767 546 Outstanding authorizations 1,099 544 Other Accounts Payable 1,555 769 Shareholders' Equity 11,109 10,589 Controlling Interest 11,109 10,589 Minority Interest 0 0 OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 102 | Generation of Value “Telecom services give to society access to communication and knowledge. it’s not just voice communication, BECAUSE About the Report IT ALSO TAKES KNOWLEDGE GIVING ACCESSIBILITY TO PEOPLE.” Business Partner and represents the main global benchmark Profile of the report in sustainability reporting. and application level [GRI 3.5] For the selection of content to be reported, only the most relevant topics for the business and its stakeholders were considered. [GRI 3.1, 3.3, 3.6 and 3.8] This report consolidates economic-financial, social, and environmental Oi declares of its own accord that this report fulfills information which refers to the period from January 1 the requirements of the Application Level B of the to December 31, 2012. The document is published GRI guidelines version 3. Reaching level B was annually and, for the second consecutive year, was confirmed by GRI in the process of verifying the based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) application level. guidelines, which is a multistakeholder organization OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 103 | About the Report [GRI 3.10 and 3.11] ] This report includes the consolidated A simple comparison of the data with the panorama financial and operational information of Oi S.A. and its at the end of December 2011, when the Company direct and indirect subsidiaries on December 31, 2012 had not yet incorporated the results of the other which, following the instruction of CVM, are being three companies, would generate distortions in presented in accordance with international accounting understanding. However, to make the communication norms (IFRS). more clear and transparent, Oi opted to present the pro-forma consolidated results, equivalent to former It is important to point out that, because of the TNL figures, of physical numbers; incomes, costs and corporate restructuring process completed in 2012, expenditures (EBITDA); debt, investments and cash it was necessary to adjust the presentation of some flow, as though the incorporations had occurred on information to allow understanding and comparability. January 1, 2011. With the restructuring, the shareholders of Tele Norte Leste Participações S.A. (TNL), of Coari Participações The information of a social and environmental nature, S.A. (Coari), and of Telemar Norte Leste S.A. (TMAR) for the most part, consolidate indicators at the end became shareholders of Oi S.A.; TNL and Coari shares of the year of the companies Oi S.A., TNL PCS S.A., were extinct and TMAR became a wholly-owned Telemar Norte Leste S.A., Paggo Administradora subsidiary of Oi S.A. Thus, the results presented de Crédito, 14 Brasil Telecom Celular S.A., Brasil in this report represent Oi S.A. (surviving company Telecom Comunicação Multimídia Ltda., Brasil and new name of Brasil Telecom S.A.) at the end Telecom Cabos Submarinos Ltda., and Globenet of December 2012. Internacional. The data are based on corporate standards and underwent internal verification. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 104 |About the Report [GRI 3.5] The meeting was mediated by a specialized Dialogue Panel consulting firm that recorded comments and with Stakeholders contributions that were considered when preparing and publishing this report. The entire process was developed based on the international standard AA 1000. [GRI 4.16] In November 2012, Oi held a For Oi, the engagement process is vital in the effort to multistakeholder panel in order to evaluate how the ensure that expectations of these stakeholders are organization is meeting the expectations and considered in the cycle of strategic planning in a clear demands from its stakeholders. The initiative was and transparent way. unprecedented in the Company and an important opportunity for dialogue. [GRI 4.17] A list of topics that deserve special attention in this report was prepared based on this meeting: [GRI 4.14 and 4.15] The meeting discussed various issues, enabling Oi to learn more about the perception of its • Incorporation of sustainability in management: stakeholders on initiatives that it develops and to ensure coherence between the sustainability receive suggestions for improvement. The event also talk and the Company’s practices. served to identify the issues considered most important by stakeholders for management and • Integrated management: establish guidelines for communication, and to present opportunities to inserting sustainability into decision-making improve the management of these issues. processes and everyday actions. The meeting was attended by 33 people, including • Dialogue and communication between teams and representatives from its internal public (5), representatives of the chain: integrated customers (2), suppliers (5), service providers/ management assumes greater integration between contractors (4), members of civil society Oi and the representatives of the links in the value organizations (4), business partners (2), chain. shareholders/investors (4), and partners of Oi Futuro (7). Considering all the interested parties with whom • Innovation: towards the development of new the Company maintains relationships, these were technologies, systems, and materials, especially in the ones given priority to attend this first experience the context of thinking about waste generation of dialogue in the form of a discussion panel. and operational efficiency in the context of sustainability. This representation enabled a rich exchange of insights and experiences during the discussions. • Waste Management: mentioned by several groups Some participants stressed the importance of of stakeholders, in particular related to the nature listening to the perspectives of other stakeholders in of the waste associated with communication their value chain. technologies, which has a great potential for negative impact to the environment, society, and people’s health. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 105 | About the Report • Quality of customer service: the need to provide • Investments in infrastructure: the installation of consistency in offers, quick installations, better telecommunication services from Oi presupposes coverage in places away from urban centers, clear investments in local and regional infrastructure and objective communication with consumers, that are essential for the development of the and a quality customer service. country and communities far from urban centers and of lower income. These investments end up • Private Social Investment: recognized as generating other basic services and contributing important and relevant, it should address to the country’s sovereignty. the impacts on poor communities. • Multiplying agent: potential to disseminate good • Digital inclusion: actions to improve access of the practices throughout its entire value chain. entire society to new technologies as a way to strengthen social integration and development. As result of this engagement process, the Company gave a feedback to the participants of the event, • Generation of jobs and income: the role of the through an e-mail sending, which was related the Company for generating direct and indirect jobs by main results of the Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders. selling their products and services. This was the first step from Oi, which has a goal to create a structured procedure for a permanent engagement with its relationship publics. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 106 | About the Report Remissive Index GRI [GRI 3.12] Profile Information Strategy and analysis Item Description Page/Answer 1.1 Message from the CEO Values and Purposes/Message from the Board Values and Purposes/Message from the CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Values and Purposes/Commitment and opportunities to Sustainability Environment/Climate Governance Organizational Profile Item Description Page/Answer 2.1 Name of the organization Oi/Company profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or Oi/Company profile services. 2.3 Operational structure of the Oi/Company profile/Regionalization organization Generation of Value/Capital Markets and Ownership Structure / Ownership Structure 2.4 Location of organization's About the report/Corporate Information/Head Office headquarters 2.5 Countries where the organization Oi/Company Profile operates and where its main People/Relations with Employees/Internal Public profile operations are located 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Oi/Company profile 2.7 Markets served Oi/Company profile 2.8 Scale of the organization Oi/Company profile Generation of Value/Financial and Operating Performance/ Consolidated Result People / Relations with Employees 2.9 Significant changes during the Oi/Company profile/Regionalization reporting period Oi/Corporate Governance/Corporate Reorganization 2.10 Awards received in the reporting Values and Purposes/Awards and Recognition period Report Parameters Item Description Page/Answer 3.1 Reporting period for information About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level provided OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 107 | About the Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report The previous sustainability report was published in first half of 2011 and referred to operations of the previous year. 3.3 Reporting cycle About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level 3.4 Contact point for questions pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br regarding the report or its contents invest@oi.net.br 3.5 Process for defining report content About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level About the report/Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders 3.6 Boundary of the report About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level 3.7 State any specific limitations on the The information reported refers to Oi's operations as described scope or boundary of the report. in the section Profile of the Report and Application Level Cases where it was not possible to follow this scope due to specific limitations of the management and monitoring systems are exceptions and are clearly indicated in the text and corresponding notes. 3.8 Basis for reporting About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level 3.9 Data measurement techniques and The information was based on the Company's monitoring and the bases of calculations management systems. Cases of estimates are clearly indicated. 3.10 Restatements of information About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, About the report/Profile of the Report and Application Level boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the About the report/GRI Remissive Index information in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with The publication has not undergone an external verification regard to seeking external assurance process. for the report Governance, commitments, and engagement Item Description Page/Answer 4.1 Governance structure of the Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure organization, including committees Oi/Corporate Governance/Support for decision making under the highest governance body 4.2 Chair of the highest governance Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure body 4.3 Members of the highest governance Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Generation of Value/Capital Markets and Ownership Structure/ and employees to provide Investor Relations recommendations Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure 4.5 Linkage between compensation People/Relations with employees/Compensation strategies and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental) 4.6 Processes to ensure that conflicts of Oi/Corporate Governance interest are avoided OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 108 | About the Report 4.7 Qualifications of the members of The data on the career paths of the members of the Board are the highest governance body available at the Company’s Investor Relations website. 4.8 Statements of mission and values, Values and Purposes/Mission, Vision, and Practices codes of conduct, and relevant internal principles 4.9 Responsibilities for implementing Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure the economic, environmental, and social policies 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Oi/Corporate Governance/Governance Structure governance body’s own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Environment/Environmental impacts and mitigation actions/ precautionary approach or principle Legal Obligations is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed charters, Values and Purposes/Commitment to Sustainability/Scope principles, and other initiatives Expansion” Values and Purposes/Commitment to Sustainability/Global Compact 4.13 Memberships in associations and/ Oi/Company profile/Participation in associations or national/international advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged About the report/Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders by the organization 4.15 Basis for identification and About the report/Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder About the report/Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders engagement To learn more about contacting specific groups of stakeholders, go to: Investors: Generation of Value/Capital Markets and Ownership Structure/Investor Relations Employees: People/Relations with Employees/Engagement and Social Responsibility Customers: People/ Customer and Consumer Relations / Relationship Channels Suppliers: People/ Relations with Suppliers /Disseminating Good Practices 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have About the report/Dialogue Panel with Stakeholders been raised through stakeholders OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 109 | About the Report Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach Values and Purposes/Message from the CEO Generation of Value/Financial and Operating Performance/Added Value People/Relations with Employees/ Compensation strategies People/Relations with Society Environment/Climate Governance Economic Performance Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EC1 Direct economic value generated and Generation of Value/Financial and distributed Operating Performance/Financial Performance/Added Value EC2 Financial implications and other Environment/Climate Governance 7 risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined People/Relations with Employees/Benefits benefit plan obligations and Retirement EC4 Significant financial assistance People/Relations with Society/Oi Futuro received from government Market Presence Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry People/Relations with Employees/ 1 level wage by gender compared to Compensation strategies local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of People/Relations with Suppliers/Audit and spending on locally-based suppliers monitoring Impactos econômicos indiretos Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments Oi/Institutional Relations/Partnerships provided for public benefit People/Relations with Society/Digital inclusion EC9 Describing significant indirect People/Relations with Society/Digital economic impacts inclusion People/Relations with Society/Oi Futuro OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 110 | About the Report Indicator Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach Environment/Environmental impacts and mitigation actions Materials Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Environment/Environmental impacts 8 and mitigation actions/Consumption of materials EN2 Percentage of materials used from Environment/Environmental impacts 8 and 9 recycling and mitigation actions/Consumption of materials Energy Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 energy source Reduction of Emissions EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 and 9 primary source Reduction of Emissions EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 efficiency improvements Reduction of Emissions EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Environment/Climate Governance/Green IT consumption and reductions achieved Water Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment/Environmental impacts and 8 and 9 mitigation actions/Water Biodiversity Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Environmental impacts and mitigation actions/Restoration of areas Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 gas emissions by weight Greenhouse gases EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 emissions Greenhouse gases EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environment/Climate Governance/ 7, 8 and 9 emissions and reductions achieved Greenhouse gases EN19 Emissions of substances destroying Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 the ozone layer Greenhouse gases EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Environment/Environmental impacts and 8 disposal method mitigation actions/Waste Management EN24 Weight of transported waste deemed Environment/Environmental impacts and hazardous mitigation actions/Waste Management OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 111 | About the Report Products and services Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental People/ Customer and Consumer Relations 7, 8 and 9 impacts /Relationship Channels Environment/Climate Governance/ Reduction of Emissions Environment/Climate Governance/ Reduction of fuel consumption Compliance Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN28 Monetary value and total number of Environment/Environmental impacts and 8 sanctions for noncompliance with laws mitigation actions/Legal Obligations Transport Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN29 Environmental impacts from Environment/Climate Governance/ 8 transporting goods and members of Reduction of fuel consumption the workforce Overall Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact EN30 Total environmental protection Environment/Environmental impacts and 7, 8 and 9 expenditures and investments mitigation actions Social Performance Labor Practices and Decent Work Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach People/Relations with Employees People/Relations with Employees/Health and Safety People/Relations with Employees/Freedom of Association Employment Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact LA1 Total workforce by employment type, People/Relations with employees employment contract, and region People/Relations with employees/ Internal Public profile LA2 Total number and rate of new People/Relations with employees/Internal 6 employee hires and employee turnover Public – Profile by age group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time People/Relations with employees/ employees that are not provided to Benefits and Retirement temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 112 | About the Report Labor/Management Relations Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact LA4 Percentage of employees covered by People/Relations with employees/Freedom 1, 2 and 3 collective bargaining agreements of Association LA5 Description of notifications (terms People/Relations with employees/Freedom and procedures) of Association Occupational Health and Safety Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact LA6 Percentage of total workforce People/Relations with employees/ 1, 2 and 3 represented in formal health and Health and Safety safety committees LA8 Education, prevention, and riskPeople/Relations with employees/ 1 control programs Health and Safety LA9 Health and safety topics covered in People/Relations with Employees/ 1 formal agreements with trade unions Freedom of Association Training and Education Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact LA10 Average hours of training per year per People/Relations with employees/Training 6 employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and People/Relations with employees/Training lifelong learning People/Relations with employees/ Outplacement Diversity and Equal Opportunity Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact LA13 Composition of governance bodies People/Relations with employees/Diversity 1e3 and breakdown of employees per and inclusion employee category according to People/Relations with employees/Diversity gender, age group, minority group in the staff and corporate governance membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and People/Relations with employees/ 1, 2 e 3 remuneration of women to men by Compensation strategies employee category, by significant locations of operation Social Performance Human Rights Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and anticorruption People/Relations with Suppliers OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 113 | About the Report Procurement practices Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact HR1 Percentage and total number of People/Relations with Suppliers significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, People/Relations with Suppliers 1, 2, 3 e 4 contractors, and other business partners People/Relations with Suppliers/ that have undergone human rights Qualification Index screening, and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics policies and procedures concerning and anticorruption aspects of human rights, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact HR4 Total number of incidents of Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and 1, 2 and 3 discrimination and corrective actions anticorruption/Monitoring taken Freedom of association Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact HR5 Operations and significant suppliers People/Relations with Employees/Freedom 1, 2, and 3 identified in which the right to of Association exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Security Practices Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact HR8 Percentage of security personnel People/Relations with Suppliers/Audit trained in human rights and Monitoring Indigenous Rights Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact HR9 Total number of incidents of violations Environment/Environmental impacts and involving rights of indigenous people mitigation actions/Restoration of areas and actions taken. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 114 | About the Report Social Performance Society Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and anticorruption Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and anticorruption/Legal Compliance Oi/Institutional Relations Local Community Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact SO1 Percentage of operations with Environment/Environmental impacts and implemented local community mitigation actions engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Corruption Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact SO2 Total number of business units Oi/Corporate Governance/Risk 10 analyzed for risks related to corruption Management and Internal Controls SO3 Percentage of employees trained Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and 10 in anti-corruption policies and anticorruption procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and 10 of corruption anticorruption/Monitoring Public Policy Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact SO5 Positions on public policies Oi/Institutional relations/Dialogue and 10 Mobilization SO6 Policies of financial contributions Oi/Institutional relations/Dialogue and 10 to political parties, politicians, and Mobilization institutions SO7 Number of legal actions for Oi/Corporate Governance/Ethics and anticompetitive behavior anticorruption/Legal Compliance Compliance Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact SO8 Description of significant fines People/Relations with Employees/Legal and total number of non-monetary Compliance sanctions OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 115 | About the Report Social Performance Product Responsibility Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact Management Approach People/ Customer and Consumer Relations /Humanized communication People/ Customer and Consumer Relations / Respect for Consumers Environment/Environmental impacts and mitigation actions/Legal obligations Customer Health and Safety Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact PR1 Assessment of impacts on health Oi/Corporate Governance/Information 1 and safety during life cycle stages of security products and services Environment/Environmental impacts and mitigation actions/Legal obligations PR2 Non-compliance related to the Environment/Environmental impacts and impacts of products and services mitigation actions/Legal Obligations Product and Service Labeling Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact PR3 Type of product and service People/ Customer and Consumer Relations 8 information required by procedures /Respect for Consumers PR5 Practices related to customer People/ Customer and Consumer Relations satisfaction, including results of surveys /Satisfaction Marketing communications Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, People/Relations with Customers and standards, and voluntary codes Consumers/Humanized communication PR7 Cases of non-compliance related to People/Relations with Customers and communication of products and services Consumers/Humanized communication Compliance Indicator Description Page/Answer Global Compact PR9 Fines for noncompliance concerning People/ Customer and Consumer Relations the provision and use of products /Compliance and services OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 116 | About the Report Council, and any other individual or legal entity, or Corporate group of persons, acting as a group or representing Information the same interests, that attains a direct or indirect interest representing five percent (5%) or more of a type or class of shares of the capital of a publiclyheld company, must notify the Securities Commission Acknowledgments (CVM) and the Company of the fact, in accordance We wish to express our appreciation for the with the above article. support, efforts and commitment of employees from various areas of the Company who helped Oi recommends that its shareholders comply with the us put this report together, and also for our terms of article 12 of CVM Instruction No. 358, but stakeholders who are a constant motivation it takes no responsibility for the disclosure or to improve this elaboration process. otherwise of acquisitions or disposals by third parties of interests corresponding to 5% or more of any type Important Notice to the Shareholders or class of its share, or of rights over those shares or I) CVM Instruction No. 358, art. 12: Direct or indirect other securities that it has issued. controlling shareholders and shareholders who elect members of the Board of Directors or the Fiscal OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE Controlling Direct Capital Treasury Shares Controllers19 Free-Float Common 599,008,629 84,250,695 290,549,788 61,995,173 162,212,973 Preferred 1,198,077,775 72,808,066 0 441,556,694 683,713,015 Total 1,797,086,404 157,058,761 290,549,788 503,551,867 845,925,988 Note: Shareholding position on December 31th, 2012. 19 AG Telecom, Andrade Gutierrez, BNDES, Bratel, Funcef, La Fonte Telecom, LF TEL, Petros and Previ. OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 117 | About the Report [GRI 2.4] Head Office Independent Auditors Rua Humberto de Campos, 425 (On 12/31/2012) 22430-190 – Rio de Janeiro – RJ – Brasil KPMG Independent Auditors – SEC and CVM Tel.: +55 (21) 3131-2918 Fax: + 55 (21) 3131-1144 Stock Exchange http://www.oi.com.br BM&FBovespa (Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo) Ticker Codes: International Consultants Oi S/A – OIBR3 e OIBR4 of Investor Relations (Position on 12/31/2012) Grayling New York Stock Exchange (Nyse) in USA 22 Cortlandt Street Code of ADRs: OIBR and OIBR.C New York, NY 10007 USA (Position on 12/31/2012) Phone: +1 646 284-9426 Fax: +1 646 284-9494 [GRI 3.4] Contacts E-mail: lucia.domville@us.grayling.com pp-sustentabilidade@oi.net.br invest@oi.net.br Book Entry Shares Service Banco do Brasil S.A. Credits Rua Professor Lelio Gama, 105/38º andar – Centro Coordination and Production 20031-900 – Rio de Janeiro – RJ Treasury and Investor Relations Director Tel.: +55 (21) 3808-3715 Investor Relations, Governance and Sustainability Dept. Fax: + 55 (21) 3808-6088 Governance and Sustainability Dept. E-mail: aescriturais@bb.com.br GRI Consulting, Production and Edition Depository Bank of ADRs Report Sustentabilidade The Bank of New York Mellon Oi S.A. Revision c/o BNY Mellon Shareowner Services Assertiva Produções Editoriais P.O. Box 358016 Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8016 Graphic Design and Web Phone (Toll Free): 1-888-BNY-ADRS (269-2377) fmcom Phone (International): +1 201-680-6825 E-mail: shrrelations@bnymellon.com OI ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 | 118 | About the Report
