UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Gehl Architects C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 13 TABLE OF CONTENT P. 4 G L O B A L C O M PAC T CAS E S T U DY # 3 : P. 1 8 CHRISTCHURCH P. 6 OUR CONTINUED S TAT E M E N T O F S U P P O R T CAS E S T U DY # 4 : P. 2 0 LOS ANGELES P. 8 GEHL ARCHITECTS IN BRIEF P. 2 2 SPEAKING OUT LOUD P. 1 2 O U R I N I T I AT I V E S T O IMPLEMENT GLOBAL P. 2 4 KNOWLEDGE SHARING C O M PAC T P R I N C I P L E S I N OUR WORK P. 2 6 C A PAC I T Y B U I L D I N G P. 1 4 CAS E S T U DY # 1: CHINA P. 2 8 C O M M U N I C AT I O N P. 1 6 CAS E S T U DY # 2 : M U S C AT 2 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 3 the 10 principles GLOBAL HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1: Businesses should support Principle 7: Businesses should support a and respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental challenges; COMPACT proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: make sure that they are environmental responsibility; and not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the ANTI-CORRUPTION freedom of association and the effective Principle 10: Businesses should work against recognition of the right to collective bargaining; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of bribery. Launched in July 2000, the United Nations (UN) Global Compact is both forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are labour; and committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, in respect of employment and occupation. within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. An integral part of the UN Global Compact commitment are the individual members Communication on Progress (COP). 4 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 5 OUR STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Gehl Architects joined the United Nations Global other hand, demands for livability in the developed proximity to services and amenities? How do we place of quality for all people. Compact in 2008 and we continue to support the world and the growing middle class in emerging plan to accommodate for the needed increased initiative. economies are divergent forces. How do we density of our cities globally? If taller buildings We aspire to address all the issues, that have a ensure dignified urban environments that both are not the only answer, how do we ensure the foundation in the United Nations Global Compact Our vision is to create better cities. We aspire cater for individual physical and social needs that right balance of functions, densities and uses that initiative, in all of the projects we develop around to create cities that are lively, healthy, attractive, still allows for the very human need for cultural ensure socially just and harmonious places to live? the world but also through our communication sustainable and safe and thereby improve character and identity? effort, our capacity building as well as in the people’s quality of life. On a global scale, increasingly cities are seeing office amongst ourselves. Underneath our clear messages of promoting Mobility we understand that the car, whether the value of a different approach, and after 12 The core of the United Nations Global Compact planning for life, sustainable mobility in cities and it be powered by oil, electricity or hydrogen, years of Gehl Architects’ practice we feel the initiative is at the heart of our work; for more than designing cities at a human scale are underlying will continue to play an important role in city general global approach to planning is slowly a decade now, Gehl Architects have not only key questions and we attempt to use our blog, development. So the crucial question we must changing from a modernistic and functional view maintained but strengthened our effort to improve website, and social media channels to explore ask is how can the demands for private vehicular of cities to a more holistic approach also offering the world’s cities and make them places of quality these issues through a more nuanced lens. We mobility, especially in emerging economies, be a role for softer social as well as cultural areas of for all people. Hence it is with great pride that want to engage with anyone who cares about balanced with non-motorized and public transit, planning. we express our continued support to the United people and cities in an open and honest dialogue so as to create an overall sustainable approach Nations Global Compact initiative. about the issues at hand of creating enduring to mobility. In order to promote mobility – social This paradigm shift is supported in general by the quality of life in cities. as well as physical, and the freedom of the broader sustainability movement. However the individual in the city without negatively affecting world’s restricted resources as well as ineffective Taking the opportunity to reflect on the themes the collective mobility and quality of life for people leadership on different levels are making the pace for our work is a necessary exercise from time to in cities. How do we balance needs for mobility in of change slow and some places even incredibly Helle Søholt time: order to increase flexibility and individual choice hard to notice. Founding Partner and CEO Life – cities across the world are experiencing of traveling while still increasing connectivity, flow Gehl Architects – Urban Quality Consultants rapid social and cultural change. In some ways and safety? All the ten principles of the United Nations Global globalisation is having a convergent effect on the Compact are played out in the public realm and cultural offer in cities; homogenisation associated Scale – We recognize the need to build tall in in the city as such. And all the ten principles can with multi-national led commercialisation reduces certain contexts and economies. How can the be supported by a sustained focus on making the the importance or strength of ‘place’. On the need for density be reconciled with demands for public realm open, accessible, democratic and a 6 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 7 GEHL ARCHITECTS – IN BRIEF WE ADDRESS THE HUMAN DIMENSION AND SCALE Gehl Architects is an urban research and design consultancy. We address global trends with a peoplefocused approach, utilizing empirical analysis to understand how the built environment can promote human flourishing. We apply this analysis to strategic planning, master planning and public space design with a human-centered approach to empower citizens, decision makers, company leaders, and organizations. We consider the lively and widely used public realm to be one of the most important keys to quality in cities. We develop solutions based on detailed analysis of the existing social and built context in the form of public life and public space surveys. Thus our design and planning solutions are based on a comprehensive understanding of people’s use of the public space and the way people experience urban quality. W E E N C O U R A G E S U S TA I N A B L E T R A N S P O R TAT I O N AND PL ACEMAKING Gehl Architects promote sustainable transport modes and place-making principles in all our projects. We believe that multi-modal transportation nodes are really people nodes, and in this way our approach to place-making in these areas considers not only the systems of interchange but also the transportation users, the experience of mobility and the global need for en increased focus on sustainable transport facilities. A M U LT I D I S C I P L I N A R Y A N D M U LT I C U LT U R A L T E A M Gehl Architects has international specialist Our interdisciplinary team of 35 people include architects, urban designers, landscape architects, experience in urban design and graphic designers, sociologists, anthropologists and cultural theorists. Additionally, Gehl Architects planning services for the study of employ several senior consultants all of them internationally recognized experts within their field. To transit oriented development potential promote a better understanding across cultures, our team has a wide variety of national and ethnic associated with planned transit backgrounds, and in our office the gender distribution is aimed at being a fair representation of society systems, including major transit in general. Currently the gender distribution is 45/55 % in favour of women. interchange projects, light rail transit Collaborating with clients and partners around the world, our team work to tailor and contextualize stations and bicycle infrastructure projects. design, planning and research that builds upon the foundation established during the many years of Involvements include scoping and visioning, research by Jan Gehl. Our team is actively engaging in dialogue around the world to apply 45 years of design guidelines, sketch design, urban design research, co-creatively with our clients to tailor services that are specific to context, scale stakeholder involvement and public and purpose. We work with a wide variety of clients, ranging from mayors of world capitals and large outreach processes, peer reviewing and mixed-use property developers to non-governmental organizations, community groups, foundations, quality assessment of design implementation. universities and housing associations. 8 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 9 We work collaboratively in two teams: GEHL INSTITUTE GEHL PLANNING B U I L D I N G C A PAC I T Y A N D E M P O W E R M E N T & DESIGN The Institute team builds capacity and empowers individuals, communities, institutions and organizations through teaching, knowledge-sharing activities and communication that focus on change-of-mindset towards making cities for people. In the Institute, we are working to create a culture of shared responsibility and empowerment that unleashes the creative potential of a PLANNING WITH PEOPLE IN MIND diverse staff. We aspire to harness this diverse potential toward common goals and service areas of: The Planning & Design team works on several levels: surveys, public realm strategies, urban Creating new knowledge in relation to how the built environment contributes to quality of life planning and concept design. and human flourishing Regardless of the complexity of a project, our process always begins with people. We measure Providing a framework for learning in the form of Masterclasses, conferences, symposiums, and how the city is performing for people to provide guidance for planning, empowerment workshops and design. We take a holistic view to strategic planning, mediating between typical silos of A networked Cities for People communication platform that facilitates knowledge exchange disciplines to ensure that urban interventions are rooted in a comprehensive understanding of between groups and disseminates knowledge in the form of books, exhibits, films etc. how the City is serving its citizens. The clients are both public bodies and institutions on a state, regional and local level as well From specific spaces to large scale masterplans, we create design solutions that prioritize as non-governmental organizations, foundations and other entities all over the world that work the needs of people first. Then we work with collaborative partners to design the interface to promote people-friendly and sustainable city planning. The Institute team have worked in between buildings and the space between them. The team not only provides systematic data locations such as Brazil, Argentina, Mexico City, Kunsan, Toronto, Moscow and San Francisco, to through internationally recognized methods but also produces recommendations for concrete mention a few. improvements that the cities can engage in. This team also develop masterplans and design solutions for existing cities as well as new cities and city areas. The data findings inform the design solutions with a humanistic core, whether it be in the case of a street or a square or it be on the scale of a neighbourhood or a city quarter. The clients are both private developers as well as cities that want to develop cities and city areas according to a more people-friendly planning philosophy. The Planning & Design team have worked in cities such as London, Muscat, Los Angeles, Oslo, New York, Sydney, San Francisco, Melbourne, Istanbul, Chennai and Chongqing, to mention a few. 10 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 11 O U R I N I T I AT I V E S T O I M P L E M E N T G L O B A L C O M PAC T P R I N C I P L E S I N O U R W O R K HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support and respect the Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should support a precautionary Businesses should work against corruption in all protection of internationally proclaimed human association and the effective recognition of the approach to environmental challenges its forms, including extortion and bribery. rights. right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 8 OUR ACTIONS PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 4 Undertake initiatives to promote greater We dissociate from corruption of every kind Make sure that they are not complicit in human The elimination of all forms of forced and environmental responsibility; and and advocate democratic values, respect and rights abuses compulsory labour transparency in our work. These values are also PRINCIPLE 9 an essential part of our relation to partners, OUR ACTIONS PRINCIPLE 5 Encourage the development and diffusion of clients and employees. We have not been Our goal is to create better functioning cities and The effective abolition of child labour environmentally friendly technologies involved in any kind of corruption. we plan and design cities based on the human scale and in respect of people’s daily life. We PRINCIPLE 6 OUR ACTIONS seek to create lively, safe, sustainable and healthy The elimination of discrimination in respect of Creating more sustainable cities is part of our cities all over the world, to support and promote employment and occupation. core business. We base our vision on Professor basic human rights. Jan Gehl’ 45 years of research on how people As a consultancy company who operates OUR ACTIONS and cities interact. We have from the beginning internationally, in developed and developing When hiring people to work with us or when focused on a more sustainable approach to our countries, we believe it is our responsibility to collaborating with others, neither race, color, design solutions, both in the environmental, advocate and uphold human rights where we gender, language, religion, political beliefs or social and economic sense, and we acknowledge work as well as at our office. nationality, is used to discriminate. It is solely the major environmental challenges that we face. We seek to understand fully all aspects of how educational and professional experiences Many of our projects address and engage in business is conducted where we have our that form the basis for our hiring policy. We environmental questions, and we aim to maintain operations throughout the world and we require furthermore actively seek to engage and and develop sustainable actions and solutions. our collaborators and subconsultants to adhere to embrace across cultures whenever possible. It the same internationally proclaimed human rights is voluntary for any employee to enter unions protections and guarantees to which we hold and associations and all our staff have individual ourselves. contracts that are designed according to the Danish work legislation and requirements. We do not employ underage persons. 12 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 13 CASE #1 CHINA R E L E VA N T U N P R I N C I P L E S : E N V I R O N M E N T & HUMAN RIGHTS China’s on-going urbanization is in many ways provide a variety of services to our Chinese collaboration, as we want to empower the China workshops for ongoing projects in a number unlike any other in history and for the problems collaborators in order to assist them in handling Sustainable Transport Center (CSTC), politicians, of cities. Rather than just delivering a plan, we this brings there is an urgency to find sustainable the rapid changes the Chinese cities are decisions makers and local planners to improve collaborate on developing the plan together with solutions. undergoing currently. The services include their methods and approach to planning livable the local planners to ensure that the design, the Since 2008 Gehl Architects have been lectures and workshops with city officials, design and sustainable cities in a Chinese context. We principles and the strategy is understood and collaborating with the Energy Foundation in reviews, development of documentation and utilize lectures, workshops, study trips, and anchored. Projects in Guangzhou, Chongqing, Beijing focusing on sustainable city development reports on best practice, pedestrian and bicycle publications in order to build capacity in China Kunming, Beijing, Shanghai and Kunshan have -environmental, social and economic. We have an strategies and toolboxes, as well as development and empower the CSTC. already been implemented or are in process to be overall goal to build local capacity in China, a long of design guidelines and concrete pilot projects. implemented. term goal to secure policies for sustainable city Implement Best Practice development and a short term goal to implement Gehl Architects have launched a strategy which To embed the knowledge and inspire the Change Policies best practice pilot projects in China. will optimize our continuing collaboration with locals to take ownership of the sustainable Ultimately our goal is to faciliate change and alter the China Sustainable Transport Center (CSTC). planning approach, we have extended our the Chinese policies on a local and national level. The China Sustainable Transportation Center Together we have many goals to reach and initial educational masterclasses with project In order to achieve this goal, we believe that a (CSTC) is a non-governmental, non-profit it is important to have a strong vision and a close collaboration with the local action groups organization founded and supported by The focused working process in order to achieve the and stakeholders is key and we nourish these William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and The necessary changes, both in behaviour and in the relationships through regular visits to the Chinese Energy Foundation. The goal of the Energy physical sense, on the streets. Our continued cities. Foundation is a more sustainable China, a goal focus is on changing policies, building the Gehl Architects wish to support in every possible necessary capacity for change, and implementing i way. Best Practice such as pilot projects that Since Gehl Architects have been involved, a exemplify how great urban spaces can look and Sustainable City Program has been added to what they can do. the CSTC program, focusing on the clear links between urban development, public space, public Gehl Architects’ focus areas: transport and sustainability. Build Capacity As part of this commission Gehl Architects Capacity Building has always been key to our 14 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 15 CASE #2 MUSCAT OMAN R E L E VA N T U N P R I N C I P L E S : L A B O U R , E N V I R O N M E N T & HUMAN RIGHTS Muscat has undergone a significant development Four key areas of action are identified and form heart of Al Qurum. The space allows for positive Oasis at Al Mawalih Souk in the past decades. Today Muscat has a unique the thematic structure for all district strategies everyday experiences and large festival events. The Fruit and Vegetable market is rebuilt as a opportunity to set itself apart from other capital and pilot project initiatives. Key areas of action Between the existing buildings, a circular solar modern souk. The elliptical space at the centre cities in the Gulf region. are: inviting, connected, comfortable and shading structure lined with small kiosks creates of the souk has great potential to become the Gehl Architects assists Muscat in achieving the intensified public spaces. a shaded promanade that acts as an outdoor peaceful oasis and social heart of a revitalised vision of becoming a livable city in the region in gathering space. neighborhood. New recreational activities delivering a humane and people-driven vision for The work of Gehl Architects is focusing on focusing on the needs of women and children are city life. capacity building in the local authority to improve Waterfront Square at Shatti Al Qurum introduced. the quality of city development and the public Envisioned as a destination for children, parents As a first phase of a major initiative to roll out realm in the future. In 2013 Gehl Architects and the elderly, a new waterfront square is a new generation of high quality public spaces, is leading the design and construction of a created at an important city node. Through Gehl Architects have developed a series of large public space project in the city in close the careful placement of indigenous planting exemplary pilot projects for Muscat. The pilot collaboration with Muscat Municipality and and water features, the square will have a projects are situated in areas where also a district haascookzemmrich STUDIO2050. wonderful micro climate, offering new leisure strategy has been developed. and community programmes to complement the Gehl Architects’ work in Muscat includes existing retail offer. Like other cities that are in a process of rapid overarching city-wide strategies and more growth and transformation Muscat today faces detailed designs of various sub-projects. A citycomplex challenges that must be dealt with if wide vision and tool box is visualised in more satisfactory conditions for urban life are to be detail at the neighbourhood scale. Three pilot ensured for all of its citizens. Symptoms of the projects were designed in detail, two of which challenges that need to be tackled are very visible were realised in 2010/11. when moving around the local neighborhoods and city destinations. For instance the neglect of Gehl Architects’ design projects so far include: creating outdoor comfort in the hot and humid climate, complete car dependency and a spreadAl Qurum Festival Square out and fragmented urban fabric. A flexible new civic square is introduced to the 16 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 17 CASE # 3 CHRISTCHURCH NEW ZEALAND R E L E VA N T U N P R I N C I P L E S : E N V I R O N M E N T & HUMAN RIGHTS Gehl Architects arrived in May 2011 to a people and the people who have called this place devastated city. Earthquakes had left a mark on their home for perhaps centuries. the city, like never seen before. The City Art Gallery, one of the few public Central City Recovery Plan as a framework will buildings to survive the Earthquake more or less ensure Christchurch rebuilds green, sustainable unscathed, had become the temporary home and low-rise everything the community for the council as well as emergency center for asked for through Share an Idea. This can fulfill rescue services. the community aspiration to not only make Christchurch the best place in which to live An extensive and democratic community and work but also has the potential to provide engagement process collected over 100.000 a showcase to the world of a new urbanisation ideas from Christchurch residents through Share based on principles of sustainability and good an Idea, the Council’s internationally awarddesign. winning community consultation programme. Gehl Architects played a leading role in this Gehl Architects with Council Partners led the conversation through keynote presentations and formulation of the document structure, its targeted community engagement as well as contents, key projects, illustrations, diagrams the ongoing influence of our 2009 Public Space and key passages of text. The Recovery Plan Public Life survey and report. outlines over 70 projects and it ensures a new way of growth focusing on a low-rise, resilient, The synthesis of the engagement process as safe and sustainable city. It puts forward a vision well as informed council input served as the that places people first and its production has basis for the Central City Recovery Plan, which helped serve as part of the healing process of aimed at acknowledging all people living in the the communities and individuals affected by the Christchurch and Canterbury area, both the quake. cultural rights of the indigenous New Zealand 18 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 19 la g g la ne ne CASE #4 LOS ANGELES USA R E L E VA N T U N P R I N C I P L E S : E N V I R O N M E N T & HUMAN RIGHTS 4. Olympic to Pico 23’-6” 32’ 31’-6” 10’ 15’ 112’ ROW 15’ 4’-6” 3’ 10’ 10’ 12’ 31’-6” 10’ 15’ Ex 1’ ne N Pe Dr Ex us La iv .S e /B ne r la tca de e .S id iv ree Dr St + st la id al ne N B ria ne al ew Dr iv e la n N ew la ne SB Pr B k om iv e la ne (F Dr r d Bi ke ffe ate Bu reg ge en le g a Se ain x) Dr k ad e B In 2010/11 Gehl Architects, in collaboration with outreach process, asking them what they Meléndrez and Troller Mayer, developed a new actually wanted the budget of $20 million US public space design for Figueroa Street. dollars to accomplish, utilizing public meetings and workshops, mailing postcards and soliciting The design aims to create a balance between feedback on various online social networking the various modes of transport, prioritizing the sites and blogs. pedestrian environment and reconnecting South Los Angeles to Downtown in order to reconnect The campaign proved very successful; residents local communities and stimulate commercial and business owners were enthusiastic and interests. advocated for a drastic change which they got with Gehl Architects’ streetscape design vision. Running for 30 miles (48 km.) Figueroa Street in Los Angeles is the longest street in the city. But The design seeks to implement a reduction for most of those 30 miles, this crowded street is not attractive nor accommodating to pedestrians; in use of private vehicles which will lead to improved overall carrying capacity of the street; 7. 23rd to Expo 15’-6” 34’ 49’ it is up to 120 feet wide and largely unshaded new inviting, welcoming and democratic open 99’ ROW with small sidewalks and nowhere to sit. spaces which will transform the street use and 8’-6” 3’ 7’ 10’ 10’ 7’ 3’ 41’ Gehl Architects public space strategy aimed to street culture; as well as space and facilities for Ex . Pr om enad e ria n transform the street, from a utilitarian corridor to bicyclists, making this form of transport safe and Pe de st ne Bi ke la eg ated a cultural boulevard that increase the quality of attractive. -6 ” Se gr 4’ r Bu ffe in g life for the growing local residential and working While infrastructure for pedestrians and bicyclists Pa rk N B iv e la ne Dr SB communities, draw in visitors and encourage are improved, new public transport will offer iv e la ne ne Dr g Bi ke la rk in Pa r ega te d economic and social regeneration of the wider alternative ways of reaching major events, ffe eg Bu ” S age r -6 n 4’ ai 1’ Dr w al k Si de Figueroa corridor. improving the urban realm and stimulating public life. In collaboration with the client, Gehl Architects engaged the local community in a public 20 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 21 Gehl Architects disperse the ethos of the UN Global Compact via four specific actions: 1. Speaking out loud 2. Knowledge sharing 3. Capacity building 4. Communication SPEAKING OUT LOUD In 2012 Gehl Architects were represented at both Here are a few questions I’d like to see addressed designing cities like we’ve learned to with expression beyond just elections and fund raisers the 13th Venice Architecture Biennale and the 6th over the next two years before we rejoin the buildings? Can we learn from modern vernacular and into social media and observing everyday use World Urban Forum. urban community in exploring that state of design form in terms of density, proximity and scale and patterns. Why do we go to Forums and Conferences? For and urbanism again in 2014. not purely aesthetic? For planners it will mean less control and more us, it is about taking the pulse of the state of How can policy more explicitly tie land-use to flexibility and an ability to provide a framework design and governance; to engage with others How can we make people – their habits, routines, mobility planning? Can we work to alleviate time for messiness and diversity rather than a plan for about issues of the city. actions and needs for a high quality everyday life poverty (caused by great separation between equilibrium and control. more visible in the planning process? How can we affordable housing and work places) in the way Most importantly this shift requires that citizens After exhibiting, debating, and networking at the expand the sets of data that decision-makers turn we’ve worked to reduce financial poverty? continue to demand more from the public realm 13th Architecture Biennale in Venice and the 6th to in making choices that affect people in cities? of their cities, daring to imagine and test what World Urban Forum in Naples, Gehl Architects’ Can we re-imagine the role of the street, as not In addressing these questions we can begin streets and spaces can become rather than Director Jeff Risom is struck by the contrast of only corridors of mobility flow but also as a place to focus again on who we plan, design and settling for the status-quo. what these two massive events put on display for the flow of social, financial and political capital implement policy for – people! This will take a – actions at the Biennale and policy at the Word as well as a place of knowledge exchange? Can multi-disciplinary, open and questioning approach After all, why do we love cities? Is it for their Urban Forum. the street again become a valued meeting place? full of dialogue and exchange, similar to the event landmarks, historical sites, and ‘cultural’ buildings Jeff comments: “While several conversations I attended sponsored by ANMA-F at the hidden ranging from shopping malls to churches? Or is about cities in Venice and Naples still focused Can we develop a new growth model for urban urban oasis and heritage gem Riot Studio in the it for the people, the life and the culture of the exclusively on objects, monuments, and systems expansion that is based on streets? center of Naples. place? Of course it is a combination of the two, of infrastructure, rather than the people that use Can we develop new funding streams for this and it seems that the debate would be enriched if them every day, as I leave Italy I’m encouraged expansion that supplement the role of large public Most importantly it will take a fundamental rediscussions about Actions and Policies could take that the dialogue about our urban future is and private institutions with an equally extensive calibration of the role of architect, politician, place in the same event. beginning to address the culture and life of cities but more diversified, contextual, and incremental planner and citizen. Here’s the first call for the World Urban more rigorously. Indeed the intersection of design, form of growth and expansion? For designers it will mean a greater focus on Architectural Biennale to explore how form and politics and civic society in the center seems to culture than on form and greater skill in facilitating governance affects life in cities. 2014 WUAB be on everyone’s mind. Can we rediscover the human scale in our cities – than convincing. here we come”, says Jeff. But why aren’t they talking more about Design at old and newly built? For politicians and civic servants it will demand the WUF and more about Policy at the Biennale? Can we apply site specificity and context when more attention to various forms of civic 22 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 23 KNOWLEDGE SHARING In the recent aftermath of the global recession often over-looked is the public realm potentially a nurture these crucial factors. suggestion in the “Triumph of the City” (2012) businesses, cities and states are looking for new very sage investment in the endeavor of growth describing how businesses locating in wellways of stimulating growth. Cities are today the promotion. Public space should be understood as a functioning cities can boost innovation and most important motors of national economies: “missing link” between the large scale regional productivity significantly. it is estimated that in the EU countries 80% of The OECD operates with a number of different infrastructure initiatives such as airports, Signal Architects have found that 15-30% of a GNP will be generated by cities in 2030. arms one of which is related to business highways and transit hubs, and the small scale workday is spent outside the office space so we development and innovation related growth. It internal infrastructure of the businesses such should pose the question: how can these hours Gehl Architects have together with Realdania By produced the report: Growth Follow-Up: Microas interior décor, office lay-out and structure. be beneficial to the business and the surrounding written a report that examines the connections Policies for Growth and Productivity which Both of these are well recognized as strategically city? between public space, business, innovation and analyses the growth in 27 EU countries. The important in business location and culture, yet growth through a number of principles and best report finds four factors that are important when the city itself also plays a crucial, if not the Gehl Architects are excited to contribute to the practice examples. it comes to growth: most important role in attracting the right talent debate on how to achieve an innovative public 1. Human resources and generating enough stimuli to achieve the realm with this publication. Many plans have been made to stimulate growth 2. Knowledge building/knowledge distribution best and most innovative performances from at a larger national scale by supporting public 3. Use of IT employees (as Richard Florida explores in his investments in infrastructure and educational 4. Entrepreneurship theories about cities and the Creative Class facilities and one potential area for investment So in order to stimulate growth we need to (2002)). which bridges both of these growth areas, and create urban environments that can support and Harvard professor Ed Glaeser expands the 24 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 25 CAPACITY BUILDING Moscow is a city of dichotomies. It is also a place approach to development and regeneration. event. We were blown away by the commitment need to think big (have a clear and big vision), on the brink of change, under transformation by ‘White City Project’ is an extraordinary to the work shown by the students. For them one start small (prototype the change) and scale fast a passionate group of people quietly willing and contemporary example of a young and fresh task was never enough, ten tasks were better. (prototype in a faster and faster way). Changing actively pulling their city towards a more livable organization eager to shift Moscow towards a Rare and extraordinary. Through this drive, change Moscow is an especially gigantic task which will and sustainable stride. city for people. In addition to their wish for smart is sure to come to the city in a variety of forms. require many small steps, collective action, over a and seamless public spaces, surrounding beauty, long period of time. In 2013 Gehl Architects worked with an amazing ease and choice of movement, they are pushing Where will this ball of energy take the streets Starting small is exemplified with Gorky Park, organization called ‘White City Project’, to to build cultural intelligence of the city by inviting and spaces of Moscow? As we passed from one a hugely popular, exciting public space which understand how people are using, moving, keen citizens to participate in all levels of change. interview to another, we were left wondering how contextualizes, stylizes and understands what the behaving and visioning the Volkhonka area the new generation will ensure that the soul of Moscovite user is wishing for in terms of public of Moscow’s city center, also known as the On our last visit, we spent a week passing on Moscow is inserted into the physicality of the city. space. ‘Museum Quarter’. Our analyses lead us to the Gehl skills to an energetic group of students How will the new generation balance their heritage prototype ideas that we hope will unfold delightful counting pedestrians, looking at the way that and their wish for a more livable city, together public space experiences for everyone to test and people behave in areas, understanding monster with the seeming need to rapidly grow the city in improve on. Together, with White City, we aspire junctions, absorbing the soul of Moscow, order to meet the expanding population? to create a framework for a replicable process interviewing celebrated Moscovites and for how other city districts can use a people first discussing the work achieved at a big closing From previous projects, we’ve learnt that cities 26 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 27 COMMUNICATION In 2012 Gehl Architects had a real chance theme features two example case studies of conceptualized and directed by Andreas M. DOX:BIO throughout Denmark, HOT DOCS in to communicate our message to a broader exemplary city transformation projects that Gehl Dalsgaard. Toronto, Doc Lounge in various Swedish cities audience. We were proud to be included in Architects have contributed to. It explores what happens if we place people and will be screened at the Sydney Film Festival the Danish modern arts museum Louisiana’s As part of the Louisiana c/o Venice event at at the center when we plan our cities. The in June 2013. summer exhibition ‘New Nordic Architecture’. the 13th International Architecture Biennale in documentary The film depicts the impact that the In addition, ‘The Human Scale’ has been shown Gehl Architects contributed with the ‘Life Venice, Italy, titled ”Common Ground”, Gehl humanistic approach to urban planning has had, at various private and educational events in Between Buildings’ installation, a 12 meter long Architects’ circular installation was chosen to and continues to have, in some of the world’s Gothenburg, Buenos Aires and NYC. circular spatial installation with video and audio. be on show. The 12 meter 360 degrees circular largest cities. From Times Square in NYC, to The component was part of the ‘Reconquering of spatial installation with video and audio was very earthquake devastated Christchurch and the Overall, the distribution of the film has created a public space’ section of the exhibit. well received, and we were truly excited to have Bangladeshi government’s focus on sustainable democratic platform that provides people from reached a whole new audience and perhaps solutions in Dhaka, we see the need for a radical all over the world with the opportunity to discuss Our component is comprised of three themes enlightened some minds. rethink of the human condition in modern cities. and debate the quest for quality of life in our vital to urban quality– Life, Mobility and Scale. cities. The content for each theme is based on the Another big communication moment, was the Following the initial release of ’The Human Scale’ principles established by Jan Gehl and continually release of the documentary film, ‘The Human at the 13th Venice Biennale, the film has been evolved by Gehl Architects to the many different Scale’. ’The Human Scale’ is inspired by Jan selected and shown at various international film types of projects and scales of intervention. Each Gehl and the work of Gehl Architects, and is festivals including: CPH:DOX in Copenhagen, 28 Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk Gehl Architects · Urban Quality Consultants · Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · 1610 København V · Danmark · www.gehlarchitects.dk 29 Gl. Kongevej 1, 4.tv · DK-1610 København V Tel: +45 32 950 951 · Fax: +45 32 950 958 mail@gehlarchitects.dk · www.gehlarchitects.dk
