Contents ∙ Editorial Policy ∙ Company Profile Contents Company Profile Headquarters address: Company Profile 1 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa, Japan Company founded: 1895 Business Outline 3 Capital: 19,052 million yen*1 Top Commitment 5 Net sales: 94,685 million yen*2 No. of shareholders: 11,229*1 Resolving Social Issues Digest 7 No. of employees: 3,771 (consolidated)*1 831 (non-consolidated)*1 Material Issues for Anritsu Group CSR 11 No. of suppliers and partners: 804*1 Stakeholder Dialogue 13 *1 As of March 31, 2013 *2 Consolidated, year ended March 2013 CSR Management 17 Net sales Goal 1 18 (Million yen) Goal 2 25 120,000 100,000 Goal 3 37 80,000 Goal 4 54 60,000 83,940 73,548 77,853 93,622 94,685 40,000 CSR Results for FY12, CSR Objectives for FY13 57 20,000 GRI Content Index 58 0 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 Independent Review and Response to 60 *IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. Independent Review Consolidated net sales Consolidated net sales by business by region (Year ended March 2013) (Year ended March 2013) Editorial Policy Japan Others 10% Asia and others 37% We report our CSR activities for FY2012 in “CSR Report 2013,” 26% which is published in digest form as a printed pamphlet and in Industrial Automation greater detail as a PDF. The digest version seeks to shed light 15% on how each of our businesses addresses social issues and to Test and report on discussions that took place during the stakeholder Measurement EMEA*1 Americas*2 75% 13% 24% dialogue—held for the second consecutive year—and on material CSR issues for the Anritsu Group, all in a manner that *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa is easy to understand. For the PDF version, our aim is to reach *2 The United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil more stakeholders by organizing information under 12 material issues identified through materiality assessment and then Consolidated operating income / ratio of operating income to net sales describe concrete activities for each of them. (%) (Million yen) Consolidated operating income(Million yen) Consolidated ratio of operating income 16.7 18 16,000 15.0 www.anritsu.com/csr to net sales(%) 16 14,000 14 12,000 12 For details on financial performance, please refer to our annual 9.0 report or website at : www.anritsu.com/ir 10,000 10 8,000 6.2 8 Guidelines used as reference 6,000 6 ・ISO 26000：2010 ・GRI 3.1 4,000 4 1.1 4,583 6,994 14,000 15,800 2,000 2 Reporting Period 905 0 0 This report covers the period from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013, and 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 also includes some activities before and after that period. *IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. Boundary Definitions This report covers Anritsu Corporation only or the Anritsu Group R&D expenses / ratio of R&D expenses to net sales Companies, according to subject and definitions as follows: (Million yen) R&D Expenses (%) “Anritsu” or “Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation 16,000 Ratio of R&D expenses to net sales 20 and the entire Anritsu Group. “Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in Japan only. “Group Company (or Companies)” refers to a group company 12,000 13.9 15 12.8 10.9 (or companies) or all group companies, excluding Anritsu Corporation 12.0 10.5 in either case. 8,000 10 11,704 9,387 9,380 9,842 10,315 4,000 5 Date of issue: September1, 2013 Further inquiries: CSR Promotion Team, 0 0 Corporate Communication Department, Anritsu Corporation 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 T e l : +81-46-296-6514 Fax: +81-46-225-8358 *IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. URL: http://www.anritsu.com/ (The next CSR report is scheduled for release in September 2014) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 1 Contents ∙ Editorial Policy ∙ Company Profile Number of employees (Anritsu Group) Major Group Companies in Japan (Number) •Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. 4,000 3,771 Asia and Development, manufacture, sales, repair, maintenance and other services 3,500 375 others for industrial machinery 391 EMEA 3,000 •Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. 3,697 3,589 3,614 3,681 811 Americas Manufacture of information communication equipment and measuring 2,500 instruments 2,000 2,194 Japan •Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. 0 Calibration, repair, maintenance and EMC / HALT testing of measuring 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 instruments Percentage of female employees worldwide (As of the end of January, 2013) •Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. The Asia and Development of software and hardware Japan Americas EMEA others Total Percentage of female employees •Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. (No. of female employees ÷ No. of total employees) 17% 31% 25% 31% 22% Development, sales, system design, maintenance and services of Percentage of female managers to male managers information communication products (No. of female managers ÷ No. of female employees) ÷ (No. of male managers ÷No. of male employees) 8% 59% 82% 57% 45% •Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. expressed as %. Development, manufacture and sales of optical devices •Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Employee data (Group companies in Japan) Resale and recycling of measuring instruments, design services and FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 production of documents Total No. of employees of Group companies in Japan 2,274 2,240 2,206 2,194 •Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Male 1,988 1,952 1,927 1,900 Real estate leasing Female 286 288 279 294 •Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Foreign nationals 25 20 16 24 Operation of shared service center for accounting, financial affairs, Non-regular employees 305 376 463 625 payroll calculation and benefits Average age 40.9 40.3 41.5 41.5 •AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Average working years 18.1 18.5 18.6 18.1 Manufacture and sales of cutting and sheet metal parts and unit Ratio of employees with Disabilities assembly articles (non-consolidated) 1.76 1.98 2.25 1.95 Ratio of employees with Disabilities (The Anritsu Group in Japan) 1.37 1.50 1.56 1.62 Planned ratio (Reference) 1.80 1.80 1.80 1.80 Major Group Companies outside Japan U.S.A. Labor accidents (Japan) Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc. (U.S.A.) All industries Electric machinery and apparatus industry Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Manufacturing industry Anritsu Group Anritsu 1.95 Anritsu Instruments Company (U.S.A.) 2.0 1.90 1.83 1.75 1.62 Anritsu Industrial Solutions U.S.A. Inc. (U.S.A.) 1.61 1.62 1.59 1.5 Anritsu Electronics Ltd. (Canada) 1.01 1.02 1.09 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 1.0 0.97 Anritsu Eletronica Ltda. (Brazil) 0.41 0.37 0.39 0.48 0.46 0.49 0.44 Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 0.5 0.39 EMEA 0.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Industrial Solutions Europe Ltd. (U.K.) CO2 emissions from total energy use （t） Japan U.S.A. Others Anritsu GmbH (Germany) 15,000 13,590 Anritsu S.A. (France) 13,313 83 12,565 Anritsu S.r.l. (Italy) 816 11,181 11,509 1,779 91 12,000 2,425 295 1,804 389 1,790 Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) 1,813 9,000 Anritsu A/S (Denmark) 6,000 10,072 8,978 9,424 11,727 10,670 Anritsu AB (Sweden) Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) 3,000 Asia and others 0 Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 （0.373） ＊ （0.351） （0.350） （0.476） （provisional value） Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. *Emission factors for electricity in regions excluding the United States are shown in parentheses. The emission factor for the United States is 0.285. Past emissions have been revised based on Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) actual figures for each fiscal year. Due to rounding, figures may not add up to the totals shown. Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Company, Inc. (Taiwan) Water consumption Anritsu Corporation, Ltd. (Korea) (Thousand m3) Japan U.S.A. Others Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) 150 142.6 Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) 2.7 124.0 121.3 124.7 30 1.2 1.4 0.9 30 Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) 120 109.1 26 25 24 0.9 Anritsu Pty. Ltd. (Australia) 90 29 60 110 95 98 100 79 30 0 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 *Due to rounding, figures may not add up to the totals shown. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 2 Business Outline Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 3 Business Outline Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 4 Top Commitment Sharing a Vision for Tomorrow to Create Value with the Anritsu Way The Source of Our Longevity Lies in way we have constantly stood at the forefront of the times. Providing Social Value We have served as the vanguard, creating new value and meeting society’s needs and remaining faithful to the spirit of “Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm” and our aspiration Fiscal 2012 was the first year of our GLP2014 mid-term for being “Original & High Level” as stated in our corporate business plan, and we got off to a fine start by achieving all philosophy. of our management targets. We are making steady progress As we move forward, the mission of the Anritsu Group will toward our “2020 Vision,” which expresses what we hope to be to continue leveraging our unique strengths to address achieve by 2020. social problems. That is my conviction. Since our founding in 1895, we have steadfastly pursued business in the fields of information and communications. The Passion behind the “Visionary A hundred years ago, in 1914, the “TYK radio telephone” Partnership” manufactured by Annaka Electric Company, Anritsu’s predecessor, was released as the world’s first commercial wireless phone. After introducing the precursor of the The goal of our “2020 Vision” is to become a global market smartphone to the world, Anritsu applied the expertise leader by creating unique value for our customers and it gained to other fields, including the measurement society. We are refining our brand with our eyes firmly on technology behind the evolution and development of this goal. We began this project with lively discussions mobile broadband services, as well as to contaminant across the Anritsu Group to identify what makes us who detectors and checkweighers for food and pharmaceuticals. we are. We then summarized our thoughts on the proven These achievements have positioned us to face today’s strengths of Anritsu and on how to apply them. The result challenges and opportunities. was the phrase: “ Visionary partnership to innovate for Companies are typically thought to have a life expectancy of tomorrow’s society.” We aspire to build on our practical about thirty years. I believe Anritsu owes its longevity to the knowledge, foresight and creativity based on ample Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 5 Top Commitment experience from more than 110 years of corporate history building, and native vegetation. It ranks among the world’s and promote win-win collaborations by working closely and premier examples of environmentally sound construction. on equal terms with our customers, and contributing to the As a company that plays a major role in the evolution of advance of a safe, secure and prosperous society. information and communication systems and in the quality Our next step is to develop ways to more directly and assurance of food and pharmaceuticals, Anritsu is responsible effectively express our promise to customers and society. for providing customers with products and support services This will certainly not end up in a mere exercise of words. under all circumstances. Our new Koriyama site serves as the We intend to reform both our mindset and our corporate “great mother factory” of the Anritsu Group for meeting the culture to meet stakeholder expectations by establishing expectations of our customers. ourselves as a reliable, cutting-edge brand that is worthy of a global market leader in both name and substance. The Anritsu Way of Contributing to Supplying Products to the World from the a Society Connected by ICT Symbol of Reconstruction People, goods and information are now connected across Two years have passed since the Great East Japan time and space, creating new industries and services amid Earthquake. Anritsu has constructed a new factory in ongoing efforts to build a social system that offers greater Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture, and the prefecture safety, security and comfort. Wireless communication has recognized the investment as vital suppor t for technology has been a driving force behind these overall reconstruction. We hope the new factory bolsters developments, and high-speed mobile networks are reconstruction in the Koriyama area by creating and supporting every aspect of our daily lives, from medicine, stabilizing employment. Our Koriyama employees are highly education and social welfare to disaster prevention and the motivated and working enthusiastically to turn the factory construction of “smart cities.” On the other hand, the volume into a symbol of reconstruction. of data traffic has risen dramatically, and smartphone With the start of operations at the new factory, we have communication failures are making the news. established a system for expanded production of printed As we find ourselves within the vortex of big data coursing circuit boards, which had previously plateaued. In addition through networks, how can we play our part in constructing to supplying greater manufacturing stability, having two a stable “connectable system” and contribute to building a production bases has strengthened our business continuity safer, more secure and more comfortable society? Anritsu plan (BCP). The new factory also embodies the concept of “a keeps this aspiration in mind throughout its business high-tech factory in harmony with a verdant environment” pursuits. We are resolved to continue developing and through the use of solar panels to generate electricity, sharing visions for a new society with our customers and recycled construction materials, LED lighting for the entire creating value the Anritsu way. United Nations Global Compact Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and has linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Company Philosophy, Vision and Policy Anritsu is promoting CSR activities by implementing the basic principles of its company philosophy, vision and policy into practice; by respecting the Global Compact that Anritsu upholds as a global enterprise; and by adhering to the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior that sets out concrete values and behavioral guidelines. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 6 1 Resolving Social Issues Test and Measurement Bringing Greater Convenience and Comfort to People’s Lives Test and Measurement Solutions that Sustain Mobile and Wireless Information and Communication Anritsu provides the measuring instruments that play a crucial role in the development and quality assurance of diverse communication systems and applications in the ever-evolving fields of information and communications. making greater use of these devices as part of the social Mobile Broadband Services that infrastructure in sending early warnings on rapid changes Change the Way the World Connects in weather and the occurrence of earthquakes to minimize damage, and in collecting information and confirming the The number of mobile phone subscribers now exceeds safety of families in the event of a disaster. six billion, and is rapidly approaching the total world Moreover, we can offer distance-learning opportunities for population of seven billion, making such phones essential children who cannot easily attend school, thereby filling a communication tools for daily life and business. In recent gap and helping to address inequalities in education. In the years, mobile phones have outgrown their primary use as domain of healthcare, we are approaching the day when tools for voice communication, playing a greater role in people will be able to enjoy the benefits of high-quality enjoying music and video in addition to email and social diagnosis and easy access to advanced medical treatment networking services (SNS). Smartphones, which opened the wherever they live in the world. way to mobile broadband services, continue to spread at an accelerated pace, and their production is estimated to reach 1.5 billion units by 2017. The development of high-speed T&M*1 Solutions based on the Latest mobile communication services called Long Term Evolution (LTE) is also gathering speed, and an estimated 424 carriers LTE Standard in 126 countries are expected to adopt LTE starting in 2014. Smartphones and tablets offer easy access to the latest International standards have been established for mobile information and enable speedy transmission and receipt communication systems, and companies that develop and of clear video and still images. They are also expected to manufacture mobile terminals and the chip sets installed in contribute to solving many social issues. We are already them are required to conduct tests under diverse Rapidly expanding LTE worldwide ■ Global plans for introducing LTE services ■ Countries with commercial LTE service ■ Countries with LTE commercial network deployments on-going or planned ■ Countries with LTE trial systems(pre-commitment) Source: GSA Evolution to LTE Report （2012.01.05） Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 7 conditions to confirm that their equipment complies with expanding infrastructure for wireless communication, and these standards. have captured a major share of the market. Anritsu has earned customer trust as the leading company Anritsu’s test and measurement business supports the in the test and measurement systems used for this evolution and development of ICT*2 and the construction purpose. In particular, we have outpaced the competition of a comfortable social infrastructure by offering solutions in developing a testing system approved by screening and that encompass the development and manufacturing of the verification institutions for LTE—the fastest communication most advanced mobile devices as well as the construction standard currently in commercial use—as well as for LTEand maintenance of wireless communication infrastructures. Advanced, the next-generation standard for even faster LTE. In addition, we also provide measuring instruments for assessing the quality of radio waves transmitted by *1 Test and Measurement antennas, cables and base stations in establishing and *2 Information and Communication Technology Development Phase Manufacturing/Mass Production Phase Network Construction/Maintenance 50% market share* 30–40% market share* 70–80% market share* No. 1 in the world No. 3 in the world No. 1 in the world We led the industry in R&D in the area We support manufacturing and mass We were the first in the industry to offer of communication standards for thirdproduction by providing measuring handheld measuring instruments that met generation (3G) mobile phones by providing instruments suitable for the specific production mobile needs at construction and maintenance solutions that became the de facto standard. systems at our customers’ sites. These sites. These solutions contribute to the We are building on this track record and instruments are used during the manufacturing global expansion of wireless communication customer trust to contribute to the research and inspection processes in production lines networks as the de facto standard in measuring and development of the next-generation LTE for mobile devices, such as smartphones and instruments for base station construction and communication standard. tablets. maintenance. *Anritsu estimates Embracing the Newest Standard for the Next Generation Executive Vice President, Anritsu Corporation / President, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Frank Tiernan Virtually all nations of the world are actively building-out and enhancing their wireless communication infrastructures as they recognize the many significant social and economic benefits of so doing. Currently, for those at the forefront, this means installing LTE based systems. Some nations will transition to LTE from third generation systems while others will proceed directly from second generation ones. In support of this activity Anritsu provides a complete line of LTEcompatible measuring equipment and is already developing technology for LTE-Advanced, the next generation standard. LTE-Advanced is projected to support speeds up to ten times faster than LTE. Commercial service is scheduled to begin in the United States as early as 2014, and soon thereafter in Japan. Most equipment vendors have started manufacturing and the demand for Test and Measurement equipment is also growing. In February 2013, Anritsu became the first in the industry to release a single-box RF tester equipped with LTE-Advanced compatible software. We believe part of our ongoing corporate social responsibility is to supply Test and Measurement equipment supporting the world’s communication infrastructure thereby enabling people of the world to make the deep human connections essential for a true feeling of brotherhood. In practical terms this means actively supplying the LTE and LTE-Advanced equipment needed by our customer partners today while at the same time working to develop the next generation standards they will need tomorrow. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 8 2 Industrial Automation Ensuring Security in Your Daily Life Diverse Quality Assurance Solutions that Sustain Food Safety through Contaminant Detection, Weight Testing and Quality Control Systems Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. ensures the quality of the food and pharmaceutical production lines of its customers as its primary business domain by providing original quality assurance solutions. stream of solutions based on our own unique technology Ensuring the Safety and Security of and creative approach. Products We Swallow For example, we provide checkweighers that can instantly measure the weight of products moving at high speed on Building prosperous societies around the world requires production lines, as well as X-ray inspection systems and satisfying the desire for food that can be eaten with metal detectors that can detect contaminants less than a greater safety and security. This means protecting fresh millimeter in size in test objects at food and pharmaceuticals and processed foods from contaminants and only production plants. These instruments play an extremely distributing products that have passed designated tests. vital role in conducting comprehensive inspections before Pharmaceuticals that are taken orally to alleviate sickness products are shipped. Since introducing them to the market, and improve health are subject to even more stringent we have delivered over sixty thousand checkweighers testing. Any mistake in quantity or combination could turn and over forty thousand contaminant detectors—X-ray into a matter of life and death. inspection systems and metal detectors—to customers in Anritsu offers a variety of solutions for ensuring the quality Japan and overseas. of food and pharmaceuticals. There is a growing need around the world for safety and security. Under our business strategy of “local production for Taking Japanese Levels of Quality local consumption,” Anritsu Industrial Solutions continues to apply the experience and expertise gained through dealing Overseas with Japan’s stringent quality control systems to deliver quality assurance solutions for food placed on tables and The roots of Anritsu Industrial Solutions’ business lie in the pharmaceuticals for treating injuries and illnesses across the highly sensitive displacement sensors we developed in the globe. early 1960s. Since that time, we have delivered a steady Checkweigher HD X-Ray Inspection Systems Metal Detector Automatic Combination Weighers Anritsu is There for You, Wherever You Are Vice President, Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. Masumi Niimi We are currently strengthening our worldwide sales and maintenance network. This year, in response to the expanding markets for quality inspection in emerging Asian countries, we opened and began production at our new factory in Shanghai, China. We also added production capacity at our factory in Thailand, which was launched five years ago. We plan to offer services everywhere in the world that are no different from those offered in Japan. We intend to contribute to the global community through our core business by consistently providing original solutions that leverage the strengths of our comprehensive in-house system, and to realize safe and secure food and pharmaceuticals in partnership with our customers. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 9 3 Information and Communications Supporting the Infrastructure of Our Daily Life Ensuring Safe, Secure and Efficient Connections for Society, Anytime and Anywhere Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. helps construct social and communications infrastructures that promote a safer, more secure society, and provides for a more prosperous world connected by networks. The Growing Volume of Global Data Anritsu’s Contribution to Network Communication Systems IP traffic continues to grow worldwide, and is estimated Even under this challenging network environment, missionto triple between 2012 and 2017. Meanwhile, the number critical data such as financial transactions and emergency of devices with mobile connections is expected to exceed information in times of disaster must be transmitted the global population by the end of fiscal 2013. Mobile without fail. As a specialized manufacturer of bandwidth networks inevitably go through fixed lines in the process control systems that guarantee stable communication in of expansion, placing an increasing strain on IP networks. IP networks, Anritsu boasts the No.1 track record in system Our networked society is faced with the major challenge installment in Japan*. Our bandwidth control systems of balancing efficiency with service quality, expanding line are used at many government institutions, educational capacity despite limited network capacity. institutions and companies. While wide area networks (WANs) are IP-based, a number Introduction Example:The Shinshu University campus network of companies are still using analog communication facilities （FW/AV/IPS/IDS/URL） and equipment. Anritsu provides IP converters that connect UTM Switch(L3) SINET these analog facilities with WANs to help customers use PureFlow GS1 their assets efficiently and make the transition to digital Switch （L3） （L3） Switch 10Gbps Switch （L3） systems. Matsumoto 20Gbps Nagano Nagano * Based on number of units installed. (Engineering) (Education) Efficient use of existing assets using the IP converter 10Gbps 10Gbps Ethernet Line NN3003A （10M/100M） Information Board accident ! Analog Line （L2） Switch Switch （L2） Wide-area VPN （L2） Switch 1Gbps Research and IP Multiplexing Equipment for Education Center 10Gbps Minamiminowa Ueda Controlling Board Analog Line IP Networks for Inlandwater Environment NN6001A WDM System Telemeter System NN3003A NN3003A Telemeter System Information NN3003A NN3003A Information Transmission System Transmission System Building Connections – Our Aspiration Behind “Being Smart and Skillful” Senior Manager, Corporate Strategy Department, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Norio Aizawa Our bandwidth control systems make maximum use of the line bandwidth of IP networks to significantly reduce line costs and enhance the quality of service (QoS). We also help customers effectively use their assets by providing IP converters that connect their analog communication facilities to the IP network. We will continue to promote our customers’ businesses by offering services under our banner of “being smart and skillful” in building connections. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 10 Material Issues for Anritsu Group CSR Adding Two Strategic CSR Issues to Our Global CSR and Business Strategies To be a trusted partner for all stakeholders, the Anritsu Group has incorporated the response to human rights issues and promotion of local CSR as two strategic CSR issues that we believe must be addressed to achieve CSR management worthy of a global market leader. 2020 VISION 1.To be Global Market Leader GLP2014 -Build a world-class, strong, Indicators FY2012 FY2014 profit generating platform Sales 94.5 B Yen 110 B Yen -Create uniquely AnritsuOp. Income 15.5 B Yen 19 B Yen like corporate value Net Income 10 B Yen 13 B Yen 2.Create new business ROE 20% 20% by emerging biz. ACE* 7 B Yen 9 B Yen -Demonstrate cutting-edge tech in new business field *ACE(Anritsu Capital-cost Evaluation): Operating income after tax-Capital Cost CSR Goals of Anritsu CSR Results for Fiscal 2012, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2013 We have been focusing our efforts on the 12 important issues with particular emphasis on the following 5 material issues. Unless otherwise specified, the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and its Group Companies in Japan. Performance evaluation ○：fully attained △：attained 50% or more CSR Goal Key Issues Results for Fiscal 2012 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2013 Goal 1 Contributing to Build Service to (1) Held a presentation in China and shared CS Action Guidelines. ○ (1) Share the CS Action Guidelines. (2) Conducted CS training for new employees, managers and staff in charge. ○ (2) Conduct CS training in China. a Safe, Secure, and customers (3) Prepared a list of customer contact points, launched pilot CRM system. ○ (3) Enhance customer support center. Comfortable Society (1)Held a kickoff meeting for the Global Supply Chain Committee, and began ○ (1) Develop a global SCM system (Promote GSCC). construction of a supply chain integrating the four bases in Japan, the U.S., Europe and China. Supply chain (2) Improved defect and on-time delivery rates, conducted process audits at 18 ○ (2) Establish audit system for hazardous substances. companies to improve our RoHS compliance rate. management (3)Conducted a corporate ethics survey for FY2012 (54 responses from 47 ○ (3) Establish response to conflict minerals (Promote CSR procurement). companies; no violations reported). Goal 2 (4) Collected data relevant to BCM from 1,766 sites centered on secondary suppliers ○ (4) Strengthen BCM and governance systems. Maintaining and beyond. Harmony with the (1) Expanded recruitment of foreign nationals by offering an internship in China and ○ (1) Establish recruitment of foreign nationals. Global recruiting in Philippines. Socio-Economy Respect for human (2) Established an evaluation system for developing human resources, and decided ○ (2) Complete draft of an evaluation system for developing human rights to conduct a trial in fiscal 2013. resources. and promotion of (3) Established a dedicated division for developing job categories for the elderly and △ (3) Formulate a proposal for developing job types and categories for the diversity people with disabilities at a Group company to consider dispatching personnel elderly and people with disabilities. Human resource to companies inside and outside the Group and explore possibilities for new development businesses. (4) Implemented a global employee satisfaction survey (Japan, U.S., and China). ○ (4) Recommencement of GHRC (Global Human Resource Committee) activities. (1) Waste reduction and recycling (1) Waste reduction and recycling Emitted waste was 114.5 tons (Japan). [targeting below 160.4 tons] ○ Maintain waste emission under 160.4 tons (Japan). Volume of landfill waste reduced by 42% compared to fiscal 2010 (USA). ○ Reduce volume of landfill waste by 20% compared to fiscal 2010 [targeting 5% reduction] (USA). (2) Resource and energy conservation (2) Resource and energy conservation Reduced energy consumption by 24.6% ○ Reduce energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by 1.0% on Goal 3 compared to fiscal 2006(Japan). [targeting 9% reduction] average by 2020 compared to fiscal 2012 (Japan). Promotion of Promoting Global environmental Reduced energy consumption by 40% compared to fiscal 2010(USA). ○ Reduce energy consumption by 5.0% compared to fiscal 2010 (USA). Environmental [targeting 5% reduction] management (3) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) Protection -Completed development of all 6 targeted products as environmentally ○ Ratio of environmentally conscious products of all products conscious products. covered:100% -Completed development of all 3 targeted products that can save resources by ○ Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or more of all 10% or more. products covered: 100% -Completed development of all 2 targeted products with at least a 30% ○ Ratio of products that are 30% or more power efficient of all improvement in power efficiency. products covered: 100% Goal4 Communication (1) Held stakeholder dialogue and reported results in the CSR Report. ○ (1) Promote communication through stakeholder dialogues. Promoting Communications with stakeholders (2) Distributed and promoted the use of the CSR Report in regions across the globe. ○ (2) Research the status of CSR communication in each global region. USA is represented by Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 11 Material Issues for Anritsu Group CSR The Two Strategic CSR Issues Attitude. We pay due consideration to human rights issues in As noted in the most recent publication of ISO26000—the our relationship with business partners by including international standard for corporate social responsibility— “Considerations of human rights and labor” in the Anritsu public expectations of companies are undergoing changes. Basic Rules of Procurement. We have also established and At the same time, Anritsu is dealing with the continuing are requesting their cooperation with the Anritsu CSR globalization of its businesses, led by the measurement Procurement Guideline, which prohibits child labor and business. As a result, each region is increasingly called forced labor. In particular, we support international control upon to exercise initiative in promoting local activities and of conflict minerals, and are currently focusing on fulfilling regional collaboration. our social responsibility with other companies in the supply Under these circumstances, we are pursuing CSR chain by promoting initiatives for monitoring and ultimately management to achieve our “2020 Vision,” which expresses ending the use of conflict minerals. what we hope to achieve by 2020 as a group by following our GLP2014 mid-term business plan, which lists the Promoting CSR Locally milestones we must meet to achieve our vision. With respect to our response to human rights issues Anritsu’s Response to Human Rights mentioned above, the human resource department in the Americas, Europe and Asia are responsible for CSR in their Issues respective regions. The corporate division at headquarters leads the way in developing and promoting the Anritsu The globalization of our business has brought more Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group opportunities to procure what we need from suppliers Code of Conduct. The division ascertains customer outside Japan and to set up production, sales and support satisfaction, conducts employee satisfaction surveys services locally. In addition, we must pay due consideration worldwide, and maintains open communications as a way to human rights issues, not only with respect to the Anritsu to better understand the goals, issues and status of CSR Group in Japan and abroad, but throughout the entire value efforts in each region. chain, including our regional suppliers. To achieve our goal of establishing a CSR management The first item in the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate system that supports global business development, the CSR Behavior is “Protecting Human Rights,” and in the Anritsu Promotion Committee, chaired by the President, acts as the Group Code of Conduct—which sets out the more concrete final decision-making entity for promoting CSR activities principles of behavior based on the Charter—respect for appropriate for each region through cross-sectional human rights is mentioned first and foremost in our Basic collaboration with Group companies. ・Vigorous response to social issues Materiality Assessment—Methodology and Results ・Human resource development ・Labor safety and health Issues of high impor tance In 2008, Anritsu conducted a materiality assessment ・Service to customers ・Building of a corporate brand based on discussions conducted with thirty key persons ・Establishment of compliance Subjec t Importance for stakeholders inside the Group on 142 items of proper corporate to High・Promotion of risk management ef fective priorit y issues ・Respect for human rights and promotion behavior expected by society. These have been management of diversity ・Promotion of environmental management categorized by stakeholder, with due consideration for ・Communication with stakeholders objectivity and completeness. Of the 142 items, the 12 items plotted within the Subjec t ・Promotion of social contribution to activities domains delineated in red were identified as themes ef fective communication ・Supply chain management with particular importance for the Anritsu Group and have been designated as our core material issues. Importance for Anritsu Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 12 Stakeholder Dialogue Embodying CSR Commensurate with the Global Expansion of the Anritsu Group Anritsu places a high priority on “Promoting Communications,” one of its four CSR Goals. It is our fundamental commitment and the backbone for CSR management as a whole. We invited the three experts who participated in the dialogue held last year to gather once again for a review of our latest efforts in fiscal 2012. Facilitator: Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. Takashi Fukushima Fukushima: We do not want the stakeholder dialogue to the year. be a short-lived event held only for the sake of this report. We got a solid performance from our Industrial Automation That is why we are conducting this dialogue with the same business, both in Japan and overseas. Moving proactively participants as last year. Let us begin by having the Anritsu to reinforce support for our global customers, we expanded representatives present an overview of the company’s production at our existing factory in Thailand and opened business performance during fiscal 2012, the efforts taken a new plant in Shanghai. We also made considerable in response to last year’s dialogue, and the challenges at progress in reforming the structure of our Information hand. and Communications business—positioned under Other businesses—which led to improved profits. Taniai: Fiscal 2012 marked the first year of our GLP2014 mid-term business plan, and we got off to a good start by Dohi: During last year’s dialogue, we discussed how Anritsu achieving nearly all our targets. should proceed with CSR management as we globalize our In our Measurement business—which accounts for 75% of business. We are currently coordinating our actions with net sales—mobile-related sales increased from 45% to 50%. the staff in charge of personnel, who also serve as our CSR By region, sales declined in Japan from 30% to 25% of the liaisons in each region. Out of the many possible concerns, global total and grew in the Americas from 25% to 30%. The we chose to begin addressing the issue of conflict minerals relative percentage of overseas to domestic sales increased as our human rights focus. We added “nonuse of conflict from 61% to 65%. We saw steady demand for measuring minerals” to the Anritsu Basic Rules of Procurement, and instruments used in the development of LTE-compatible requested our business partners to follow an Englishterminals and the production of smartphones, while the language version of the Anritsu CSR Procurement ratio of overseas sales rose significantly in the second half of Guidelines that we created and also use. Conducting audits Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 13 Stakeholder Dialogue of local subsidiaries and overseas suppliers—which actually challenges of new technology. We hope to build on these cover more than just the use of conflict minerals—is still a foundations to create values that are uniquely identified challenge. with Anritsu and can be shared globally. We designated the promotion of local CSR activities as When we explained our CSR approach at the managers’ another goal. Last October, we meeting in China, we came away with the impression that held a meeting of managers in we were not fully understood. This year we would like China at which we explained to start by learning about how the competition and our o u r C S R e f fo r t s , i n c l u d i n g customers engaged in international businesses continue to compliance. In our CSR report carry out such high-level CSR efforts to better understand for this year, we will highlight Anritsu’s current position. different local topics in the English and Chinese versions. In Akabane: One effective way to addition, with regard to the KPI disseminate CSR globally may be framework you suggested we to incorporate elements of CSR adopt, we have started working into the personnel reviews of top in areas where we are ready local managers and performance to move forward such as the indicators. For example, take “social environment. We will continue contribution through our core to consider real-life situations business,” which the president and get to work on them. stated as being part of the Top Commitment in the CSR Report for fiscal 2012, and make that count for a few percent. You could also Shared Values for Promoting Global CSR transfer decision-making authority, however limited in scope, to the people that concurrently serve as Fukushima: I would now like to ask the experts to offer their CSR liaisons, then provide them feedback, including specific points they have noted or new with a small budget and let them perspectives they could provide on Anritsu’s efforts since take the initiative on projects last year. CSR Asia Japan rooted in local needs. http://csr-asia-japan.com/ Yamaguchi: During last year’s dialogue, we thoroughly discussed ways to pursue CSR at a global level. Once you Goto: I think you could promote global CSR through a start giving concrete form to these ideas in regions with flexible management style befitting a Japanese company different cultures and business customs, you encounter with a long history. You may not even need to follow many situations in which Japanese methods just don’t work. the style of major Western companies, which declare You need to express shared global values to set the context. and promote the same values worldwide. For example, you may be able to reinforce the sense of involvement Kawabe: At Anritsu we have by gathering local comments right from the production been promoting our company stage if you switch to English for CSR reports. I offered this p h i l o s o p hy o f “ S i n ce r i t y, recommendation several years ago, and I believe it is a Harmony and Enthusiasm” hurdle that a company like Anritsu can surmount, since you worldwide. The aspects of already provide regional websites. sincerity and enthusiasm in particular have become well established in all regions. Producing a Report that Highlights Concrete Survey results clearly indicate Commitments that Anritsu is considered to be honest and sincere. M o r e o v e r, a h i g h t e c h Akabane: While this is also true of common global values, I company like ours with a hope your CSR report will highlight the company’s concrete history of nearly 120 years is commitments. In preparation for participating in this second quite rare, and I believe this dialogue, I reviewed the Japanese, English and Chinese is a result of our enthusiasm versions of your “CSR Report Digest” and websites. While for consistently taking on the these versions comprehensively reported on CSR topics and Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 14 Stakeholder Dialogue felt sufficiently sincere, they didn’t explain Anritsu’s specific in Asia, where we are expanding our business, and we are priorities, and no single topic was particularly memorable. considering how best to respond. Audits are one option. Anritsu could raise its profile by communicating concrete commitments, perhaps by declaring its intention to become Yamaguchi: What is the status of your project for developing the world’s number one company in occupational safety as emerging businesses that you spoke about during our a specific commitment that embodies its sincerity. dialogue last year? Dohi: This time around, we emphasized responding to Ta n i a i : T h i s y e a r w e a r e human rights issues, reflecting the fact that each region determining the direction we expects a corporate response to conflict minerals, in should take. Along the way, we addition to the promotion of local CSR, which we have been are discussing Anritsu’s ideal discussing, as two strategic CSR issues. Human rights issues state in the future, the optimal in particular are not limited to a specific area; they require direction for developing our cross-sectional efforts spanning the entire organization. current businesses, and the That is why we positioned it as a priority CSR issue. best way to leverage our p ro p r i e t a r y t e c h n o l o g y t o Yamaguchi: From a management perspective, these two contribute to the world. This issues require the company to make an effort in the areas makes it imperative to clarify of management risk and raising the efficiency of local our corporate philosophy operations. Concrete commitments should be more closely and establish a firm direction. aligned with the direction of the core business, while at Otherwise we will not be able the same time being easier to pursue by expressing them to unite our employees around clearly. Perhaps quality has become so thoroughly ingrained the world and demonstrate in the company’s operations that it doesn’t need to be our considerable capabilities. singled out as a separate concrete commitment. However, human rights is a major issue to tackle head on. One way to address it is to use the issue of conflict minerals as a Goto: When I previously offered my help in formulating springboard for expanding into broader areas of human Anritsu’s CSR Goals, participants suggested “safety and rights as audits of business partners begin to reveal specific security” as the keywords for Goal 1. Safety and security human rights concerns inherent have been placed at the center of the 2020 VISION, and I in the supply chain. I think the expect the company will continue its efforts toward this best course would be to start goal until the target year. Safety and security, however, can w i th con fl i c t m i n e ra ls a nd be broadly interpreted, and spoken by one person may have generate added value. an entirely different meaning to the person hearing them. I Yo u d o n ’ t h a v e t o f o c u s think you may need to discuss this and dig a little deeper to exclusively on negative topics. ascertain exactly what you mean by “safety and security.” For example, in the area of human rights and labor, you Fukushima: How you define these terms could determine could take on such challenges as your approach to conflict minerals or human rights—that raising the skill level of human is, whether the focus is on CSR procurement in the supply resources or further working on chain or compliance. The discussion is likely to have a the company’s proven strengths variety of aspects. in workplace safety. You could select topics by considering Yamaguchi: For some companies, focusing on safety and what the company needs to security as a compliance issue may narrow the scope of reach the next level on a global activity. That may satisfy customer requirements but not scale. generate any added value. Since you are prepared to tackle Caux Round Table – Japan http://www.crt-japan.jp/ the issue, I hope you will do so in a way that allows for future development by making the entire process transparent Kawabe: The situation surrounding conflict minerals from the beginning. indeed requires a unified, cross-regional response from the standpoint of business risk. The same is true with bribery. Although Anritsu has become known for its sincerity, pitfalls remain, and we cannot claim to exercise complete control over the supply chain, including agents. We started Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 15 Stakeholder Dialogue Akabane: A company listed in the United States would Goto: You might consider using tend to view this as a compliance issue. If you are supplying the existing ES survey framework products to a U.S.-listed company, however, it would be as a kind of benchmark. I considered a supply chain issue. Mr. Yamaguchi’s suggestion know that at least one foreign offers an alternative. You could start with conflict minerals pharmaceuticals company and then broaden your scope into other issues, such as the surveys degree of engagement, use of child labor and forced labor. which is considered similar to satisfaction, and then tracks the results as a KPI. Identifying and Improving Environmental Impact throughout the Product Lifecycle Yamaguchi: I think graphic or visual representations of Fukushima: Please tell us about the status of your efforts on activities, including KPIs, can the environment over the past year. serve as a gateway to better ideaship engagement. The disclosure of http://www.ideaship.info/ Takasugi: In our CSR report for information can stimulate lively fiscal 2012, we declared our discussions. Take care, however, to avoid tracking irrelevant intention to identify and reduce KPIs. For example, do not try to quantify human rights o u r e nv i ro n m e n t a l i m p a c t efforts by tracking the number of training sessions as a KPI. throughout the lifecycles of our products. To understand the current situation, we are expanding the range of Scope Relationships with NGOs and NPOs 3 data *1 collection using the GHG protocol*2 as a reference. In fiscal 2012, we received and duly Akabane: Anritsu has designated communication with responded to our first survey stakeholders as Goal 4, which includes holding a dialogue request from the CDP*3. We plan to with NGOs and NPOs. In the expert hearings that CSR Asia further itemize our CO2 emissions conducted in March of this year, NGOs and NPOs appeared to reduce our environmental at the top of the list of sectors expected to have the greatest impact, while identifying an impact on CSR activities in Asia. There are a variety of appropriate KPI linked to our NGOs and NPOs, from organizations that are involved in overall management indicators. advocacy activities*4 to those primarily interested in surveys and research. As Anritsu pursues global development, *1 CO2 emissions generated by the use and disposal of products, it may want to consider increasing opportunities for and CO2 emissions related to logistics, business trips and employee commuting. communication or engagement with an NGO, for example. *2 The international standard for corporate reporting of greenhouse At present, Anritsu operates an industrial automation gases using a set format. *3 Carbon Disclosure Project factory in Thailand, while another factory has commenced operations in Shanghai, China. While these may be B2B Goto: You took another major step forward. Last year I operations, high-tech companies tend to stand out, and suggested that you consider an efficiency indicator (basic could become targets of attack by NPOs and NGOs. Please unit) combined with financial indicators, but I believe the proceed with a concurrent effort on risk management, absolute volume of CO2 emissions will suffice. If possible, I taking into account environmental issues such as water think the best approach would be to set an overall global resources. target which is then broken down into regional targets. You *4 Issuing policy statements on certain issues. mentioned the ES survey in your CSR report for fiscal 2012. Can you tell us about the content of that survey? D o h i : We d e e p l y a p p re c i a t e t h e o p i n i o n s o f o u r stakeholders, and will continue to engage in activities that Taniai: We conduct a global employee satisfaction survey are uniquely associated with Anritsu. that includes content tailored to local situations as well as general questions to confirm how well employees understand our company philosophy. The surveys for Japan contain many questions, and employee satisfaction tends to be high. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 16 CSR Management CSR through our Core Business Based on its company philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm, Anritsu takes corporate social responsibility in its business operations from economic, social and environmental perspectives, with due respect for laws and regulations, ethics, and social norms. Anritsu also aims to build and elevate its corporate and brand values via better communication and better relationships with stakeholders. CSR Promotion System The CSR Promotion Committee set up in November 2004 is chaired by the President so that top management can lead CSR promotion. In addition, the CSR Promotion Center was organized as a dedicated department to encourage unified activities across a broad array of departments. The center is now called the CSR Promotion Team, and it serves under the Corporate Communication Department as the secretariat of the CSR Promotion Committee to support Anritsu’s CSR activities in line with the committee’s policies. CSR cannot be fulfilled by the efforts of any single department or organization. The cooperation of all departments of Anritsu and Group companies is essential for success. With this in mind, and to ensure effectiveness, Anritsu Corporation's departments in charge of individual CSR fields, including customer satisfaction and quality, human rights and social contribution, lead activities through cross-sectional cooperation across Group companies. The CSR Promotion Team serves as the secretariat. We identify and analyze the current situation of individual areas from a CSR perspective and strive to address issues of improvement for the future of Anritsu. Promotion of Global CSR Our Global System ・Headquarters : Corporate Communication Department To promote CSR activities on a global scale and deepen ・Americas : Human Resource Department, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) communication with our stakeholders across the world, the ・EMEA : Human Resource Department, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Group is exchanging information internally based on a ・Asia : Human Resource Department, Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) regional system and annual schedule. Each year, regional staff report to the Head Office CSR Action Items Promotion Team on the ten items listed at right. These ・CS Activities, Quality Improvement regional reports include plans for the current fiscal year that ・Quality Improvement are submitted between April and June, progress (mid-term) ・Health and Safety reports on the plans between October and December, and ・Compliance annual reviews between March and April of the following year. ・Supply Chain ・Information Security ・Protecting Human Rights ・Valuing Employees ・Promotion of Environmental Management ・Conducting Social Contribution Activities Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 17 Goal 1 Service to Customers Basic Concept Under its action guideline, “We will become a CS enterprise deeply trusted by customers,” Anritsu believes each employee must be cordial when serving customers and closely communicate with them in order to meet their needs, while at the same time identifying their needs and challenges. We establish win-win relationships with customers and propose new value that delivers customer satisfaction. Because it is vital that employees who directly contact with customers have the right mindset, we place priority on programs that focus on employee awareness, training and recognition. CS Promotion Framework The Anritsu Group in Japan encourages mutual sharing of CS issues and improvement activities through the Japan CS Committee, which consists of representatives from Anritsu Group companies. Every three years, we formulate a midterm plan and undertake improvements based on the plan. Toward our goal of becoming a CS company deeply trusted by customers, we reviewed our customer contact points in fiscal 2012. We also verified the status of the customerrelated databases each division manages to identify internal issues we must overcome to construct a centralized contact Chart used for a meeting in China points in fiscal 2013. We also held a meeting in China to unify our global CSR guidelines. Global Service The Anritsu Group maintains 24 service centers in 16 countries to provide reliable services for our global customers. Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. pursues business through three pillars of service: maintenance, including calibration and repair of measuring instruments; testing, such as EMC*; and support, including technical support for customers in Japan and support for service units overseas. In the area of global support services, the company supplies Anritsu product service centers with maintenance parts and technical support including calibration repairs. To ensure consistent service to customers worldwide, we conduct simultaneous CS surveys in every country to reflect the voice of our customers in improvement efforts. For example, in fiscal 2011, we upgraded our web-based service request and logistics systems in Japan to more effectively address customer requests and complaints. Seeking further improvements, in fiscal 2012 we began developing a new web-based service to replace our existing system in the second half of fiscal 2013. In addition, the Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. maintenance network now covers about forty countries and provides reliable maintenance services to customers operating on a global level. * Electromagnetic Compatibility Anritsu’s Global Expansion Industry Segment Type of Bases Measurement business Development/ Manufacturing bases Industrial Automation Sales/ business Service & Support bases Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 18 Service to Customers CS Surveys changed the CS Award to the CSR Award to reflect the broader purpose of recognizing employee contributions As part of its efforts to raise customer satisfaction levels, the that go beyond customer service, including efforts to Anritsu Group conducts a survey and then formulates and improve the environment, society and our brand. Many promptly implements improvement plans based on customer employees have earned this reward. feedback. Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. conducts a customer satisfaction survey on topics such as repair and calibration Employee Training services, support services, EMC testing services and email newsletters. To deepen CS awareness among employees, we provide The repair and calibration services part of the survey asks collective training for managers, staff in charge and new customers about their level of satisfaction on such items employees. as collection and delivery, responses at the contact points, For example, we implemented collective training for all new accuracy of operations and delivery time. managers in the manager training program launched in fiscal We systematically improve items that score lower than the 2011. In fiscal 2012, we continued to conduct parallel training previous year, and strive daily to further enhance customer for newly appointed managers and for staff in charge, and satisfaction on items that score higher than the previous year. integrated training content to ensure that CS awareness was shared within the same division. In addition, we sought to Collection and delivery Fiscal2012 100 Fiscal2011 boost motivation by 90 using the corporate magazine to report Response of Overall assessment 80 contact points on the CSR Awards 70 and introduce related employee 60 activities. CS Training Report of Accuracy of operations operations Operations of Each Group Company Delivery time Result of CS Survey The Anritsu Group gathers customer feedback through CS In a survey conducted by the Anritsu Company (U.S.A.), 94% questionnaires, customer contact points and sales activities. of customers responded that they were either “extremely The opinions and requests are then reviewed by the CS satisfied” or “satisfied” in terms of overall customer Committee and incorporated into ongoing improvements. satisfaction. These activities ensure that customers are able to safely use our products and services. Customer Support Center Inaugurates Full-scale Operation Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. opened a customer CS Recognition Program support center in fiscal 2011 that operates 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to establish a system for enabling customers We introduced our CS Award in fiscal 2008 to recognize to contact maintenance engineers at any time. In fiscal 2012 employees for their contributions to enhancing customer we linked the IT Support Center to the customer information satisfaction. We present this award to employees in database, creating a system for promptly responding to operations that are difficult to quantitatively assess, using customer inquiries. positive feedback from customers to provide a support Looking ahead, we plan to utilize customer information to system that encourages them to deliver better-thanoffer preventive maintenance services. expected customer satisfaction. Our employees are aware We also set up a dedicated contact point within the Support that their work is in some way connected to the many Center for customers who order parts, allowing us to stakeholders that surround Anritsu. Anritsu’s stakeholders respond more quickly to these customer orders. include our customers and business partners, various external organizations, government agencies, financial institutions and other business associates as well as local communities. In fiscal 2012, we CSR Award recipients Customer Support Center Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 19 Service to Customers Requirement Definition Process for Eliminating Quality Management Missing Requirements, Gaps and Ambiguities Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. has established and operates a Basic Concept requirement definition process, through which information Anritsu Corporation has established quality policies and status updates are shared by the technology, sales and action guidelines under its corporate philosophy, and quality management departments in a timely manner. “Contribute to the development of a safe, secure and Prior to production, thorough research and reviews are prosperous global society by offering Original & High conducted followed by customer approval to prevent Level products and services with sincerity, harmony, and missing requirements, gaps and ambiguities between enthusiasm,” and firmly implement them in order to provide customer specifications and final products. products and services that satisfy customers and society. In fiscal 2012, we continued to operate under the requirement definition process from consultation to receipt Quality Policy of order. We work with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm to create products that satisfy customers and society. Quality Policy Action Guidelines •Eliminate product defects through dedicated attention to detail •Take the entire process into consideration by maintaining the policy of “your next process is the customer” Consideration of technical feasibility Agreement with customer •Proactively suggest improvements ■ Requirement Definition Process Requirement extraction and organization Quality Management Promotion Anritsu develops a consistent global framework, from product design and development to production, services Consideration of technical feasibility and maintenance, under ISO9001 international quality management standards for quality assurance. Continuous Product feasibility study improvements are also being made as we effectively implement the PDCA cycle. Creation of requirement definition document The Anritsu Group’s Quality Management Decision-making meeting on order acceptance / Review of requirement definitions The measuring instruments we provide are, in effect, the “mother machines” for the quality management Agreement with customer ordering the product our customers conduct. Our products must therefore demonstrate unwavering high quality. As with our Clarification of tasks to be undertaken by each team involved in the order measuring instruments, the products the Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. and the Anritsu Group supply are Creation of technical cost estimate manufactured under stringent quality controls under the ISO 9001 quality management system. Ensuring product Various Technical Supports quality also requires upholding the quality management Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. provides customers with a wide of our quantitative standards, such as length and mass. range of technical support, from product delivery and Under a traceability framework compatible with national installation to system equipment and repair functions. The standards, the Anritsu Group regularly inspects and technical support contact point responds within a single calibrates the measuring instruments we use for to maintain business day to inquiries on all types of equipment via our high standards. mail and phone. Our actions reflect our desire to support customer operations by maximizing equipment and systems functions. ■ Technical Supports Training ●SE training ●Maintenance training ISO 9001 management system certificates ● Environmental design and Maintenance Configuration setting service service ● On-site adjustment service ●Return service Maintenance support ●On-site service ●Technical support service Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 20 Solutions for Social Issues Basic Concept access to a rich variety of applications anytime and anywhere. Smartphone shipments have grown every year, and are expected Anritsu seeks to skillfully apply its highly advanced to reach around 1.5 billion units by 2017. technology to solve social issues in partnership with our As a result, the production of communication modules that customers and achieve our goal of creating value that is control smartphone functions also continues to expand, uniquely Anritsu. challenging manufacturers to enhance production efficiency. To meet this challenge, Anritsu developed the MT8870A Receives World's First Test Case Approval for its universal wireless test set, which can be used to simultaneously System Meeting the LTE-Advanced Standard test up to 16 types of communication modules. We will soon enter a phase in which smartphones spread to The global proliferation of smartphones and tablet devices emerging countries and become part of the infrastructure has led to an explosive rise in mobile data traffic. To provide for creating prosperous lifestyles. Anritsu will continue to users with a more reliable communications environment, focus on delivering measurement solutions that support the carriers worldwide are focusing on introducing a high-speed global popularity of smartphones. version of LTE (Long Term Evolution) called LTE-Advanced, Others Others China 350 China 570(38%) 460 and service is set to begin in North America in 2013. (38%) 300(33%) (30%) Commercial development of LTE-Advanced terminals to be used in North America requires RF conformance tests based 2013 2017 on a format certified by the PTCRB*, which is responsible for About 900 About 1500 Millions Millions formulating testing standards, to objectively validate that USA 140(15%) USA 180 terminals conform with international quality standards. India India (12%) United Kingdom Anritsu has consistently led the competition in achieving 28(3%) 35(4%) 160 (10%) United Kingdom 48(3%) test case validations for 3G/LTE conformance testing, Japan Brazil Japan Brazil thereby fostering their commercial development. 29(3%) 35(4%) 66(4%) 38(3%) Moreover, Anritsu has utilized the technology it developed Forecast for smartphone shipments, by region working on LTE and LTE-Advanced to become the first in the (Source: IDC) industry to obtain PTCRB approval. Mobile communications systems bring greater comfort and Recognized as Top Global Test and Measurement convenience to our daily lives and businesses, and there is an Company of 2012 urgent need to construct high-speed mobile communications systems that can cope with the rapid rise in mobile data Anritsu received the “2012 Global Test & Measurement traffic. Company of the Year Award” from Frost & Sullivan (head office: Anritsu will therefore continue to vigorously support the United States; hereafter “F&S”). F&S is a global market research development of both LTE-Advanced and LTE. and marketing company that provides research, analysis and consulting services for diverse industries. It presents the “Frost Research and Development and Sullivan Global Company of the Year Award” to spotlight Interoperability testing/Application development/ companies that demonstrate outstanding growth potential. Conformance testing/Carrier acceptance testing F&S selected Anritsu for the 2012 award in recognition of our growth strategy and market leadership. <Key Aspects Recognized by F&S> -In addition to forging solid partnerships with customers and ME7873L offering product development and proposal capabilities that respond to market needs, Anritsu notably outperformed key Mass production competitors in providing test solutions for the LTE market. Construction and maintenance of base stations Ensuring conformance for LTE-Advanced, the next-generation high-speed mobile -Anritsu demonstrated outstanding performance in the communications system mobile segment, including products such as the MT8820C *Personal Communication Service Type Certification Review Board: Radio Communication Analyzer, a one-box tester for The organization that formulates network operations and testing standards for the certification of mobile terminals. developing and manufacturing terminals; the MD8430A/ MD8475A signaling testers used as base station simulators Supporting the Efficient Production of Smartphone for diverse mobile communications Communication Modules systems; and the Spectrum Master MS272xC series and Site Master Palm-sized smartphones are equipped with functions for S331D—handheld measuring communicating by voice; accessing the Internet; downloading instruments used in the construction movies, video and music; and playing games, giving users and maintenance of base stations. Frost&Sullivan Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 21 Solutions for Social Issues Easing the Transition—Switching TV Broadcasting Rebuilding Iwate Prefecture’s Fisheries Industry from Tokyo Tower to Tokyo Skytree Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. supplies contaminant Tokyo Tower had been broadcasting television signals to the detectors and checkweighers that are essential for ensuring Kanto region since 1954. That task, however, was transferred the quality of food products and pharmaceuticals. Fishery to Tokyo Skytree on May 31, 2013 to ensure a more stable and food processing is the core industry of the Sanriku transmission from a greater height. region, and its reconstruction has become a key element For areas with poor audiovisual reception prior to this for reestablishing a foundation for the livelihood of those transition, the level of reception was analyzed using test affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011. As signals (CW signals, or continuous wave signals) transmitted part of this effort, Iwate Prefecture introduced a program for from Tokyo Skytree. Various handheld measuring instruments lending equipment at no cost to operators of food processing made by Anritsu, including the Spectrum Master MS2711E, businesses affected by the earthquake. Originally launched in were adopted for this project to measure reception quality the cities of Kamaishi, Otsuchi and Ofunato, the program was and signal strength. expanded to areas along the Sanriku region’s entire coastline in August 2012 due to popular demand. Anritsu Industrial Solutions has assisted the program by lending 12 metal detectors and checkweighers free of charge, which are still in use today. On October 26, 2012, the governor of Iwate Prefecture Transfer of airwave transmissions presented a certificate of gratitude Tokyo to Anritsu in recognition of its Skytree efforts. KD8013AW Tokyo Tower MS2711E Handheld measuring instrument adopted to ease the transfer of television signal transmission from Tokyo Tower to Tokyo Skytree Certificate of gratitude from the governor of Iwate Prefecture Detecting Missing Products to Ensure the Joy of Eating Contributions in the Energy, Industry and Medical X-ray inspection systems used at food processing plants are Services Sectors capable of detecting metal as well as bone, stone, glass and other contaminants, and the market for these instruments Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. manufactures key semiconductor has grown every year. Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. devices used in advanced information communications also strives to meet other customer needs beyond detecting equipment and sophisticated medical equipment. contaminants, including detecting missing products. For We strive to meet the social needs of the next-generation example, several types of entrees and side dish items are optical network by offering high-output, high-efficiency packed into boxed meals and delivered to facilities for the Pump Laser modules used in fiber optical amplifiers (erbium elderly. Anritsu Industrial Solutions developed an X-ray doped fiber amplifiers, or EDFAs) as our core product, as well inspection system that can detect if products in these meals as gain chips for wavelength-tunable light sources (ITLAs). are missing, ensuring the delivery of complete meals and We also provide position sensors for microencoders, current helping to bring smiles to the table. sensors used at plants, and superluminescent diodes (SLDs), which are attracting attention for use as incoherent light sources in optical coherent tomography (OCT) as applied in medicine. We intend to contribute in the areas of energy and medical services through these products. Areas highlighted in yellow We also handle light signify missing items sources for gas sensors and high-speed The display indicates that pickles are devices. missing from the boxed meal Manufacturing process for devices Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 22 Solutions for Social Issues Supporting the Installation and Upgrading of Helping Create a 3D Map of the Milky Way Remote Monitoring Equipment Systems for a Growing Range of Purposes The National Astronomical Observatory of Japan’s VERA Project is designed to create an accurate three-dimensional Local governments and government agencies use remote map of the Milky Way. This grand project seeks to unravel monitoring systems for waterworks and road networks. The the structure and evolution of our galaxy. Four observation areas that require such monitoring have recently expanded, posts equipped with 20-meter antennas (in Oshu City, Iwate driving demand for new installations as well as for remote Prefecture; Ogasawara Village, Tokyo; Satsumasendai City, monitor and control equipments that support the integration Kagoshima Prefecture; and Ishigaki City, Okinawa Prefecture) and stable operation of communications lines used by sync up to create a super-giant radio telescope with a existing equipment. In addition, railway companies, electric diameter of 2,300 kilometers capable of probing the distant power companies and gas companies are placing higher edges of the Milky Way. Each observation post receives a priority on monitoring facilities from the standpoint of safety signal from the same radio star. We can accurately calculate and security, requiring the use of more remote monitoring the distance to the radio star and its momentum using the systems in these sectors as well. difference in the times the signal was received at each post. In view of this market environment, Anritsu Networks Co., Since the difference in time between the posts is miniscule, Ltd. has expanded its lineup of remote monitor and control however, the project requires a “clock” that can measure time equipments. During fiscal 2012 we developed the NH3000 with extreme precision. This is where Anritsu’s hydrogen series, which is ideal for constructing largeand mediummaser atomic clock comes in. The VERA Project adopted our scale remote monitoring systems; the NH2500 series, which clock because it deviates by less than one second every 30 is best suited for constructing small-scale systems; and the million years. On October 5, 2012, a ceremony was held in NH6000 series, which can easily integrate standalone control Oshu City to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the day units. Customers can construct or upgrade the ideal remote observations began. Anritsu received a certificate of gratitude monitoring systems for their specific purposes and budgets. from the National Astronomical Observatory in recognition of its role in the project. Anritsu’s hydrogen maser atomic clock ■ Remote monitoring systems for urban functions is helping researchers to develop new theories about the Milky Way, which remains shrouded in mystery. Stable supply of electricity and water Remote monitoring of public transit networks Anritsu’s remote monitor and control equipment guards the safety and security of infrastructures that sustain our daily lives NH3001A Remote monitor and control equipment installed at the intake point VERA NH2501A Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 23 Response to Social Expectations Basic Concept Anritsu gives priority to proactively responding to global social expectations through its business activities. Agree to the Global Compact Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and has linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Global Compact (GC) and Related Activities Anritsu's CSR activities during fiscal year 2012 relate to the ten principles of the Global Compact. The United Nation's Global Compact Office has selected Anritsu CSR Report 2007 as one that matches their Notable COP (Communication on Progress) policies. The Ten Global Compac t Principles Anritsu's Major Ac tions in Fiscal Year 2012 Related Pages •The Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, which reflects the spirit of the Global Compact, now serves as the basis of our group activities. • We began applying the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct to our activities Anritsu Group Char ter of on a global scale. Promoting compliance, Anritsu Corp. and the Group Corporate Behavior companies made efforts to prevent violations and to establish more Overall Applying the ten GC principles Anritsu Group Code of Conduct pleasant workplaces by (1) familiarizing employees with Anritsu Code Establishment of Compliance of Conduct; (2) promoting groupwide education, including training by organizational levels; (3) avoiding risks on ethical matters via questionnaire survey; and (4)preventing violation of ethics rules via help-lines inside and outside the company. • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted activities to secure Labor Safet y and Health Businesses should suppor t workplace safet y and health. Principle and respect the protection of 1 internationally proclaimed • We included a clear statement on protecting human rights in the CSR human rights; and Procurement Guidelines intended for suppliers and par tners, and Supply Chain Management requested their compliance. Human Rights • Anr i t su Cor p. and the Gr oup Comp any sur v e y e d the ac tual s t atus o f har assment to emplo y e e b y e thic s que s tionnair e. Establishment of Compliance make sure that they are not • We op ene d an e x ter nal helpline to addr e ss har assment and o ther Principle complicit in human rights compliance issue s . 2 abuses. • Anr i t su Cor p. r e que s te d that i t s supplier s and p ar tner s no t b e Supply Chain Management complici t in human r ight s abus e s Businesses should uphold the freedom of association • B as e d on emplo y e e s' r e que s t s , and in or der to impr o v e w or kli f e Principle Respect for Human Rights and and the ef fective recognition b alance , Anr i t su Cor p. and the Gr oup Comp anie s continue d to 3 Promotion of Diversit y of the right to collective impr o v e lab or condi tions . bargaining; • We s ought to e s t ablish the Char ter o f Cor p or ate B ehav ior and Anritsu Group Char ter of the elimination of all forms Principle Co de o f Conduc t w or ldw ide. Corporate Behavior of forced and compulsor y 4 • Anr i t su Cor p. r e que s te d that i t s supplier s and p ar tner s no t b e Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Labor labour; complici t in f or ce d and compuls or y lab or. Supply Chain Management Standards • We sought to establish the Char ter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Anritsu Group Char ter of Principle the ef fective abolition of child Conduct worldwide. Corporate Behavior 5 labour; and • Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and par tners not be complicit Anritsu Group Code of Conduct in child labor. Supply Chain Management the elimination of Principle • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted employment across Respect for Human Rights and discrimination in respect of 6 borders. Promotion of Diversit y employment and occupation. • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted Eco-Factor y and Eco O f f ice and Eco Fac tor y Businesses should suppor t a Eco-Of f ice activities. Principle precautionar y approach to 7 environmental challenges; • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies in Japan continued Environmental Accounting environmental accounting. (f iscal 2012) Eco-Management and Eco• Anritsu committed to Eco-Management. Mind undertake initiatives Principle Environment to promote greater 8 Eco-Management and Ecoenvironmental • Anritsu promoted activities of Eco-Minded Employees. Mind responsibility, and; • Anritsu continued its ef for ts to prevent of global warming. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory encourage the development Principle and diffusion of • Anritsu Group in Japan promoted development of environmentally Eco-Products Development 9 environmentally friendly conscious products. technologies. • Established the Anritsu Group Guidelines on Prevention of Ex tor tion and Briber y. Establishment of Compliance Businesses should work • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies in Japan circulated case study AntiPrinciple against corruption in all its sheets on anticorruption measures to educate employees. Corruption 10 forms, including ex tor tion and briber y. • Provided clear information about our prohibition of transactions with antisocial forces in “Requests,” which is given to suppliers and Supply Chain Management par tners, and sought to reinforce their awareness of this issue. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 24 Goal 2 Establishment of Compliance Basic Concept By promoting sound and fair corporate behavior that addresses social concerns beyond basic adherence to ethical standards, laws and regulations, Anritsu continually advances key measures for strengthening its Ethics/Compliance Promotion system and to enhancing ethical awareness among employees. We believe it is important to develop a deep awareness of our corporate social responsibility, comply with laws and regulations in all aspects of our corporate activity, and act according to social ethics. Compliance Promotion System President CSR Promotion Committee (Secretariat: CSR Promotion Team) Executive officer in charge of compliance Each executive officer in charge Corporate Ethics Anritsu Group Promotion Committee Various committees Support Cooperation companies outside • Security trade control • Information security Japan Helpline Workplace Legal Department • Fair trade promotion Support Private E-mail Helpline • Environmental management and others Hotline, Industrial Complaint box counselor Outside Lawyer Notice/ Guidance/ Notice/ Guidance/ consultation direction Global Audit Department consultation direction Helpline of Group companies Anritsu Group companies Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and Ongoing Improvement Activities (annual) The Anritsu Group in Japan set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee under its compliance promotion system. The committee's membership consists of representatives from individual departments related to corporate ethics and from Group companies. It plans, supports and implements Group compliance activities, and its major responsibilities include the review and analysis of responses to the corporate ethics survey conducted during Corporate Ethics Month (October), followed by a oneyear development cycle for an annual action program and implementation monitoring as well as the assessment of compliance outcomes based on the survey to ensure continuous improvement. Compliance Promotion Activities Corporation Ethics Promotion Committee Composition Departments April: Human Resource CSR Reinforcement Week and • Message from the president Administration Management • Education and awareness-raising Information System activities in each division Representatives from group companies Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reporting on annual plan, development of Audit Compliance Reinforcement Week plan) Sales Implementation of the Compliance Administration Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance Corporate Ethics Promotion Activity Program Promotion Committee Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reviewing progress of annual plan, Corporate Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee planning Corporate Ethics Month) Communication (Compilation/analysis of the questionnaire) Procurement October: CSR Promotion Month Legal • Ethics questionnaire Accounting • Lecture meeting • Group training Trade Control Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 25 Establishment of Compliance Compliance Promotion Activities Guidelines on Preventing Extortion and Bribery / Publication of Case Study Sheets Two Events We Promote Guidelines on Preventing Extortion and Bribery During the Anritsu’s CSR Reinforcement Week in early Bribery is a serious issue throughout the world. Particularly April and CSR Promotion Month in October, Anritsu holds stringent bribery laws have been enacted in the United workshops and events, including lectures by invited speakers, States and the United Kingdom. These laws are not limited training, and specialized instruction by the department to incidents within the respective countries but extend to participating in the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee. incidents that occur outside them as well. Extortion and The company also conducts an ethics survey for Anritsu bribery represent major compliance risks for the Anritsu employees, temporary workers, and other staff in Japan. Group, which conducts business on a global scale, and we are ・Training by organizational level (e.g.,new recruits, newly therefore working on preventive measures. promoted managers) While the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct already prohibits ・Individual/specialized training by separate committee or department extortion and bribery, we sought to more firmly uphold this ・Lecture meeting with invited external speakers (once or twice a year) prohibition throughout the group in Japan and overseas by ・Lending and showing of videos or DVDs establishing the Anritsu Group Guidelines on Prevention of Extortion and Bribery in April 2012. We also conduct training in how to prevent bribery for staff working in sales divisions in Japan who are at high risk of encountering such situations. Case Study Sheets Every month, Anritsu Group in Japan selects concrete Group training Lecture meeting with experts cases that have actually occurred or could occur, under The survey targets regular employees and temporary staff of the two themes of daily life and business, and publishes the Anritsu Group in Japan—as well as employees of partners, these as Case Study Sheets that include concise advice and suppliers, and other staff—to confirm the effectiveness explanation. Sheets are posted on our intranet and as a of compliance promotion activities and identify areas for printed poster. The sheets are used as educational tools of improvement in individual organizational units. Analysis, individual organizational units. A total of 146 cases have examination and deliberation over the questionnaire been published as of March 2013. results are fed back to the management of the individual organizational units to be used in drawing up future compliance promotion activity programs and other actions. Compliance Situation of the Antimonopoly Law and Internal Audit To confirm the conduct of fair and free sales activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan conducts internal audits of the activity status and order intake/sales process of the sales departments (including local bases) once a year. In conjunction with the internal audit, we also conduct compliance training (Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade; Act against Delay in Payment, etc. to Subcontractors; export controls; etc.) Helpline To prevent violations of ethics and laws and maintain pleasant workplace conditions, Anritsu Group Companies in Japan operate the Helpline, which accepts internal reports and requests for consultation. Lawyers are available from outside the company for employees to consult for legal advice. In addition, Legal Consultation Days (twice a month) are held to provide legal consultation on internal problems as well as any other topics affecting the lives of employees. Furthermore, in October 2012 we began running our Workplace Helpline, assigning its operation to a third party so that consultation is provided by industrial counselors rather than employees within the Anritsu Group. The Workplace Helpline maintains strict rules of confidentiality and accepts requests for consultation outside office hours—including on holidays—as well as in English (on designated days), giving employees better access to the service. Reports and requests from employees within the Anritsu Group (confidential) I nquiry counter for Feedback group companies Superior or colleague Helpline outside the company Helpline inside the company Internal line Emergency Workplace Helpline Complaint Interoffice mail Outside Lawyer Private E-mail Hotline box Direct visit Cooperation Information card promoting Related Department the Workplace Helpline Legal department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Exective officer in charge of compliance President Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 Flow of the Helpline 26 Promotion of Risk Management Basic Concept Koriyama Second Business Office Commences Operations Anritsu has identified seven major risk categories: (1) management decision-making and business operations; Operations have commenced at the Koriyama Second (2) legal violations; (3) environmental preservation; Business Office, which serves as the mother factory that (4) quality of product and service; (5) import/export consolidates the Anritsu Group’s automated assembly management; (6) information security, and; (7) disasters. For processes for printed circuit boards. We plan to expand each category, a chief administrator has been assigned to production in Fukushima with several goals in mind. In carry out analysis and evaluation while establishing rules addition to supporting the reconstruction effort in a region and guidelines. This administrator also conducts education severely affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and training to raise the level of risk management and we hope to shorten delivery times through an organized ensure ongoing business development. logistics network and to consolidate core technologies in Japan. Anritsu Enhancing Corporate Value through Internal products will be Controls shipped from the To h o k u r e g i o n Basic Concept and Policies fo r d e l i v e r y t o Anritsu believes its global business development depends customers around upon effectively controlling factors that could inhibit the the world. attainment of its goals and transforming risks into a source of competitive advantage. To this end, we will further reinforce Koriyama Second Business Office the collaborative relationships established with Group companies in and outside of Japan through the process of Information Security Management improving our internal control system. We will also upgrade our risk management to enhance corporate value. Basic Concept Anritsu is making a continuous effort to maintain and Promotion/Management System enhance information security through its information security Anritsu has established basic internal control system management system. regulations and set up an Internal Control Committee, chaired by an executive officer appointed by the President, to oversee Management System (Information Security Management) the overall improvement and operation of internal controls Anritsu’s management system is overseen by the Information concerning the financial reporting of Anritsu and Group Management Committee, which consists of key executive companies. Furthermore, the Global Audit Department, officers from each business division and Group company. Two our internal audit division, is in charge of promoting risk subcommittees—the Information Security Subcommittee, management through business audits. comprised of representatives from business divisions in Japan, and the Global Security Committee, whose members Specific Activities and Topics in Fiscal 2012 include representatives of IT departments at overseas Group I n fiscal 2012, we conduc ted training sessions for companies—report to the Information Management Committee. management-level employees (department and section The Information Management Committee formulates heads) at all Group companies in Japan as part of our groupbasic policies on information management for the entire wide effort to reinforce enterprise risk management. We Group, and the Information Security Subcommittee and also sought to strengthen our position against material the Global Security Committee develop annual action risks, including compliance through such actions as holding plans and concrete measures. The plans these high-level discussions at the head office sales department to talk bodies formulate are implemented through the actions of through practical risks related to business. each department. Anritsu uses this management system to Strategic improvements were implemented against potential oversee its annual PDCA cycle. risks identified during the evaluation process. An external Information Management Committee auditor therefore concluded that the Anritsu Group’s Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Information Security Administration (Formulate policy for the entire Group) (Management Information System Dept.) internal controls for the fiscal year ended March 2012 were as effective as in the previous year. This evaluation was Imformation Security Subcommittee Global Security Committee based on the group-wide corporate philosophy and ethics, (Formulate and promote measures (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the entire Group in Japan) and plans for overseas Group companies) control of accounting policy and procedures, and control of IT infrastructure and business processes related to financial Business Divisions in Japan Divisions at Group companies in Japan reporting. (Manage and implement measures, etc.) Internal Audit (Internal Audit Committee and Global Audit Dept.) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 27 Promotion of Risk Management Major Activities in Fiscal 2012 Education for New Employees and Others Risk Assessment Related to Information Security We provide onsite security education on an as-needed basis and Countermeasure Development for new employees, mid-career employees, onsite workers The ongoing evolution of business and IT environments and temporary staff. means the nature of threats to IT systems are also continually changing. We therefore conduct an annual risk assessment ・Education for Employees in the Asian Region to address changes in the risks we face. In fiscal 2012, we We conducted security education for employees at sales took action to address risks in the following two areas: offices in the Asian region. The region, however, consists of ten offices scattered across seven countries, making it ・Response to Targeted Cyber Attacks (risk due to changes difficult to provide thorough education on such issues as in the external environment) security. Increased IT investments in this region have further The frequency of cyber attacks targeting classified corporate elevated the importance of security issues, and we therefore and personal information has increased around the world, commenced an initiative throughout the region in fiscal causing information leaks and other damage. In fiscal 2012 to provide regular education. 2011, Anritsu hired a specialized vendor to conduct a risk assessment, which revealed several vulnerabilities related Response to BCP to accessing the Internet from inside the company. In We had been consolidating our key servers at our Osaka fiscal 2012, we addressed this problem by installing a filter Data Center since FY2011 under our BCP. We completed that limits access to Web content and an Internet access the transfer in July 2012, and conducted recovery training restriction tool that prevents communication with illicit in October. We developed a scenario for the training, external servers. These measures significantly reduced the implemented recovery operations according to instructions risks of intrusion by illicit programs via our website and in the recovery manual, and assessed the validity of the information leaks to illicit external servers. manual and the targeted time for recovery. We corrected problems that emerged in the process, and will continue to ・Construction of Site for Managing Material Information (risk take the necessary actions to ensure secure recovery. due to changes in the internal environment) Until recently, we were storing material information on file Japanese locations Overseas locations servers and protecting against leaks by designating access RAS rights. However, some aspects of security—such as the Remite Access management of those access rights and the procedures for IIJ-VPN Internet handling files—had been left up to the users, and we had not reduced risks to acceptable levels. Furthermore, our Weekly Daily Differential copy internal audit had revealed issues with how access rights Differential copy were being managed at a specific department. To address Standby servers Production servers Production servers Standby servers Production servers these vulnerabilities, we constructed a site for managing Differential copy Koriyama Site Atsugi Site Osaka Data Center material information utilizing rights management with file encryption. Several departments are already using the site. As a result, even when a user mistakenly transmits a file outside the company, the content of the encrypted file will remain confidential, thereby minimizing the risk of data leakage. We plan to expand this system across the entire company. Promoting Employee Education Activities ・Officer and Employee Education We conduct annual training activities for officers and employees of Anritsu Group in Japan on security issues using scripted video re-enactments and by holding discussion sessions. In fiscal 2012, we showed a video on targeted cyber-attacks and smartphone security at each division, and followed that with a discussion by division members to deepen our shared awareness of security. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 28 Supply Chain Management Basic Concept Basic Rules for Procurement We believe it is important to strengthen our relations of trust 1. Selection of suppliers and partners with suppliers and partners in our procurement activities Anritsu always keeps the door open to new potential suppliers and partners inside and outside Japan, in a spirit to achieve growth for the entire supply chain. We strive to of fairness and impartiality. Anritsu objectively selects respond to the expectations and demands of society across suppliers and partners based on proper standards focusing the entire supply chain by emphasizing the development of on quality, price, delivery schedules and environmental stronger partnerships through the involvement of suppliers measures. and partners in various ways, as well as through compliance with relevant laws and regulations, business practices and 2. Partnership social norms. Anritsu builds mutually beneficial relationships with all suppliers and partners through sound business practices. Anritsu Basic Rules of Procurement and Requests 3. Compliance and secrecy protection Anritsu conducts business in full compliance with relevant To fulfill its social responsibility in the future, Anritsu laws, and does not disclose information acquired through believes it must develop activities across the supply chain, business with suppliers and partners to any third party including our business partners as well as within the Group. without these suppliers’ and partners’ prior consent. We established Basic Rules of Procurement and transactionrelated requests for suppliers and partners, revised them 4. Activity based on ethical concepts in line with the ever-changing business environment and Personnel involved in procurement keep in mind at all times the importance of performing assignments fairly, sought to better understand our suppliers and partners free of personal interests with suppliers and partners, while through activities such as budget briefings and letters of maintaining sound relationships with these parties. request from executive officers in charge. 5. Considerations of human rights and labor Requests Anritsu respects human rights and promotes industrial hygiene, safety and security, and requests that suppliers and 1.Observance of laws and social norms partners agree to this policy and promote these activities as Obser vance of relevant laws, prohibition of child part of their supply chain operations. Anritsu may reconsider labor, forced labor and cheap labor; and prohibition of relationships with suppliers and partners if their business discrimination and transaction with antisocial forces operations are linked with human rights violations, such as the use of child labor, racial and sexual discrimination, etc. 2.Environmental considerations Furthermore, we will work together with our suppliers and Realization of environmental measures in line with partners regarding non-use of conflict minerals that lead to Anritsu's Green Procurement Guidelines, environmental these human rights issues. requirements, etc. 3.Ensuring good quality, supply at fair prices and 6. Environmental considerations maintenance of delivery schedules Anritsu stipulates Green Procurement Guideline and 4.Preventing leakage of secret information and respect for promotes green procurement by purchasing parts and intellectual property rights materials that have been proven less damaging to the environment. 5.Prompt response to contingencies and timely, appropriate information disclosure Anritsu Group Report on Important Theme: (3) Request investigation “Conflict Minerals as a Human Rights issue” Business Partner A Procurement Division (Japan) (4) Response Related to procurement Sales Division (Japan) within Japan (2) Request (1) Request Customer (Japan) Business Partner B investigation investigation Following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section 1502—the conflict minerals provision of the U.S. Financial Procurement Division (5) Response (6) Response R e fo r m B i l l — A n r i t s u d e c l a re d i t s s u p p o r t a n d b e g a n Business Partner C Related to procurement working with its supply chain to prevent the use of conflict outside (Americas, Europe) Japan minerals in Anritsu products. We also hold briefings for our Business Partner D business partners to prevent any oversights. Share We respond to customer inquiries related to this issue by requesting investigations by business partners in Japan and Share Conflict Minerals Working Group (Secretariat) Share abroad. We also channel this information to the Conflict Accumulation/ Minerals Working Group at our headquarters to accumulate Reference information in a shared database. Shared Database Response to Customers in Japan Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 29 Supply Chain Management Promoting CSR Procurement CSR Procurement Survey Anritsu believes that promoting CSR procurement requires We established our CSR Procurement Guidelines in fiscal a concerted effort with our suppliers and partners. 2010. In conjunction with that, in fiscal 2011 we sent a In fiscal 2010, we sought to give more concrete form to survey to 77 major business partners that supply materials our existing Basic Rules on Procurement by formulating for our Test & Measurement business and received 66 and posting to our website the Anritsu Group Corporate responses, approximately 85% of the total. We also Procurement Guidelines in compliance with the “Supplyrequested the cooperation of 440 other business partners in Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook” published by the JEITA promoting CSR procurement and received letters of consent (Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries from approximately 86% of them. In fiscal 2012, we set up Association). “Direct Delivery” mailboxes in the negotiation rooms of our In fiscal 2012, we created an English-language version of head office and the Koriyama Business Office in an effort to the Corporate Procurement Guidelines, posted them on our promote CSR procurement based on the direct feedback of regional websites, and encouraged suppliers and partners to our partners and survey results. review them. We will continue to strengthen relations of trust with our suppliers Furthermore, to stay abreast of regulatory revisions, including and partners by using such tools as the survey to consistently environmental considerations, we conduct briefings to share support their CSR promotion activities and to ensure that CSR information and provide support to suppliers and partners procurement is practiced in a fair, just and sound manner. in their efforts to promote CSR activities. Efforts on Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) Exhibition of Products Our Partners Make The stable procurement of materials for parts production We held an exhibition at the Anritsu head office featuring lies at the very backbone of any manufacturing company’s products manufactured by sixty of our suppliers and BCP. Even before the Great East Japan Earthquake, Tohoku partners. The exhibition acquainted development engineers Anritsu Co., Ltd., and the Koriyama Business Office of Anritsu at Anritsu with new products and new technologies such Corporation, which serve as the manufacturing base of the as components for wireless communications (for example, Anritsu Group, had recognized the serious risks posed by Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, LTE-Advanced) and optical networks natural disasters such as earthquakes and created a BCP to (40/100G), as well as general-purpose electric parts, optical deal with them. The BCP is clearly set out concrete steps for parts and components that ensure electromagnetic each process in the event of a disaster. compatibility (EMC). With the cooperation of our partners, we also created a database on the status of bases owned by business partners to immediately identify and minimize any risks following a disaster, and constructed a system to facilitate the inhouse sharing of this information. We plan to improve and reinforce this system to incorporate the entire supply chain into the database, which we will utilize to ensure that the Introducing new products and technologies supply chain recovers quickly in the event of a disaster and to support partners affected by such events. Col umn TDK-Lambda Corporation Deputy Senior Manager, East Japan Sales Department 1, Domestic Sales Division Shigeya Mochihara For nearly forty years, TDK-Lambda has been doing business with the Anritsu Group in the areas of switching power supplies and noise filters. We stand in complete agreement with the CSR Procurement Guidelines established under the Anritsu company philosophy and the company’s CSR efforts, and intend to actively participate as a business partner that contributes to society in a variety of ways. Looking ahead, we will steadily implement improvements and changes we can undertake on our own, while bringing greater reliability and strength to those we work in concert with the Anritsu Group as part of our QU activities to forge an even more powerful partnership with Anritsu. We will maintain our efforts to earn customer trust alongside Anritsu products. Overseas Topic (Global Supply Chain Committee) Anritsu maintains three main development locations in the United States, Europe and Japan. Parts have been procured through an approval process using assessment criteria established at each location. Consequently, the selection of the same part can involve a time-consuming approval process based on different criteria. To eliminate this inefficiency, Anritsu is establishing a globally unified set of assessment criteria with the approval of each location to optimize the mutual use of the supply chain. We intend to promote parts procurement through global collaboration. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 30 Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity Basic Concept Employee Data: Group companies in Japan Employee Data of Group companies in Japan as of the End of March Given the rapid evolution of business worldwide, we believe (eg., data for fiscal 2012 is as of March 31, 2013) it is important to attract a diverse workforce in terms of FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 nationality, gender, age and views on work. This enables us Total No. of employees of to develop systems and programs that allow every individual Group companies in Japan 2,240 2,206 2,194 to demonstrate their strengths based on their lifestyles, and Male 1,952 1,927 1,900 to provide safe, secure and comfortable working conditions. Female 288 279 294 Human Rights Training and Plan Foreign nationals 20 16 24 To cultivate sensitivity for human rights among Anritsu Non-regular employee 376 463 625 employees, we incorporated experiential learning— Average age 40.3 41.5 41.5 such as using a wheelchair or simulating the experience Average working years 18.5 18.6 18.1 of elderly persons—into the human rights portion of our new employee education program. The training was Ratio of Employees with Disabilities 1.98 2.25 1.95 conducted in cooperation with the Aozora Voluntary Group (non-consolidated) % for the Promotion of Social Welfare Education based in Ratio of Employees with Atsugi City. We also implemented a number of activities Disabilities 1.50 1.56 1.62 like organizational level training to foster an awareness of ( The Anritsu Group in Japan) % human rights within and outside the company on issues that Planned ratio (Reference) 1.80 1.80 1.80 require constant vigilance, such as discrimination against minority groups, sexual harassment and abuse of power in the workplace, and to improve communication. To emphasize human rights throughout the supply chain, Employee Data: Anritsu Corporation the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guidelines contain articles Anritsu Corporation Employee Data as of the End of March calling for the abolition of forced labor and prohibition of (eg., data for fiscal 2012 is as of March 31, 2013) inhuman treatment, child labor and discrimination. FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 No. of 719 711 711 712 Creating Jobs for People with Disabilities employees: Male （171） （165） （176） （174） Figures in parentheses While the employment ratio of people with disabilities for refer to Female 112（5） 114（4） 113（4） 119（4） number of fiscal 2012 (as of December 2012) declined from the previous managers 831 825 824 831 year to 1.95%, we were still able to meet legal mandates. included in Total （176） （169） （180） （178） total count However, the legally mandated employment ratio was raised to 2.0% as of April 1, 2013. To meet this higher requirement, Male 40.1 41 41.4 41.7 we will continue our recruitment efforts and workplace Average age Female 35.8 36.4 37.1 37.3 improvements while establishing greater cooperation for Total 39.5 40.3 40.9 41.0 people with disabilities and expanding the range of available jobs so they can better apply their strengths. Male 16.4 17.4 17.5 17.6 Average working Female 13.3 13.8 14.4 14.5 As of the end of December years Total 15.9 16.9 17.1 17.1 2009/12 2010/12 2011/12 2012/12 Annual rated working hours 1,860.00 1,875.50 1,875.50 1,860.00 Planned ratio 1.80% 1.80% 1. 80% 1. 80% (non-consolidated) Average days of paid Actual ratio 11.2 14.6 15.6 14.2 1.76% 1.98% 2. 25% 1.95% holidays used per year (non-consolidated) No. of employees who Ref: Actual ratio 11 6 9 8 1.37% 1.50% 1.56% 1.61% took paid childcare leave (in Japan, consolidated) No. of No. of employees eligible 16 19 18 19 whose employees employment has been ex tended No. of beyond normal employees retirement age over 5 11 15 14 (for hiring retirement employees over age hired retirement age) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 31 Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity Diversity Balancing Work and Family Anritsu emphasizes the creation of a safe, secure and Anritsu Corporation is preparing the third stage of its comfortable workplace environment in which employees three-year plan (see chart below) and taking the necessary can enrich their lives and develop their careers. measures to advance employees’ work-life balance. In fiscal In regard to supporting women in their career development, 2012, for example, we placed greater emphasis on the user’s we are proactively working to establish a workplace perspective by conducting a survey of employees who had environment that supports balancing work and childcare. taken advantage of related programs. We also widened the This includes providing programs for paid leave, maternity eligibility for shorter schedules for working parents (now for leave and reinstatement, both before and after childbirth employees with children in the sixth grade and under), and and during childrearing. To ensure that employees applying introduced a new program for subsidizing the cost of using for these programs can balance work and family with greater family support centers. We will continue to promote such peace of mind—regardless of gender—we disseminate initiatives in fiscal 2013. information companywide to establish familiarity with Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child Welfare 3rd Stage the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015) understanding. Objec tives Measures Allow men and women employees Enhance child-raising leave program, to take leave for child-raising with widened the eligibility for shorter Worldwide Percentages of Female Employees greater peace of mind. schedules for working parents, etc. Reinforce system to help parent Subsidize child-raising service Asia employees with temporary child-raising charges at a family support center run Japan Americas EMEA and Total service charges. by a local government. Others Enhance understanding among Launch website on programs that Percentages FY2012 17% 31% 25% 31% 22% employees that we support greater worksupport child-raising and achieving of female family balance in child-raising. work-life balance, etc. employees (No. of female employees / Total FY2011 14% 31% 26% 27% 23% employees) Global Recruiting Actions Percentages of female FY2012 8% 59% 82% 57% 45% managers to Borderless Recruiting male Managers ((No. of female Anritsu Corporation and Group companies in Japan conduct managers/ recruitment activities regardless of nationality through such No. of female employees)/ means as participating in recruiting fairs* held by universities (No. of male FY2011 14% 59% 60% 54% 48% managers/ outside Japan and employing foreign students in Japanese No. of male universities. As of the end of March 2013, 28 Anritsu Group employees)) employees of foreign nationality are working in Japan. In addition, four foreign nationals hired in Japan are currently Employee Support Program in America stationed overseas. The Wellness Program for employees that the Anritsu * Forums for information exchange and mutual understanding between job Company (U.S.A.) offers includes Bike to Work Days, hiking applicants and employers and marathons. These programs not only improve the health of employees through participation and physical exercise, but also enliven Revitalizing Employee Communications communication among them. Anritsu conducts an employee satisfaction survey to determine how well employees understand the company’s •Bike to Work Day direction and systems, the effectiveness of workplace •Hiking in the state park communications and the level of job satisfaction. •Half-marathons and other events In fiscal 2011, surveys were conducted in the Americas and Japan. The identification of issues as well as the development and implementation of improvement programs are currently underway in each region. Beyond these surveys, President Hashimoto directly communicates with all Group employees through “Hashimoto's Room,” a content-rich site in which he regularly Bike to Work Day Hiking in the state park comments on issues directly related to management as well as general topics of the day. In addition, the president presents awards to employees while visiting their job sites as a way to revitalize communication between management and employees. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 32 Human Resource Development Basic Concept Global Human Resource Development Anritsu believes in the importance of being an organization Anritsu is working to expand its business overseas, primarily in which employees feel they are contributing to society in the area of test and measurement. Developing human and growing while being vibrant and actively achieving the resources capable of leading these overseas businesses company’s goals. With this belief, we constantly strive to represents a key challenge for achieving growth in the create a workplace in which employees can grow through coming years. their work. We think it is particularly important to raise the level of language proficiency as the foundation for developing global human resources. Education/Training System With respect to language proficiency, we offer group and private lessons in English conversation taught by trainers Anritsu Corporation focuses on on-the-job training as a who are native speakers of the language, and many framework for supporting every employee in identifying the employees are working hard at self-improvement every day. areas of work that are in line with their individual interests We will be focusing on providing education and training and developing the skills that enable them to realize their to develop global human resources, including lessons in aspirations. Programs that are shared among all Anritsu languages other than English and training sessions to help Group companies in Japan include new recruit orientation, our employees understand different cultures. training by organizational level, correspondence courses and language studies, which all support the professional development of every Group employee. Development of Specialized Training core human resources by Job Style Others Manager Technical Training Self-development support Global Leader Development Electricity and electronics / Correspondence course/ Program/Management Optical technology /Signal E-learning/Foreign training/Training newly processing/FPGA/Communic conversation English Conversation Class assigned managers ations and networks/Project management/Production and quality/Process Career development support Middle Management/leader Management training/ improvement/Intellectual property Career design training/Life plan training/Self-assessment Global Training for the Test & Measurement Business Leadership training system/Open recruitment within the company Sales training New recruit We held our 2012 Global Training session at headquarters New recruit follow-up Business etiquette/Sales Global human resource training/New recruit practice/Legal affairs/ development for about two weeks in April. Each year, sales engineers Response to customers/ training marketing/Product Global employee exchange working in the Test & Measurement business at Anritsu’s sites knowledge/Sales program/Cross-cultural management communication outside Japan gather to exchange information on market trends as well as the latest news on major customers and Anritsu strategy, and to learn about products by attending Education and Training in Fiscal 2012 lectures and operating the actual equipment. Approximately eighty engineers working in the wireless and wired areas In fiscal 2012, we revised the training content for mid-career participated in the training, with the support of about forty employees. The objective is to develop the mindset needed employees serving as trainers. to become valued staff members who can achieve more as leaders in the workplace and as team members, as evaluated from the perspectives of five primary roles that mid-career employees are expected to take in their mid-thirties. We held an overnight seminar for new employees to teach them the basics of business through the keywords “contribution” and “study.” They were divided into groups to tackle problems, which strengthened their sense of solidarity, while the experience of overcoming obstacles gave them the confidence to take their first step forward as mature members of society. Wired Training Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 33 Labor Safety and Health Basic Concept Labor Accident Our Charter of Corporate Behavior calls for “Respect for As in the previous fiscal year, no accidents leading to absence employees.” Anritsu believes that in order to enable every from work were reported in the Anritsu Group in Japan during employee to fully achieve their potential, it is important to secure fiscal year 2012. At the end of March 2013, Anritsu Corporation employee safety and health and to create an ideal workplace. in Atsugi reached a record of 14.04 million labor-hours without any accidents, and as of the publication of this report, the record Safety and Health, Health Management System of no accident performance continues. The Anritsu Group in Japan established a safety and Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries (per million hours) health management system that complies with Japan’s 2.00 Occupational Safety and Health Act. Industrial health staff, 1.59 1.50 led by industrial physicians and counselors assigned to the 1.00 1.00 Health Management Center, provide support services to 0.97 0.50 maintain the health of group employees. 0.39 0.00 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Major Efforts for Safety and Health, Health Management All industries, Manufacturing industry, and Electric All industries Anritsu machinery and apparatus industry: injuries that required more than four days of lost worktime; Manufacturing industry Anritsu group Anritsu: injuries that required more than one day Electric machinery and apparatus industry ∙Having the Safety and Health Committee review activity of lost worktime status and formulate plans to prevent employees from accidents Seminars and Lectures in Anritsu ∙Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating or changing equipment, or In fiscal 2012, four commuting accidents occurred in the Anritsu when purchasing chemical materials Group in Japan, a decrease from the five incidents in fiscal 2011. ∙Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through As in the previous year, however, sporadic accidents occurred training at different organizational levels, and providing while commuting by bicycle. In view of the prevailing public training on specific issues such as risk assessment trend toward requiring bike riders to comply with traffic rules, ∙Providing safe, secure and comfortable workplaces by we developed training programs aimed at preventing accidents, assessing working environments and conducting periodic such as traffic safety seminars, in cooperation with the Atsugi inspections Police Department. These programs focus on traffic laws and ∙Conducting health checkups—initial, periodic, special, and measures to prevent accidents specifically for bicycle riders. for expatriates, as well as follow-up examinations Meanwhile, the ratio of abnormalities found in regular health ∙Screening through questionnaire and industrial physician checkups for Group employees in Japan continues to steadily interviews to those who work extended hours to prevent increase in line with the national trend, centered on lifestyleimpaired health related categories such as liver function and fats. In fiscal ∙Raising health awareness through lectures by industrial 2012, our industrial health staff offered guidance for individual physicians, for example, on preventing lifestyle diseases employees based on health checkup results. We also promoted ∙Mental healthcare education and counseling for managers health education opportunities, such as lectures by industrial physicians on preventing lifestyle diseases. Safety and Health Committee Mental health seminar meeting Traffic safety seminar Lectures by industrial physicians Overseas Topic (OHSAS 18001 Certification) In May 2012, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. in the United Kingdom obtained certification for OHSAS 18001 (2007 version), the international standard for labor safety and health. These standards for management practice comply with labor standard laws and regulations in various countries and mandates companies to effectively oversee labor safety and health. The objective is to raise the level of labor safety and health as well as labor productivity and the overall awareness of labor safety. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 34 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Basic Concept Workplace Experience for Junior High School Students For many years, Anritsu has supported local educational Anritsu contributes to society through its business operations programs that offer junior high school students the opportunity while at the same time pursuing activities that benefit the to experience actual work at companies and stores in the development of the local community as a corporate citizen. community. In fiscal 2012, we received requests from two Community-based social contribution programs are at the neighboring schools. center of these initiatives under the three pillars of partnerships A workplace experience at Anritsu took place at the recycling for educating youth, contributing to local communities and center of Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., where students disassembled protecting the environment (biodiversity conservation), and personal computers and also learned how to sort equipment we carry out activities that our employees can participate in components by material. We continuously. also provided environmental training on recycling. Partnerships for Educating Youth Kanagawa Science Summer Sponsored by Kanagawa Prefecture Workplace Experience With the encouragement of the Kanagawa Environmental Conservation Association, Anritsu participated in the 12th Support for Youth Sports Competitions “Kanagawa Science Summer” event organized by Kanagawa Prefecture. In cooperation with the association, we focused Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Invitational Boys’ on the environment and manufacturing. Our program Soccer Competition consisted of a talk and a “Let’s Make a Radio – Children’s Anritsu Corporation has been supporting the annual Atsugi Science and Environment Class,” designed to familiarize City Boys’ Soccer Competition held in February since 1995, children with wireless technology through building a radio. A n r i t s u ’s c e n t e n n i a l The one-day event was held during the children’s summer year. This year, 32 teams vacation and attended by 36 participants comprising 18 participated. Following a Kanagawa Prefecture elementary school children each paired flurry of brilliant plays, the with a parent. local team was thrilled to win the competition for the first time in nine years. City Boys’ Soccer Competition Supporting the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Anritsu Corporation has been supporting the Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition since fiscal 2011. This year, 14 teams competed in Kanagawa Science Summer the fall rookies’ tournament and blew away the chilly Fun Science Laboratory Sponsored by the Atsugi December weather with City School Board, Kanagawa Prefecture their enthusiasm. There has been a growing concern with regard to young people’s waning interest in science. At the suggestion of the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Atsugi City School Board, Anritsu has offered “Fun Science Laboratory” at neighboring elementary schools since fiscal Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition 2007 with the aim of raising children’s interest in science Anritsu Corporation co-sponsored the 1st Anritsu Cup Dodge through a variety of experiences. In fiscal 2012, we explained Ball Competition in fiscal 2012, with 16 teams taking part in the basics of electricity in lectures entitled “How to Generate the heated event. Anritsu Group employees also participated Electricity” and “What is a Battery?” We also conducted science as team coaches in the experiments to demonstrate the mechanism of a battery in sports competition, which order to stimulate further interest. Many of the participating is deeply rooted in the local children told us the event had been exciting and fun. community. Dodge Ball Competition Fun Science Laboratory Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 35 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Contributing to Local Communities Protecting the Environment(Biodiversity Conservation) Collaborating with the Local Community Donating to Forest Development through the Sales Anritsu Corporation is headquartered in the Amadera of Soft Drink Vending Machines Industrial Park and is a member of the Amadera Industrial The Anritsu Corporation headquarters in Atsugi donates Park Council. Anritsu heads the council’s environmental part of its sales proceeds from vending machines to the committee and participates in the quarterly cleanups of the Green Fund in Japan. In fiscal 2012, Anritsu raised funds Amadera region and biannual plastic bottle cap collections in equivalent to 109 Japanese spindle trees and 70 Yoshino collaboration with other members in the area. cherry trees, also equivalent to 1,536 square meters (9,596 square meters in total) of afforestation or 518 kilograms Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps (3,237 kilograms in total) of The Anritsu Group in Japan collects plastic bottle caps in absorbed carbon dioxide. collaboration with the Amadera Industrial Park Council. This year, we received a The caps are sold as resin material with the proceeds used certificate of gratitude from to purchase polio vaccines. This year, proceeds from the the Kanagawa Trust Midori combined total of caps Foundation in recognition collected by the Anritsu of our achievement. Certificate of Gratitude received for Group and the Amadera Green Fund activities Industrial Park Council were used to donate 650 doses Participating in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Efforts of the vaccine. Given the sig n i f i c a n t p u b l i c c o n c e r n o v e r g l o b a l Collected caps warming, Anritsu Group employees in Japan took part in an environmental initiative called Mt. Fuji Green Fund Autumn Camp in Konan 2012 Afforestation, which consists of various afforestation Radioactive contamination in Koriyama City has been activities, in response to an invitation by Ricoh Leasing Co., preventing children from playing in the open air. The Koriyama Ltd. The activities are part of an ambitious, 80-year project to PTA Federation and the Kindergarten PTA Federation restore the forest at the foot of Mt. Fuji that was destroyed by organized an autumn camp where the children could play all a typhoon in 1996. Employees volunteered as a contribution day long. The Anritsu Group fully supported the event, which to improving the environment by working on the activities was organized by Koriyama City, the location of our Koriyama in November 2012. In addition, children accompanying the Business Office and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. We also coparticipants learned about the value of nature by observing sponsored the event with Save the Children Japan, Consumers animals and plants during a “Woodcraft school.” Over 100 Cooperative CO-OP Fukushima and Ryohin Keikaku Co., Ltd. A volunteers participated, eleven of whom were from Anritsu. total of 24 people including Anritsu employees and workers from partner companies assisted with preparations and provided support for the day’s activities. Group photo Woodcraft school Autumn Camp Community Clean-up Efforts Every year, Anritsu Group companies in Japan organize Issuance of a Fire Company Supporter Business Sign clean-ups of the areas surrounding the Head Office of A Fire Company Supporter Business sign was issued to the Anritsu Corporation and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. In fiscal Anritsu headquarters for being a business office that actively 2012, the Head Office of Anritsu Corporation carried it out supports the activities of the local fire company. keeping up with Amadera clean-up campaign by Conference of the Amadera Industrial Park Council. A large number of employees participated in the project by picking up litter and weeding around the company. We also participate in community environmental preservation activities and other community projects such as the Sagami River Fire Company Supporter Business sign Clean-up Campaign. Scene from clean-up work Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 36 Goal 3 Promotion of Environmental Management Eco Management, Eco Mind Providing Environmentally Conscious Products that Meet Global Standards Senior Vice President, Chief Environmental Office Junkichi Shirono Anritsu products are used in countries and regions around the world and must satisfy the diverse legal environmental standards of each country as well as the requirements of each customer. We therefore believe it is highly important to both comply with global environmental laws and regulations and design and develop environmentally conscious products that meet global standards for energy efficiency, resource conservation and reduced harmful substances in each stage of the product lifecycle, from parts procurement, manufacturing, shipping, and customer use to recycling. To that end, we strive to accurately identify and reduce our environmental impact, such as CO2 emissions, in each stage of the product lifecycle. The Anritsu Group will continue conducting environmental management to meet the expectation of all our stakeholders. Eco Management, Eco Mind Developing corporate environmental management group-wide, Anritsu further advances its activities toward the creation of Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with Eco-Minded Employees. The Anritsu Group’s Environmental Principle Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm we will endeavor to foster a prosperous society at one with nature. Action Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with the Eco-Mind of every one of our employees. Contribution to Society ◆Eco-Management To help lower the environmental load of ◆Eco-Products our customers, management will We develop products that help to allocate the necessary management improve the environment in customer resources and take action to reduce the Eco-Management usage settings with full consideration environmental load of business activities, for saving energy and resources and provide products with less environmental reducing harmful substances load and deliver products that contribute throughout product lifecycles. to lowering overall environmental impact. EcoEcoEcoOﬃce Products Factory ◆Eco-Factory ◆Eco-Oﬃce We strive to reduce environmental impact through saving energy and We make eﬀorts to reduce environmental observing the 3Rs while complying with impact by saving energy and resources Ecolegal mandates and reducing and managing waste in our oﬃces. Family environmental risks. ◆Eco-Mind Each individual employee will aspire to ◆Eco-Family become a good corporate citizen by EcoAt home we will strive to reduce the recognizing their responsibility in the Mind environmental load in our daily lives product lifecycle and by making as good citizens through energy environmental improvements in their conservation, resource conservation and daily operations. the 3Rs (reduce, reuse and recycle). The articles in Preserving the Global Environment cover Anritsu Corp. and the following Group Companies: Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. Group Companies in Japan: Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Group Companies outside Japan: Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu A/S (Denmark) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 37 Eco Management, Eco Mind Environmental Management at Anritsu The Anritsu Group is pursuing environmental management worldwide by taking into account the entire product lifecycle using the environmental strategy illustrated in the figure. Concretely, we are focusing on four key policies : “Provision of energy/ resource-saving products” and “Provision of products with reduced harmful substances” in product development; “Promotion of energy conservation” in our business operations; and “Strengthening of Eco-Mind and environmental communication,” which supports the entire strategy. We will also continue to maintain and improve the efforts of “Promotion of 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle)” and “Reduction of chemical substances and risk countermeasures” in business activities. In addition, we have established the Basic Rules of Biodiversity Conservation, reflecting due consideration for the relationship between Anritsu’s business structure and biodiversity. We believe implementing these rules will help mitigate climate change, the loss of habitat from overexploitation and pollution. Strengthen our global environmental management through a life cycle mindset Basic rules for biodiversity conservation Energy Resources Chemical substances Preventing Creating a recycling Reducing global warming -oriented society harmful substances Product Plan1 Plan2 Development Provide energy/ resource-saving products Provide products with reduced (Eco Products) Green of products Green by solutions harmful substances Plan3 Promote Promote 3Rs Chemical substance Business activities (Significant progress in reduction and risk energy conservation ongoing waste reduction) countermeasures (Eco Office) (Eco Factory) Reduce CO2 emissions Reduce environmental compliance risks Plan4 Strengthen Eco-Mind/environmental communication The Anritsu Group is applying a lifecycle approach to its global environmental management. We intend to reduce our environmental impact from the dual perspectives of developing environmentally conscious products that consider the entire product lifecycle and identifying and making improvements in the environmental impact of all our locations around the world. Development of environmentally conscious products (saving energy and resources, reducing harmful substances, beneficial to the environment) Overall business activities Use by customers Supplier Transport Design, manufacturing, Transport ・Design Disposal sales, administrative ・Depends on services areas, etc. Material procurement Transportation Factories/Offices Transportation Customer use Disassembly/Waste CO2 69,309t CO2 CO2 13,283t CO2 (Japan) 148t CO2 23,491t CO2(Japan) 41t Water Waste Water 91,000m³ Waste Waste 327t Depletion of resources NOx 692kg SOx(Japan) 256kg BOD(Japan) 191kg Employee business trips CO2 2,956t Employee commuting CO2 4,777t Waste disposal CO2(Japan) 41t Landfill amount 21% to total waste disposal Identifying and improving the environmental impact of all our locations around the world *In the diagram above, quantitative data is provided only for items for which environmental impact has been identified to date. *Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” *Underlined figures indicate that the scope of data collected for these items was expanded from fiscal 2011. For detailed information, please refer to the Detailed Data. Detailed Data Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 38 Eco Management, Eco Mind Environmental Management Promotion System In response to increasing demand for global efforts, including Overall Environment Management Controller responses to the European RoHS directive and the environmental Global Environment Management Meeting expectations of customers, we reviewed our environmental Environment Management Committee management promotion system in fiscal 2005 and set up a Global (promotion of environmental management system) Environment Management Meeting to deliberate and decide on Product Assessment Committee environment-related matters. In Japan, the Environment Management (promotion of developing environmentally conscious products) Committee, Product Assessment Committee and Promotion of RoHS Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting Group Meeting respectively promote the environmental management system, the development of environmentally conscious products and the elimination of harmful substances in products. Environmental Management Organization (Japan) The environmental management organization of the Anritsu Group Overall Environment Management Controller Environment Management Committee in Japan promotes environmental management activities under the Legally authorized Internal Environmental Environment Management Product Assessment Committee leadership of the director of environmental management (Anritsu personnel Auditor Representative Corporation’s vice president in charge of overall environmental 営業 Corporate Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. R&D Group Sales Division Marketing Division SCM Division Environment Promotion Department management). After consolidating Anritsu Device Co., Ltd. operations at the Atsugi site in March 2012, we ceased operations at the Tanasawa site. (Including Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd) Following the opening of a new plant by AT Techmac Co., Ltd. in May 2013 (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture), we opened the new Hiratsuka site. Environmental Management Systems The Anritsu Group has established environmental management systems at major production sites in Japan and the United States and has obtained ISO 14001 certification. Registration Company Anritsu Corporation(Headquarter) Certification Date : August 1998 Update : February 2013 Certification Organization : JQA/JQA-EM0210* · Anritsu Corporation · Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Customer Services Co., Ltd. · AT Techmac Co., Ltd. · Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. · Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. *Expanded the scope of ISO14001 accreditation to include Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., which independently acquired certification in October 1999. Anritsu Company(USA) Address : 490 Jarvis Drive Morgan Hill, CA 95037 Certification Date : March 2007 Update : March 2013 Certification Organization : NQA/EN12275 Environmental Audit In fiscal 2012, we received an external environmental recertification audit including the combined assessment of ISO 9001 (quality management system) and ISO 27001 (information security management system). One item that required minor improvement was discovered. In addition, we conducted two internal environmental audits of the conformance and effectiveness of our environmental management system and environmental performance in June and compliance status in December, resulting in 34 and 3 indications of nonconformance, respectively. We report on and improve common Group On-site patrol by ISO14001 certification institution issues through the Environment Management Committee. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 39 Eco Management, Eco Mind Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy for Conserving Biodiversity Basic Policy The business operations of the Anritsu Group benefit and We strive to reduce environmental impact, focusing on the following three areas of our business activities: influence the ecosystem supported by diverse organisms ■ Mitigation of climate change ■ Control overexploitation/habitat loss ■ Control pollution/habitat loss at the same time. Preserving the biodiversity which is the Business Operations Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact foundation of the ecosystem is therefore a vital concern for Business activities with Global warming prevention → Mitigation of climate change environmental management. The basic policy of the Anritsu environmental impact limited within an acceptable Resource-saving/recycling range for the earth Group is to encourage activities that reduce our environmental → Control overexploitation/habitat loss impact associated with our business operations and to Control chemical substance release → Control pollution/habitat loss preserve biodiversity through social contribution efforts that protect the natural environment. Social Contribution Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Activities Increase the regenerative Social contribution activities for biodiversity capacity of the earth → Tree planting, local cleanups, etc. Acknowledging the Current Situation We work to conserve biodiversity fully recognizing that the Anritsu Group’s business activities enjoy various benefits from the biodiversity of the surrounding ecosystem, and that these business activities, in turn, impact biodiversity. Biodiversity Relevance Map We created a relevance map based on the Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity format to better understand the relationships between our business activities and biodiversity. The map illustrates our relationship with ecosystems and helps identify areas of major impact. The result is reflected in our Basic Policy for Conservation of Biodiversity. Energy resources Crude oil (as fuel), ● Chemical substance release ・Loss of habitats Benefit uranium To atmosphere: CO2, NOx, SOx ・Introduction of alien species To water: BOD, COD, SS ・Pollution/climate change Impact Renewable To soil: slug, sludge, unspecified ・Overexploitation energy resources solid waste /overconsumption Water, wood Energy resources Crude oil (as fuel), coal, natural gas, uranium Design Energy resources Shipping Production Sale Crude oil (as fuel) Renewable energy resources Renewable Water, wood energy resources Business Activities Wood Mineral resources Gold, silver, copper, Raw material Chemical platinum, iron, tin, procurement Use ● substance release lead, zinc, nickel, Maintenance chrome,bauxite, CO 2,NOx,SOx manganese, crude oil (as raw materials) ・Loss of habitats Collection ・Introduction of alien species ・Loss of habitats Land use Recycling ・Pollution/climate change ・Introduction of alien species ・Overexploitation ・Pollution/climate change /overconsumption ・Overexploitation /overconsumption Substance introduction/removal ● Chemical substance release Energy resources 生息地喪失 Change in land外来生物導入use 汚染 気候変動 CO 2,NOx,SOx Crude oil (as fuel) Loss of habitats, Introduction of alien species, Pollution/climate change Joined Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity Anritsu has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports biodiversity. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 40 Eco Management, Eco Mind Environmental Education for Employees To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, we provide general education through e-learning every year for all Anritsu Group employees as well as environmental education programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are also attended by employees of business partners under consignment. Educational Programs New employee education Internal auditor training program Internal auditor follow-up education General education Education for technology departments Education for sales departments Ecological Education Onsite consignment worker education High-pressure gas handler courses Chemical substances manager training Environmental Policy and Behavioral Guidelines We create Eco-Office, Eco-Factory and Eco-Products with Eco-Mind Survey of Employees the Eco-Mind of every one of our employees. Highly eco-minded person = Person who acts on behalf of the environment To measure the degree to which we share Eco-Mind awareness, we conduct a survey Do you engage in environmental of all Anritsu Group employees in Japan. activities at the workplace? Do you engage in environmental In fiscal 2012, we significantly revised the survey questions and format and also activities at home? Are you aware of Anritsu’s environmental changed its name from the “Environmental Awareness Survey” to the “Eco-Mind Survey.” efforts? Enhance EcoAnritsu Eco-Mind We redesigned the questionnaire based on the notion that a highly eco-minded Mind Survey person is someone who can act on behalf of the environment and aligned it with our Excellent environmental policy and behavioral guidelines. Questions were primarily focused on Eco-Person Challenger 34.3% Eco-Person 13.2% determining whether action is being taken toward creating the Eco Office (promoting conservation, promoting the 3Rs and reducing environmental compliance risks). In addition to workplace activities, we asked questions about activities at home and EcoPerson about participant awareness with regard to efforts undertaken by Anritsu. 52.5% “Excellent Eco-Persons ,” who scored above 90 points on the survey, accounted for 13.2% of the respondents. We intend to increase the ratio of “Excellent Eco-Persons” by motivating employees to participate in environmental activities through the Eco-Mind Survey and through other actions in response to survey results. Promoting Environmental Communication We disseminate information inside and outside the company with a firm belief in the vital importance of raising stakeholder awareness of our environmental activities and gaining their support in Anritsu’s efforts to protect the global environment. To provide environmental information tailored for each group of stakeholders, we publish an “Environment Leaflet” for customers and “Eco Club” for employees, in addition to our CSR Environment Leaflet Eco Club for report on the website, environmental advertisements and environment-related Web features. for customers employees Column We Received Our First CDP Questionnaire! Environment Promotion Team, Environment and Quality Promotion Dept., Anritsu Corporation Akihiko Asai In February 2012, Anritsu received its first questionnaire from the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), an international non-governmental organization based in London that requests and evaluates the content of reports from companies on measures against global warming. While we receive several questionnaires related to the environment every year, CDP’s questionnaire requires in-depth responses, particularly with respect to climate change management, risks and opportunities, and volume of CO2 emissions, and thus a wide range of environmental data must be provided. CDP’s questionnaires are sent to the top 500 Japanese companies in market capitalization, a group that now includes Anritsu. Since there are international investors behind the CDP who are waiting with great interest to closely observe how corporations respond to the issue of global warming, the names of companies that do not provide a response are labeled in the public eye as “non-responsive companies,” even though the survey is not mandatory. We had some difficulty responding to questions in the “Scope 3” category, which includes CO2 emissions related to the use and disposal of products and CO2 emissions associated with logistics, employee business trips and commuting, areas for which we had not collected data. All of our departments worked hard together right up to the submission deadline, but unfortunately we were only able to answer 2 of the 15 “Scope 3” questions. As a result of the evaluation, we scored 72 out of 100 points on disclosure and received a “C” grade for performance on a scale ranging from A, A-, B, C, D E, and None. We will work with Group companies and our departments to answer more of these questions and improve our information disclosure. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 41 Promotion of Environmental Management Eco Office, Eco Factory Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices Change in electric energy use (Antirsu Group companies in Japan) MWh 35,000 Energy conservation represents a key means for reducing 31,798 CO 2 emissions associated with global warming. Anritsu 30,000 25,574 24,153 25,329 is pursuing ongoing efforts to save electric power, which 25,000 23,286 21,220 accounts for about 95% of its energy consumption (in 20,000 crude oil equivalent). We have been conserving energy by 15,000 upgrading equipment, such as ice thermal storage units, 10,000 inverters for air conditioning and lighting equipment, and low-loss transformers, while replacing older models with 5,000 energy-saving equipment. 0 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal Year) In fiscal 2012, we insulated walls and windows, upgraded to inverter lighting equipment at the Atsugi site, and upgraded to high efficiency air conditioners and introduced inverter lighting equipment at the Tohoku site. Despite factors that are raising electric power consumption, such as increased production at the Tohoku site, our electric power consumption decreased by 8.9% from fiscal 2011. We will continue to work on energy conservation as a top priority of our environmental management. Reference Reference CO2 emissions from total energy use (Antirsu Group companies in Japan) We calculated CO2 emissions resulting from the use of all t-CO2 energy sources at Anritsu Group companies in Japan using 15,000 14,600 the emission factor provided by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for electricity, and the emission 11,730 10,100 9,400 10,670 factor adopted by the Law Concerning the Promotion of the 10,000 9,000 Measures to Cope with Global Warming (revised March 29, 2006) for energy sources other than electricity (the actual figure for fiscal 2011 was temporarily used as the emission 5,000 factor for fiscal 2012). CO2 emissions associated with electric power vary each fiscal 0 year according to the supply situation of each electric power 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal Year) company. Therefore, some fiscal years show an increase in CO2 (0.417) (0.373) (0.351) (0.350) (0.476) (0.476) Emission coefficient by the Federation of Electric Power Companies emissions, despite reductions in electric energy consumption. of Japan(provisional value for fiscal 2012) Efforts Related to Cool Biz and Warm Biz The Anritsu Group in Japan has been involved in Cool Biz and Warm Biz since fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2012, we widened our Cool Biz period to May 7 until October 31 (from May 23 to September 30 in fiscal 2011) and to November 1 until March 31 for Warm Biz (from December 1 to March 31 in fiscal 2011). As a result, we were able to reduce electricity use compared with the previous fiscal year by 5.7% during the Cool Biz period and by 13.5% during the Warm Biz period. Major activities are listed below. Major Activities Switching off unnecessary lighting Strict management of air conditioning Installing blinds for heat pumps Green curtains Cultivating awareness through a company magazine and promotional banners Visualizing electricity use (status of real-time demand disclosed on the Intranet) Environmental Measures Taken at Our New Factory One grand concept behind our Koriyama Second Office was to build a safe, secure factory that also preserves the environment. The photograph shows the new factory’s solar power generating facility, which has a maximum output of 200 kilowatts. Apart from solar power generation, the new factory features insulated outer walls and windows, control of air conditioning by zone, LED lighting for all buildings, use of natural daylight, facilities for conserving energy and water, use of recycled wood, and green areas with indigenous plant species. It ranks among the world’s premier examples of environmentally conscious factories. Solar Power Generating facility of Koriyama Second Office Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 42 Eco Office, Eco Factory Compliance Status We strive to ensure compliance by adopting voluntary management standards that are more demanding than statutory regulations. In fiscal 2012, compliance levels at the Atsugi, Tanasawa and Tohoku sites remained lower than required, with no violations in water quality, air quality or noise. We received a complaint about noise during demolition of the buildings at the Atsugi site and responded by immediately temporarily suspending the work and implementing a noise reduction effort. Looking ahead, we will further reduce our environmental impact through ongoing maintenance while maintaining full compliance. Wastewater discharge from operations Wastewater discharge from operations m3 In the past we used large volumes of water in industrial processes 4,000 Tanasawa Site such as manufacturing printed wiring boards as well as coating and 3,159 Atsugi Site plating at the Atsugi site. In 2002, we have completely discontinued 3,000 2,318 2,349 2,218 1,944 all these processes and dramatically reduced industrial effluent 1,858 1,928 1,883 2,000 1,917 containing harmful substances. Although we use alkaline cleaning 1,797 1,321 solutions for the degreasing equipment at the Hiratsuka site, all the 1,000 water is disposed as industrial waste, leaving no wastewater discharge from operations. In addition, water used for rinsing equipment is 0 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 (Fiscal Year) circulated between filters and ion-exchange resin equipment so it can be reused as rinse water as part of our efforts to reduce water use and waste. No facility at the Tohoku site currently uses harmful substances. Atsugi Site : Atsugi City regarding discharge into public sewage systems Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item*1 Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.0-9.0 5.7-8.7 7.5 7.0 8.0 SS 600 300 8.0 < 2.0 35.0 BOD 600 300 4.8 1.1 21.0 Normal hexane extracts 5 3 < 1.0 < 1.0 1.0 Mineral oil Normal hexane extracts 30 18 < 1.0 < 1.0 1.0 Organic oil Iodine consumption 220 90 1.8 < 1.0 2.5 Fluorine 8 4.8 0.9 0.2 1.7 Total cyanide 1 0.4 < 0.01 < 0.01 < 0.01 Nitrogen 380 125 0.8 < 0.2 4.3 Boron Chromium Dissolved iron 10 4 0.15 < 0.05 0.60 Copper 3 1.2 < 0.05 < 0.05 < 0.05 Zinc 2 1.2 0.10 < 0.05 0.20 Dissolved manganese Nickel 1 0.6 < 0.05 < 0.05 < 0.05 Lead 0.1 0.06 0.01 < 0.01 0.03 Tohoku Site : regulations by Fukushima Prefecture Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item*1 Regulation value Voluntary control value Average Min. Max. pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 7.3 7.1 7.5 SS 70 30 3.6 1.1 4.5 BOD 40 20 6 1 10 Below the detection limit Dissolved iron 10 4 (*2) (*2) (0.05mg/l) Copper 2 0.8 0.01 (*2) (*2) Zinc 2 1.2 0.1 (*2) (*2) Below the detection limit Nickel 2 0.8 (*2) (*2) (0.01mg/l) Below the detection limit Lead 0.1 0.08 (*2) (*2) (0.05mg/l) Number of colon bacillus (piece/m3) 3000 2400 0 0 0 *1 Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *2 There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 43 Eco Office, Eco Factory Prevention of Air Pollution Having eliminated the coating process in 2000, no facility at the Atsugi site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. The Tohoku site operates heavy oil boilers subject to the Air Pollution Control Law. The boilers are operated on a voluntary management standard to control air quality. No facility at the Hiratsuka site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. Tohoku Site : Air Pollution Control law Emission standard Item Measured value Regulation value Voluntary control value Smuts [g/m3N] 0.3 0.18 below the detection limit (0.005mg/l) Sulfur oxide [m3N/h] 4.37 2.63 0.05 Nitrogen oxide [ppm] 180 170 93 Environmental Data of Each Site Noise We are implementing a variety of efforts to detect abnormalities at an early Exhaust vent with a noise stage, including a system of prior examination before introducing equipment, reduction cover equipment inspections at the beginning of every operation and regular patrols on the premises. We also regularly monitor noise levels at borders every year. Results show that measured noise levels not only meet legal standards but fall below our own voluntary standards as well. Prior to the start of operations at the Hiratsuka site, there was a noise risk in part of an area used for plate processing. We addressed the issue by moving particularly noisy equipment to a soundproofed room. We also found that the noise level of an exhaust vent was near the upper limit of our voluntary standards and promptly took action, which included the use of a noise reducing cover. Soundproofed room Atsugi Site : regulations by Kanagawa Prefecture Measured point Regulation value [dB] [daytime] Voluntary control value [dB] [daytime] Measured value [dB] [daytime] At the eastern border line 70 68 60 At the western border line 70 68 55 At the southern border line 70 68 52 At the northern border line 70 68 60 Touhoku Site : regulations by Fukushima Prefecture Measured point Regulation value [dB] [daytime] Voluntary control value [dB] [daytime] Measured value [dB] [daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 47 At the western border line 75 73 50 At the southern border line 1 75 73 60 At the southern border line 2 75 73 51 Hiratsuka Site : regulations by Kanagawa Prefecture Measured point Regulation value [dB] [daytime] Voluntary control value [dB] [daytime] Measured value [dB] [daytime] At the eastern border line 65 64 60 At the western border line 65 64 48 At the southern border line 75 73 63 At the northern border line 75 73 50 Environmental Data of Each Site Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 44 Eco Office, Eco Factory Groundwater Management With regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated the use of trichloroethylene in 1970 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993. The Atsugi site draws groundwater from its own well and therefore continues to monitor water quality, including regularly testing for the presence of six organochlorine substances. In fiscal 2012, levels of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under environmental standards. Anritsu, however, has never used this substance, and soil analysis has confirmed that we were not the cause of the contamination. We will nevertheless continue to monitor the site. Atsugi Site Item Environmental standard level [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Trichloroethylene 0.03 0.004 Tetrachloroethylene*1 0.01 0.081 1,1,1trichloroethane 1 < 0.0005 1,1dichloroethylene 0.1 < 0.002 Dichloromethane 0.02 (*2) Cis-1,2dichloroethylene 0.04 0.016 *1 Tetrachloroethylene surpassed acceptable level, but Atsugi site has never used it. *2 Results for fiscal 2008 were below the detection limit (0.002 mg/l) and therefore not measured. Environmental Data of Each Site Risk Countermeasures The Atsugi site operates an inorganic wastewater treatment facility to detoxify wastewater from inorganic wastewater release section and other corporate sources. In 2001, we converted the facility to a double-tank system to address the risk of soil contamination from the leakage of untreated water that could result from the destruction of a buried tank during an earthquake. In 2002, we constructed a breakwater around a clarifier tank (a part of the facility for removing the heavy-metal containing sediment generated in the preceding process through gravitational sedimentation) to modify the structure so that any liquids leaking from the tank, Clarifier as a result, for example, of damage from an earthquake, would flow into a reserve tank rather than leaking outside. At the Tohoku site, water could be discharged from boilers in the event of an earthquake, for example, at pH levels that exceed regulatory standards; we therefore implemented countermeasures by installing a pH monitor and an emergency cutoff valve to stop water discharge. In addition, each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster. Regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted in preparation for unexpected events. Water consumption (Anritsu Group in Japan) Water Resources m3 We have been reducing water use at the 180,000 Hiratsuka Site Tohoku Site 160,254 141,194 Atsugi site over the years through efforts Tanasawa Site Atsugi Site 150,000 140,402 127,070 such as monthly leakage inspections, 129,213 129,681 upgrading to water saving toilets and 120,000 109,558 98,402 using circulated water in facilities. We will 94,561 99,578 90,000 continue to use water effectively. 79,325 60,000 30,000 0 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 (Fiscal Year) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 45 Eco Office, Eco Factory Chemical Substances Management Use Regulates Chemical Substances of Anritsu Group Class of 7 substances: CFC (Chlorofluorocarbons), halon, arbon Utilization of chemical substances by the Anritsu Group Banned tetrachloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, substances HBFC (Hydrobromofluorocarbons), bromochloroethane, companies in Japan is determined through a prior methyl bromide assessment system. Class of 7 substances: HCFC (Hydrochlorofluorocarbons), Substances banned from use or limited are selected in Limited-use trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, substances dichloromethane, HFC (Hydrofluorocarbons), consideration of legal regulations and hazardousness, PFC (Perfluorocarbons), SF6(sulfur hexafluoride) and we regulate the substances that cause ozone layer depletion and global warming. Each department inputs into Chemical Substances Management under PRTR Law a computer database the amounts of chemical substances purchased, used and disposed within a three-month period t 10.14 10 Hiratsuka Site in order to compile statistics of the entire company for each Tohoku Site law regarding chemical substances, including those covered 8 Tanasawa Site 7.43 by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. Atsugi Site 6 The number of substances subject to the PRTR (Pollutant 4.81 Release and Transfer Register) Law and handled at our 4 2.60 2.55 2.49 sites changed significantly due to a revision of the law 2 1.62 that excluded from the list liquid bisphenol A epoxy resin, 0.54 0.41 0.51 0.70 0 an ingredient used at the Atsugi site, while adding new 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 (Fiscal Year) ingredients, including methylnaphthalene, which is an additive agent, to heavy oil used as fuel at the Tohoku site. More than one ton of methylnaphthalene was handled at the Tohoku site in fiscal 2012 and reported accordingly. Because it is burned in a boiler, very little methylnaphthalene is externally released; nevertheless, we will reduce the amount we handle by reducing our use of heavy oil. PCB Management At the Atsugi site, we tightly control condensers of electric devices, fluorescent ballasts and pressure sensitive copying paper that contain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) within the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Storage status is reported annually to the prefecture under the Law concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste. In 2006, analysis conducted while upgrading an extra high-voltage transformation installation identified a small amount of PCB in two large transformers. In the course of replacing transformers in 2010, we identified a small amount of PCB in the insulation oil of decrepit equipment and issued an additional notification in June 2011. In 2005, we filed an early request for the treatment of PCBs with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation. Waste Reduction The amount of waste by type (Antirsu Group companies in Japan) t We have carried out education to achieve zero emissions* 300 General waste 258 Industrial waste so that each employee promotes the 3Rs as a companywide activity, and practice thorough separation of waste 200 195 191 189 collected in our offices and product lines. 165 160 165 137 As a result, the Anritsu Group in Japan achieved zero 115 116 117 100 emissions in 2004. The amount of waste has been reduced almost to the minimum, and we are currently working on maintaining this 0 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 (Fiscal Year) level as an annual goal. *Zero emissions: Recycling all waste. Anritsu defines this as achieving a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5%. Examples of separate collection of waste Waste reduction through the introduction of earthworm farm By thorough classification collection, we are working to reduce We have promoted the reduction of waste by introducing waste. an earthworm farm that decomposes leaves and weeds. By ear thworm farm introduction, we have reduced approximately 5 tons of waste a year since fiscal 2009. In addition, humus broken down by an earthworm farm becomes a fertilizer which is rich in nutritive value. We have been utilizing it effectively at the company to grow a green curtain of bitter gourds and sunflowers. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 46 Eco Office, Eco Factory Eco-Logistics Overview of Eco-Logistics Delivery : The carrier takes out the product from a returnable box and delivers it to the place customer has designated. After delivery, the returnable box is brought back by the carrier. Pick up : The carrier picks up the product after they wrapped with the packaging materials they brought by themselves. Response to carrier : We maintain transport quality by conducting in-depth discussions between carrier and Anritsu to build a safety system on transport. Comparison of conventional cardboard packaging with Eco-Logistics Conventional cardboard packaging Eco-Logistics Customer needs to dispose a lot of packaging materials. Customer needs to dispose only a few packaging materials. At delivery ：A large amount of waste. ：Small amount of waste. ：Cost of waste disposal will be expensive. ：Enable to reduce the cost of waste disposal. Customers package by themselves with the packaging materials sent by Carrier picks up the product after wrapping it with their packaging Anritsu. materials. At pick up ：Customer's product packaging operation occurs. ：Customer's product packaging operation becomes unnecessary. ：New packaging materials are required. ：New packaging materials are unnecessary. = Waste occurs. = Waste reduction. An example of delivery The produc t is Carrier removes The product first covered with the product from and attached polyethylene bag the returnable equipment box to prevent from box. are delivered scratches and t o c u s t o m e r, dust, and then packaged in returnable covered with polyethylene bag for box. The product and attached protection. Invoice is attached to the equipment box are packaged as in the product. After delivery, carrier brings left picture. back the returnable box and packaging materials. Reduction of packaging material waste. (%) 100 100 For returnable box, customer only needs to dispose the polyethylene bag that covers the product. Comparing the traditional cardboard packaging with returnable containers, waste 50 emissions by packaging materials for customer will be greatly improved, which is about 6 0 94% reduction by weight. (Assuming that returnable box is used 20 times) Cardboard Ecopackaging Logistics Recycling Center Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Recycling Recycling System Center at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., in 2000. Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to Finite resources engage in the industrial waste disposal business in September 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. Material The Recycling Center has been rigorously separating waste since fiscal 2005. Once Material recycling completely sorted, all waste emitted from the Recycle Center is recycled. Chemical recycling The Recycling Center also promotes the reuse and refurbishment of used Recycling products. Thermal recycling Refurbished measuring instruments are products used for demonstration. Reuse Disassembly/Selection Design/production Although these products are recycled, they are highly reliable after being Zero emission Refurbish Collection reconditioned and calibrated by Anritsu, the original manufacturer, and are Disposal(Landfill) Sales provided with a one-year guarantee. Anritsu Kousan, acting as a sales agent, sells the products to universities and other educational institutions in Japan, thus Customers extending the lives of the products. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 47 Promotion of Environmental Management Eco Products Development Eco Products Development Based on the lifecycle concept, Anritsu is promoting environmental efforts across the product lifecycle, from product design, parts procurement and manufacturing to shipment, customer use and recycling. To accelerate the provision of environmentally conscious products as a pillar of environmental management, Anritsu is actively pursuing efforts whereby it utilizes its own technologies to comply with environmental regulations around the world and conducts high-quality product assessment from the early design stage of every product’s development. Complying with Product Environmental Regulations Worldwide The European Union (EU) enacted the WEEE Directive in 2005, the RoHS Directive in 2006, the REACH regulations in 2007 and the ErP Directive in 2009. Environmental regulation of products centered on the EU has been expanding throughout the world. Moreover, product environmental regulations now require prompt response. Communication, information sharing and the unified response of Group companies outside Japan are facilitated by the Global Environment Management Meeting, for example. Global Product Assessment Implementation Guidelines The development of environmentally conscious products has been conducted separately as product assessment in Anritsu Group companies in Japan and as DfE (Design for Environment) in Anritsu Company (U.S.A.). Anritsu established global product assessment standards and global product assessment implementation guidelines to integrate these methods so that Anritsu Group companies could develop environmentally conscious products within a unified, global standard in 2008. In fiscal 2012, we responded to environmental regulations and customer requirements by revising the product assessment criteria for the Anritsu Group in Japan. Operational Procedure Development proposal Develpoment Basic design Detailed design Test production Evaluation Commercialization Global product assessment (target setting, design Utilization Recycling decision review, and evaluations) is incorporated into the product development process (including target setting, test production and evaluation) prior to commercialization. To ensure objective and responsible product assessment, Product assessment Ⅰ Recycle centers Anritsu conducts third-party evaluation by the Quality (target setting stage) Management Department and other entities, and initiates Customers Product assessment Ⅱ Technology follow-up actions if targets have not been achieved. (Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd.) (design review stage) development division Quality control division Product assessment Ⅲ (evaluation stage) * Follow-ups are conducted as needed at each stage of product assessment. Evaluation Items ∙Reduced volume and mass Resource ∙Adoption of reusable or recyclable components Evaluation items in the global product assessment cover saving; Reduced ∙Expanded functionality and longer operating life ∙Use of recycled paper for operation manuals basic factors such as improvements in volume, mass and load during ∙Reduction of consumable supplies manufacturing ∙Reduction of surface treatment power consumption against a reference product. Additional ∙Reduction of difficult-to-process materials items for evaluation include resource savings and the ∙Elimination of banned substances in products Reduced harmful ∙Reduction of substances subject to RoHS Directive reduction of harmful substances and overall environmental substances ∙Compliance with RoHS Directive ∙Reduction of other harmful substances impact throughout production, physical distribution, use Reduced load ∙Reduction of packing materials and disposal. in physical ∙Use of recycled paper for packing materials distribution ∙Ease of transport after collection ∙Reduced power consumption during operation Reduced load ∙Inclusion of a standby mode during use ∙Designed to lower power consumption ∙Clear instructions on power-saving functions ∙Fewer parts ∙Reduced use of difficult-to-recycle materials ∙Designed for easy dismantling and disassembly Reduced load at ∙Identification of the material on resin components time of disposal ∙Reduced variety of materials and use of common materials ∙Recycle labeling on batteries ∙Response to WEEE Directive ∙Response to Chinese RoHS Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 48 Eco Products Development Eco Product Program Environmentally Conscious Products Anritsu Group certifies the Excellent Eco Product and Eco Product as environmentally conscious products based on the results of global product assessment. Excellent Eco Product Excellent Eco Product : Environmentally Conscious Products Product that meets Excellent Eco Product requirements Eco Product Eco Product : Product that meets Eco Product requirements Assessed Product Assessed Product : Product that meets Assessed Product requirements Major Environmentally Conscious Criteria for Excellent Eco Products Top industry ranking for environmentally conscious properties Environmental information ready for disclosure CO2 emission evaluated by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Environmental management system in place at the relevant business entity and main production site In the Excellent Eco Product, environmental information on the mark and the product is described in parallel in the catalog etc. Excellent Eco Product Excellent Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2012 Saving Space and Electricity by Measuring Four Test Modules Simultaneously Product Development Department, R&D Division, Anritsu Corporation Yasunori Yamada The universal wireless test set MT8870A is a measuring instrument developed specifically for mass manufacturing communication modules. It can accommodate up to four transmitter/receiver test modules, enabling the simultaneous measurement of four test devices, such as mobile phones, smartphones and modules assembled into phones. By doing this we contribute to raising the productivity of terminal manufacturers. There is demand from customers who want to measure as many terminals as possible within a short span of time. We therefore developed a product that is capable of simultaneously measuring four test devices packed into the same size unit as our conventional products, which required significant downsizing. We were able to reduce the number of circuits by limiting the functionality of the product to production-line adjustments and mobile terminal inspection. We also managed to significantly reduce the number of parts and power consumption by using the latest FPGA to integrate the digital circuits. As a result, we reduced volume by 50%, mass by 50% and power consumption by 60% compared to conventional products. Universal wireless test set MT8870A （%） Volume （%） Mass (%） Power consumption 100 100 100 Reduced by Reduced by Reduced by 50% 50% 60% 50 50 50 0 0 0 Reference product MT8870A Reference product MT8870A Reference product MT8870A Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 49 Eco Products Development Excellent Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2012 The KLS5421A Solder Paste Inspector is installed in the latter portion of cream solder printers on the mounting line for electronic components. The system conducts pass-or-fail inspection by quantitatively measuring aspects of the cream solder on printed circuit boards (height, volume and area). It offers highly accurate measurement by spot-irradiating targets using laser beams from two angles to scan the printed cream solder while accurately reproducing even minute solder shapes as a 3D profile. To convert it into an environmentally conscious product, we worked to streamline the assembly process by reducing excess parts and maintaining a simple structure while also cutting costs. Concrete actions included integrating multiple circuit boards, reducing the length of excess cable after reviewing parts configuration and cable wiring, optimizing structural parts by using thinner sheets and simplifying the shape of parts while also satisfying strength requirements, and using Solder Paste Inspector fewer parts to reduce weight and size. This enabled us to reduce mass by 6%, volume by 46% and KLS5421A power consumption by 11% compared with conventional products. Moreover, a more efficient use of space made it possible to extend the measurable size of the circuit boards by 50 millimeters in length and width within the same-sized housing. （%） Volume （%） Mass （%） Power consumption Reduced by Reduced by 100 6% 100 100 11% Reduced by 46% 50 50 50 0 0 0 Reference product KLS5421A Reference product KLS5421A Reference product KLS5421A Promotion of Supply Chain Management The provision of environmentally conscious products requires the use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. Within the framework of its Green Procurement Guidelines, Anritsu is working on green procurement to preferentially procure environmentally conscious parts and materials across the company. Green Procurement Anritsu undertakes green procurement in accordance with its Green Procurement Guidelines established in June 1999 to promote the provision of environmentally conscious products by our suppliers. Since Anritsu Corporation’s environmental partner company certification system was launched in 2001, the company has been evaluating the status of Anritsu suppliers’ environmental management systems (EMS) and product assessment procedures in order to procure environmentally conscious products from greener suppliers and to encourage environmental activities in our supply chain. In fiscal 2009, we incorporated into the system a means for assessing the management status of chemical substances in products to strengthen and improve the efficiency of supplier evaluation. In fiscal 2011, we introduced the concept of preserving biodiversity to our activities and began implementing initiatives to deepen supplier understanding of biodiversity preservation. Green Procurement Guidelines Management of Chemical Substances Contained in Products Ensuring no harmful substances are in our products requires proper and continuing chemical substance management by suppliers and companies further upstream. To this end, the Anritsu Group in Japan has been visiting domestic and overseas suppliers since fiscal 2006 to review their systems for controlling chemical substances. In fiscal 2012, we strengthened our incoming inspection system and revised our method for assessing suppliers to enhance efficiency. Briefing for business partners Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 50 Promotion of Environmental Management Group Environmental Impact Data Group Environmental Impact Data*1 (fiscal 2012) Anritsu quantifies its environmental impact and environmental protection activities in monetary and physical units in order to assess and upgrade the efficiency of these activities. We disclose the results to enable our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of our environmental actions. The environmental impact mass balance of the Anritsu Group’s global business activities is summarized below. Percentage changes from fiscal year 2011 are in parentheses. INPUT OUTPUT Electricity CO2*2 Electric power purchased 27,625.1 MWh Carbon dioxides generated as 12,565 t from power companies for use at manufacturing sites (-6.6%) a result of using electric (-7.5%) power, gas and fuels and offices NOx Gas 78,212.8 m3 Nitrogen oxides generated 651.7 kg City gas, LPG and natural gas used as energy (-8.5%) as a result of using gas and (11.9%) fuels Global Environmental Impact Data SOx Fuels 158.1 kℓ Sulfuric oxides generated 256.2 kg Heavy oil and light oil used as energy (-3.6%) as a result of using gas and fuels (30.4%) Wastewater Water Wastewater discharged 90,440 m3 109,097.4 m 3 from manufacturing sites (-13.3%) Tap water and ground water (excluding recycled water) (-12.0%) and offices BOD 191.4 kg Biochemical oxygen demand (-31.5%) Chemical substances Chemical substances that are regulated 16.5 t Waste by laws in Japan (toxic, deleterious and hazadous substances, organic solvents, (-0.7%) Municipal waste in Japan and specified chemical substances) Waste other than industrial 55.6 t waste that is generated as a result of business activities (-1.5%) (such as kitchen waste, waste Paper 46.5 t paper and waste wood) Copy paper used at factories and offices (-2.8%) Industrial waste in Japan Waste generated as a result of business activities, that is regulated by the ‘Waste 59.2 t Packaging Material Disposal and Public (-0.4%) Wrapping, packing and packaging 324.1 t Cleaning Law' such as material for products and packaging (5.8%) sludge, waste plastics, material for transportation waste acid and waste alkali Waste outside Japan 195.1 t All waste generated by (110.7%) business activities Recycling rate 78.8% Environmental Performance Data Sheet For a breakdown of the data, please refer to the Environmental Performance Data Sheet. *1 Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and environmental impact. *2 Calculations for energy sources other than electricity for sites both in and outside Japan are based on the emission factor under the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, as revised March 29, 2006. Calculation of CO2 emission volume from electricity use in the United States is based on the emission factor of 0.285, while CO2 emission volume from electricity use in regions other than the United States is based on the emission factor provided by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (actual figure for fiscal 2011: 0.476). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 51 Promotion of Environmental Management Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting (fiscal 2012) In fiscal 2012, investment for environmental conservation decreased by 19.6% compared to the previous fiscal year, despite upgrades to Hf inverter fluorescent lighting and construction work to install insulation sheets for the inner walls of buildings. Costs also decreased by 8.2% as an increase in costs related to soil contamination for preventing pollution were offset by a decrease in costs for resource recycling and costs for monitoring and measuring environmental impact. The 15.1% increase in economic impact was due in part to our consistent efforts to systematically replace air conditioners with higher efficiency options and our annual energy-saving activities, such as the Cool Biz and Warm Biz initiatives. Aggregate scope: Anritsu Corp. and Group Companies in Japan Period: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 Figures in brackets are the results from FY 2011 Environmental conservation cost Benefits Investment Cost Economic benefits Environmental impact Category Breakdown (in million yen) (in million yen) (in million yen) reduction benefits Pollution prevention cost 0.0 [1.8] 41.0 [23.2] 146.1 [146.1] Global environmental Prevention of global 3,346 (t-CO2) 17.0 [19.4] 12.3 [7.6] 135.7 [98.0] Business area conservation cost warming [1,891 (t-CO2)] cost Resource recycling/ 62.4 [95.4] 0 Reduced due to sale Resource circulation utilization activities of valuable resources cost 190 (t) Waste disposal cost 31.5 [29.5] 12.2 [9.1] Green purchasing/procurement cost 23.2[23.0] Upstream/ Design of environmentally 1,076(t-CO2) 22.3 [32.0] 38.4 [31.2]* downstream cost conscious products [643(t-CO2)]* Recycling and treatment of products, 0.0 [0.5] containers and packaging 26.6 [19.5] Environmental education/training 0 Operation and maintenance of EMS and 46.4 [45.8] 0 internal audit Administration Environmental load monitoring and 18.2 [32.8] 0 cost measurement cost Personnel expenses for 4.9 [5.2] 0 environmental management 9.8 [10.5] Greening and upkeep of greenery 0 Support to community groups, 1.2 [1.3] 0 Social activity environmental conservation bodies, etc. cost Disclosure of information 8.1 [7.9] 0.0 [2.4] Research and development to reduce R&D cost 0.4 [2.0] 0 environmental loads Environmental Cost incurred for recovery from 0.0 [0.0] 0 remediation cost environmental degradation Total 17.0 [21.2] 308.4 [336.0] 332.4 [286.7] Total after the removal of Upstream/downstream cost 294.0 [255.5] Percentage change from FY2011 to FY 2012 -19.6% -8.2% 15.1% * Estimated environmental impact reduction benefits when products are in use. Reduction of electric power: 2,261 MWh [1,837 MWh] The Anritsu Group is gradually switching to energy-saving equipment as part of our ongoing effort to reduce greenhouse gases. In fiscal 2012, we upgraded 798 units of fluorescent lighting to higher efficiency options based on the inverter method. We also attached switching strings to lights so they could be switched off individually. Through these efforts, we were able to achieve energy savings of around 15%. We will continue expanding our energy-saving measures and further reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Inverter fluorescent lighting Cost of upgrading to inverter fluorescent lighting: 13.3 million yen Reduction in CO2 emissions: 9.0 tons/year Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 52 History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities History of Anritsu's Environmental Management Activities Ceased operations at the Tanasawa site due to the consolidation of Anritsu Device Co., Ltd. operations at the Atsugi site. 2012 Created the new Hiratsuka site following the opening of a new plant by AT Techmac Co., Ltd. (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture). 2011 Contributed to local communities through ac tivities such as the Radiation Seminars f or PTAs in Koriyama Cit y, Fukushima Pref ec ture. Received the K anagawa Pref ec ture award f or meritorious ser vice in environmental improvement (f or promoting a rec ycling-oriented societ y) 2010 as a company from the Governor of K anagawa Pref ec ture. 2009 Joined the promotion par tners f or Nippon Keidanren's Declaration of Biodiversit y. 2008 E xpanded the scope of ISO14001 cer tif ication to the Anritsu business sites. Wins the K anagawa Global Environment Award 2007. 2007 Anritsu Company (U.S. A.) aquired ISO14001 cer tif ication. Wins President Award from the Atsugi Area Waste Renewal Conf erence. 2006 Anritsu Company (U.S. A.) wins E xcellence Award f or 2006 f rom Morgan Hill, Calif ornia. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. wins an excellence award f or the business division in a zero emission ac tivit y proposals contest sponsored by the 2005 Fukushima Pref ec tural Government. The f irst Global Environment Management Meeting is held at Anritsu Ltd. (U.K .) Revised Anritsu Group Green Procurement Guidelines . 2004 Anritsu group Companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites achieved zero emission. 2003 Integrated ISO14001 cer tif ication to include Anritsu group companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites. Organized Environment Promotion Center unif ied disparate environment-related depar tments. 2002 E xpanded ISO14001 cer tif ication to include Tanasawa Site and Anritsu group in the Atsugi area. Acquired the Industrial Waste Disposal Contrac tor License f or Rec ycling Center in Japan. Anritsu Limited (U.K .) acquired ISO14001 cer tif ication. 2000 Established the Anritsu Eco-Produc t system. Established the Rec ycling Center. Published Anritsu Green Procurement Guidelines f or produc t development . 1999 Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. acquired ISO14001 cer tif ication. Acquired ISO14001 cer tif ication f or Atsugi Site (Japan). Atsugi site was commended by the Manager of the K anto International Trade and Industr y Bureau as an excellent 'green' f ac tor y. 1998 Organized the Environmental Engineering Group in the Technology Division. Organized the Lead-free Soldering Commit tee. 1997 Established Anritsu's environmental polic y. Joined the Green Purchasing Net work . 1996 Established the Anritsu Environment Manual. Decommissioned the f acilities specif ied in the Air Pollution Control Ac t (kerosene boilers) at Atsugi Site. 1995 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conf erence Chairman's Award. Reorganized the ZP Commit tee at Atsugi Site into the Environment Management Commit tee. 1994 Organized the Produc t Assessment Commit tee. Ended use of all ozone-depleting substances (except ref rigerants and f ire ex tinguishing chemicals) company wide. Organized the Environment Management Commit tee. Made adjustments to comply with statutor y nickel-cadmium regulations. 1993 Established an environmental principle and environment management system regulations. Investigated f lame retardant bromic substances and disposal methods. Organized the Energy Reduc tion Subcommit tee. 1992 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conf erence Chairman's Award. 1991 Atsugi Site received the Japan Greening Center President's Award. Star ted centralized purchase and distribution of chemical substances. 1990 Organized the Environment Management Sec tion within the General Af f airs Depar tment at Atsugi Site. 1987 Construc ted elevated pipelines system of inorganic wastewater processing at Atsugi Site. 1981 Atsugi Site received an E xcellent Environment Preser vation Award f rom the K anagawa Pref ec ture Central Area Administration Center. 1980 Atsugi Site was commended as a K anagawa Pref ec ture 'green' model f ac tor y. At sugi Site w as commende d b y the K anagaw a Envir onment al Conser v ation A ssociation f or it s e xcellent envir onment al conser v ation 1979 prac tices. 1978 Connec ted waste water other than rain water to the public sewage system at Atsugi Site. 1974 Introduced an ac tivated sludge processing f acilit y as the kitchen drain water processing. 1970 Established the Zero Pollution (ZP) Commit tee at Atsugi Site. 1962 Construc ted a wastewater treatment f acilit y af ter opening a chemical engineering plant at Atsugi Site. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 53 Goal 4 Communication with Stakeholders Communication with Stakeholders Launching Our Site in India International corporations have recently been developing Anritsu establishes partnerships by pro-actively disclosing facilities and investing in the Indian market to pursue information and dialoguing with stakeholders throughout development related to mobile devices and manufacturing its business activities. mobile devices and base stations for use in that country. Anritsu’s local subsidiary, Anritsu India Private Ltd., has With Customers opened a branch office in Noida in the suburbs of Delhi. Noida is an important area where Anritsu’s key customers— With NGOs and NPOs With National and Local Governments including leading global mobile device manufacturers—are Goal 1 located, and many of our radio communication analyzers Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable are being used on our customers’ production lines. We are Society With also planning to open a service center there to provide With Suppliers Shareholders and Partners Goal 2 Goal 3 and Investors even faster support for customers strengthening their Maintaining Harmony Promoting Global with the Global Socio-Economy Environmental Protection development systems in India. Goal 4 For the Global Promoting Communications With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation 地域社会 With Local Communities との対話 Customers Employees at Anritsu India Private Limited Anritsu recognizes the importance of delivering prompt technical support to customers and quickly responding International Food Machinery and Technology Exhibition to complaints. The company is also establishing systems Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd. participated in FOOMA for support focused on the future and global information JAPAN 2012, an exhibition of technology and products sharing so that it can provide safety and security to related to food machinery, equipment and peripheral customers. equipment that was held at Tokyo Big Sight last June. We offered a demonstration in the System Exhibit Corner Mobile World Congress 2013 on detecting contaminants from raw materials using the Anritsu participates in numerous tradeshows to deepen X-ray Inspection System for chicken meat, a system we were customer understanding of Group products. At the latest exhibiting for the first time. In the Presentation Corner, we Mobile World Congress—the world’s largest tradeshow for constructed a simulation in which visitors could directly wireless communication, held this year in Barcelona, Spain— experience production line monitoring and diagnosis, we exhibited our measuring and monitoring solutions to showcase our individual barcode-based recognition for LTE-Advanced, the next-generation communication technology and surveillance cameras as well as our standard after LTE. incorporation of wireless LAN. Under the theme “Accelerating LTE-Advanced Development,” During the demonstrations we introduced our new X-ray we presented our base station simulation functions Inspection System, which offers even higher sensitivity using the MD8430A signaling tester and the Rapid Test for detecting soft contaminants in products such as pasta, Designer (RTD). We also demonstrated the verification candy, cheese and precut vegetables. functions for carrier aggregation*1—the technology used Customers enjoyed these promotional interactive exhibits, for boosting communication speeds for LTE-Advanced— as evidenced by the 2,564 responses we received to our using a reference terminal installed with Qualcomm Inc.’s questionnaire. We intend to directly apply this feedback to commercial chip. future product development and sales. *1: Technology for enhancing peak or average communication speeds by bundling multiple carrier waves to expand bandwidth. FOOMA JAPAN 2012 Mobile World Congress 2013 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 54 Communication with Stakeholders Shareholders and Investors Shareholders and Investors Activities from Fiscal 2012 to the First Quarter of Fiscal 2013 We are proactively disclosing information and encouraging Since Anritsu Corporation conducts business worldwide that interactive communication to more effectively meet the does not come into direct contact with general consumers, needs of shareholders and investors and applying their we think it is very important to inform our shareholders as feedback to improve our business and IR activities. faithfully as possible of our business structure, framework for generating profits and other factors that affect our Disclosure Policy business results. Our ongoing activities include quarterly Anritsu will disclose accurate information at any time to briefings for international institutional investors; roundtable every stakeholders with good faith and positive attitude by conferences for shareholders after our general shareholders’ observing the related laws. meeting; annual reports, business reports and other Action policy publications; disclosure of information and shareholder/ 1.Anritsu will disclose accurate information investor questionnaires on our website; and posting of IR in clear and plain speech information on external financial information sites. actively with timely and promptness; and From fiscal 2012 to May 2013, in addition to quarterly broadly with equality 2.Anritsu will place a strict control on information management financial reports and an explanation of our new Mid-term and strive to prevent insider trading. Business Plan, we reported on the procurement of 10 billion yen of yen-based convertible bonds with subscription rights System for Investor Relation Activities to share in the Euro market and an equity offering. We also In its communications with shareholders and investors, responded to inquiries and comments from shareholders Anritsu Corporation strives to achieve higher shareholder and investors. To expand our satisfaction by transparently conveying its corporate shareholder base we actively value in stock prices and return to shareholders. To this co m m u n i c ate w i t h a b ro a d end, we conduct IR activities under the leadership of the range of investors by conducting IR Promotion Team of the Corporate Communication overseas IR activities, holding Department. Comments by shareholders and investors briefings for individual investors, are shared with our Information Disclosure Committee, and exhibiting reference which includes members of management, and at the materials at IR forums IR Promotion Meeting along with information on the participation of those responsible for IR activities in the Management Strategy Center, Accounting and Control and Legal Departments. This feedback is also used for improving information disclosure and business activities. Recognition by External Organizations Anritsu Corporation has been included in the portfolios of MS-SRI: Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index of Morningstar Japan K.K. as well as many other SRI funds. The company is also a consecutive recipient of the Award for Results briefing for institutional investors Excellence in Internet Investor Relations awarded by Gomez and Nikko Investor Relations. In recognition of our growth strategy and market leadership, market research firm Frost & Sullivan also honored us with the 2012 Global Frost & Sullivan Award for Company of the Year in the test & measurement category. *As of April 1, 2013 Shareholders' roundtable conference at Anritsu Gallery held after the general shareholders’ meeting Shareholder Composition (as of March 31, 2013) Please refer to the Stock Info., Bonds and Rating page on our corporate website. http://www.anritsu.com/en-us/About-Anritsu/Investor-Relations/StockBond-Info/Stock-Information-Bond-Rating.aspx Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 55 Communication with Stakeholders Business Partners, Employees, NGOs and NPOs Business Partners Employees Strengthening trust with business partners is vital to The increasing globalization of our businesses and achieving mutual growth. We value forging even stronger diversification of work styles have raised the importance of partnerships involving the participation of our business respect for human rights and the promotion of diversity. partners in meeting society’s expectations and needs Moreover, from the perspectives of recruiting human through the operations of the entire supply chain. resources and revitalizing internal communications, we are emphasizing systems and workplace environments that Business Partner Gathering allow diverse personnel to work in comfort. On January 11, 2013, we hosted a business partners gathering that drew 259 representatives of 132 Anritsu Revitalizing Communication with Employees business partners from Japan and overseas. We shared a “Hashimoto’s Room” is a communication channel through progress report on initiatives related to our “2020 VISION” which President Hashimoto shares information with the and our mid-term business plan, and requested their entire Group, including his thoughts on everyday topics as cooperation in the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline for well as issues directly related to management. He imparts building an even stronger supply chain. his thoughts, values and messages to all employees of the Anritsu Group, including his assessment of business performance, our progress on the mid-term business plan, and future strategies. The site is translated into English and Chinese and updated weekly. President Hashimoto and other executive managers also visit Group companies in Asia, Europe and the United States, creating opportunities for direct communication with employees in each region. Alongside these efforts, we also conduct employee satisfaction surveys to monitor how well they understand Presented awards to our valued business partners the direction of the company, the relative penetration of our corporate philosophy and policy, workplace communication, Partnerships with NGOs and NPOs and the general sense of fulfillment at work. In fiscal 2012, we conducted surveys in the United States, the Asia-Pacific In addition to contributing to society through our business region and Japan, and we are working to identify issues activities, Anritsu also pursues activities that support faced by each region to formulate and execute plans for regional development as a member of the regional improvement. community. One way we provided support in fiscal 2012 in the area affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake was Labor Union to work with Save the Children Japan as a sponsor of the In fiscal 2012, the Anritsu Labor Union celebrated its 60th Autumn Camp in Konan for children prevented from playing anniversary. To ensure continuous growth with profit for the outdoors because of the disaster. entire Anritsu Group, the labor union has cooperated with We will continue to partner in similar activities that serve the management while maintaining a robust organizational needs of the regional community. structure, working for the comfort and affluence of its members and contributing to society. In fiscal 2012, the union held four labor-management conferences in addition to special committee meetings and seminars for new members. It also organized a number of social events, including a potato dig and a skiing and snowboarding trip as well as a fundraiser to support earthquake reconstruction during Green Festa 2012 held at the Anritsu headquarters. Autumn Camp in Konan 2012 Save the Children Japan http://www.savechildren.or.jp/jpnem/eng/index.html Seminars for new members Skiing and snowboarding trip Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 56 CSR Results for Fiscal 2012, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2013 Unless otherwise speciffed, the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and its Group Companies in Japan. Performance evaluation ○：fully attained △：attained 50% or more CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Evaluation Objectives for Fiscal 2013 (1) Share the CS Action Guidelines. (1) Held a presentation in China and shared CS Ac tion ○ (1) Share the CS Action Guidelines. (2) Provide CS education through in-house and external Guidelines. Service for lecturers. (2) Conducted CS training for new employees, managers and ○ (2) Conduct CS training in China. Customers (3) Set up a customer contact point. staff in charge. (3) Prepared a list of customer contact points, launched pilot ○ (3) Enhance customer support center. Goal 1 CRM system. Contributing to Solutions for Global expansion of timely communication via CSR news Began global expansion of timely communication via CSR △ (1) Implement brand strategy. Build a Safe, Secure, Social Issues column. news column. (2) Continue global expansion of CSR news. and Comfortable Identify issues and implement priority measures based on the Designated “response to human rights issues” and “promotion Society mid-term business plan. of local CSR” as key strategic goals. Response (1) Addressed conflict minerals as a human rights issue of the ○ (1) Implement global response to conflict minerals. to Social supply chain. Expectations (2) Regularly confirmed progress on activities at locations ○ (2) Share CSR issues with representatives in locations outside outside Japan and promoted communication. Japan and address issues at each site. (1) Global: formulate and implement measures for (1) Held a seminar entitled “Guideline for Preventing Bribery” ○ (1) Implement measures f or enhancing awareness on enhancing awareness on compliance, primarily in China and began explaining guidelines for preventing compliance, targeting Chinese and other locations outside Establishment of targeting the Chinese locations. bribery and extortion in the United States. Japan. Compliance (2) Implement new measures for enhancing awareness on (2) Opened “Workplace Helpline ” as an external helpline. ○ (2) Conduct Group compliance and harassment seminars in compliance at group companies in Japan. Japan. (1) Web filtering (1) Completed in the first quarter. ○ (1) Strengthen management of confidential information. Implement web filtering for Internet access control. (2) Completed education for new employees in the first quarter ○ (2) Security education (2) Security education and video-based security training during CSR Promotion Conduc t inf ormation securit y education f or new Month in the third quarter. Promotion of Risk employees using video during CSR Promotion Month. (3) Completed activities for the ISMS Promotion Committee ○ (3) Maintain ISMS certification. Management (3) ISMS*1 certification and conducted an external audit in the third quarter. (Information Undergo ISMS audit by an external organization. (4) Improve IT control (4) Implementation in progress. ○ (4) Address ITGC/AC observations. Security) Address internal control requirements identified through (5) Implemented in the second quarter. ○ (5) Internal audit on information management ITGC*2 assessment. (5) Internal audit on information management Implement an internal audit on information management. (1) Promote risk management practices at each (1) Held a workshop for sales and other divisions in the Test ○ (1) Promote implementation of risk management at each division(reduce dependence on individual staf f ). and Measurement Business. division of ever y Anritsu Group subsidiar y. Held workshop-style managerial training (attendance: (Activities to reduce material risks) approximately 180). Including the training for division leaders held in fiscal 2011, approximately 60% of Promotion of Risk management-level employees have attended the Management training. (Internal Controls) (2) Reduce risk and enhance operational quality through an (2) Conducted an operational audit in the development ○ (2) Enhance operational quality through design and operational audit based on the risk approach. division, SCM division, Japanese and U.S. subsidiaries. implementation of an audit plan based on the risk approach. (3) Fully grasp practical trade transactions between Anritsu (3) Conducted an audit for trade compliance. ○ Group companies and expand ef fective auditing of In particular, examined loaned demonstration products trade compliance based on the risk approach. and audited the local management system of U.S. subsidiaries. (1) Develop a global SCM system. (1) Held a kickof f meeting for the Global Supply Chain Committee, ○ (1) Develop a global SCM system (Promote GSCC). Goal 2 and began construction of a supply chain integrating the four Maintaining bases in Japan, the U.S., Europe and China. Harmony with (2) Promote regular monitoring of suppliers. (2) Improved defect and on-time deliver y rates, conducted ○ (2) Establish audit system for hazardous substances. the Global Supply Chain process audits at 18 companies to improve our RoHS Management compliance rate. Socio-Economy (3) Conducted a corporate ethics survey for FY2012 (54 ○ (3) Establish response to conflict minerals (Promote CSR (3) Promote CSR procurement. responses from 47 companies; no violations reported). procurement). (4) Strengthen BCM and governance systems. (4) Collected data relevant to BCM from 1,766 sites centered ○ (4) Strengthen BCM and governance systems. on secondar y suppliers and beyond. (1) Expand recruitment of foreign nationals and establish an (1) Expanded recruitment of foreign nationals by of fering an ○ (1) Establish recruitment of foreign nationals. employment framework. internship in China and recruiting in Philippines. Respect for (2) Establish an evaluation system for developing human (2) Established an evaluation system for developing human ○ (2) Complete draf t of an evaluation system for developing resources. resources, and decided to conduct a trial in fiscal 2013. human resources. Human Rights and Promotion (3) Develop job types and categories for the elderly and (3) Established a dedicated division for developing job △ (3) Formulate a proposal for developing job types and people with disabilities. categories for the elderly and people with disabilities categories for the elderly and people with disabilities. of Diversity at a Group company to consider dispatching personnel Human Resource to companies inside and outside the Group and explore Development possibilities for new businesses. (4) Implement a global employee satisfaction survey. (4) Implemented a global employee satisfaction survey ○ (4) Recommencement of GHRC (Global Human Resource (Japan, U.S., and China). Committee) activities. (1) Plan and implement the Action Plan to Support Child (1) Widened the eligibility for taking childcare hours to include ○ (1) Launch a website on programs for childcare and support for Welfare (balancing work and child rearing). employees with children up to the sixth grade. balancing work and child-raising. Established a subsidy for use of family support centers operated by local governments, to be implemented starting Labor Safety and in fiscal 2013. Health 1 male employee obtained childcare leave. (2) Review BCP and implement summer electricity usage (2) Reviewed the fire-fighting plan and disaster prevention ○ (2) Establish a disaster prevention system (formulate a BCP plan measures. training as a disaster prevention activity and first-response for the headquarters). activity in times of a disaster. (1) Promote community contribution activities worldwide. (1) Advanced communication with locations around outside ○ (1) Promote collaboration with NGOs and NPOs. Promotion Japan and confirmed our contribution to local communities. of Social (2) Strengthen social contribution for youth education. (2) Supported “Autumn Camp,” sponsored by Koriyama PTA ○ (2) Promote social contribution activities at locations outside Contribution with the participation of volunteers and held “Kanagawa Japan. Activities Science Summer” in Kanagawa Prefecture and provided volunteers. (1) Waste reduction and recycling (1) Waste reduction and recycling (1) Waste reduction and recycling Maintain waste emission under 160.4 tons (Japan). Emitted waste was 114.5 tons (Japan). [targeting below ○ Maintain waste emission under 160.4 tons (Japan). 160.4 tons] Reduce volume of landfill waste by 5% compared to fiscal Volume of landfill waste reduced by 42% compared to ○ Reduce volume of landfill waste by 20% compared to 2010 (USA). fiscal 2010 (USA). [targeting 5% reduction] fiscal 2010 (USA). (2) Resource and energy conservation (2) Resource and energy conservation ○ (2) Resource and energy conservation Goal 3 Reduce energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by 9.0% Reduced energy consumption by 24.6% Reduce energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) by Promotion of compared to fiscal 2006 (Japan). compared to fiscal 2006(Japan). [targeting 9% reduction] 1.0% on average by 2020 compared to fiscal 2012 (Japan). Promoting Global Environmental Reduce energy consumption by 5.0% compared to fiscal Reduced energy consumption by 40% compared to ○ Reduce energy consumption by 5.0% compared to fiscal Environmental Management 2010 (USA) fiscal 2010(USA). [targeting 5% reduction] 2010 (USA). Protection (3) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (3) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) Ratio of environmentally conscious products of all products Completed development of all 6 targeted products as ○ Ratio of environmentally conscious products of all covered: 100% environmentally conscious products. products covered: 100% Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or more Completed development of all 3 targeted products that ○ Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or of all products covered: 100% can save resources by 10% or more. more of all products covered: 100% Ratio of products that are 30% or more power efficient of Completed development of all 2 targeted products with ○ Ratio of products that are 30% or more power ef ficient all products covered: 100% at least a 30% improvement in power ef ficiency. of all products covered: 100% (1) Hold stakeholder dialogues and reported results in the CSR (1) Held stakeholder dialogue and reported results in the CSR ○ (1) Promote communication through stakeholder dialogues. Goal 4 Report. Communication Report. Promoting with Stakeholders (2) Distribute and promote the use of the CSR Report in regions (2) Distributed and promoted the use of the CSR Report in ○ (2) Research the status of CSR communication in each global region. Communications across the globe. regions across the globe. ·USA is represented by Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) *1 Information Security Management System: System for verifying appropriate management of information assets by an organization through an assessment conducted by a third party based on a set of standards. *2 IT general control: Internal control activity for guaranteeing an environment that ensures the effective functioning of application control. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 57 GRI Guidelines Index Item Indicator Report Page 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 5-6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 5-6, 7-12 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Back Cover 2.2 Primar y brands, products, and/or services. 3-4, 7-10 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 1-2 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 1 2.5 Number and names of countries where the organization operates. 1-2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 1 2.7 Markets served. 1-4, 7-10 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 1-4, 7-10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. None 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 55 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 3.3 Reporting cycle. 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 3.5 Process for defining report content. 1, 11-12, 54-56 3.6 Boundar y of the report. 1 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundar y of the report. 1 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly af fect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. None 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 34, 38, 42-45 3.10 Reasons for any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. None 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3.6 or 3.9 37 3.12 Table identif ying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 58-59 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Website 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. ( corporate governance ) Website 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive of ficer. ( corporate governance ) Website 4.3 State the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. ( corporate governance ) Compliance promotion 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. system, shareholders’ meeting and Investors visiting. 55, 56 Website 4.5 Linkage between compensation for management,and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). ( corporate governance ) Website 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ( Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, Chapter 5 ) Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social 4.8 6, 17 performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, 4.9 17 environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionar y approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 5-6 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes 4.12 5-6 or endorses. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 54 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 54 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 54-56 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to them. 13-16 Economic Website Management Approach ( Mid-term business plan ), 11-12 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and EC1 1 other communit y investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. Annual Report EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. NA EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 29-30 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. 31 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit. 35-36 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 58 GRI Guidelines Index Item Indicator Report Page Environmental Management Approach 37 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 51 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primar y energy source. 51 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primar y source. 51 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and ef ficiency improvements. 42 Initiatives to provide energy-ef ficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a EN6 48-50 result of these initiatives. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 51 EN9 Water sources significantly af fected by withdrawal of water. 43 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 43 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 40 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas af fected by operations, by level of extinction risk. NA EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 51 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 38 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 42 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 51 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 51 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 46, 47, 51 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. NA EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 48-50 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by categor y. 44, 48-50 Monetar y value of significant fines and total number of non-monetar y sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and EN28 NA regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and EN29 38 transporting members of the work force. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 52 Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach 31-34 LA1 Total work force by employment type, employment contract, and region. 31 LA15 Return to work and retention rates af ter parental leave, by gender. 31 LA7 Rates of injur y, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 2, 34 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist work force members, their families, or community LA8 34 members regarding serious diseases. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing LA11 33 career endings. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per categor y according to indicators of diversity. 2, 31-33 Human Rights Performance Indicators Management Approach 29-30, 31-32 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 26 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. NA Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the HR6 24, 29 ef fective abolition of child labor. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsor y labor, and measures to HR7 24, 29 contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsor y labor. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. NA Society Performance Indicators Management Approach 35, 36 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 26 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. NA SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. NA SO8 Monetar y value of significant fines and total number of non-monetar y sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. NA Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Management Approach 18-20 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntar y codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and PR2 NA services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntar y codes concerning product and service information and PR4 NA labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 18-20 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, PR7 NA promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. NA Monetar y value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and PR9 NA services. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 59 Independent Review and Response to Independent Review Independent Review Director, CSR Asia Japan Makiko Akabane Anritsu endeavors to consistently respond to the needs of the headquarter, and also ensures that the company’s the times and has steadfastly invested in R&D regardless actions are locally appropriate. It is important to clarify the of prevailing circumstances so that it can continue to offer responsibility and authority involved in the effort so that cutting-edge technology to address society’s needs. In the organizations in each part of the world can act responsibly Top Commitment section I note that President Hashimoto, and with confidence when dealing with complicated social in seeking to refine the corporate brand, has summarized his issues. message in the phrase: “Visionary Partnership to innovate Anritsu places great emphasis on stakeholder for tomorrow's society.” This communicates to your internal communications, designating it as Goal 4. To avoid turning and external stakeholders the lofty aspiration of turning the this dialogue into a fleeting event conducted for the Anritsu Group into a global enterprise both in name and purposes of the report, we have positioned the conversation fact, and provides an outstanding expression of how CSR over the past two years as a fixed-point observation has been incorporated into the management philosophy of by having the same participants as last year. I think the the Anritsu Group. I would like to offer my observations on promptness with which the company has been responding our “Anritsu Group CSR Report 2013” from the standpoint of to suggestions offered by stakeholders in these dialogues turning the Anritsu Group into a global enterprise. demonstrates the sincerity of the Anritsu Group. One expectation of a global enterprise is a high level of With respect to stakeholder communications, one area I commitment to supply chain management as it relates would like to see the company apply additional effort in human rights. Since 2012, this has emerged as the top is the dialogue with NGOs and NPOs, which is also part priority in the results of an annual survey of CSR experts of Goal 4. In CSR Asia’s annual expert hearings, NGOs and conducted by CSR Asia. While the issue carries considerable NPOs have collectively appeared at the top of the list since risks, companies are increasingly being called upon to 2011 as the sector expected to have the greatest impact disclose information on their local factories and overseas on CSR activities in Asia. When we turn our attention to business partners. It is important to raise the awareness of other global enterprises, they have clearly adopted a local worksites through education and communication. highly strategic approach for dialogue and collaboration In pursuing the globalization of its CSR activities, the Anritsu with NGOs and NPOs. High-tech companies like Anritsu Group has created a framework in which local Human stand out from industrial machinery factories in Thailand Resource department are entrusted with the responsibility and Shanghai, and its Group companies and/or supply of regionally promoting CSR in the Americas, Europe and chain may draw criticism from NGOs. Recognizing Anritsu’s Asia. Using a localized framework to address social issues aspiration to become a global enterprise, I recommend that such as human rights allows for a much faster response the company take a more strategic approach to deepening than would be possible through a centralized effort by its relationships with NGOs and NPOs. Response to Independent Review We sincerely appreciate Ms. Akabane’s evaluation of our While we will address the issue of supply chain and human report, which describes the relationship between our CSR rights by focusing on our response to conflict minerals, activities and business operations in fiscal 2012. we plan to deepen our efforts on globalization in the We created a section entitled “Solutions for Social Issues” promotion of global CSR by clarifying the scope of activities (p. 7–10) in the hope of instilling a deeper understanding and responsibilities of the local divisions, as suggested by among more stakeholders about how our core business Ms. Akabane. We also intend to consider the nature and contributes to society. As in the previous year, we invited development of our relationship with NGOs and NPOs from the same three experts to participate in our stakeholder a strategic standpoint. dialogue. The suggestions that Ms. Akabane offered in her We are resolved to continue promoting our CSR activities Independent Review regarding the supply chain and human by incorporating Ms. Akabane’s recommendations and the rights, promotion of global CSR and dialogue with NGOs other feedback we received from our many stakeholders. and NPOs were also noted by dialogue participants as key CSR Promotion Team, Corporate Communication Department themes for Anritsu’s future activities. Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2013 60
