Responsibility Responsibility builds on conviction Sustainability Report 2012 2 Sustainability Report 2012 | About this Report Sustainability Report 2012 | Selected Key Figures 3 About this Report Selected Key Figures This sustainability report is Aareal Bank Group’s first detailed and systematic report on its social and 1 Jan1 JanChanges environmental performance. It represents the fruits of the Company’s efforts to make the effects of its 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 business activities on the natural and social environment transparent to clients, shareholders, investors, € mn € mn € mn employees, suppliers and the wider public. Income Statement Operating profit 176 185 -9 The sustainability report is the result of a strategy process in which we analysed sustainability as it relates Net income after non-controlling interests 105 114 -9 to us and our courses of action open to us in detail. We then set ourselves corresponding goals for the coming years. These goals are presented in this report. Going forward, regular sustainability reporting will Indicators chart our progress in reaching these goals every year. Cost/income ratio (%) 1) 40.9 43.9 Earnings per share (€) 1.75 2.11 Our first sustainability report invites stakeholders to join the conversation. It is designed as a springboard RoE before taxes (%) 7.2 8.3 for systematic communication with our stakeholder groups – on questions relating to the evolution of our RoE after taxes (%) 4.8 5.7 sustainability strategy and to specific expectations of our Company. 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Changes Changes Reporting period and scope This report and the figures presented in it relate to the financial years 2010, 2011 and 2012. This report € mn € mn € mn % covers Aareal Bank Group; data or statements relating to individual Group companies are identified as Portfolio Data such. Property financing 23,304 23,986 -682 -3 of which: international 19,991 20,425 -434 -2 Content of the report Equity 2,352 2,169 183 8 This report is largely based on the third generation (3.0) guidelines on sustainability reporting of the Total assets 45,734 41,814 3,920 9 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and also takes into account the Financial Services Sector Supplement. An overview of the GRI indicators and a reference to the relevant page in the sustainability report is provided Regulatory Indicators on page 55 et seq. Tier 1 ratio pursuant to AIRBA 2) 16.7 16.3 Total capital ratio pursuant to AIRBA 2) 20.6 19.5 Editorial note The editorial deadline for this report was 30 June 2013. To improve readability we have largely avoided 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 writing out legal forms. All figures and data have been compiled with the greatest care and, to our know­ ledge, the information provided is correct. However, we cannot assume any liability for the accuracy and completeness of this information. The German version of this Sustainability Report will prevail exclusively. Ratings Fitch Ratings, London – long-term AAFurther information Fitch Ratings, London – short-term F1 F1 Further information on sustainability can be found on the Internet at www.aareal-bank.com. Information Mortgage Pfandbriefe AAA AAA on current developments relating to sustainability at Aareal Bank Group is provided here on an ongoing Public-sector Pfandbriefe AAA AAA basis. oekom research C Prime Sustainalytics 57 50 EIRIS/imug Participation Participation CDP 67 D 1) Structured Property Financing segment only 2) Advanced Internal Ratings-Based Approach 4 Sustainability Report 2012 | Contents Sustainability Report 2012 | Contents 5 Sustainability Strategy and Clients and Management Products Employees Environment Society Contents 14 24 32 42 50 Long-term business success is a key Aareal Bank Group’s business model is The success of a company is largely deAareal Bank Group is keen to minimise Doing business goes beyond a company’s aspect of Aareal Bank Group’s corporate based on two pillars. The Structured pendent on its employees. Qualified and the impact its business activities have on actual business activities – it also involves philosophy. It provides the foundation for Property Financing segment provides cusmotivated employees play a key role in the environment. It therefore endeavours taking social responsibility. This is why the success of our group of companies, tomised financial services for commercial economic performance and, in this way, to use energy and consumables as effiAareal Bank Group supports a large numwhich has been operating to the benefit property clients, while the Consulting / are an important factor for success – ciently as possible and to obtain them ber of external educational and academic of its clients for 90 years. 2012 saw us Services segment offers a comprehensive including compared to the competition. from renewable sources. Its suppliers’ initiatives, as well as charitable and social devise our sustainability strategy, setting range of services for the commercial manThis is why Aareal Bank Group operates com­pliance with environmental standards organisations. This is not limited to mere the framework for our everyday activities agement of properties by the institutional a targeted employee development policy also plays a role. financial support, i.e. donations and spon– from senior management through to housing industry. The Company takes a to promote its employees’ professional sorship. It also includes employee involveindividual employees. long-term approach to client relations and and personal skills. In addition, we take ment and knowledge transfer. aims to provide sustainable solutions. specific measures to improve employees’ work-life balance and offer a Company Health Management programme. 03 Selected Key Figures 06 Interview with Dr Wolf Schumacher 08 Company Profile 55 GRI Index 58 GRI Statement 6 Sustainability Report 2012 | Interview with Dr Wolf Schumacher Sustainability Report 2012 | Interview with Dr Wolf Schumacher 7 ”For us, sustainability shares or in our Pfandbriefe and bonds has to continue to pay off for our investors. In addition, the ques­ is not a fashion – it has been tion of continuing professional development and individual opportunities is also very important to our employees. driving our business for decades.“ What are your focus areas and issues within sustainability? Dr Wolf Schumacher, We essentially have five areas in which we put sustainability into practice: clients and products, employees, Chairman of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG shareholders, the environment and society. We conducted an internal analysis to identify key sustainability issues and define the issues that are ultimately relevant to our stakeholders. Specifically, these include integrity in doing business, transparency and reporting, as well as employee development, work-life balance, and diversity and equal opportunities. What does sustainability mean for you in relation to Aareal Bank’s employees, for example? Qualified and motivated employees are crucial to a company’s performance and, in this way, are an impor­ tant factor for its success. This is why companies have to invest in their employees as their most important resource – as we do. We operate a targeted employee development policy to promote our employees’ professional and personal skills. We also offer our employees an employer-funded occupational pension scheme and flexible working models, among other things, to promote a better work-life balance. In addi­ Interview with Dr Wolf Schumacher tion, our Company Health Management programme helps our employees to stay healthy. Aareal Bank appears to have come through the crisis extraordinarily well. What makes you different from other banks? We certainly held up very well over the past few of years in what was an extremely challenging environ­ ment for the entire sector. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, we have an extremely solid business Dr Schumacher, Aareal Bank is celebrating its 90th anniversary this year. You have a very model based on two strong pillars – Structured Property Financing and Consulting / Services. On the other solid reputation and you received a positive rating from oekom research for your sustainability hand, we have always run a purely client-focused business and, as a result, we have very solid relation­ performance. Is Aareal Bank a sustainable bank? ships with our customers – which we continued to maintain throughout the financial and economic crisis. We are aware that our responsibilities do not end with our bottom line of our Income Statement. We see This pays off. Above all, however, we attach great importance to being sustainable in the way we do busi­ ourselves as a company that acts in the interests of its customers, shareholders, investors, employees, as ness – thinking long-term, acting soundly and prudently, and adapting your business model to new market well as society at large. As a result, we define sustainability as managing the bank soundly on behalf of conditions in good time also enables you to deal with crises. our stakeholders over many decades. The high level of trust that our stakeholders place in the longevity of the company is what impels us to make decisions that we can accept responsibility for tomorrow. What do you have planned for the coming years with respect to sustainability? We are a medium-sized company, and the flexibility that goes with this – both in terms of developing What made you decide to create a sustainability report? solutions and our streamlined internal decision-making processes – is an important part of our corporate A company cannot justify its existence unless it is anchored in society. For us, sustainability is not a fashion – culture. We see our commitment to sustainability as a long-term commitment and want to contribute any it has been driving our business for decades. A look at the history of our company is ample evidence of way we can. To do this, we will assume a high degree of responsibility for driving forward the areas and this: support for our clients that spans many years, our in-depth understanding of their needs and the issues that we have identified and presented in our Sustainability Report on an ongoing basis, and for markets in which we are active – these are all central to a sustainability-driven business model. At the making this transparent. same time, communicating this in a transparent manner is today a vital part of sound and far-sighted corporate governance. Sustainability is an increasingly important issue for all of our stakeholders. And that is one of the reasons why we now want to make our actions more transparent by presenting this Sustain­ ability Report. Innovation and longevity are recurring themes in Aareal Bank’s history. Aren’t these mutually exclusive? Aareal Bank Group has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since 2012. By signing No. A company has to act solidly and take a forward-looking approach, but at the same time it has to be the UN Global Compact, Aareal Bank Group is committed to aligning its business processes with the adaptable and flexible. Otherwise it will not survive. It is only through innovating and by continually ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and antiimproving its products and services that a company can safeguard its right to exist on the market. For us, corruption. this means that our products and services have to remain attractive for our clients. And investing in our 8 Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile 9 Company Profile Aareal Bank Group has a long tradition and a solid, forwardlooking business model. With its two segments Structured Prop­ erty Financing and Consulting/Services the Group is a leading international property specialist in the commercial property and housing industries. 10 Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile 11 Identity and Company history Aareal Bank features a mid-sized structure, which ensures close cooperation, swift action and tailored solutions. This mid-sized structure also informs our judicious, risk-sensitive and prudent approach. That is We have always put our clients at the centre of our business activities since the Bank was founded in 1923. why our clients have placed their trust in us for the last 90 years. Since then, our expertise has grown steadily and become increasingly international. From financing private residential construction in the early years of the Company, we have today grown to become a partner for Our long-standing client relationships are based on our longevity and stability. Both are reflected in the commercial property financing across three continents and an end-to-end service provider for the institu­ fact that we move with the time and continually adapt our business model to changing requirements. For tional housing industry. us, continually demonstrating client benefits is an ongoing challenge, and one that we want to meet in a dependable manner. Our readiness to adapt to new circumstances and take on new ideas and challenges The factors that make our business successful – local market and property expertise, face-to-face client is what makes us successful. In this way, we have developed an awareness of how important trust is and contact, in-depth analysis of their needs and client support, often spanning many years – have remained how far we have to go to retain this at the Bank over many decades. This has shaped our identity. In the a driving force throughout. Our mission was and is to create tangible benefits for our stakeholders and the recent past, our business model has proven to be crisis-proof – and this is one of the reasons why. real economy. Company history since 1923 – milestones 1979 The Federal Republic of Germany transfers its 1957 majority shareholding in Deutsche Bauund The bank’s ultra modern data centre commences Bodenbank AG to Deutsche Pfandbriefanstalt, operations in Mainz. The innovative IT products for which went public in March 1991. 2002 the commercial housing industry mark the beginning of a new business area. Concentrating on the core areas of expertise leads to the formation of two specialist banks: besides DePfa Bank plc as the public 1926 sector financing provider, Aareal Bank AG is established and has its The bank’s name changes to initial public offering in June of that year. 1948 Deutsche Bauund Bodenbank AG. Deutsche Bauund Bodenbank establishes a second office The first system for evaluating potential 1999 in Frankfurt/Main. The institution begins supporting the borrowers is developed. Deutsche Bauund Bodenbank becomes known as construction sector early on by providing innovative bridging DePfa Bank AG – encompassing all of Pfandbriefbank 1923 finance for home loan and savings contracts. AG’s property activities. On 20 July, Deutsche Wohnstätten2005 Bank AG is founded in Berlin, Aareal Bank AG’s two strong segments emerge: to provide construction financing. ”Structured Property Financing“ and ”Consulting / Services“ are the central pillars of a successful business model that has since found success across three continents. Further information on the 90-year anniversary of Aareal Bank Group are available under www.aareal-bank-90years.com 12 Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile Sustainability Report 2012 | Company Profile 13 Aareal Bank Group’s portfolio and services Property financing portfolio by region 1) Property financing portfolio by type of property 1) Aareal Bank Group operates in over 20 countries across three continents – Europe, North America and as at 31 Dec 2012 as at 31 Dec 2012 Asia. The parent company of the Group is Aareal Bank AG, which is listed in the MDAX index. The Asia 3 % Others 2 % Group’s companies are bundled under the Aareal Bank AG umbrella in the Structured Property Financing Residential 9 % Northern Europe 11 % Western Europe and Consulting / Services segments. (excl. Germany) 28 % Logistics 11 % Eastern Europe 12 % Office 33 % Aareal Bank Group locations on three continents North America 13 % Hotel 22 % Southern Europe 18 % Germany 15 % Retail 23 % Europe Property financing portfolio by type of product 1) Property financing portfolio by LTV range 2) North America Asia as at 31 Dec 2012 as at 31 Dec 2012 Financing of new property Others 1 % > 80 % = 3 % development 4 % < 60 % = 89 % Structured Property Financing Financing of existing 60-80 % = 8 % property 95% Structured Property Financing Structured Property Financing 1) Total volume under management of € 23.5 billion as at 31 December 2012 (property financing under management includes property financing volumes in the amount of € 0.2 billion Consulting/Services managed on behalf of Deutsche Pfandbriefbank AG); 2) Performing loan portfolio only Aareal Bank, Real Estate Structured Finance: Brussels, Copenhagen, Aareal Bank, Institutional Housing Unit: Berlin, Essen, Hamburg, Leipzig, Dublin, Istanbul, London, Madrid, Moscow, New York, Paris, Rome, Munich, Stuttgart, Wiesbaden | Aareon AG: Berlin, Coventry, Dortmund, Shanghai, Singapore, Stockholm, Warsaw, Wiesbaden | Emmen, Enschede, Essen, Hamburg, Hückelhoven, Leipzig, Leusden, Mainz, As an active issuer of Pfandbriefe and uncovered bank bonds, Aareal Bank has a sound, broad base for its Aareal Valuation GmbH: Wiesbaden | Aareal Estate AG: Wiesbaden Meudon-la-Forêt, Munich, Nantes, Orléans, Son en Breugel, Southampton, refinancing requirements. Deposits by institutional investors are another key source of refinancing. These Stuttgart, Swansea, Toulouse | Deutsche Bauund Grundstücks-AG: are largely independent of the capital markets and represent an important additional component in the Berlin, Bonn, Moscow, Munich | Aareal First Financial Solutions AG: Mainz Bank’s long-term funding mix. The Consulting/Services segment offers solutions for the housing and commercial property industries, as well as for the energy and waste management markets. In addition to specialised banking services, these include in particular processing automated mass payments and optimising higher-level processes. In the Structured Property Financing segment, Aareal Bank Group provides support for domestic and We also draw on over fifty years’ experience in providing consulting, software and services to optimise international clients investing in property. Our particular strength lies in our combination of local market IT-based business processes for property companies and their clients and partners. Our service range is expertise and sector-specific know-how. Alongside local specialists, we have teams of logistics, shopping systematically focused on our clients’ needs. centre and hotel financing experts. This enables us to develop solid, tailored financing solutions for our clients. 14 Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management 15 Sustainability Strategy and Management Long-term business success is a key aspect of Aareal Bank Group’s corporate philosophy. It provides the foundation for the success of our group of companies, which has been operating to the benefit of its clients for 90 years. 2012 saw us devise our sustainability strategy, setting the framework for our everyday activities – from senior management through to individual employ­ ees. 16 Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management 17 Why we operate sustainably Our sustainability strategy Now more than ever before, there is pressure on companies to make a contribution to sustainable eco­ Aareal Bank Group’s sustainability strategy is an integral part of our corporate strategy and helps us nomic and social development. The finance industry plays a special role in this – both in terms of its own achieve our corporate objectives. As a committed, forward-looking company, we see five key areas in business activities and at the client interface. which we put sustainability into practice: Contributing to sustainable economic development is therefore a priority for Aareal Bank Group. By doing Clients and products: To develop Aareal Bank Group’s core business sustainably, the Company brings so, the Company aims to protect the resources and choices available to future generations. As a private its business philosophy to bear when discussing sustainability trends and developing sustainable solutions bank, Aareal Bank Group finances properties and acts as an intermediary between investors and borrowers. in the world of finance. As a partner to the property industry, we pay particular attention to the require­ Aareal Bank AG is the lead bank to the housing industry in Germany and offers payment solutions, rent ments and tasks facing the sector as it applies sustainability aspects to its business operations. payment processing and deposit management. Through its Aareon AG subsidiary, Aareal Bank operates the IT systems and consultancy business for the institutional housing industry. Since it was founded Employees: Aareal Bank Group’s employees are the most important agents of the Company’s sustain­ 90 years ago, a guiding principle has evolved at Aareal Bank Group: that it should be able to operate ability activities. We therefore sensitise our employees to various sustainability issues and foster their successfully and in line with ethical principles not only in the short term, but over the long term, too. motivation and ability to put sustainability into practice in their everyday work. This also supports our efforts Numerous measures are taken to achieve this, ranging from interacting with business partners and share­ to offer employees an attractive working environment with long-term prospects. holders through to safeguarding attractive jobs for our employees. Shareholders: Aareal Bank Group regularly informs its shareholders about sustainability trends which are material to its business and the corresponding measures taken. Our successful participation in ratings How we ensure sustainability and rankings means this is also documented by third parties. Aareal Bank Group is aware of the responsibility and the need to focus on social requirements associated Environment: In day-to-day operations, Aareal Bank Group gives consideration to environmental with its aspiration to sustainability and documents this in its sustainability strategy. The greater public inter­ requirements and endeavours to improve its global footprint – the impact of its own activities on the environ­ est in consideration being given not only to economic, but also to environmental and social requirements, ment. Besides using energy more sparingly, we also achieve this through sustainable procurement. and stakeholders’ increased need for information confirm that we are on the right track. We regard all groups with a justified interest in Aareal Bank Group’s activities as stakeholders. These include not only Society: In addition to its direct business activities, Aareal Bank Group aims to make a further contribu­ shareholders, but also clients, investors, employees and all those affected by our decisions. tion to improving the common good. It does so, for example, by providing money, materials and expertise for projects. Our focus here is on supporting education in the finance and property industry and providing To implement its sustainability strategy, Aareal Bank Group has developed a vision that is being translated targeted long-term support for individual social projects. into action through an integrated sustainability management approach. This system is based on regular dialogue with our stakeholders. It enables key sustainability issues to be efficiently integrated into the interaction with stakeholder groups, and for what they expect the Company to do to be recorded more Identifying the key issues effectively. Aareal Bank Group used an internal analysis to define key sustainability issues with a view to promptly identifying those issues that are of relevance to stakeholders and the Company. These were weighted ac­ cording to their importance for stakeholders and the Company’s success and form the basis of the sustain­ ability programme, which is supported by appropriate implementation packages. For Aareal Bank Group, the key sustainability issues include “integrity in doing business” and “transpar­ ”For Aareal Bank, operating sustainably ency and reporting”, as these are very important for both stakeholders and the Company’s success. “Em­ ployee development”, “work-life balance” and “diversity and equal opportunities” also feature among the in a way that is guided by particularly relevant issues. social requirements is a natural part of our business model. We are willing to take on responsibility.” Dr Wolf Schumacher, Chairman of the Management Board of Aareal Bank AG 18 Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management 19 How we organise sustainability Establishing the strategic principles that guide our sustainability management is the responsibility of the Sustainability Committee. This is made up of the Chairman of the Management Board and Chief Operating At an organisational level, Aareal Bank Group has assigned sustainability management to the Chairman of Officer of Aareal Bank, the Chairman of the Management Board of Aareon and the Group Sustainability the Management Board. This not only underlines the strategic importance of sustainability for our corpo­ Officer. The Sustainability Committee meets every six months and on an ad hoc basis, with meetings rate philosophy; it also means that its practical implementation is organised and managed from the highest chaired by the Chairman of the Bank’s Management Board. level. The Chairman of the Management Board puts the sustainability strategy and the annual programme for its implementation to the Management Board for discussion and approval. He also keeps the Manage­ The Sustainability Working Group acts as a sounding board for the Sustainability Committee. Its members ment Board regularly informed of internal and external sustainability-related developments of importance develop the sustainability programme, analyse megatrends and assess opportunities and risks facing to Aareal Bank Group. In managing and developing sustainability-related activities, he is supported by the Aareal Bank Group. It is also responsible for developing and implementing the sustainability programme Group Sustainability Officer, who organises the meetings of the Sustainability Committee and the Sustain­ and for coordinating general sustainability activities in the Group. It includes representatives of the Human ability Working Group and acts as the point of contact for all Company divisions with questions regarding Resources, Organisation, Corporate Communications, Investor Relations, Treasury, Compliance, Institutional sustainability and the implementation of the measures in the sustainability programme. In specific cases, Housing, Sales and Credit Management divisions, plus the Sustainability Officers at Aareal Bank Group he also provides technical support. He monitors Aareal Bank Group’s sustainability performance and puts and Aareon. The Sustainability Working Group meets once a quarter and on special occasions on an ad forward proposals for continually updating the sustainability programme in consultation with the divisions hoc basis, and is chaired by the Group Sustainability Officer. We have also established a similar structure concerned. He also acts as the point of contact for external stakeholders who notify us of sustainability at our largest subsidiary, Aareon. concerns or wish to receive information on activities in this area. In addition, the Group Sustainability Officer is responsible for sustainability reporting and for participation in ratings and rankings in this area. Defining the framework for what we do Responsible, transparent corporate governance is not only a tradition at Aareal Bank Group; it is also Aareal Bank AG something to which we attach considerable importance and, in the eyes of the Management Board and appoints Management Board Supervisory Board, is an expression of good business practice. As the parent of Aareal Bank Group, reports to Aareal Bank AG therefore expressly supports the objectives and purpose of the German Corporate Gov­ ernance Code and regularly tracks the amendments made to the Code by the Government Commission Group Sustainability coordinates Sustainability Committee on the German Corporate Governance Code. The Supervisory Board discusses the amendments and, Officer together with the Management Board, decides the extent to which Aareal Bank will follow the recom­ Members: Tasks: mendations. • CEO of Aareal Bank AG • Draft the strategic vision for • COO of Aareal Bank AG the sustainability strategy, Integrity and responsible conduct are obligations for all of our employees – regardless of their position and heads • CEO of Aareon AG sus­tainability management and role. The Code of Conduct is an integral part of our responsible corporate governance. It contains binding • Group Sustainability Officer the sustainability programme rules requiring all employees to act in a lawful and ethical manner towards clients, business partners and co-workers. It is supplemented by detailed compliance guidelines aimed at preventing conflicts of interest, corruption, Sustainability Working Group money laundering, fraud and data protection breaches. Compliance with the guidelines is checked on an annual basis by Internal Audit and external auditors. When it introduced procedural guidelines aimed at Members: Tasks: instructs preventing financial crime in 2010, Aareal Bank also established a procedure that both requires our •G roup Sustainability Officer •A nnual updates to the sustainability employees to report incidents and guarantees their anonymity if they do so. No cases of corruption have • Sustainability Officer at Aareon AG programme come to light since the process was put in place. •E mployees of the bank divisions: •T o coordinate general sustainability – Investor Relations activities – Credit Management •T o discuss sustainability trends Aareon also drew up an anti-corruption guideline in the reporting period, which is due to be published in – Organisation and requirements the course of 2013. This requires corruption risk both in Aareon Group and at the foreign subsidiaries to – Human Resources •T o put forward proposals for be regularly reviewed in the course of binding risk analyses. Aareon already prepares an annual com­p liance – Treasury developing the strategy report, which is made available to Aareal Bank. – Compliance •T o monitor the measures decided as – Corporate Communications part of the sustainability programme – Sales As soon as they are recruited, Aareal Bank employees in Wiesbaden are informed about the Company’s – Institutional Housing Business compliance and fraud prevention requirements in a classroom-based training course. Training is also delivered using written information materials. In addition, all Bank employees must complete training pro­ 20 Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management 21 grammes covering compliance, money laundering, other punishable offences and data protection. Sub­jectWhen rated by Sustainalytics, Aareal Bank Group scored 57 out of a possible 100 points, thus being above specific classroom-based training is also offered. External employees may be required to attend the the average for the rated companies. The rating by rating agency imug resulted in an average score overall. training programme, depending on how long they are employed at Aareal Bank. Foreign employees are Our public-sector Pfandbriefe, mortgage Pfandbriefe and unsecured bonds were rated ”neutral” and there­ trained by compliance officers appointed locally. Aareon’s anti-corruption guideline also provides for regular fore are not critical from a sustainability perspective. employee training. Aareal Bank Group believes that sustainability also involves addressing risks in a responsible and targeted manner. This is fundamental to the stability and economic success of every business. Aareal Bank Group CDP has therefore implemented a professional risk management system for all business decisions. This helps The CDP is a non-profit organisation founded in London in 2000 and active in Germany since 2006. It aims to us identify, measure, limit and manage risk, and is continually updated and fine-tuned. motivate companies and local authorities to disclose relevant environmental data such as data on greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption. Once a year, on behalf of investors, CDP uses standardised questionnaires to capture data and information on companies’ CO2 emissions, climate risk and reduction targets and strategies on a Engaging with stakeholders voluntary basis. CDP manages what is now the world’s largest database of its kind and is available to investors, companies, political decision-makers and journalists. In 2012, when participating in CDP for the first time, Aareal Bank Exchanging information and views with key stakeholders is of great importance to Aareal Bank Group. Group straight away scored 67 out of a possible 100 points on the ”disclosure score”, which illustrates a company’s There are a number of options and discussion platforms available for this. We provide our employees with transparency in response to questions regarding climate change. It was therefore rated the best German newcomer regular information through the Intranet and our staff magazine. Employee appraisals and events, work­ of 2012 and by far exceeded the average score of the companies rated. shops on topics such as work-life balance and the Idea Box give them the opportunity to put forward proposals for organisational development or discuss issues with management. As a general rule, every shareholder can attend the Annual General Meeting and express an opinion on all aspects of the Com­ pany by requesting to speak in the general debate. Memberships For Aareal Bank Group investors, when it comes to sustainability, the focus is primarily on an increased Since 2012, Aareal Bank Group has participated in the United Nations Global Compact, thereby explicitly need for information on the Company’s sustainability performance. We meet this, for example, by partici­ committing to align its business processes with the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour pating in ratings or investor meetings. In addition, we regularly exchange information and views with our standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. Complying with those principles had already clients in one-on-one discussions, at trade fairs and industry events. In doing so, we have noticed that been an integral part of Aareal Bank Group’s activities for many years. By joining, the Group is now pledg­ sustainability is becoming an increasingly important issue for the property industry – from both energy ing its commitment to responsible corporate governance publicly and for the entire world to see. policy and social perspectives. The annual Aareon Congress and the Aareal Energy Forum are two examples of platforms where we systematically exchange information and views with our clients on environ­ Aareal Bank Group is a member of several industry associations such as the Association of German Banks ment-related and social risks and opportunities. (Bundesverband deutscher Banken – BdB) and the Association of German Pfandbrief Banks (Verband deutscher Pfandbriefbanken – vdp). It is represented on the management board of both associations. Aareal Bank Group is also a supporting member of the Federal Association of German Housing and Sustainability ratings Real Estate Enterprises (Bundesverband deutscher Wohnungsunternehmen e. V. – GdW) and numerous regional housing industry associations. Furthermore, Aareon AG is a member of the Federal Association The importance of rankings for assessing sustainable business practice has grown enormously over the last of Independent Property and Housing Enterprises (Bundesverband Freier Immobilienund Wohnungs­ ten years, not least because investors and clients increasingly demand good sustainability performance unternehmen e. V. – BFW), the umbrella association of German property managers DDIV (Dachverband when making their investment decisions and entering into business relationships. These ratings set high, Deutscher Immobilienverwalter e. V. –) and other regional property industry associations. objective quality requirements, enabling sustainable practices to be measured and compared. In 2012, Aareal Bank Group gained Prime Status in the sustainability ranking by the prominent rating agency oekom Aareal Bank Group’s Sustainability Officer represents the Company, for example, in the working group of research AG. This status is awarded to companies which, according to the oekom corporate rating for the CSR and sustainability officers of the German Property Federation (Zentraler Immobilienausschuss – social and environmental performance, rank among the leaders in their industry and meet the minimum ZIA) and in the working group on sustainability of the German Society of Property Researchers (Gesell­ industry-specific requirements. Its good performance shows that Aareal Bank Group is already well placed schaft für immobilienwirtschaftliche Forschung – gif). We use these forums to support sustainable practices on many fronts. However, opportunities for enhancement were also identified, which we will follow up throughout the industry. In 2012, for example, we also became a member of the Association for Environ­ before the next rating. These include our environmental performance, for example. mental Management in Banks, Savings Banks and Insurance Companies (Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten – VfU). 22 Sustainability Report 2012 | Sustainability Strategy and Management 23 Sustainability programme Goal Measure Deadline To establish the operational Include sustainability in strategic market monitoring with a conditions needed to view to identifying risks and opportunities, e.g. by updating Ongoing implement the sustainability the stakeholder analysis and materiality matrix objectives Integrate sustainability into the Code of Conduct 2013 To increase transparency and Participate in the Association of German Banks’ working Ongoing as of 2013 ability to engage in dialogue group on sustainability Expand the existing website to include social responsibility 2013 and sustainability Integrate sustainability issues into one-on-one discussions Ongoing with stakeholders To enhance external Work on rating inquiries, sustainability surveys and analyses Ongoing stakeholder dialogue Exchange information and views with advisory boards Ongoing on sustainability issues Integrate sustainability issues into existing communications Ongoing formats and media, incl. roadshow documents Expand the existing Intranet pages to include social 2013 To enhance internal responsibility and sustainability stakeholder dialogue Integrate sustainability issues into internal information events, Ongoing new employee onboarding and the trainee programme 24 Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products 25 Clients and Products Aareal Bank Group’s business model is based on two pillars. The Structured Property Financing segment provides customised financial services for commercial property clients, while the Con­sulting/Services segment offers a compre­hensive range of services for the commercial management of properties by the insti­ tutional housing industry. The Company takes a long-term approach to client relations and aims to provide sustainable solutions. 26 Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products 27 The role of megatrends in property financing Pfandbriefe – a sustainable product Aareal Bank Group’s successful business model has allowed it to hold its own in a difficult and highly Pfandbriefe are secured debt instruments and are used by banks with corresponding licences as an economical, uncertain environment, despite the significant challenges that the sector has faced in recent years. We are long-term means of refinancing property loans and public sector loans, among other things. Pfandbriefe issuance is one of the few banks to have reported a profit quarter for quarter throughout the entire financial, eco­ governed by the provisions of the German Pfandbrief Act (Pfandbriefgesetz – PfandBG), which is the foundation for nomic and sovereign debt crisis. We have benefited from our sound, sustainable lending policy, our pro­ the high quality of this product. This law lays down the requirements for collateral, transparency obligations, and nounced market and client orientation, a forward-looking refinancing policy and a healthy balance sheet maturity and currency management in the Pfandbrief business. In addition to the capital reserves of the issuing bank, structure. Adequate, sustainable risk management and risk control are core elements of our success. Pfandbrief investors have prior-ranking claims on the cover assets pool should the issuer become insolvent. In the case of mortgage Pfandbriefe, the cover assets pool consists of loan receivables that are secured by property liens. The property industry – and hence commercial property financing – has a bright future, not least because A key reason for the high level of security offered by mortgage Pfandbriefe is that the maximum mortgage lending investors see property as a safe haven in a persistently volatile environment. In addition, the industry will value for property loans included in the cover assets pool is 60 %. The PfandBG and the Beleihungswertermittlungsbenefit in the long term from global megatrends such as demographic development and structural changes verordnung (BelWertV – Regulation on the Determina-tion of Mortgage Lending Values) set out, among other things, in society in both industrialised and newly industrialising countries. These two megatrends are leading to the manner in which mortgage values are determined and the qualification requirements for valuers. The mortgage growing demand for state-of-the-art, future-proof properties as well as a substantial need to modernise lending value is calculated on the basis of the long-term, sustainable aspects of the property concerned, excluding existing stocks of almost all types. any speculative elements. The security offered to investors makes Pfandbriefe sustainable financial products that are also key elements of the German financial market: the Pfandbrief market is the second-largest market for fixedTaken together, these megatrends are generating sustained high investment volumes on the property mar­ income securities in Germany after federal government bonds, with a volume of approximately € 525 billion as at kets – and hence a substantial need for financing. The long-term shifts in society in both industrialised and December 2012. newly industrialising countries are fundamentally changing the way properties are used and the need to invest in a very wide range of properties. For example, demand for residential properties in industrialised countries is rising despite the shrinking population, due in particular to the growth in oneand two-person households. In addition to the need to raise the retirement age, the shift towards a knowledgeand infor­ Deposits by institutional investors and the housing industry are another source of refinancing. These are mation-driven society in most industrialised countries means that demand for high-quality commercial largely independent of the capital markets and represent an important additional pillar in the Bank’s longproperties will continue to increase over the medium to long term. In newly industrialising countries, term funding mix. population growth is boosting demand for housing. Their shift from manufacturingto services-based economies will be flanked by a growing need for office workspace. Market players who – like Aareal Bank Our Consulting / Services segment offers services and products for managing residential property portf­o lios Group – can combine property expertise with a sound risk policy will benefit the most from these devel­ and processing payment flows for the institutional housing industry. In the period under review, Aareal opments. Bank processed payment flows for 5.5 million administrative units in the housing industry and around one million power supply contracts, involving a total of more than 100 million payment transactions. Aareal Bank Group’s services Sustainability as a criterion for financing Aareal Bank Group provides support for domestic and international clients investing in property in Europe, North America and Asia. This three-continent strategy allows us to diversify our property financing port­ When assessing the basic business environment in countries in which we are or aim to become active, we folio across different regions and opens up cross-border and cross-regional business opportunities. At focus not only on economic aspects such as changes in gross domestic product, the unemployment rate the same time, diversifying our risk in this way reduces our dependence on individual markets. Equally, and interest rate trends, but also on legal certainty, market transparency and levels of corruption. the wide range of different property types that we finance – office buildings, retail properties, hotels, and logistics and residential properties – helps keep our portfolio balanced. We take a number of sustainability criteria into account during property valuations made in connection with lending decisions. Among other things, these include: As an active issuer of Pfandbriefe and uncovered bank bonds, Aareal Bank Group has a sound, broad base for its refinancing requirements. •  conomic quality, as expressed in terms of, for example, the property’s location and rental E status, the ability to meet tenant requirements, the flexibility of the building’s structures and the economic efficiency of the floor plans • Technical quality, in which we look at issues relating to the building’s construction, the materials used, fire protection, insulation and soundproofing, fittings and fixture and the quality of the interior spaces (measured in terms of their thermal, acoustic and visual comfort, for example) • Functional quality, e. g. transportation links, general accessibility and barrier-free access 28 Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products 29 •  ife-cycle quality, which is demonstrated e. g. by opportunities for flexible use, the ability to reL let properties, third-party use, and appropriate expenditure on value preservation measures LEED certification for Deutsche Börse • Sociocultural quality, such as the high quality of the architecture and of town planning Aareal Bank Group is involved in financing Deutsche Börse AG’s new group headquarters in Eschborn, near • Ecological quality, as expressed for example by environmental liability and contamination audits. Frankfurt. The building, which was constructed in 2010, is one of the most energyand resource-efficient office properties in Germany, and was the first German office property to receive platinum certification under the LEED The regular impairment tests performed on the basis of appraisals provide information on changes to these programme, the US green building standard. Aareal Bank served as the arranger and lender for the building, criteria. providing finance of € 234 million. The ”Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design” standard (or ”LEED” for short), a certificate awarded by the US Green Building Council, sets out a series of criteria for environmentally friendly, resource-efficient construction and pro-­vides an internationally established classification system for green buildings. Sustainability of the Treasury portfolio We conducted a sustainability analysis of Aareal Bank Group’s Treasury portfolio for the first time in the period under review, and intend to repeat this annually to ensure continuous improvement. The independFocusing on client satisfaction ent rating agency oekom research came to the conclusion that the issuers listed in our Treasury portfolio achieve best-in-class status on average. The Treasury portfolio comprises four asset classes: public-sector Client dialogue plays a central role at Aareon, especially in its day-to-day operations. Forums such as the borrowers, covered bonds and Pfandbriefe, bank bonds and asset-backed securities (ABSs). client advisory boards plus continuous dialogue ensure the company knows what its clients want. The product and service portfolio is updated in line with property industry and IT trends. Innovative, sustainable solutions for the property industry The regular client surveys – which have been performed annually to date – have produced highly constant results for many years. As a result, they will be conducted every two years starting in 2014. The aim is to The products supplied by Aareon and Aareal Bank offer the institutional housing industry innovative, systematically implement improvements. The key survey findings in the period under review include high environmentally friendly solutions. As a general rule, solutions to optimise processes in both Aareal Bank’s client acceptance of the survey, as can been seen by the response rate of over 40 %. What is more, payment transaction processing and in Aareon’s ERP products are designed to digitise our clients’ property approximately 87 % of these clients submitted personal replies. On the whole, overall satisfaction im­ management to the extent allowed by law and technology. This enables our clients to optimise standard proved year-on-year, as did the results for loyalty (94 %) and client satisfaction with their points of contact processes and work in a resource-friendly way. The Mareon service portal and Aareon’s invoicing service (98 %). The Aareon brand is perceived positively by clients. are particularly compelling examples. Mareon is a virtual platform that links businesses in the property industry, facilitating the management of on-going property maintenance. It reduces administrative costs Client satisfaction with Aareal Bank’s Institutional Housing Unit is promoted regularly at three levels: and accelerates workflows on all sides. The virtual platform which is constantly updated interfaces seam­ lessly with IT systems at both clients and service providers, making it easy to use. The same principles also •  y the Bank’s Institutional Housing Advisory Council, an advisory body comprising key industry b apply to Aareon’s fully integrated invoicing service, which enables systematic automation of the invoicing players drawn from our clients, process, offering end-to-end standardisation and helping to save both time and money, not to mention • in day-to-day interactions with our clients by the sales unit contacts assigned to them, and lots of paper. • by integrating clients in the development of new products or components using a standardised test phase that is explicitly designed to optimise their first-time operation. Aareon’s I-stay@home project is helping the housing industry respond more effectively to the demo­ graphic challenges it faces. The portal, which is scheduled for completion by 2015, aims to facilitate One factor contributing to client satisfaction in the area of property financing is our local knowledge and dialogue among experts in the field and to improve the overall transparency of the market for assistance the expertise of our sector specialists in the fields of logistics, shopping centre and hotel financing. This systems for the elderly. The objective is to offer consumers improved access to affordable services. In ad­ means that we understand our clients and speak their language. dition to contributing technical and business expertise, Aareon is assisting the project with its inter­n ational market presence. Data security and data protection are key client requirements Aareal Bank Group processes large volumes of end-customer information at Aareon in particular. As a result, data security and data protection have a high priority for us. Since 2010, Aareon has regularly under­g one voluntary data protection audits in accordance with section 9a of the German Data Protection Act (Bundesdatenschutzgesetz – BDSG). Deutsche Gesellschaft zur Zertifizierung von Managementsys­ temen (DQS) awarded Aareon its data protection seal of approval, the DQS Gütesiegel Datenschutz, for the third year running in 2012. There were no reportable data losses or data protection infringements in the period under review. 30 Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products Sustainability Report 2012 | Clients and Products 31 Data in Aareon’s cloud is stored exclusively in Germany in data centres that are fully operated by the German industry magazine ”DW Die Wohnungswirtschaft” and Aareon have sponsored the ”DW Zukunfts­ company itself. The data centres are linked by a dedicated, encrypted fibre optic network. Aareon’s cus­ preis” since 2004. The prize has a different theme every year and is awarded in three categories at the tomers access their data at Aareon using dedicated WAN connections or encrypted VPN connections. Aareon Congress. In 2012, the DW Zukunftspreis was devoted to the topic of ”Efficiency 2020”, while for Multi-layer firewalls prevent data stored in Aareon’s cloud from being accessed over the Internet. Aareon’s 2013 the subject is ”Web 2.0 – Digitising the housing industry”. The prize has gained a strong reputation data centre operations are regularly certified in accordance with IDW PS951. in the sector and documents the innovative ability of the housing industry year after year. Aareal Bank also worked together with German industry magazine ”DW Die Wohnungswirtschaft” to ”Data protection and data security are becoming establish the series of talks known as the ”Brandenburger Hofgespräch”, which it has sponsored from the more and more important in this IT-dominated age. start. The event takes place twice a year and gives experts in the field an opportunity to exchange informa­ tion and views about future trends in the housing industry. As an IT service provider, it is particularly important that Aareon takes a highly responsible approach to processing client data. This is why data protection measures are anchored at Sustainability programme the highest level throughout our entire organisation – including Aareon’s state-of-the-art data centre. Goal Measure Deadline DQS certification documents that Aareon’s management of To ensure responsible lending Consideration of ESG issues during the lending process 1) Ongoing personal data complies with the law and assists our To measure sustainability Annual analysis of the securities portfolio from a sustainability First performed in performance in the securities 2012, annually thereclients in documenting their own statutory monitoring obligations” portfolio perspective after Dr Manfred Alflen, Chairman of the Management Board of Aareon AG Certification of Aareon’s information security management 2014 system in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001 Further measures Participation in the I-stay@home initiative and development Safeguarding our clients’ privacy is extremely important to Aareal Bank and the companies of Aareal Bank 2015 of a portal Group. We observe banking secrecy and comply with the provisions of the German Data Protection Act (Bundesdatenschutzgesetz – BDSG) as well as the data protection regulations of the countries in which we are active. We only collect, process and use personal data with the consent of the data subject or in 1) Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance those cases allowed by law. Employees are taught about data protection issues in training sessions. A data protection officer who is not subject to the instructions of, but is appointed by, the Management Board ensures compliance with data protection provisions and monitors employees’ obligation to maintain data secrecy together with the Human Resources division. The Aareal First Financial Solutions AG (First Finan­ cial), Aareal Estate AG (Estate), Deutsche Bauund Grundstücks-AG (BauGrund) and Aareal Valuation GmbH (Valuation) subsidiaries have also appointed data protection officers and observe the requirements laid down by data protection law. Promoting sustainability in the property industry Not only does Aareal Bank Group aim to develop innovative, sustainable solutions itself, it also promotes them at the industry level by sponsoring prizes for the sector as a whole. For example, EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Recht’s Real Estate Management Institute (REMI) and Aareal Bank AG have sponsored the annual ”Aareal Award of Excellence in Real Estate Research”, which honours academically-outstanding research work in real estate economics, since 2008. The total prize money amounts to € 12,000 and is broken down into three categories: dissertations, research papers, and MSc/BSc/diploma theses. 32 Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees 33 Employees The success of a company is largely dependent on its employees. Qualified and motivated employees play a key role in economic performance and, in this way, are an important factor for success – including compared to the competition. This is why Aareal Bank Group operates a targeted employee development policy to promote its employees’ professional and personal skills. In addition, we take specific measures to improve employees’ work-life balance and offer a Company Health Management programme. 34 Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees 35 Our employees – the basis for our success 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon At Aareal Bank Group, all people are respected and treated equally regardless of their gender, age, ethnic origin, religion, world views, disabilities or sexual orientation. Respecting employees’ dignity, rights and Full-time employees 1,878 739 973 1,926 810 928 2,032 865 948 privacy is one of the Company’s goals and is anchored in its Code of Conduct. The Bank has published Female part-time employees 335 144 146 348 154 147 343 155 137 binding statements on diversity at Aareal Bank Group. We also ensure that our employees have a healthy Male part-time employees 76 23 49 79 23 54 72 22 45 and safe working environment on the basis of the relevant occupational safety laws. The ”Top Employer“ award, which Aareal Bank has received every year since 2008, testifies to the success of these efforts. Aareon was certified by berufundfamilie gGmbH as a family-conscious company for the first time in 2008 and again in 2011 for its family-friendly corporate policies. The berufundfamilie audit is supported by the Co-determination Federal Minister for Family Affairs and the Federal Minister for Economics. On 2 May 2012, Aareon was named Germany’s most family-friendly company in the SME category in the ”Erfolgsfaktor Familie“ (”Success Aareal Bank Group complies with the statutory requirements of the countries in which it operates, in Factor Family”) competition run by the Federal Ministry for Family Affairs. particular in relation to labour law and the relevant employee co-determination rights. Employee repre­ sentatives are regularly informed of current developments. In addition, all locations are involved in works council meetings and employee events held during the year. Employees can use these events to ask ques­ Employee structure tions and submit suggestions. Aareal Bank Group employed 2,289 people as at the end of 2012, of whom 906 are employed at Aareal Aareal Bank’s General Works Council comprises works council members from Wiesbaden, Berlin, Bank and its sales subsidiaries in New York and Singapore. The Aareon subgroup’s companies employed Hamburg, Leipzig and Stuttgart. Employees at other German locations are represented by the Works 1,168 people as at the reporting date of 31 December 2012. Council in Wiesbaden. 31 Dec 2010 The subgroup headed by Aareon has a similar co-determination /employee representation structure. The 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon General Works Councils of Aareal Bank and Aareon Deutschland GmbH each appoint an Economic Com­ mittee. In addition, a Group Works Council has been established for issues that affect the entire Group. Number of employees 2,289 906 1,168 2,353 987 1,129 2,447 1,042 1,130 of which outside Germany 536 123 404 541 156 374 561 166 384 Aareal Bank and Aareon Deutschland have a co-determined Supervisory Board in accordance with of which female 893 406 383 934 442 368 987 473 367 the Drittelbeteiligungsgesetz (One-Third Participation Act). Two Aareon employees are also appointed to Percentage of women in manageAareal Bank’s Supervisory Board. ment positions 21.6 % 26.0 % 20.4 % 18.8 % 22. 3% 17.4 % 19.9 % 23.1 % 18.7 % Employee-initiated staff turnover 3.1 % 2.9 % 3.3 % 3.5 % 2.9 % 4.4 % 2.4 % 1.6 % 3.4 % Percentage of part-time Continuing professional development (CPD) – an investment in the future employees 18.0 % 18.4 % 17.0 % 18.1 % 17.9 % 18.0 % 17.0 % 17.0 % 16.0 % Aareal Bank Group invests in its employees on a targeted, continual basis. Its focus is the ongoing pro­ motion of specialist, entrepreneurial and communication skills. A particular priority for the Group is con­ Bank = Aareal Bank AG including foreign branches and foreign subsidiaries in the Structured Property Financing segment in New York, Singapore and Prague (until 30 June 2012) Aareon = all units in Germany and abroad including subsidiaries tinuing professional development with an international orientation, above all training courses to develop Group = Bank, Aareon and other subsidiaries such as BauGrund, DSF, Valuation, Estate, First Financial, where data is available and improve language and intercultural skills. Hours of CPD per employee, by employee category Aareal Bank Group’s largest location is Germany, with 1,753 employees. Of its 536 employees in other countries, 495 are attributable to European countries, in particular France, the Netherlands and the 2011 2012 UK. Employee-initiated staff turnover is only 3.1 %. This low Group-wide rate and the average length of Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon service within Aareal Bank – 13.5 years – attests to employees’ high degree of loyalty to the Company. Senior management staff 27.8 26.6 28.7 22.8 31.3 19.0 Approximately 18 % of our employees work part-time. Reflecting demand from our employees, we expect Management staff 31.5 38.5 25.3 27.0 31.4 23.9 to see this share rise in the future. Specialist staff 27.7 27.9 28.1 31.5 32.7 32.7 36 Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees 37 Aareal Bank employees have the opportunity to participate in CPD measures at international locations, as Furthermore, Aareal Academy’s specialist seminars are often established in cooperation between Human well as in Germany. An average of four days of training and CPD was invested in each employee in 2011 Resources and the Bank’s specialist divisions. They are adapted to different areas and changing require­ and 2012. This represents a total of approximately 3,375 participant days across the Bank. ments on an ongoing basis. New in-house CPD measures are developed in accordance with the principle of peer-learning, under which our experts are the lecturers and ensure that current topics can be incorpo­ In 2012, around two-thirds of management staff analysed their own leadership role and the related rated in a timely manner and that new knowledge can be communicated. responsi­b ility for the success of the Company as part of management training. A good 4,000 training days were held at Aareon in 2012. This also corresponds to an average of Fostering young talent approximately four days per employee. Fostering young talent is a key aspect of human resources work. The specialist knowledge required in our areas of business means that it is essential to invest in training young talent in an ongoing, targeted manner. Aareal Bank has offered a tailored graduate trainee programme since 2000, with a wide range of opportunities for development The Aareal Academy within the Company. In addition, internships give university and school students the opportunity to gain a first impression of working life and find out more about the Group’s divisions by becoming actively involved. Aareal Bank Aareal Bank believes that training and continuing professional development are the basis for employee supports the Wiesbaden Chamber of Industry and Commerce by providing guest speakers for workshops and development. This is underlined by the comprehensive range of management, training and qualification events aimed at school children. programmes offered by the ”Aareal Academy” corporate university, which is open to employees from all Aareal Bank locations. It offers employees a wide variety of in-house and external seminars, language and IT courses, extra-professional qualifications and individual development planning. All employees discuss their individual development and set concrete development measures with their supervisor as part of their 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2010 annual Structured Appraisal and Target-Setting Dialogue. The Structured Appraisal and Target-Setting Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Group Bank Aareon Dialogue is the Bank’s main employee development tool and is used for development planning and performance management. Annual employee appraisals are also held with all Aareon employees to dis­ Graduate trainees 8 5 2 11 6 5 7 6 1 cuss their individual development planning within the scope of the E21) and PEK 2) personnel development Vocational trainees 39 2 33 34 1 28 32 0 25 concepts. Aareal Academy Fair and appropriate remuneration systems Corporate University At Aareal Bank Group, remuneration systems are subject to overarching remuneration policies. The core elements of these remuneration policies are: Measures and Measures and Collaboration Integration programmes programmes with programmes for management for employees universities for new 1. Transparent and sustainably-oriented remuneration systems that support Aareal Bank Group’s strategic staff and experts employees, goals and the goals of its companies. trainees and interns 2. Attractive and motivating employee remuneration based on position, market factors and performance to secure and retain highly-qualified and committed employees with high potential. This includes equal pay for male and female employees for work of equal value. We continuously make strategic investments in our employees to develop our technical business and communications expertise for the long term. 3. Avoidance of negative incentives for taking disproportionately high risks. We foster international collaboration and strengthen teamwork. To that end, we as a corporation provide support through targeted measures, relying on our staff to show initiative in further professionalising their specialist and social competence. 4. Compliance with regulatory requirements, in particular those set out in the Instituts-Vergütungsverord­ nung (InstitutsVergV – Regulation Governing Supervisory Requirements for Remuneration Systems of Institutions). Aareal Bank employees in Germany are remunerated according to collective wage agreements. At Aareon, 1) Aareon-specific personnel development concept ”Entfalten und Entwickeln“ (Develop and Extend) remuneration is governed by works agreements. 2) German abbreviation of ”Personalentwicklungskonzept“ (Personnel development concept) 38 Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees 39 Against the background of the German Act on the Appropriateness of Management Board Remuneration •  o react to demographic change and an ageing workforce, and to take into account individual T (Gesetz zur Angemessenheit der Vorstandsvergütung – VorstAG) dated 31 July 2009 and the Regulation circumstances and stages of life Governing Supervisory Requirements for Remuneration Systems of Institutions (Instituts-Vergütungsver­ ordnung – InstitutsVergV) dated 6 October 2010, the remuneration system for the members of the Man­ Aareal Bank Group currently employs people from more than 25 different countries. Outside of Germany, agement Board of Aareal Bank Group was reviewed in consultation with external experts and adjusted care is taken to fill the majority of positions with local citizens. with effect from 1 January 2012. The remuneration system comprises non-performance-related and per­ formance-related components. The performance-based bonus reflects the Management Board member’s In 2012, 39.0 % of Aareal Bank Group’s employees were female. The percentage of women in manage­ performance, which is measured by the achievement of targets set in advance by the Supervisory Board. ment positions is currently 26.0 % at Aareal Bank and 20.4 % at Aareon. Long-term performance is taken into consideration in the contracts of Management Board members, which set out multi-year goals that are linked to the success of the Company. Details on the remuneration system Marija Korsch has been a member of Aareal Bank’s Supervisory Board since 2012. She succeeded Hans W. are published on the Bank’s website. Reich as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Aareal Bank on 22 May 2013. The Supervisory Board is aiming to have a proportion of at least 30 % women in accordance with the recommendations of the Aareon’s remuneration system is based on developments in the IT industry in Germany. Together with an German Corporate Governance Code. Given that the most recent Supervisory Board elections were held external remuneration specialist, the underlying salary bands are reviewed for market comparability and in 2010, this objective can in principle only be taken into account at the next ordinary Supervisory Board adapted every three years. elections in 2015. The Supervisory Board appointed Dagmar Knopek as a regular member of the Management Board of Pension scheme and insurance Aareal Bank effective 1 June 2013. Aareal Bank covers its employees with a range of insurance, including employer-funded accident insurance, In Germany, the share of employees with a severe disability – insofar as employees informed Aareal Bank employer-funded health insurance for foreign travel, and the option to take out occupational disability of their disability – amounted to 4.0 % in 2012. This group of employees is represented in the Group’s insurance at special rates. German companies by disability officers. In addition, Aareal Bank offers its employees an employer-funded corporate retirement plan. Employees can also make additional provisions through a deferred compensation scheme model. This includes the Equal treatment option to take advantage of capital accumulation benefits, which the Bank pays, to further improve their pension. Aareal Bank Group attaches great importance to the equal treatment of men and women in the Company, both with regard to staff appointment decisions and in terms of continuing professional development and Aareon also offers its employees comparable deferred compensation models for occupational pension remuneration. All job openings below executive level are advertised as a general rule and all employees, provision. regardless of gender, are invited to apply for these positions. We only take into account factors such as qualifications, experience, or education when remunerating employees – we do not distinguish on the basis of gender. Diversity Positions are filled on the basis of qualifications. This is regularly verified by employee representative The Management Board has made an express commitment to diversity in Aareal Bank Group and has bodies within the scope of their co-determination rights. The same applies to the Management Board – published this on the Internet and Intranet. This defines diversity as follows: the primary considerations in the selection of a suitable candidate are their qualifications and inter­n ational experience. • An appreciation for the uniqueness of every individual and respect for their differences • Equal opportunities at all levels In accordance with the Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz (AGG – General Equal Treatment Act), • The prevention of discrimination of any kind Aareal Bank and Aareon have AGG officers in Germany and AGG courses are held for all employees. The • T he belief that diversity enriches corporate culture and also represents a success factor in reaching employee handbook in the USA contains anti-harassment policies. strategic goals The goals are: Work-life balance • To promote Aareal Bank’s image as a modern employer • To strengthen employee commitment and increase employee motivation Aareal Bank helps its employees to achieve a better work-life balance in a variety of ways, for example • To ensure skills and competencies are fostered individually in a way that promotes employee through flexible working models, part-time positions and positions incorporating home working. We also performance sponsor a crèche in Wiesbaden and cooperate with the city of Wiesbaden in providing child care during 40 Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees Sustainability Report 2012 | Employees 41 school holidays. The Bank also provides funding for additional offerings, which can also be used by the 2012 2011 2010 children of bank employees. Every year, Aareon reserves crèche and kindergarten places at a day care Bank Aareon Bank Aareon Bank Aareon centre in Mainz. These kindergarten places are free of charge for Aareon employees. Workplace accidents/accidents Alongside the wide-ranging measures to promote a better work-life balance, parent-child rooms have while commuting 15 10 13 6 16 5 been set up at Aareal Bank in Wiesbaden and at various Aareon locations. These aim to support our Accident rate 1.9 % 0.9 % 1.6 % 0.5 % 1.8 % 0.7 % employees during emergency child care situations. Sickness rate 3.5 % 4.5 % 3.5 % 4.7 % 3.7 % 4.1 % Employees also have the opportunity to reduce their working hours in the case of urgent family commit­ Accident rate for Aareal Bank in Germany; accident rate for Aareon includes international locations from 2011 ments. Aareal Bank employees can take statutory family care leave. In addition, the ”Work and Family at Sickness rate for Aareal Bank in Germany including convalescent/rehabilitative absences; does not include employees on extended sick leave Aareon” project team held a workshop to develop further measures relating to work and care. Aareon (absent over 50 % of the year) cooperates with family services provider ElternService AWO, which provides advice to employees if a family member starts needing care. This service is performed at Aareal Bank by the company VivaSenia. At Aareal Bank Group, the organisation of occupational safety is the responsibility of the Management Board. This has been set out in the integrated management system in accordance with statutory regula­ Aareon 2.n tions. The aim is to further reduce the number of accidents through the provision of safety information and The Aareon 2.n project is designed to strengthen Aareon’s competitiveness and future readiness and to continue employee sensitisation, as well as various audits by external supervisory authorities. Every Aareal Bank maintain the company’s position as an attractive, preferred employer. Equal opportunities for men and women are Group subsidiary is therefore obliged to issue guidelines for its own company in the form of an occu­ an important starting point. The objective is to employ even more qualified female staff by making Aareon a more pational health and safety manual. Location-specific occupational safety requirements are set out in the attractive place to work. This relates to both specialist and management career tracks. ”2.n” represents a new gen­ relevant organisational manuals at the Bank’s international locations. eration of companies that are addressing demographic change and thus competition for management and specialist staff. This generation also takes into account the wide range of demands placed on today’s employers. The ”n” stands for ”nachhaltig” – or ”long term” – as equal opportunities are to be firmly anchored in corporate and social responsibility at Aareon. Sustainability programme Occupational health and safety Goal Measure Deadline Increase range of flexible working models Ongoing Aareal Bank’s Company Health Management programme (BGM) primarily aims to support employees in To promote work-life balance Increase part-time positions and positions incorporating home working Ongoing their own efforts to stay healthy. The programme was kicked off with a ”Health Day” in December 2012. A Recertification of Aareon by berufundfamilie gGmbH 2014 catalogue of measures to develop the Company Health Management programme was drawn up together Sign Diversity Charter (”Charta der Vielfalt“) 2013 with a consulting firm specialising in the implementation of health management systems, which con­ To promote diversity and equal Enhance mentoring programme 2014 opportunities ducted comprehensive surveys among Aareal Bank employees. In this way, employees can regularly find Increase the share of women on the Supervisory Board to 30 % 2015 out about current health topics via an Intranet portal. Health information is provided by Arbeitsmedizinische Conduct an age structure analysis From 2013 onwards To enhance the human resources Dienst (BAD), a long-term partner for occupational medicine. In addition, lectures on specific topics are strategy, taking into account the Special training offerings for all age groups 2014 held by health professionals in Wiesbaden. ageing population Analyse implications of demographic change on the Company Ongoing Enhance and adapt recruitment strategy 2013 The BGM also includes an employee assistant programme (EAP) – a hotline to help employees deal with Talent recruitment, fostering Enhance and adapt talent management programme 2014 difficult situations both at work and home. Employees can use the service as required, 24 hours a day, and retention Continue sponsoring bachelor’s and master’s theses Ongoing 365 days a year. Expand vocational trainee programme at Aareon by employing four trainees 2013 Introduce additional modules such as skin cancer screening, sports and Aareal Bank Group’s accident and sickness rates have remained largely constant over the past few years. 2013 recreational offerings, and a range of lectures No occupational illnesses were reported in the reporting period. Likewise, there were no work-related To expand the Company Health Introduce a new, mandatory seminar on ”healthy leadership” for all management staff 2013 Management programme deaths. Organise a seminar on stress management 2013 Conduct an employee survey to identify and evaluate workplace stress at Aareon 2013 42 Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment 43 Environment Aareal Bank Group is keen to minimise the impact its business activities have on the environment. It therefore endeavours to use energy and consumables as efficiently as possible and to obtain them from renewable sources. Its suppliers’ compliance with environmental standards also plays a role. 44 Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment 45 Environmental management 2012 2011 2010 Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Bank Group is aware of the ever-growing importance of active environmental management. It is Germany Germany Germany Germany Germany Germany rising to this challenge by gradually developing ideas and implementing them in line with the requirements of environmentally responsible banking operations. For example, we have already mandated the use of Paper used for internal office green energy to supply our main sites in Wiesbaden and Mainz, as well as other locations in Germany purposes 1) (t) 20.2 9.6 21.0 12.8 20.0 15.4 starting in 2014. Paper used per employee 2) (kg/employee) 25 13 25 17 22 21 When it comes to being environmentally friendly, Aareal Bank Group also expects its suppliers to comply Printouts for/by clients (t) 3) 24.0 88.6 24.3 95.7 25.1 110.8 at a minimum with statutory guidelines. The criteria that are required to be met are evaluated in the course of regular supplier assessments. The Group guideline on supplier management, for example, governs the 1) Photocopies, printouts, etc.; 2) Employees as at the 31 December reporting date; 3) E.g. account statements, invoices, payment reminders and definition of the standards, the criteria and the assessment parameters in Aareal Bank Group’s common dunning letters, tax certificates, letters of confirmation, information letters; including envelopes supplier management system. Water consumption at Aareal Bank and Aareon has remained almost unchanged in recent years. This is Measuring, analysing and reducing environmental impacts attributable to the environmentally sensitive approach that we have followed for many years. Nevertheless, we will continue to strive in future to identify any reasonable potential to further reduce consumption. Aareal Bank Group endeavours to systematically analyse and minimise the environmental impacts of its activities. In addition to the consideration given to environmental aspects, full legal compliance and docu­ 2010 2012 2011 mentation are also important. With this in mind, plans are constantly being drawn up for measures to Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon service, maintain and modernise our own sites. Capturing and analysing consumption data is also an Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany ongoing process. Water consumption (m3) 13,835 5,153 14,582 5,322 14,809 4,275 Making sparing use of resources and increasing energy efficiency are aspects that play an important role in internal plans and optimisation measures. Reducing overall CO2 emissions is, of course, another. To achieve this, it is important to make employees suitably aware of these issues. As well as cutting energy con­ sumption, reducing CO2 emissions and increasing energy efficiency, raising the percentage of renewable All in all, 151.9 tonnes of waste were produced in 2012. Although this was 31 % less than in the previous energy in the supply mix is also an important aspect of our plans. year, the decline in the volume of waste is mainly attributable to non-recurring effects in 2010/2011, when more waste was produced than usual in connection with Aareon’s relocation to the Mainz office. Making sparing use of resources Waste paper is recycled. This amounted to 61 tonnes in 2012 or approximately 40 % of total waste, as in the previous year. Of the consumables used by Aareal Bank Group, paper is the largest by volume. To print brochures, the Company only uses certified paper bearing the seal of the internationally recognised Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC). Aareal Bank Group’s key suppliers of office materials and its printers are FSC-certified or have an environmental man­ agement system certified to ISO 14001. Between 2011 and 2012, the amount of paper used for internal office purposes by Aareal Bank and Aareon in Germany declined from 34 to 30 tonnes. This equates to approximately 19 kilogrammes of paper used per employee in 2012. By using modern IT solutions such as automated and largely paperless travel expense management, invoice verification and services billing, we do not only aim to optimise corporate work flows, but also to save paper. Starting this year, we have been using 75g /m2 copier paper, which is produced using less wood than the 80g /m2 paper previously purchased. In our copiers, we use paper carrying either the PEFC certificate for sustainable forestry management or the EU Ecolabel, the highest award for non-recycled copier paper. 46 Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment 47 Measures to reduce energy consumption Reducing CO2 emissions Aareal Bank Group has two priorities for its energy supplies. Firstly, it is keen to continue reducing its We measure CO2 emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The GHG Protocol is an consumption. During the renovation and restructuring of the data centre, for example, various measures internationally recognised standard that sets out the framework for reporting greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions were implemented to reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions. By using highly efficient technolo­ are measured using three ”scopes”. Scope 1 governs all direct emissions produced on a company’s premises. gies and integrating ”free cooling”, we were able to cut the energy consumption of the data centre in Scope 2 governs emissions attributable to indirect energy consumed. Scope 3 governs emissions produced by Wiesbaden by around 40 % while working at the same load. Between 2011 and 2012, energy consumption services performed by third parties and by services purchased (e.g. business travel). at the Wiesbaden site and Aareon declined from 10,020 to 7,683 gigawatt hours. As well as reducing consumption, Aareal Bank will switch its energy mix at these locations, around 31 % of which has so far Scope 1 emissions 1) from direct energy consumption in buildings (gas and heating oil) and from company cars come from renewable energy, to green energy starting in 2014. (diesel) used by Aareal Bank and Aareon totalled 2,045 tonnes of CO2 in 2012. Emissions from indirect energy consumed such as electricity and district heating (Scope 2) amounted to 4,272 tonnes. CO2 emissions of 838 tonnes were recorded for business trips made by rental car, flown, or taken by train (Scope 3). 2012 2011 2010 Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Aareal Aareon Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany Wiesbaden Germany 1) Emission calculations for Aareal Bank only take into account its largest site in Wiesbaden; Aareon’s calculations take into account its German locations. Indirect Energy consumption (GJ) 16,931 10,725 19,147 16,926 21,506 18,674 District heating (GJ) 11,019 2,670 11,192 2,320 10,565 1,695 Direct Gas (GJ) 0 1,708 0 2,145 0 1,847 Business trips undergo scrutiny Heating oil (GJ) 72 72 72 2,124 72 2,232 Aareal Bank Group has a set of travel guidelines that are binding on all German sites. These require employees to check before every business trip whether they actually need to travel, in particular bearing in mind alter­n ative means of communication. In recent years, Aareal Bank Group has invested heavily in The Wiesbaden site has been supplied with district heating (heating and hot water) for several years now. modern video teleconferencing technology at its sites. The specific aim of the systematic use of this tech­ Some of the energy used to supply hot water is generated by a solar thermal system. Using highly efficient nology is to help cut business travel going forward. For business trips that are nevertheless necessary, air pumps for heating and cooling distribution, heat recovery in ventilation and air-conditioning systems, and travel should only be given preference over other means of transport if it significantly reduces the journey a building services automation system to monitor and optimise operations also helps us cut our energy time and the increased cost of travel compared with other means of transport is insignificant or justifiable requirements. The head office of Aareon and First Financial in Mainz, which has been fully occupied bearing in mind all the circumstances. Rental cars are also chosen with an eye toward both economic and since 2012, is heated and cooled using geothermal energy and waste heat from the data centre. The con­ cost efficiency. sumption of heating oil, which was required for the old building, was cut dramatically as a result of the relocation and the consequent switch to district heating. Environmentally friendly company cars The new data centres For Aareal Bank Group, it is important to be environmentally friendly not only when it comes to business travel, but also in selecting company cars. This is firmly established in the guideline on company cars. In 2011, Aareal Bank Group merged the two data centres of Aareon in Mainz and the two data centres of Since the fourth quarter of 2012, vehicles with diesel engines have had to meet the Euro 5 emission Aareal Bank in Wiesbaden. A completely new data centre was built in Mainz and the data centre in Wies­ standard. When new vehicles are ordered in the Group, the best possible EU emission standard must be baden was brought up to the same technical standard. The mergers mean that not only better use is being chosen depending on the manufacturer and model. made of the infrastructure – the energy required to operate the data centre is also significantly reduced. A series of measures were implemented to achieve this, such as using highly efficient air-conditioning Aareal Bank Group also incentivises its employees to decide in favour of environmentally friendly vehicles. systems and free cooling to the extent the outside temperature allows this. PUE (power usage effectiveIf the figures disclosed by the vehicle manufacturer indicate higher fuel consumption under EEC guidelines ness), a value that captures the energy lost in data centre operations by measuring the ratio of the than defined for the relevant authorisation group, the employees’ own monthly contribution increases primary energy requirement to the amount of energy used by the IT systems, was cut by more than 30 % by € 4.00 for each 0.1 litre increase in consumption, regardless of the monthly lease payment. By imple­ in Aareon’s data centre. By continuously optimising the IT systems, the amount of energy they require to menting this rule, Aareal Bank Group makes all company car drivers aware of the environmental impact, operate at the same or increased capacity is also being reduced. Useful lives in the data centre were thereby making a contribution to reducing unnecessary fuel consumption. extended to five years by purchasing efficient, high-performance systems and by distributing loads appropriately. At the end of their useful lives, the systems are returned to either the supplier or a qualified recycler so that the raw materials or individual components can be recycled. 48 Sustainability Report 2012 | Environment 49 For employees who use public transport to reach their place of work, Aareal Bank offers to make a con­tribution Sustainability programme to the annual season ticket available from the Rhein-Main-Verkehrsverbund (Rhine-Main Transport Network). Goal Measure Deadline Sustainable procurement Examine certification, e.g. to ISO 14001, for the Wiesbaden 2014 and Mainz sites In its procurement activities, Aareal Bank Group gives preference to local suppliers and service providers. To reduce resource Implement energy-saving measures at the Wiesbaden site, consumption such as using energy-saving lighting and highly efficient This enables short routes and helps to reduce CO2 emissions. Naturally, Aareal Bank expects its suppliers Ongoing pumps, heat recovery and a building services automation to comply at a minimum with statutory guidelines. Compliance with those requirements is checked by system to monitor and optimise operations means of in-house supplier assessments. The criteria that are required to be met in these supplier assess­ ments are continually evaluated and extended details are requested. The contract templates used for sup­ To reduce the environ­Introduce a CO2 limit when purchasing new company cars 2013 mental impact of business and an average CO2 limit for the fleet in Germany pliers and service providers specifically oblige them to comply with provisions and standards. travel and trips Examine the use of electric vehicles at the Mainz site 2013 The Group guideline on supplier management governs the definition of the standards, criteria and assess­ Sharply reduce CO2 emissions by purchasing 100 % green ment parameters in Aareal Bank Group’s common supplier management system. The questionnaire for To reduce CO2 emissions energy for the Wiesbaden and Mainz sites and other locations 2014 in Germany the supplier assessment forms part of the Group guidelines. Besides compliance with all the necessary environmental requirements, consideration is also given to other key points, such as the supplier’s market Increase coverage of consumption data 2014 Further measures position, the quality of the goods and services, the value proposition, business quality and adherence to Consider social standards when selecting suppliers 2013 deadline and volume targets. These aspects are assessed by the responsible units (purchasing organisa­ tions and divisions). Aareal Bank Group deliberately imposes high quality requirements on its authorised suppliers. However, the intention in continually updating the supplier guidelines is not only to firmly establish compliance with minimum standards regarding working conditions and the elimination of child labour as a decision-making criterion. Rather, in its working relationships with its suppliers, it is important for Aareal Bank Group that they have introduced and implemented extensive occupational health and safety standards. From 2014 onwards, we will be in an even better position to check compliance with these measures in the course of regular supplier audits with our key suppliers. 50 Sustainability Report 2012 | Society Sustainability Report 2012 | Society 51 Society Doing business goes beyond a company’s actual business activities – it also involves taking social responsibility. This is why Aareal Bank Group supports a large number of external edu­ cational and academic initiatives, as well as charitable and social organisations. This is not limited to mere financial support, i.e. donations and sponsorship. It also includes employee involvement and knowledge transfer. 52 Sustainability Report 2012 | Society Sustainability Report 2012 | Society 53 Why we take social responsibility Aareon – fostering young talent An important element of being a sustainable company is supporting social and charitable organisations. The organisations and initiatives supported by Aareon are grouped into three areas – fostering young This social responsibility is a fundamental part of Aareal Bank Group’s corporate culture. Aareal Bank talent, property industry competitions such as the ”DW Die Wohnungswirtschaft – Zukunftspreis der Group’s social involvement primarily focuses on two areas – education and academic research, and char­ Immobilienwirtschaft” and the ”Property Manager of the Year” innovation prize, as well as social commitment. itable and social organisations. Aareon sets great store on fostering young talent in the property industry. The ”Lerninsel” programmes run by the northern and central/eastern business regions have been supporting vocational trainees in the Promotion of education and academic research property industry for many years now. Intensive training courses are held every summer to equip promising vocational trainees with the skills to become tomorrow’s leaders in the property industry. Aareal Bank Group is committed to promoting education and sees itself as more than just a donor. It works together in partnership with various educational institutions to foster young talent, to promote research Aareal Bank and Aareon provide the University of Leipzig, the Leipzig University of Cooperative Edu­c ation and to create international links between academic research and teaching. One example of this is Aareal and the Südwestdeutsche Fachakademie der Immobilienwirtschaft e.V. with guest lecturers and speakers. Bank Group’s commitment to the Real Estate Management Institute (REMI) at the EBS Universität für Aareon has been involved in the Girls’ Day initiative since 2008, which gives female school students a Wirtschaft und Recht in Wiesbaden, where it has sponsored a professorial chair. In addition, Aareal Bank look behind the scenes to highlight the benefits of technical professions at an early age. Group employees are involved with the EBS as speakers, as well as on examination boards and other bodies. Employees are involved in similar ways at other higher education institutions in the region, such as the Frankfurt School of Finance, the RheinMain University of Applied Sciences and the University of Applied Charitable and social organisations Sciences Mainz. Aareal Bank Group sponsors charitable and social organisations and is involved in a large number of Equally, Aareal Bank Group sponsors the prestigious ”Aareal Award of Excellence in Real Estate Research” foundations. Aareal Bank Group sponsors and is a member of the Zwerg Nase Foundation in Wiesbaden, at REMI, which is awarded every year for outstanding academic research in real estate economics. which aims to provide simple, unbureaucratic help to parents with disabled children. Aareal Bank also sponsors a further prize for forward-looking and pioneering theses relating to the housing Aareal Bank Group also supports Fit for Family Care gGmbH, a non-profit organisation for child care and and property industry at the EBZ Business School (Europäisches Bildungszentrum der Wohnungsund youth services in Wiesbaden. Aareal Bank held a series of sporting events for employees as part of its Immobilienwirtschaft) in Bochum. ”Aareal United” summer programme. This included the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge and the 25-hour run in Wiesbaden, as well as a wide range of activities relating to the European football championships Aareal Bank and Aareon sponsored a foundation chair for the real estate management course at Nür­ and the Olympic Games. Employees were rewarded for their participation in the programme with a points tingen-Geislingen University (HfWU) from 2002 to 2009. Aareon has been supporting the new ”Institute system, which saw the Bank donate € 5,000 to Fit for Family Care at the end of the programme. for IT in the property industry” (Immobilienwirtschaftliches Institut für Informationstechnologie) since April 2010. The institute is an independent research platform in the discipline of information tech­n ology. As part of management and specialist training, the Company’s management staff and specialists participate In addition, the Aareon IT prize is awarded twice a year at the HfWU in the field of information tech­n ology. in the Common Purpose’s regional matrix programme every two years. They then continue to participate in the programme as alumni to further the idea of corporate citizenship. Since 2011, Aareal Bank has regularly supported Deutsche-Angestellten Akademie’s inclusive training offering for young people with disabilities in the form of internships for young vocational trainees and career changers. Aareon’s social commitment Aareal Bank also co-sponsors the Institute for Banking History (IBF – Institut für bankhistorische Forschung) As part of Aareal Bank Group, social commitment is also an important part of Aareon’s corporate culture. in Frankfurt am Main. Through its involvement, Aareal Bank aims in particular to help translate historical This is why the Company supports Deutsche Entwicklungshilfe für soziales Wohnungsund Siedlungs­ experiences in the financial sector into modern practice through research into banking history. The IBF has wesen (DESWOS) in Cologne and Pfarrer-Landvogt-Hilfe e. V. in Mainz. promoted academic research into banking and financial history since 1969. Its wide range of publications and regular events inform the wider public of the historic roots of the banking industry. DESWOS’s mission is to fight homelessness and poverty in developing countries by helping people to help themselves. It does this by helping to build housing for families in need and safeguarding their livelihoods. The foundation is supported by the associations of the GdW Bundesverband deutscher Woh­ nungsund Immobilienunternehmen and their members. Aareon has supported DESWOS’s work since 1997 as a member and donor. In 2012, Aareon helped small farmers in Nicaragua to safeguard their living environment. It sponsored a women’s cooperative in rural El Salvador in 2011 and a project to help children and single mothers in Tanzania in 2010. 54 Sustainability Report 2012 | Society Sustainability Report 2012 | GRI Index 55 GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level 1. Strategy and Analysis Originally providing emergency relief, Pfarrer-Landvogt-Hilfe has grown to become a help, counselling 1-10 1.1 Statement from the Management Board. f 6-7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. f 16-20, 22, 31, 41, 49, 54 and support organisation for the homeless and an advocate for these people. Today, its work focuses on 2. Organisational Profile reintegration assistance and helping those who have nowhere else to go. Aareon helps to fund a part-time 2.1 Name of the organisation. f 12 social worker. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services. f 12f., 26f. 2.3 Business Segments and operational structure of the organisation. f 12f. Aareon supports Mainzer Hospizgesellschaft’s hospice and palliative counselling service. Aareon’s con­ 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. f Wiesbaden, Germany tribution helps the Mainz hospice to keep its hospice and palliative counselling service for outpatients 2.5 Number/names of countries where the organisation operates. f 12 running. Paid and volunteer hospice staff support the dying and their families free of charge in their own 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. f 12; AR 44 homes during what is undoubtedly one of the most difficult times imaginable. 2.7 Markets served. f 12f. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. f 3, 12f., 34; AR 128, 130 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding corporate structure or ownership. f AR 133, AR 226f. 2.10 Awards. f 3, 20f., 30, 34 I-stay@home 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting. f 2 Aareon is a partner of the I-stay@home initiative. This project is a partnership between 15 European com­ 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. f First report panies and is backed by the European Union. The aim of the project is to make appropriate IT solutions 3.3 Reporting cycle. f 2 available to people, housing organisations, local authorities and communities that help older people to 3.4 Contact point(s). f 59 continue living independently in their own homes for as long as possible given the demographic trend in 3.5 Processes for defining report content. f 2, 17f. 3.6 Boundary of the report. f 2 Europe. The project focuses in particular on safety, health and energy consumption. 3.7 Description of specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. f 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures etc. f 2, 34 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations. f 2, 44, 47 3.10 Re-statements/changes in the presentation of information in comparison to earlier reports. f First report Sustainability programme 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, or measurement methods applied in the report. f First report 3.12 GRI Content Index f 55-57 3.13 External assurance for the report. f None Goal Measure Deadline 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Education and academic research 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including responsibility for sustainability. f 18f.; AR 231f., 245ff. • Continuation of work to promote education and academic 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. f 19; AR 231, 233 research, as well as the dialogue between research and Ongoing 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure: independent and/or non-executive members of the n.r. Not relevant as Aareal Bank has practice in the property industry highest governance body. a Supervisory Board • Sponsorship of the Institute for Banking History (Institut für To help tackle challenges 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to f 20, 35; AR 48f., 261 bankhistorische Forschung) Management Board/Supervisory Board. facing society Charitable and social organisations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, f 37f.; AR 209ff. • Sponsorship of the Zwerg Nase Foundation and and executives, and the organisation’s achievement of sustainability targets. Ongoing foundation membership 4.6 Avoiding conflicts of interest. f 19; Code of Conduct • Donations 1-10 4.7 Expertise of the members of the governance bodies with regard to sustainability. f 18f. Employee participation in the Common Purpose initiative Ongoing 1-10 4.8 Mission statement, corporate values and codes of conduct. f 19f., 39, 48; Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the Management/Supervisory Board for monitoring the organization’s economic, f 18f., 41, AR 81ff. environmental and social opportunities and risks. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of the Management Board. f AR 209ff., 243, 254 7 4.11 Approach to precautionary measures. f 20, 26, AR 81ff. 1-10 4.12 Externally initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. f 7, 19, 21 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy groups. f 21 1-10 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. f 2, 16 4.15 Identification of stakeholders with whom to engage. f 16 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. f 2, 20 1-10 4.17 Comments regarding key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. f 2, 16f. 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators 1-10 Management Approach – Product and Service Impact f 20, 26-28, 31 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business segments by region, size and by sector. f 13; AR 206f. 1-6 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit. p 13, 28 7-9 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit. p 27ff. 56 Sustainability Report 2012 | GRI Index Sustainability Report 2012 | GRI Index 57 GRI Index GRI Index Global ComGRI Index Application Page Global ComGRI Index Application Page pact Principles level pact Principles level 1-10 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and p 28 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes. f 35 risk assessment procedures. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety n.d. 1-10 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting n.r. committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues. 1 LA7 Rates of lost days, injury, and number of work-related fatalities . f 41 1-10 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. f 28 LA8 Preventive healthcare programmes, advisory services. f 40 1-10 FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues in case of share ownership. n.r. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. n.d. 1, 6, 7 Management Approach – Economic Performance Indicators f 10-14, 50 LA10 Average hours of training by employee category. f 35f. EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. f 3, 52ff.; AR 128f, 155f. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning. f 35f., AR 172 7 EC2 Financial implications for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. p 21 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. f 36 1, 6 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations. f 38, AR 168ff. 1, 6 LA13 Workforce structure/diversity in the organisation’s management. p 34, 39 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. f None 1, 6 LA14 Remuneration by gender and employee category. f 39 1, 6 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage. f 37 1-6 Management Approach – Human Rights f 35, 39, 48 EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers. p 48f. 1-6 HR1 Investment agreements that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have n.d. 6 EC7 Local hiring of senior management members. 39 undergone human rights screening. EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit. f 52f. 1-6 HR2 Human rights screening of suppliers. n.d. EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts. n.d. 1-6 HR3 Training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights. p 39 7-9 Management Approach – Environmental Performance Indicators f 17, 28f., 31, 42, 44-47, 49 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. f None 8, 9 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. f 45 1-3 HR5 Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. f 35, 48 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. f 44f. 1, 2, 5 HR6 Principles and measures taken with regard to child labour. f 48 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption. f 46f. 1, 2, 4 HR7 Principles and measures to eliminate forced labour. f 48 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. f 46f. 1, 2 HR8 Training of security concerning aspects of human rights. n.r. 7 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. f 46f. HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. n.r. 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide more energy-efficient products and services. f AR 67 ff. 10 Management Approach – Society f 19f., 50 8 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy. f 46 SO1 Programmes and procedures assessing and regulating the impact of operations on local communities. p 17 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. f 45 (tap water only) FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged. n.r. 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. f None FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. n.r. 8 EN10 Recycled and reused water. n.r. 10 SO2 Analysis of risks of corruption. p 19 8 EN11 Land in, or adjacent to, protected areas. f None 10 SO3 Anti-corruption training. f 20 8 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity in protected. f None 10 SO4 Actions taken to prevent corruption. f 19 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. n.r. 1-10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in lobbying. p 21 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for protecting biodiversity. n.r. SO6 Total value of contributions to political parties, politicians, etc. f None, Code of Conduct 8 EN15 Endangered species by level of extinction risk. n.r. SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, and their outcomes. f None 8, 9 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. f 47 SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. f AR 98 8 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions. f 47 1, 8 Management Approach – Product Responsibility (including FS15) f 19, 29, 31 7-9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. p 46f. 1, 8 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed. n.r. 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. n.r. PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations. n.r. 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. n.r. 8 PR3 Product and service labelling. n.r. 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. n.d. PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and service information and labelling. n.r. 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. f 45 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. f 29 8 EN23 Spilling of harmful substances. n.r. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by target group. n.d. EN24 Transport of hazardous waste by weight. n.r. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing n.r. EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water. n.r. communications. 7-9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services. f 28f. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications. f None EN27 Percentage of products whose packaging materials were re-used. n.r. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints data protection. f 30 EN28 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. f None PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products f None and services. 8 EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the f 47 organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 7, 8 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments. n.d. 1, 3, 6 Management Approach – Work Environment and Working Conditions f 17, 32, 35f., 38-41 LA1 Information on total workforce. f 34, Proportion of fixed-term contracts in the Group in 2012: 4.5 % 6 LA2 Employee turnover. p 34f. LA3 Benefits provided to permanent staff. f 38 AR = Annual Report 2012; Code of Conduct = http://www.aareal-bank.com/en/footermenu/code-of-conduct/; n.d. = no data; 1, 3 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Proportion of employees covered f n.r. = not relevant to our business; p = partial; f = full by collective agreements in the Group in 2012: 86 % We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B according to the GRI G3 Guidelines. This has been checked by the GRI and confirmed. 58 Sustainability Report 2012 | GRI Statement Sustainability Report 2012 | Imprint 59 Imprint Responsible for the content: Aareal Bank AG · Henning Zander · Group Sustainability Officer Paulinenstrasse 15 · 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany Phone: +49 611 348 2009 · E-mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com This report has been prepared in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Munich, Germany Photography: Cover: Christian Lord Otto Fotodesign, Dusseldorf, Germany p. 14/15: OJO Images/Getty Images p. 24/25: mediaphotos/Getty Images p. 32/33, 42/43: OJO Images/Veer p. 50/51: Ocean Photography/Veer Layout/Design: S/COMPANY · Die Markenagentur GmbH, Fulda, Germany Production: ABT Print und Medien GmbH, Weinheim, Germany Editorial deadline: 30 June 2013 Aareal Bank AG Paulinenstrasse 15 65189 Wiesbaden, Germany E-mail: sustainability@aareal-bank.com www.aareal-bank.com 08/2013
