2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report PetroChina Company Limited Address: 9 Dongzhimen North Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing, P.R.China Post Code: 100007 Website: www.petrochina.com.cn E-mail: csr@petrochina.com.cn ENERGIZE HARMONIZE REALIZE Printed on environment-friendly paper PetroChina Company Limited 2012 Sustainability Report 3 CONTENTS 02 About PetroChina 60 Investor FAQs 04 Chairman‘s Statement 66 Objectives and Plans 06 Insights from the President 68 Performance Statistics 70 Global Compact and Us 08 20 28 36 44 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY OPERATIONAL SAFETY CUSTOMER-FIRST PEOPLE-ORIENTED GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY MARKET SERVICE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 09 Corporate Governance 21 Consolidating Resource Base 29 Improving HSE Management 37 Enhancing Quality Management 45 Employees’ Rights 53 Promoting Development Mechanisms of Local Economies 23 Optimizing Positioning of Refining and 30 Heightening Safety 39 Focusing on Research and 46 Occupational Health 12 Pursuit of Best Practices Chemicals Facilities Management Development 54 Poverty Alleviation 49 Platform for Employee 14 Strengthening Internal Controls 23 Accelerating Construction of Pipeline 32 Promoting Energy Saving and 40 Providing High-Quality Products Development 56 Support for Education Network Emission Reduction 15 Protecting Shareholder Interests 41 Delivering More Personalized 50 Local Staff Development 57 Volunteer Activities 26 Developing Alternative Energy 34 Environmental Protection Services 18 Engaging with Stakeholders 51 Security in Overseas Operations 58 Contributions to Overseas 27 Extending International Cooperation 35 Addressing Climate Change 43 Stabilizing Oil and Gas Supply Communities >100% 916.5 million barrels 42 million tons 40% 19.26 million cubic meters Completed 362 billion RMB The Company maintained its Crude oil production increased Daqing Oilfield maintained an annual The Company accounts Operational safety has The Company saved 1.21 million tons Construction of the pipelines The Company reported a tax oil and gas equivalent reserve 3.4% year on year to 916.5 crude output of over 40 million tons for 10 for over 40% of oil been ensured with no of standard coal and 19.26 million cubic branching off the Second West-East payment of RMB 362 billion replacement ratio at over 100% million barrels, marking the consecutive years. Changqing Oilfield’s oil and products supply in China. major accidents reported. meters of water, with SO2 emission 0.3% Gas Pipeline has been completed, under IFRS. for the 13th consecutive year, highest rate of increase. gas production exceeded 42 million tons of lower than the previous year’s level. which is ready to deliver gas to the reinforcing the stability of its oil and gas equivalent, ranking first in China. HKSAR. reserve base. 02 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 03 About PetroChina Core Business PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, hereinafter As a leading oil and gas producer and distributer in China, PetroChina is engaged extensively in the oil and gas businesses, also referred to as “the Company”, “we” or “us”) was including: Our Mission Energize • Harmonize • Realize established on 5 November, 1999, upon the restructuring of China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Our Values Honesty, Innovation, Safety and Distinction PetroChina was listed on the NYSE (ADS code: PRT ) Oil and gas exploration and Production, transportation and the HKEx (stock code: 00857) in April 2000 and on Our Vision Being an internationally competitive production and storage of crude oil and the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601857) in energy company by 2020 petrochemical products November 2007, respectively. By 31 December 2012, We are a leading oil and gas producer CNPC holded over 86% of PetroChina’s shares. in China, operating in a number We are one of China’s major producers Business Strategy Resource, Market, Internationalization of major oil and gas producing of petroleum products. In 2012, we We provide sustainable energy for economic and social regions such as Daqing, Changqing, processed 1,012.5 million barrels of crude development through honest, stable and responsible Emphasis on the environment and safety, QHSE Concept Xinjiang, Liaohe, Tarim and Sichuan. oil and produced over 91 million tons modes of operation. We pursue harmonious relationships high quality and people-oriented By the end of 2012, our oil and gas of refined oil products, 98.4% of which between energy and the environment, production production accounted for more than was high-grade gasoline. Our ethylene and safety, corporate and community, employers and QHSE Objectives Zero Defect, Zero Injury and Zero Pollution 60% of domestic total oil and gas production reached 3.69 million tons. employees. production, providing energy to fuel We have built seven 10Mt/a refining International Cooperation Cooperation for mutual benefit and joint the economy’s growth. bases and five large-scale ethylene bases. Concept development Production and marketing of Natural gas transportation and petrochemical products distribution We are one of the major distributers We are China’s leading producer of oil products in China, with a market and distributer of natural gas. Our share of over 40%. In 2012, we owned supply meets 70% of the country’s 19,840 service stations and more total demand through nationwide Appraisals and Awards in 2012 than 13,100 convenience stores, gas pipeline networks, which serve covering 32 provinces (municipalities 500 million people in 28 provinces and autonomous regions) across the (municipalities and autonomous Agency Appraisals and Awards country, supplied over 24 million tons regions) and the HKSAR at the end of of petrochemicals. 2012. Forbes 7th in Forbes Global 2000 Platts 9th in Platts Top 250 Global Energy Company Rankings International business Most Admired Company (Asia) In line with our goal to become an internationally competitive energy company, we maintain an international Institutional Investor approach in our strategy and have made great strides in growing our international operations. Currently, Best Company (China) we have established five international oil and gas cooperation zones in the Middle East, Central Asia, AsiaPacific, Americas and Africa, and three oil and gas operation centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. We saw Energy Intelligence 5th in Energy Intelligence Top 100 coordinated growth in our overseas E&P, refining, and international sales and trade businesses. The expansion of our international oil and gas cooperation has been substantial in terms of size and scope, and the volume and value of international trade are also growing rapidly. The Company's oil and gas production and turnover Financial Times 3rd in FT Global 500 accruing from its international business have increased substantially. PetroChina has determined the form of the international energy company it wants to take, marking its shift from a national oil company to an FinanceAsia 3rd on FinanceAsia’s list of credit rankings international energy player. 04 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 05 Chairman’s Statement Faced with the slow global economic recovery and sluggish innovation and accelerate the transformation of the Company’s management. Meanwhile, we accelerated the exploration and growth in energy demand growth in 2012, we exemplified our development pattern. We believe that only innovation can sustain development of unconventional resources such as CBM and shale corporate mission of “Energize, Harmonize and Realize” and the scale, growth rate and efficiency of our business success. In gas, pushed ahead in the production of fuel ethanol, biodiesel and worked towards becoming a “Green, International and Sustainable 2012, we continued to invest in R&D, enhance innovation, and aviation bio-kerosene in an orderly manner, and strove to increase PetroChina”, accelerated the implementation of strategies of focus on major scientific and special technological research the supply of natural gas, high grade gasoline and jet fuels, in “Resources, Market and Internationalization”, by picking up pace projects and major field test projects so as to enhance our order to do our part in creating a cleaner environment. We actively in our structural reforms and changing our growth model. This independent innovation capabilities. We then apply the findings worked for the public good in the countries and regions in which resulted in rapid growth that could be effectively sustained. of our research and the fruits of our R&D work into our production we operate, supported socio-economic development in the local and operations activities. For example, multi-stage fracturing communities, and shared our achievements with our partners. Structural adjustment: Optimized business portfolio and for horizontal well is now widely used in our development Our CSR activities are widely recognized by local governments, value chain activities, and we have achieved continuous improvements in our business partners, the media and local residents. exploration and development technology for low pressure and Resources are fundamental to our business sustainability. We With multi-polarity and economic globalization prevailing in low permeability oil and gas reservoirs. Our proprietary 600Kt/ understand that fossil energy is non-renewable and therefore today’s world, we have continued to enhance cultural diversity a ethylene package solution has been successfully applied to define sustainability as maintaining society well-being with and social informatization, we have made new breakthroughs in expand and upgrade existing units. We also achieved major finite resources, through optimized allocation and utilization of scientific and technological developments, and we have been progress in fundamental research projects such as the use energy resources. To this end, we focus on oil and gas exploration engaging in global co-operation at all levels and in all dimensions. of nano agents for oil displacement. As part of the Digital activities to optimize the reserve-production structure. In 2012, The global economy is undergoing a transition and is growing at a PetroChina initiative, we launched three IT projects: an ERP-based the reserve replacement ratio of the Company stood above slower pace. New trends and transformations are emerging in the Information System, the Internet of Things, and a Cloud-based 100%, ensuring a strong reserve base for growth in China. Our gas global energy landscape, particularly with the balance in global oil Data Center. Meanwhile, corporate governance was stepped up production increased rapidly, accounting for more than a third supply-demand, which will see little change, while natural gas will through overall budget management, benchmarking, meticulous of the Company’s total output. The Company promoted largeexperience major growth at the same time. In China, we will see management as well as risk control in key areas, key aspects and scale intensive refining and petrochemical operations with seven a robust increase in energy demand in light of China’s boundless key processes. Joint ventures and cooperation with social capital, 10Mt/a refining bases and five ethylene production bases taking development potential, especially with the goal set during the 18th financial capital and international capital were encouraged to play shape in the year. We developed high-end and clean products CPC National Congress of transforming China into a moderately an active role in our operation. The innovations we have achieved to upgrade our product line, improved our marketing network prosperous society through rapid industrialization, IT revolution, in technology and management have contributed to the steady and oil products sales structure, upgraded our domestic pipeline urbanization and modernization of agricultural production, which improvement in the quality and business growth. networks and imported a large amount of natural gas. We also all present tremendous opportunities for the oil and gas industry. further developed our town gas, CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) Sustainability: Green and low-carbon development and LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) businesses, which resulted in We will adhere to our business strategy “Resources, Market a new gas marketing structure with a higher market share. The Safety, conservation of resources and environmentally friendly and Internationalization”, enhance quality and efficiency, and Company took a big leap forward in our international operations practices are three important aspects of sustainability. It is our focus on oil and gas operations and sustainable growth. We by stepping up efforts abroad, with major overseas cooperation unwavering goal to strike a balance between the Company’s will accelerate the transformation of our development pattern, zones and operation centers taking shape. In sum, 2012 was a year development and resources, the environment, society and people. strengthen scientific management and enhance safety and that saw steady increases in oil and gas production output, crude In 2012, we continued to implement and improve our HSE system, environmental protection. Human resources have always been processing volumes, and sales of oil products and natural gas. Our focusing on raising awareness on safety and environmental our top priority as we continue to protect and improve people’s business portfolio and value chain have been further streamlined protection, managing hidden hazards and sharing experiences. livelihoods. PetroChina will strive to create a green, international Jiang Jiemin, Chairman of the Board to facilitate coordinated growth and enhanced supply security. Energy conservation demonstration projects and emissions and sustainable corporation, one that is loyal, responsible and reduction projects were carried out to further improve our HSE respectable, to achieve better returns for our shareholders, Shifting development pattern: Strengthening performance. We implemented a series of medical examination employees and society. technological and managerial innovation programs and occupational disease countermeasures for the sake of our employees’ physical and mental health, and a multiAs innovation is one of our strategic approaches in driving tier medical insurance scheme was established for better health our sustainable development, we will vigorously strengthen 06 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 07 Insights from the President What is your take on the role that strategic management the quality, efficiency and the innovation structure. We have IT is increasingly important in the development of can play in a company’s sustainability? strengthened our R&D capabilities and developed a series of key enterprises. What are the Company’s IT initiatives? technological solutions that will support the rapid growth of our Strategic management tops the cor porate operations core business. Information technology is an important mean to improve strategic management as it determines a company’s direction and future management and to enhance efficiency and transparency in development. A unique managerial advantage is essential to We will continue to put technological innovation at the core of decision-making. The combination of IT and industrial technology a company’s core competitiveness and its sustainability. At our strategic development and will further improve the reform of will help streamline the production process, strengthen process PetroChina, we strengthen our management in order to enhance our science and technology management. Meanwhile, top-level control and boost productivity, hence facilitating the shift in our competitive advantages and our ability to manage risks. In design will be reinforced with focus on three major technological growth model and bringing about sustainability. In 2012, we recent years, we have accelerated the implementation of strategy innovation initiatives, to tackle technological bottlenecks and to launched three IT projects, i.e. an ERP-based Information System, of “Resources, Market and Internationalization”, made the goal sharpen our unique and superior technologies through intensive the Internet of Things, and a Cloud-based Virtual Data Center. to become an internationally competitive energy company, R&D efforts and field tests, so as to turn our company into a top Meanwhile, the information security system has been taking developed a comprehensive strategic management system with internationally recognized innovative oil enterprise in terms of shape as IT applications play an increasingly significant role in the well-defined strategic proposition, development direction, key technological capabilities. enhancement of management and improvements in productivity. initiatives and supporting measures, and have made remarkable strides in boosting our resource base. How do you view the role of talent in business growth? In future, we will continue to implement these three IT projects on the basis of “operation-oriented, overall coverage and inIn the near future, we will continue to focus our strategic initiatives Our talent is our most valuable asset, and is essential for us to depth integration” guidelines to boost interoperability, adoption on innovation, cooperation, strengthening human capital and strengthen our innovative capabilities. We place great importance and sharing. We will implement comprehensive IT system enhancing management while maintaining consistency and on cultivating talent. In 2012, we continued to launch education planning and introduce the technology into our production and continuity in our strategic performance. Firstly, we will adhere and training programs for all employees, to optimize the talent management activities while facilitating the integration of the to a “business unit-led, operation-oriented and project-driven” pool of managers, technical experts and skilled workers and system and coordination of the business to enable full integration. management model to facilitate the implementation of top-level recruited high-level talent from abroad. The mechanism for We believe these initiatives will help PetroChina become a digital schemes and to consolidate the fundamental system. By doing evaluating, recruiting, training and motivating talent has been in and intelligent business enterprise and will bring the efficiency of so, we will lay a solid foundation on which our management will place. With a series of key projects, programs and R&D projects the Company’s production and management to higher levels. accomplish our strategic goals. Secondly, we will adhere to the in progress, our people enjoy plenty of opportunities for career principle of intensive, professional and integrated operations in development. building internal control mechanisms that are accountabilityThe Company will remain committed to “bolstering business based, rational, streamlined and dynamic so as to ensure the success with talent”. Managers, technical experts and skilled effectiveness of an organizational structure, business processes workers will be given training, hands-on experience and job and management methods and to keep our employees rotations. A parallel managerial-technical system will be developed motivated. Thirdly, we will integrate risk control into our daily to facilitate talent management and motivation. Training programs management by introducing prediction, early warning and risk that highlight and advocate dedication and professionalism will control monitoring mechanisms to ensure an effective scientific target staff in key positions and front-line staff. We will further lift approach. educational background-related restrictions and identity issues in Zhou Jiping, Vice Chairman of the Board How does PetroChina perceive proprietary innovation as employee development to provide employees a smooth growing and President a driving force for sustainable development? channel. Meanwhile, we will bring in international talent, foster foreign executives and promote local employment in our overseas As a core element of global competitiveness, proprietary operations. PetroChina commits considerable effort to cultivating innovation provides strategic support to sustainable development. a high-quality talent team with leadership skills and international PetroChina is committed to innovation and development, i.e. perspectives to transform the Company’s human capital into a bolstering business growth by investing in R&D and improving competitive advantage. 08 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 09 1. Corporate Governance Mechanisms As one of the first Chinese companies to be listed in the stock markets of both Hong Kong and New York, PetroChina has set itself the target of being a market-oriented enterprise with the international best practices. Since its debut, PetroChina has established its corporate governance structure in compliance with international rules and regulations and this includes the comprising of Annual General Meetings, establishing a Board of Directors, a Supervisory Committee and the executive management team led by the President. These mechanisms work effectively to ensure coordination, balance of power and regulatory compliance. Listed in Hong Kong, New York and Shanghai, the Company has taken the initiative to improve its mechanisms and controls for corporate governance in response to changes in market environment and regulatory requirements. Corporate Governance Framework General Meeting Audit Committee Supervisory Committee Evaluation & Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Investment & Development Committee HSE Committee Executives Shareholder and Annual General Meeting directors have attended board meetings and performed their duties earnestly and diligently in making decisions on major (AGM) issues, appointing and reviewing the performance of executive 01 The general meeting of shareholders is the highest authority board members, and engaging with shareholders. Independent in the management of the Company. PetroChina’s general directors are encouraged to express their views on the Company’s shareholders meetings are held annually and all shareholders major decisions from a comprehensive and objective perspective, are treated equally in exercising their rights effectively. When a playing a constructive role in maintaining sound operations and connected transaction is presented to the general meeting for protecting the interests of minority shareholders. consideration, CNPC as the controlling shareholder of PetroChina CORPORATE GOVERNANCE will abstain from voting, to ensure fairness. A corporate secretariat, established when the Company went public and administered by the board of directors’ secretary, is responsible for coordinating the board’s activities, information Board of Directors and Board Committees disclosure, investor relations, public relations and communication Good corporate governance safeguards PetroChina’s sustainable Accountable to the shareholders, the directors and the with external stakeholders such as securities regulators. development. We are committed to regulatory compliance, integrity committee board plays a key role in the Company’s corporate and upholding our corporate constitution. We continue to improve our governance. The board has several committees, i.e. Audit Supervisory Committee corporate governance structure and accountability systems in line with Committee, Evaluation & Remuneration Committee, Investment As specified in laws and administrative regulations, the Supervisory & Development Committee and HSE Committee, and each give relevant regulatory rules and also continue to enhance our systems for Committee is responsible for carrying out the duties of the AGM consultation in the board’s decision-making process. effective measurement and control. Additionally, we protect the rights such as performing duties, attending supervisory committee As of the end of 2012, the Company has 13 directors, including meetings, participating in all board meetings, reporting to the and interests of our shareholders under the principle of being fair and AGM, and preparing proposals and reports for the Supervisory 5 independent non-executive directors who are a chairman credible while endeavoring to enhance our intrinsic qualities and values and/or member of the above-mentioned committees. The Committee. In order to be responsible for all shareholders, the through ethical behavior and sound governance. board is composed of legal, financial and industrial experts. All Supervisory Committee supervises and monitors the compliance 10 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 11 of finance officials, directors and other senior management of Executive Body the Company, and also proposes recommendations for major “There is no reason to stop going all out” business operations and investment projects. The Company’s executive management, presided over by the president and including vice presidents and CFO, serves as — A eulogy for Mr. Sun Bo, a senior manager of PetroChina As of the end of 2012, the Company’s Supervisory Committee the executive body. Appointed and reviewed by the Board of has 8 members, 3 being employees and 1 being an independent Directors, it is responsible for implementing the board’s resolutions member. In addition to improving the supervisory system and carrying out day-to-day business activities under the Articles On December 8, 2012, Mr. Sun Bo, Vice President of and PetroChina was able to get access to some high-end and performing supervisory duties, the Committee continues of Association and as authorized by the Board of Directors. The PetroChina, passed away at the age of 52 after a cerebral markets across the world. Many accolades in China’s oil to introduce new approaches and mechanisms, including Company has a two-tier management system comprised of hemorrhage on November 21, 2012. “For someone like me industry were attributable to his work and he had been supervisory inspections and surveys. The Committee has also headquarters and local offices, and a three-tier business system, who has long been a part of PetroChina, there is no reason highly praised for his contribution to PetroChina’s overseas developed the procedure of meeting with various regulatory i.e. headquarters, subsidiaries and local operations. Our core to stop going all out.” This was what Mr. Sun Bo used to tell business growth. agencies. Meanwhile, the members meet regularly to share business has four sectors, i.e. exploration & production, refining & to people around him from time to time. Being seen as a information, expand monitoring channels and broaden chemicals, marketing, and natural gas & pipeline. model example for PetroChina’s senior managers, his death Mr. Sun Bo was enthusiastic about the career he had chosen, perspectives. is a huge loss for the Company. with his behavior embodying the Company’s core values. As a technical expert, he played a leading role in numerous Born in February 1960, Mr. Sun Bo graduated from East China R&D programs which had led to dozens of technological Petroleum Institute with a degree in petroleum production achievements. As a senior executive officer, he was the engineering in July 1983, and became a senior engineer person who made excellent business performance possible. later. He had been Vice General Manager of Al-Waha At the same time, he was a modest and considerate leader Independent Non-Executive Directors Petroleum Co., Ltd. since June 1996. After that, he became a who was respected and admired by his employees and Vice President of CNPC International (Venezuela) in October peers. Under his strong leadership, PetroChina completed The 5th Board of Directors has 13 members, including 5 independent non-executive directors, accounting for more than one third 1998, Vice General Manager & Chief Engineer of China the Central Asia-China Gas Pipeline Project within 28 of the total, reflecting a better democracy. These independent directors come from different countries with a variety of expertise, National Oil & Gas Exploration & Development Corporation months although a project of such size would had including petroleum and petrochemical, accounting, finance, international investment and portfolio management. They are (CNODC), President of CNPC International (Venezuela) in normally required 6 years or longer. A miracle in the history encouraged to use their expertise to give consultancy service towards the Company’s development. September 1999 and General Manager of China Petroleum of pipeline construction, the project was praised by the Engineering & Construction Corpotation (CPECC) in January leaders of both countries as “a model of Sino-Kazakhstan 2004. Two years later he was appointed Vice Chairman & economic cooperation”. Chairman of Evaluation & Remuneration Committee. As ex-chairman of the China Securities Regulatory General Manager of CNPC Services and Engineering Ltd. Commission, Liu has a wealth of experience in securities market regulation and M&A, and possesses the Mr. Sun Bo had received many awards, including the state Liu Hongru and General Manager OF CPECC in June 2006, and General accounting or financial management qualifications required under Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the award of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the 2011-2012 Manager of Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline Company Limited in Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. China Great Entrepreneur. As a PetroChina employee, he set September 2007. He had been Vice President of PetroChina and General Manager of Trans-Asia Gas Pipeline Company an example of dedication, diligence and unselfishness, and Chairman of Audit Committee. Franco Bernabè is an internationally renowned expert in petroleum development Limited since January 2010. as a senior PetroChina executive officer, he was the epitome and operation with great insights on the international oil market and many years of experience in cross-sector of competence, integrity, innovation and excellence. He Franco Bernabè capital management. Mr. Sun Bo spearheaded PetroChina’s move into overseas devoted his whole life to his career. On February 8, 2013, operations and took charge of the construction of the he was posthumously awarded by the Ministry of Human Central Asia Oil & Gas Cooperation Zone. He had over 10 Resources and Social Security and the State-owned Assets Chairman of Investment & Development Committee. Li Yongwu has many years of experience in petrochemical years of experience working in the Middle East, South Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Li Yongwu operations and sizable petrochemical project management. He is also an expert in petrochemical investments. America and Central Asia, spending a lot of time among Council the title of “Model Worker of State Enterprises”. On many overseas projects. After meticulous research and February 20, 2013, he was granted the title of “National time-consuming, difficult negotiations, he managed to Excellent Party Member” and awarded the “May 1 st Labor seal a number of international cooperation deals. Thanks Medal” respectively by the Organization Department of the Member of Audit Committee. Cui Junhui is experienced in tax and financial audits. With a wealth of expertise and to his unwavering support, a series of new techniques CPC Central Committee and the All China Federation of Cui Junhui experience, Cui plays an important role in the Company’s internal controls, accounting, auditing and tax policy. were widely used in oilfield development, many technical Trade Unions. issues in overseas operations were successfully addressed Member of Audit Committee and Evaluation & Remuneration Committee. Chen Zhiwu is an internationally Chen Zhiwu renowned economist who is versed in laws and policies of China and the United States, and experienced in M&A as well as capital operations. 12 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 13 2. Pursuit of Best Practices Corporate Governance Practices in 2012 The Company has continued to improve its corporate governance on the Company’s major decisions from a comprehensive and on the principle of being scientific, democratic and responsible, objective perspective, playing an important role in the Company’s Annual General The 2012 annual general meeting was held to approve 7 resolutions, such as 2012 Annual Report of the to guarantee sustained growth in its operating results as well as growth. Meeting Board of Directors, 2012 Annual Report of the Supervisory Board and 2012 Annual Financial Statements. shareholder value. We have tailored our governance practices based on standard approaches. The board secretariat provides independent directors with detailed information about the Company’s strategic planning, Four regular board meetings and 3 temporary meetings were held, 31 resolutions were passed. An Ethical and Efficient Board of Directors operations and regulatory compliance. In addition to a monthly The Board of Directors’ Handbook, Rules of Procedure for Board of Director and Guidelines for Independent report covering the Company’s operating results and market Submitting to the authority of the Supervisory Committee, the performance, the Company have provided the independent Directors were formulated. Board of Directors reports to the general meeting, implements directors with newsletters and briefings from time to time Rules of Procedure were formulated for each of the four committees, specifying the requirements on resolutions passed at the general meeting and makes decisions highlighting the latest major developments and events in relation giving notice of the general meeting or board meeting, preparing proposals, convening a meeting, on major issues such as investment plans. Any major investment to the Company’s business growth, upstream and downstream Board of Directors voting rules and minutes etc. decision must be reviewed by the Investment & Development operations and management procedures, so that the board of Committee before it is presented to the Board of Directors for directors can make informed decisions in an efficient way. Board meetings were held and requirements on meeting notices and proposals were observed in consideration. accordance with the Articles of Association and Rules and Procedure for Board of Directors. We formulated the Guidelines for Site Visit of Independent Board meetings are convened on time in accordance with Directors to help independent directors develop a better Proposals and background information were supplied to independent directors, together with the Articles of Association, the board’s rules of procedure and understanding of the Company. At the beginning of each year, periodic briefings and feedback to facilitate the decision-making process. requirements on sending meeting notices and registering a site visit schedule is prepared and implemented by the board proposals. There has been no delay in convening a board meeting secretariat, taking into consideration the independent director’s and the Supervisory Committee has been invited to every regular own schedule. Site visits can also be arranged upon request. Four meetings were held to hear reports from relevant departments and committees, pass 12 meeting. In addition to supplying a copy of the proposal as well The purpose of the site visit is to allow independent directors to proposals and review the Company’s annual report. The general election was completed and the new as the background information to an independent director, have a close look into the Company’s operations while building chairman was chosen. The Supervisory Board also provided assistance in the process of information the Company has provided periodic briefings and feedback to disclosure as required by the regulatory authorities. communication and mutual trust. In 2012, independent directors facilitate the decision-making process. visited our facilities in Tarim Oilfield, Changqing Oilfield, Guangxi Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board attended 4 board meetings and submitted 5 memorials. Petrochemical and our marketing arms in Guizhou and Yunan. Engagement with Independent Directors Meanwhile, independent directors received the information from The Supervisory Board attended the general meeting and presented 2 proposals for consideration. management about operating results of the year and exchanged Every director has the right to express his/her opinions at board The Supervisory Board conducted financial surveys. It also made supervisory inspections and ideas with the third-party accounting firm on the financial audit. meetings. Independent directors are encouraged to provide views presented reports with suggestions for improvement. Case Study The important role of independent directors in board decision-making The sixth meeting of the 4th board of directors reviewed the assets valuation procedures and future prospects. After proposal on acquiring the refining assets of ten refineries thorough discussion and consideration, the Board agreed with including Daqing Petrochemical Plant. We believe that this independent directors and recommended the management deal, as a key initiative, reflects the Company’s focus on its core to execute and manage the plan one step at a time, to business (refining and petrochemical operations). Additionally, maximize the potential benefits. The Board also heeded their it will help achieve the goal of “intensive operation, professional advice to engage an independent financial advisor to review management and coordinated development”, while reducing the proposed deal. After the meeting, the Board Secretariat connected transactions with CNPC and avoiding conflict of conveyed these opinions to the relevant departments and interest with CNPC. appointed an approved third-party financial advisor to conduct an independent review on the deal, which arrived at the The Board held a meeting to discuss this proposal in detail, with same conclusion as the previous review. The transaction was independent directors showing great concern and voicing successfully completed. different views in areas such as the timing of the acquisition, 14 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 15 3. Strengthening Internal Controls The improvements in internal controls are essential to ensure the effectiveness of organizational structure, business procedures and existing internal control and risk management systems for our Anti-corruption Education Guide, Manager Training Program management practices, while keeping our employees motivated. The Company adopted an approach stressing on intensification, domestic and overseas operations, stepped up our comprehensive and Code of Ethics for Executives while improving its business specialization and integration, to develop and improve internal control mechanisms that are accountable, rational, streamlined and dynamic, risk management approach to monitor and mitigate risks. and management procedures, especially the monitoring and to improve our CSR performance and achieve sustainable growth. Business processes were further streamlined for more effective mechanisms for key areas such as investment management, enforcement. Internal control tests were conducted to assess the project management, procurement, bidding and tendering, and effectiveness of these measures. marketing. We strengthened the supervision of executives, key projects and overseas operations, and reviewed our decisionAnti-corruption System making procedures in terms of key issues, executives, investments and the large funds. Irregularities, violations and fraud were With an anti-corruption system in place, the Company has investigated and disciplinary measures meted out. Internal Control and created a unique anti-corruption system that is compatible with that of a modern enterprise. In 2012, as part of a fundamental Please visit http://www.petrochina.com.cn to Risk Management anti-corruption education initiative, the Company released the learn more about our corporate control system. System Anti-corruption HSE System System 4. Protecting Shareholder Interests Quality Emergency Management Management System System Following the principles of justice, fairness and openness, the The Company published its prospectuses, offering memorandums Company has complied with legal procedures at home and and listing announcements in line with the applicable laws abroad to ensure that our stocks are traded under a market-driven and regulations in the jurisdictions where the Company is Technology system to protect the interests of our shareholders, including listed, as well as the provisions listed in Articles of Association. Management small investors. Annual reports, 20-F Form, interim reports and quarterly reports System have been published regularly. The Company released its first Information Disclosure Social Responsibility Report (“Sustainability Report”) in 2006. The Sustainability Report covers information on the development of The Company makes adequate and timely information disclosure our technology, safety, clean energy, energy-saving, environmental under the HKEx, NYSE and SSE listing rules and follows the protection and governance performance. disclosure procedures set out in the Articles of Association, the Internal Control and Risk Management strengthened. The internal control system has played an important Board of Directors’ Handbook and the Rules of Procedure for the Investor Relations role as a part of the Company’s corporate governance framework System to drive the shift from a macro, department-focused approach to Supervisory Board to ensure the information to the market and regulators is disclosed in a timely, accurate, complete and reliable Investor relations is of strategic importance to PetroChina. The The Company established an internal control system in 2003 a micro, position-/procedure-focused approach. This resulted in manner. An information disclosure committee comprising the Company has developed Rules and Procedures for Managing in compliance with internal control regulations. This was remarkable improvements in the Company’s capability in business CFO, VP and the corporate secretary is responsible for disclosing Investor Relations, Contingency Plan for Managing Market Crises and completed in 2005. Since its official launch in 2006, the Company management. information in a timely and accurate manner. The Company Capital Market Handbook to clarify the roles, responsibilities and has passed the internal control audit performed by external has developed its information disclosure rules in line with procedures to ensure investor relations are managed effectively In 2012, the Company was ranked 1st in the Internal Control Index auditors for six consecutive years. This system of internal control the requirements set out in CSRC’s Regulations on Information and efficiently. of China's listed companies on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. It has improved the Company’s ability to manage and control its Disclosure of Listed Companies, covering the procedures for implemented a series of internal control initiatives to broaden the operations, strengthened its centralized management system, reporting, communicating, reviewing and disclosing material The Company has maintained good relationships with its internal control system, mitigate major risks, oversee professional and helped regulate a wide range of business activities. All in matters. investors, which in turn, helps to enhance its corporate value and procedures and improve audit quality. We further strengthened all, the Company’s capabilities in risk prevention were greatly 16 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 17 reputation. We take the initiative to meet financial analysts and PetroChina made the list of “Asia’s Top Companies in Investor Connected Transactions fund managers and help the capital market better understand Relations” by IR Magazine. In a survey jointly conducted by SSE, the Company’s management, operating results, management SZSE and the China IR Management & Research Center of Listed PetroChina signed a series of agreements on connected Investor FAQs approaches and growth strategies, while fostering confidence and Companies, the Company was ranked among the top 100 transactions with CNPC, including General Agreement on Provision trust. On the other hand, we give investors the opportunity for site A-share Companies in investor relations, and received the CSR of Products and Services, when it became public. The connected visits to better understand the industry as well as the Company’s Contribution Award. Mr. Li Hualin, Vice President and secretary of transactions between PetroChina and other related parties are daily operations. the board, was awarded the Excellent Secretary of the Board in also conducted in line with regulatory requirements, subject to the 2011-2012 appraisal by the Shanghai Stock Exchange. As the the approval of independent shareholders. A third-party financial The Company maintains a good working relationship with the only winner from Mainland China in the past 25 years, Mr. Mao review and an independent view from the independent directors capital market and the media. With an active publicity strategy, we Zefeng, PetroChina's IR manager & senior assistant secretary of are required for any activity involving connected transaction publicize the Company’s operating results and growth strategies the board, was selected by IR Magazine as one of the twenty-five to ensure the deal is settled at a fair and reasonable price. In We place a high premium on protecting shareholders’ interests. through objective media reports. We continue to improve our leading IROs. Mr. Wei Fang, a board secretariat official, was voted addition, it is our policy to minimize connected transactions and We invite individual shareholders to attend the AGM to give website design with new columns and updates, and introduce the Best IR Professional in the oil and gas industry by the buy-side avoid conflicts of interest. minority shareholders an opportunity to engage the Board of interactive features such as “Investor FAQs” to respond to investors’ in a survey conducted by Institutional Investor. Directors and executive managers. We also document every questions raised as well as solicit shareholder opinions. Meanwhile, opinion and suggestion from shareholders and channel them we engage financial PR firms on a retainer basis to extend our to relevant departments. We welcome shareholders’ requests for information channels and monitor the capital market closely. This visits and as we believe it is a good opportunity to enhance their enables the directors from the Board to obtain market information understanding of the Company. quickly, accurately, completely and systematically. Case Study Three reverse-roadshows in 2012 To strengthen relationships between the Company and its facilities, Shunan Gas Field, Guangxi Petrochemical and Qinzhou investors, and help the capital market better understand Oil Dock. This reverse-roadshow gave the investors a first-hand PetroChina, the Company organized reverse-roadshows for insight into the reserve base and the advanced natural gas fund managers and analysts from 13 investment institutions purification techniques used in Southwest Oil and Gas Field. Case Study Managing conflict of interests and research groups to visit the Changqing Oilfield and WestAdditionally, the investors were able to tour the modernized, After acquiring a 100% indirectly-owned stake in Sun World acquisition was a win-win situation for investors, PetroChina East Gas Pipeline Shanghai Project. In response to the capital efficient and garden-like setting of the refinery plant in Guangxi Limited from CNPC through an offshore affiliate, PetroChina, and the three listed companies. The takeover provided a perfect market’s strong concern in the significant production increase Petrochemical. The investors were impressed by our rigorous which became a controlling shareholder, held a 56.66% stake solution to mitigate the conflict of interest and connected for Changqing Oilfield, the Company arranged a reverseHSE practices. in CNPC Hong Kong Limited, further reducing the potential transactions between PetroChina and these three companies. roadshow to Sulige and Yulin so that investors could have a better In late September 2012, 25 investors visited Xinjiang Oilfield and conflict of interest between PetroChina and CNPC. Meanwhile, Meanwhile, the takeover also aided resources allocation and understanding of the tight gas operations in Sulige Field and the PetroChina Kazakhstan. It was the first reverse-roadshow outside PetroChina continues to acquire refining and petrochemical market planning, while heralding a flatter organizational future prospects of the business. The fund managers and analysts China and the largest in scale. A Vice President of PetroChina met assets and service stations from CNPC, a controlling shareholder structure. PetroChina’s corporate image in the capital market has then visited the Shanghai Pipeline Control Center – a part of the with the investors in Beijing before the visit. After visiting the oil of PetroChina, to continue minimizing the possibility of conflict of been reconciled to the Company’s commitments made when it First West-East Gas Pipeline – where they acknowledged the and gas production sites of Xinjiang Oilfield and being briefed interests. went public. In addition, this takeover was a highly experimental soundness of the Company’s business strategies for gas pipeline about the exploration and development prospects, investors and exploratory move, as it “created a precedent for China's and downstream activities. The Company completed the acquisition of Jilin Petrochemical, gained a better understanding of the management procedures capital market” and “marked a historic milestone in aligning Liaohe Jinma and Jinzhou Petrochemical after the Board of China’s capital market along market-oriented and regulated In July 2012, we invited fund managers and analysts from 12 and digital initiatives of Xinjiang Field. Meanwhile, they were Directors reviewed and approved the resolution of “Proposal for M&A practices.” institutions to visit the Southwest Oil and Gas Field and Guangxi very positive on the reserve prospects given the under-explored Acquiring Full Control of Listed Subsidiaries with a General Offer Petrochemical to learn about the Company’s business strategies status of the Junggar Basin, a part of Xinjiang Oilfield. and Authorization for Going Through Relevant Formalities”. The in Southwest China. The group visited the Chuanzhong Oil and Gas Field, natural gas purification facilities, gas distribution 18 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Stakeholders Communication Approach Key Actions 5. Engaging with Stakeholders (1) Participate in discussions on formulation of policies, regulations and standards, and (1) Behave legally and ethically, and abide by the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate; offer company expertise; (2) Stabilize oil and gas supplies; Governments (2) Attend to public concerns and improve corporate behavior; (3) Pay close attention and play an active role in policy discussions on climate change, energy conservation and emission reduction; (3) Launch strategic cooperation with Gaining our stakeholders’ trust and support is fundamental to us building a sustainable business. We are dedicated to improving quality relevant departments; (4) Promote local employment and cultivate local talents; and efficiency to maximize our long-term value. We are also committed to delivering significant achievements to our stakeholders so as to (4) Attend seminars and forums. (5) Pay taxes. maximize the common interests of both the Company and the stakeholders, and thereby achieve harmonious and mutually beneficial growth. (1) Fulfill requirements on statutory information disclosure; (1) Operate in a responsible manner to maintain a good reputation; (2) Roadshow activities; (2) Convene annual general meetings; (3) Issue reports and announce results (3) Equal treatment of shareholders, and value opinions of both small and mediumEthical Business Behavior Fair Competition Shareholders performance on a regular basis; sized shareholders; (4) Launch an “Investor FAQs” mailbox to (4) Hold dialogues with investors and shareholders in various ways. We treat our business partners, customers, suppliers, contractors The Company strictly abides by all the applicable laws and receive public opinions. and competitors with respect and equality. We oppose any regulations on business competition in the jurisdictions where (1) Employee representatives in the (1) Develop employee knowledge and skills and organize vocational skill form of commercial bribery and require our business partners we operate to maintain a fair and open business competition competitions; Supervisory Committee; (including contractors and suppliers) to follow the Company’s environment. While conducting international trade activities, we (2) Conduct occupational health checks; (2) The establishment of trade unions at all levels; anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, including, among other strictly follow the local import and export regulations, as well as Employees (3) Promote local employment in overseas operations; (3) Convene employee representatives’ meetings; things, no acceptance of cash, marketable securities or any gift trade protocols. We never enter into any cartel with competitors (4) Strengthen grassroots connections and provide a career development (4) Organize employee training programs; platform for employees; or entertainment of an illegal or inappropriate nature, no abuse to agree on matters such as market allocation, price fixing, costs (5) Set up a complaints and feedback system. (5) Protect employee safety in overseas operations. of one’s position in signing business contracts for personal and profits, etc. On the contrary, we respect the principles of gain or other illegal or immoral benefit, no disclosure of insider openness and transparency in the bidding process, only obtain (1) Strengthen quality management; information, and no insider trading. Moreover, we never conduct, information that is publicly available or can be acquired through (2) Hold a Quality Month activity; (1) Carry out activities to protect consumers’ participate in or support money laundering of any form. legitimate means, and stay out of any activity in violation of trade interests; (3) Develop an appraisal methodology for the quality management system; bans or import/export controls. (2) Publicize commitment to quality services; (4) Launch activities such as “Serve the public and strive for excellence” to Consumers improve service quality at service stations; (3) Provide hotline services; (5) Provide a “Rapid Oil Change” at service stations; (4) Conduct customer satisfaction surveys. (6) Increase the supply of clean fuel, such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel; (7) Secure oil supplies for disaster relief and agricultural production. (1) Hold tender meetings; (2) Hold large cross-border business (1) Use www.energyahead.com as a transaction platform and strengthen negotiations and technical exchange meetings; centralized procurement management to provide suppliers with equal (3) Use the electronic trading platform; opportunities and establish PetroChina’s strategic supplier system; Business partners (4) Engage in managerial practices and (2) Enhance communication and coordination with contractors and strengthen technical standards sharing; the HSE management of contractors by creating a safe and healthy working (5) Conduct contract negotiations and routine environment; meetings; (3) Improve security measures and the emergency response network; (6) Hold training for business partners; (4) Promote open investment. (7) Conduct daily operation meetings. (1) Attend the Global Compact Leaders Summit and UN Global Compact China Leaders Forum, and submit a progress report to the forum; (1) Share the Company’s experiences; (2) Attend to external concerns through various forms of communication; (2) Participate in NGO activities; (3) Play an active role in participating and supporting international environment NGOs standardization; (3) Promote international communication. (4)Participating a wide range of forums and conferences; (5) Organize the first Annual Meeting of the International Standardization Organization’s Coal Seam Gas Technology Committee (ISO/TC 263). (1) Hold dialogues with local communities; (1) Participate in disaster relief and reconstruction, and provide financial support for education and poverty alleviation; (2) Organize community visits; (2) Support and drive local economic growth through large projects; Communities (3) Conduct social and environmental impact (3) Supply clean energy, e.g. natural gas, to remote regions; assessments; (4) Hold volunteering activities among employees; (4) Promotion of education; (5) Procure locally, where the business is carried out; (5) Increase information disclosure. (6) Provide job opportunities and training for the local community. 20 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 21 1. Consolidating Resource Base Oil and gas resources are essential for building supply capacity and the foundation for our sustainable business growth. Thus, oil and gas exploration and production is our top priority. Faced with the challenges in exploring and developing remaining reserves constrained by economically marginal reservoirs that feature low-permeability, ultra-thin, heavy and super-heavy oil, we have been adhering to our strategy to increase resources and have implemented our reserve-growth peak initiatives to consolidate the resource base. Fast-growing Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves Steady Growth in Domestic Natural Gas In 2012, we continued to implement the reserve-growth peak Production initiatives focusing on oil pre-exploration, risk prospecting In 2012, we enhanced our production management in key gas and natural gas exploration, and have achieved a number of areas, major fields and high-yield wells, and further optimized our major discoveries and breakthroughs in key target areas, such operations to boost our natural gas production capacity, especially as the Tarim, Sichuan, Junggar and Qaidam basins. Our reserve at the Sulige Oilfield in Changqing, and the Dabei and Keshen replacement ratio has been above 100% for 13 consecutive years, Oilfields in Tarim. Our extensive use of 3D seismic technology was according to an independent third-party review. Meanwhile, also very useful in our natural gas development. Domestically, we have made progress in oil and gas exploration techniques, we produced 2.42 trillion cubic feet of marketable natural gas, an especially regarding lithological, foreland and mature fields to increase of 6% year-on-year. support the expansion of our reserves. Domestic Crude Output at Record Highs in Recent Years In 2012, we further promoted our Oilfield Development Year campaign, focusing on waterflood and fine description of our mature reservoirs. The building of our smart fields also proceeded in an orderly manner. Thanks to a scaled application of our technologies, such as multi-stage fracturing for horizontal wells, 02 polymer flooding and Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD), the natural decline rate and the increase in water cuts were remarkably lower in our mature fields. Our full-year domestic crude output was over 800 million barrels, marking the highest growth rate, i.e. 2.4%, in recent years. In our Daqing Oilfield, in particular, crude production has been over 40 million tons for 10 SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY consecutive years. In our Changqing Oilfield, meanwhile, our total output exceeded 42 million tons of oil equivalents, ranking first in China. Discoveries and breakthroughs were made in key target areas. Energy is fundamental to socio-economic development. As an integrated energy company, our mission is to meet the increasing energy demand, fuel economic growth and promote social progress. We strive to enhance our energy supply capabilities and optimize our production structure so as to provide safe, reliable, clean and high-quality energy for socioeconomic development. 22 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 23 2. Optimizing Positioning of Refining and Chemicals Facilities Proven Crude Reserves (106 barrels) 11,221 11,263 11,278 A strategic approach to positioning of refining and chemicals 11,128 11,018 Case Study Technology enabling Daqing facilities of PetroChina is under way both to address the issue Oilfield to maintain a steady output caused by the uneven regional distribution of China’s refining and chemicals capacity (resulting in the need to transport oil products In service for more than half a century, Daqing Oilfield from north to south and west to east) and to meet the growing is faced with a high total water cut and high recovery market demand for high-quality oil products. percentage for recoverable reserves. In 2012, we continued to implement an enhanced oil recovery initiative there, In 2012, a range of expansion and upgrade projects were carried focusing on fine-designed waterflooding supported by out on schedule, including Fushun Petrochemical (refining three techniques: the efficient testing and allocation of and ethylene), Daqing Petrochemical (ethylene), Hohhot 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 water injection wells, the subdivision of water injection, Petrochemical (refining), etc. Moreover, Sichuan Petrochemical is and automatic downhole injection and/or distribution. basically ready for operation and the construction of Guangdong Polymer flooding techniques were optimized to make oil Petrochemical has commenced. R&D in refining techniques also Proven Gas Reserves (108 ft3) displacement more efficient. A technical package for ASP saw new advances. The proprietary 600Kt/a ethylene package 655,030 666,530 675,810 flooding was developed. Massive fracturing for horizontal solution was successfully applied in the expansion and upgrade 611,890 632,440 wells and multilayer fracturing for vertical wells were also of large ethylene projects. As of the end of 2012, an optimized introduced to develop peripheral fields. In particular, our layout of our refining and chemicals operations has taken shape, Stable Production Solution received the Grand Prize of comprising seven 10Mt/a refining bases and five ethylene National Scientific & Technological Advancement. Despite production bases. a high total water cut and high recovery percentage for recoverable reserves, the Daqing Oilfield’s full-year crude output reached 40 million tons, marking its 10th consecutive year of stable production. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 3. Accelerating Construction of Pipeline Network Case Study Technological innovation driving production growth at Changqing Oilfield We keep expanding our oil and gas pipeline network to boost our capabilities in transportation and allocation. Thus, the oil and Changqing Oilfield’s reservoirs are of low permeability, pressure gas needs for civilians, public utilities and key industrial users are and abundance make it quite challenging to access its huge guaranteed. reserves. Since 2008, a range of key technological innovations 7 5 and research has been launched, giving birth to 12 techniques for the efficient development of tight gas and 5 technical Improved Domestic Pipeline Network methodologies for the mass development of tight oil. Thus, The trunk and all eight branches of the Second West-East Pipeline efficient development at the Sulige tight gas field and Huaqing were completed in 2012, which is ready to deliver natural gas to tight oil field has been achieved, representing an annual the HKSAR. The Third Shanxi-Beijing Pipeline was also completed, seven 10Mt/a five ethylene output growth of up to 5 million tons of oil equivalents. In 2012, adding new capacity to the existing gas supplies to northern refining bases production bases Changqing Oilfield’s total output exceeded 42 million tons of oil China. The Third West-East Pipeline has commenced construction equivalents, including more than 22 million tons of crude and and the Yining-Horgos section of China’s first large-diameter SNG more than 29 billion cubic meters of natural gas, accounting for pipeline has been completed. The north section of the Zhongweione-ninth and one-fourth of China’s total outputs, respectively. Guiyang Pipeline is now in operation, increasing gas supplies to the Sichuan and Chongqing regions. The Tieling-Fushun Pipeline has been expanded to transport more crude oil feedstock to Fushun Petrochemical. The crude oil transmission network in 24 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 25 Feature Story The role of natural gas in building a beautiful China northwestern China has also been further improved with the Lanzhou-Chengdu Pipeline now largely completed and the Social capital was encouraged to participate in our Changqing-Hohhot and Dushanzi-Urumqi Pipelines in operation. construction projects. The Third West-East Gas Pipeline, In recent years, the world has been faced with unprecedented use of natural gas for power sectors as a replacement to coal. running from Horgos in Xinjiang to Fuzhou in Fujian with energy and environmental challenges. The international We also work with our partners in Beijing and Chongqing to Diversified Source Import Channels a total length of 7,000 kilometers, is an example of our community is showing a growing interest in low-carbon promote using LNG to fuel both cars and other vessels. So far, In 2012, we continued to broaden access to overseas oil and cooperation with both private and social capital. After its and green development initiatives — with the strategic we have opened and are now operating about 360 natural gas gas resources by accelerating the construction of cross-border completion, the pipeline is expected to deliver 30 billion goal of transforming growth models to promote sustainable filling stations, including over 160 LNG filling stations. We have pipelines and new LNG terminals. The phase I project for Jiangsu cubic meters of natural gas from Central Asia per year. development. developed over 50,000 gas-fueled cars and over 10,000 LNG buses LNG terminal was put into operation and Dalian LNG terminal The Company and Yanchang Oil Administration Bureau and heavy-duty trucks nationwide. Currently, there are more than Natural gas is a kind of high-quality clean energy, emitting far 200 LNG buses running across four lines under a cooperation completed its first loading task, while construction of Tangshan have jointly founded Yan’an Petroleum Corporation to less CO2 than coal and oil. At PetroChina, we will accelerate the program between PetroChina and the municipal government of LNG terminal progressed smoothly. These LNG terminals create develop oil and gas resources in northern Shaanxi and development of natural gas operations as an effective approach Beijing. offshore gas import routes, enabling peak shaving and steady the project has commenced operation. A joint venture to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, creating a green business supplies in Yangtze River Delta and northeastern and northern among PetroChina, the government of Xinjiang and the and improving the ecological environment for a beautiful China regions. With Lines A and B of Central Asia-China Gas Xinjiang Production & Construction Corporation has China. We currently already provide 70% of the country’s total Pipeline fully completed and Line C under construction, natural also been established with a plan to operate Karamay’s gas supplies, with a pipeline network serving in 28 provinces gas was also imported and delivered to users in Zhujiang River Hongshan Oilfield. We actively work with businesses that (municipalities, autonomous regions) and the HKSAR. Delta region. have different forms of ownership, setting an important example for reforming the investment and financing Strengthening Natural Gas Exploration and Development mechanisms in state-controlled enterprises. The success of in China. Our natural gas E&P activities are mainly in four these projects marks a major evolution in the cooperation provinces, i.e. Tarim, Qinghai, Changqing and Sichuan-Chongqing. between state and social capital. Domestically, we produced over 2.42 trillion cubic feet of natural gas in 2012. Moreover, we take an active approach to unconventional natural gas development. In particular, we have built a state-of-the-art coal-bed methane (CBM) laboratory and possess a number of CBM-related technology patents. Actively introduce overseas natural gas resources. We have Hong Kong branch of the Second West-East Gas Pipeline has been completed. entered into agreements with our partners in Central Asia, Asia-Pacific and North America to secure gas imports. We have Jiangsu LNG terminal in operation imported mass gas from countries in Central Asia and LNG from Qatar and Australia to continue increasing our domestic gas supply. Natural Gas Supplies by PetroChina (108 m3) Accelerate Construction of our Nationwide Pipeline Network. 854 The Third West-East Gas Pipeline, currently under construction, will be connected to the existing pipelines already operated 753 by the Company. These include the Shaanxi-Beijing Pipelines, 630 Zhongxian-Wuhan Pipeline and the First and the Second West596 East Gas Pipelines. This will ensure that major gas-producing 511 areas at home as well as foreign sources of gas import can be completely inter-connected. So far, the West-East Gas Pipelines have transported and distributed over 150 billion cubic meters of natural gas and this has resulted in the proportion of natural gas in China’s primary energy consumption to increase by one percent point. Continue promoting natural gas end usage. In addition to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 supplying natural gas to urban residents, public utilities and key industrial users, PetroChina also actively promoted the Dalian LNG terminal were in smooth operation. 26 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 27 4. Developing Alternative Energy 5. Extending International Cooperation In view of a continuous decline of conventional, easily accessible to these developments, the Weiyuan-Changning and Zhaotong We adhere to the principles of “cooperation for mutual benefit and joint development” and comply with laws, regulations and energy policies of and high-quality oil and gas resources, unconventional sources Projects, in Sichuan and Yunnan respectively, were chosen to be the host countries. Based on our advantages in funding, technology and management, we have participated in oil and gas exploration with of energy such as tight oil and gas, CBM and shale gas are now national shale gas demonstration projects. In southern Sichuan, our partners globally, and made regular contributions to stabilize the global oil and gas market. being seen as a realistic and viable replacement. PetroChina is the Ning 201-H1 well showed an initial yield of over 150,000 areas which include tight gas, CBM and shale gas. In 2012, net focusing on the future of energy supply and is actively promoting cubic meters, making it China’s first commercially feasible shale Overseas Energy Development the development and use of unconventional oil and gas resources gas well. The Fushun-Yongchuan Shale Gas Project in Sichuan, in production from our domestic foreign cooperation projects as well as renewable energy to create a diversified and secure collaboration with Shell, saw new breakthroughs with Well YangIn 2012, we focused on the exploration and production of our reached 4.52 million tons of oil equivalent. A number of key energy supply system. 201 producing 0.43 million cubic meters on a daily basis during overseas operations and also enhanced our risk management projects saw major progress and the cooperative relationship well testing. and business strategies research. In Niger and Chad, we achieved between PetroChina and some international oil companies such Continue to Promote the Development of a series of new breakthroughs in exploration. The production as Shell and Total was enhanced, thereby improving the industries Unconventional Energy Breakthrough Recorded in Technological target of Rumaila Project in Iraq was overfilled and phase 1 of capacity for sustainable development. A new theory jointly carried Halfaya Project became operational 15 months ahead of schedule. out by PetroChina and Shell, was applied in the tight gas project R&D for Unconventional Energy Aktobe Project and PK Project in Kazakhstan, as well as MPE-3 sector and it achieved the desired results; the daily output of the I n C h i n a , we c o n t i n u e to m a k e e f fo r t s i n d e ve l o p i n g unconventional resources such as tight oil and gas, CBM and shale In 2012, we made a breakthrough in our reservoir stimulation Project in Venezuela maintained steady oil and gas output. We Changbei Project exceeded 10 million cubic meters in winter. A gas. In 2012, we saw substantial progress in the development of experiments for tight oil, tight gas and shale gas production. jointly developed an LNG liquefaction plant project in Canada series of new concepts and techniques were also successfully tight reservoirs at Changqing Oilfield. Meanwhile, crude output This resulted in the mastering of six development techniques with other international energy companies and we completed used in the South Sulige Project a project co-developed by from ultra-low-permeability reservoirs at oilfields including including multi-stage fracturing with composite bridge plugs delivery of an upstream unconventional oil and gas project in PetroChina and Total. The Dagang Zhaodong Project a joint Huaqing oilfield, exceeded 6.9 million tons and natural gas and multi-bank perforation. These technologies have facilitated Western Canada. We signed an acquisition agreement for CBM project between PetroChina and ROC maintained a crude output produced at Sulige accounted for more than half of Changqing’s the efficient development of our tight oil, tight gas and shale gas assets in eastern Australia, for the shale gas and condensate gas of over 1 million tons for nine consecutive years, producing a total gas output. We achieved steady progress in the construction of resources. Our oil sand project in Canada has also officially entered project in Canada and purchased a stake in BHP Billiton’s offshore of more than 10 million tons of crude oil since its operations in our CBM demonstration projects in Qinshui in Shanxi Province into development and this marks our first SAGD project outside natural gas block in Western Australia. These acquisitions have 2003. and Eastern Ordos Basin in Inner Mongolia. Commercial China. increased our market share in the global natural gas market. The developments were also carried out in Fanzhuang. In addition Company’s full-year net production from overseas operations was Steady Progress in International Trade over 136 million barrels. In 2012, strengthened our scientific management and enhanced the level of control, we began seeing a steady growth in our Promote Cooperation with International trading business in both size and operational efficiency. As a result, Partners in China we continued the construction of overseas oil and gas operation Substantial progress was made in the development of While carrying out in-depth cooperation in conventional areas, centers. In particular, our Asian operation center has been building tight gas at Changqing Oilfield. a stronger presence in the market, our European operation center we have actively promoted joint cooperation in unconventional has been operating smoothly, and our American operation center has been under construction. Case Study Rumaila Project Helping Oil Exploration in Iraq PetroChina, BP and Iraq’s South Oil Company agreed in 2009 to jointly provide exploration and production services for Rumaila project. In 2010, under the joint effort, the project’s production increased 10% ahead of schedule. In May 2011, the project made its first crude payments, making it the first payload-generating foreign cooperation project in post-war Iraq. In 2012, we continued to work closely with the local government and our partners on the project. We operated in compliance with international practices to maintain a steady operation, a sound safety track record and also overfilled our crude production targets. Our efforts have played a significant role in bolstering Iraq’s crude output and exports and we achieved a win-win in cooperation between investors and the host country. Steady growth of international trade 28 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 29 1. Improving HSE Management We place great emphasis on health, safety and the environment (HSE) and are constantly improving our HSE management. In 2012, our HSE performance continued to improve through the implementation of a series of initiatives focused on monitoring mechanisms, internal controls, pollution control and emission reduction, education, training and accident analysis. New Progress in Building a Sound HSE Accident Management Management System The Company has published its disciplinary measures for In 2012, we completed two HSE system reviews of all our people who are found liable for production safety accidents subsidiary companies and held two teleconferences to provide and environmental issues. These measures have integrated coaching to factories which faced major HSE issues. In order to accountability into the design and procurement procedures promote the system, workshops and conferences were held to to further enhance safety and environmental responsibility. An share ideas and experiences and advanced managing experiences accident investigation center has been established to look into were summarized and introduced. Best practices of HSE each safety accident. Case-based safety education teleconferences management approaches were compiled into training materials. were also held on a quarterly basis and more than 200 thousand employees have been organized to join these conferences. Major HSE Mechanisms and Accountability accidents for the past ten years have been studied and as a result, the 2006-2011 Statistical Analysis of Safety Accidents report was In 2012, a new HSE management framework at the corporate-level compiled. was taking shape, which covered PetroChina’s health, safety and environmental activities. The Company had signed an “Agreement Safety Education and Training of Safety and Environmental Protection Responsibilities” with the leaders of its subsidiary companies for six consecutive years. This In 2012, we hosted 30 business seminars to share a range of agreement identified the safety and environmental protection experiences and observations focused on safety-related areas. objectives for managers and employees at all levels. Safety and An HSE training matrix was widely used to help build a demandenvironmental protection meetings and quarterly reviews were driven HSE training model. During our “Safety Emphasis Month”, held in order to learn about our HSE status and take necessary we also try to enhance the awareness of our staff regarding safety actions in a timely manner. and environmental protection through a series of educational 03 events. These include safety consultations, quizzes, videos and Strengthening Monitoring and emergency response drills. Supervision We continued to implement rules and procedures of prevention, investigation and correction, which focus on our main areas, OPERATIONAL SAFETY key processes and sensitive periods. Safety hazards and environmental risks were identified and as a result, mechanisms were developed to coordinate risk prevention and control these efforts at all levels. A dynamic risk assessment and reporting The natural environment is essential for the survival of all life on earth and system was also improved to strengthen our quantitative analysis, it has therefore been part of our philosophy to care for people and protect process monitoring and accountability. Relevant basic level risk management tools including HAZOP (Hazard and Operability the environment. Upholding the principles of being “people-oriented, Analysis) were widely used. Four training sessions were arranged prevention-driven, all staff involved and continuously improving”, we for HAZOP analysts and a HAZOP analysis was also conducted for strive to build a resource-saving, environment-friendly and safetyour existing facilities, expansions and upgrade projects in order to further improve our HSE system. oriented business with the goals of “zero injuries, no pollution and zero accidents”. Monitoring and supervision were constantly strengthened. 30 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 31 2. Heightening Safety Management Fire Safety In 2012, we continued to foster the professional competence of our in-house fire crews. We published Guidelines on Preparedness Management for Fire Crews and Guidelines on Firefighting and Rescue Management. These helped with the continued training of our fire crews, improved preparedness plans and standardized equipment management. Workshops were also held for the fire brigade in order to discuss and update skills and tactics for firefighting and rescues, which helped to enhance the abilities of in-house fire teams. The Company has continued to improve its code of practice regarding personal protective equipment and provided its firefighting crews with training courses on HSE management systems. The ability to mitigate fire and rescue related safety risks has been further enhanced through hazard identification, risk assessment and experience sharing. GIS systems have also been developed to strengthen informationization construction of fire service. Strengthening Traffic Safety Management The Company further strengthened its traffic safety management. In 2012, PetroChina promoted its HSE system for road transport management. We published the Guide for the Application of Vehicle Satellite Positioning System to standardize the installations and A comprehensive emergency response drill at Longfeng Oil Depot of Northwest Sales Company operations of vehicle tracking devices. Training was provided for all staff from the traffic safety department. Moreover, safety guides We adopt a people-oriented safety management approach Group’s ability to respond to a fire or explosion at the facility. were developed for truck drivers and drivers transporting freight focusing on building up safe behavior, accountability and taking A tabletop exercise was designed to validate the efficiency of and passenger, hazardous products and passengers to raise precautions. We place operational safety as a core focus of our our contingency plans for natural gas and pipeline operations. overall skills and safety awareness. No major traffic accidents were Keep safe production in mind. business model and due to this, in 2012, the number of accidents These approaches have been able to broaden the scope of our reported in the year. which occurred and the mortality rate decreased by 50% and 67% emergency drills and also standardized the process for all our year-on-year respectively. facilities. During the “Emergency Response Drill Week”, a wide Ensuring Safe Offshore Operations range of emergency response drills were conducted, focusing on The Company’s offshore operations were carried out in accordance Enhanced Emergency Preparedness safety and environmental hazards in front-line operations. to national requirements as well as laws and regulations under the number of accidents mortality rate In 2012, the Company released amendments to its pipeline In view of eight major safety hazards and six environmental risks, offshore oil production safety licensing system. Safety measures decreased by 50% decreased by emergency preparedness plan. We continue to carry out one the Company has researched and designed guiding principles were designed, built and put into operation at the same time year-on-year 67% year-on-year ordinary and triple important” contingency plans for both the for an effective emergency rescue system. Additionally they have that construction projects were undergoing development. record and our on-site audit work. The contingency plans for our proposed suggestions which include the building of a crossFurthermore, all operations were documented for the purpose 33 subsidiary companies including Qinghai Oilfield were assessed regional emergency well control framework, improving the of safety management. Training was organized for heads of and registered in both 2011 and 2012. As a result of these reviews, existing pipeline emergency rescue system and strengthening departments and safety management executives involved in on-site inspections of contingency plans were conducted in eight offshore oil development project emergency rescue tech research. offshore activities. Offshore oil production safety licenses were key subsidiary companies, including Changqing Oilfield and Dalian Apart from these, the Company has actively worked with Sinopec also reviewed regularly. All projects undergoing construction were Petrochemical, as well as some key projects such as the Shenzhenand CNOOC to build an emergency preparedness coordination subject to risk analyses and risk assessments. Relevant control Hong Kong submarine branch of the Second East-West Pipeline. mechanism, “The Guide for Emergency Rescue Coordination”, and measures were developed in accordance to all identified safety detailed rules and procedures which have been formulated to hazards. Finally, integrated emergency drills for regional offshore In accordance with the Emergency Response Law, a comprehensive create a smooth coordination mechanism for emergencies. operations were conducted to improve the emergency response emergency response drill was conducted at Daqing Longfeng capabilities of the Offshore Emergency Response and Rescue Oil Depot of Northwest Sales Company. This drill tested the Center. 32 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 33 3. Promoting Energy Saving and Emissions Reduction Emissions Reduction In November 2012, the Ministry of Human Resources and We continued to promote research and development for technologies related to energy conservation, emissions reduction and energy In accordance to Pollution and Emissions Reduction Scheme Social Security, the National Development and Reform optimization. The Company also moved forwards with both its Ten Energy Saving Projects and Ten Emissions Reduction Projects. In 2012, the of China’s 12 th Five-Year Plan, the Company carried out key Commission, the Ministry of Environmental Protection Company’s energy and water savings were 1.21 million tons and 19.26 million cubic meters respectively, while SO2 emissions decreased by 0.3%. emissions reduction projects. Conferences were convened and the Ministry of Finance jointly announced a list of to identify emissions reduction objectives and contracts the Best Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction identifying emissions reduction targets were signed between the Enterprises / Professionals from the 11th Five-Year Plan Company’s branch offices. Solid progress was recorded for Ten Ten Major Energy Saving Projects Major Emissions Reduction Projects. In particular, the Company Period. The No.3 Production Plant at Daqing Oilfield and focused on the upgrade of its waste water treatment systems the No.4 Production Plant at Jilin Oilfield were named and the fuel-gas desulfurization of its catalytic cracking units. A “Best Energy Conservation Enterprises”. The Safety, Enhancing equipment Optimized energy system monthly scheduling system was developed for improving the Environmental Protection and Energy Conservation energy efficiency Continuous improvement coordination of key emissions reduction projects and the progress Department at Jilin Petrochemical and the Industrial Optimized operation Integrated utilization of Water Plant at Kelamayi Petrochemical were named of heating system water resources and effectiveness of emissions reduction activities in key business units were audited. Moreover, an online monitoring platform was “Best Emissions Reduction Enterprises”. As well, Huang Energy conservation in in energy efficiency Utilization of new energy created to enable real-time data transmission and to generate Xinmei, a senior engineer from the Safety, Quality and motor and electrical system and renewable energy abnormality warnings from key wastewater and waste gas Environmental Protection Department at Dushanzi Utilization of Energy measurement and sources. Petrochemical was named “Best Emissions Reduction associated gas monitoring Professional”. Lowering oil and gas loss Production oil replacement Energy Conservation We continued to promote our Ten Energy Saving Projects by Ten Major Emission Reduction Projects launching crucial energy saving activities including eliminating and upgrading low-efficiency equipment and restructuring the Desulfurization and heating furnace. Steam injection and heat from wastewater were denitrification at power Flue-gas desulfurization Emission reduction and used for heavy oil extraction which saved energy. Furthermore, plants energy conservation techniques were implemented at pumping Emission reduction Waste water system units, power distribution boxes and various operations. In total, monitoring and review optimization and resources appropriate treatment six energy-saving projects were delivered. Together, they act as a utilization benchmark, forming the technical framework for the Company’s Oilfield wastewater treatment and pipeline Greenhouse gas control energy system optimization strategy. Energy Performance network upgrading Contracting (EPC), energy conservation tactics, emissions Circular economy Clean alternative fuels reduction measures and technological renovation initiatives demonstration were all implemented at the Tarim Oilfield. Campaigns on energy Wastewater discharge after Waste gas emission after conservation underscoring the use of low-carbon energy and treatment treatment green development were introduced to raise awareness of the importance of energy conservation. Eleven subsidiary companies, including Daqing Oilfield, were selected by China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) as “Most Advanced in Water Conservation in the Oil and Chemical Industry”. Meanwhile, four projects, including Liaohe Oilfield’s heavy oil sewage recycling technology, received recognition for “Outstanding Water Treatment Project in the Oil and Chemical Industry”. 34 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 35 4. Environmental Protection 5. Addressing Climate Change We attach great importance to minimizing environmental impacts As a responsible energy company, we actively support the policies throughout the entirety of our operations. In particular, the and actions to address climate change. Furthermore, we took the Company focuses on areas in which oilfields or gas fields are under initiative to reduce carbon emissions and sequestrate carbon to operation or zones in which pipelines are located. This helps The contribute to mitigating global climate change. Company coexist in harmony with the environment. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Environmental Risk Management Initiatives In 2012, we conducted a comprehensive review of safety hazards In 2012, PetroChina and CNPC participated in the UNFCCC Climate in areas such as exploration and development, oil refining and Change Conference in Doha. Together, they gave a presentation petrochemicals, environmental risks (such as oil and gas spills) and titled “Low-carbon Development in China’s Oil Industry” at the emissions and waste discharge management. The Company also China Pavilion. PetroChina shared with its international peers its developed a multi-tiered risk management mechanism which was Solar energy is widely used in Tarim Oilfield. insights, concepts, solutions and techniques for improving energy managed by key staff at the Company’s headquarters. For each An emergency response drill on environment protection conservation, emissions reduction, and low-carbon energy construction project, environmental impact assessments were environmental impact assessment, the compilation of a dynamic development. PetroChina’s affiliate, Tianjin Climate Exchange, R&D on Reducing Carbon Emissions conducted and a general environmental management plan was worked with a number of financial institutions including Shanghai implemented. Preliminary environmental impact assessments environmental risk evaluation database, the implementation of In 2012, we achieved major progress in the research and Pudong Development Bank, Industrial Bank, as well as China were required in certain experimental pre-EIA projects. In these management standards for water pollution control facilities, and development of reducing carbon emissions and deriving lowEnergy Conservation Service Industry Committee (EMCA) to cases, a series of risk management measures were taken to overall environmental risk management for ecologically sensitive carbon operations techniques. Improvements in the technologies provide a financing platform for companies engaging in energy eliminate pollution and to protect the environment. areas. A skills competition was held to determine the abilities of of wastewater treatment and oil sludge treatment as well as a 10 conservation services. The Company played an active role in staff to handle monitoring responsibilities following an emergency percentage points increase in the recycling rate of wastewater facilitating a wide range of discussions on China’s Climate Change Environmental Risk Monitoring oil spill. An emergency response drill was enacted to simulate a Response Act. Its contributions fell in areas such as conceptual recycling were among a few of the Company’s achievements. hydrogen sulfide leak and the proper monitoring procedures that Research on CO2 flooding and sequestration techniques were design, social participation, legal responsibility and international From June to September 2012, we conducted the 100-Day would follow such an accident. Nine environmental monitoring reviewed and approved. Meanwhile, Jilin Oilfield saw the practices. Additionally, the Company grew a 13.3-hectare carbon Environmental Safety Inspection, an initiative involving an centers participated in this event. completion of China’s first model project for high-CO2 gas fields sink forest at the National Engineering Technology Innovation Base, Changping District, to support the afforestation project by development, CO2 emissions reduction, CO2 flooding and CO2 the Beijing municipal government. sequestration. Case Study Tropical rain forests protection in Andes project PetroChina’s Andes Project is located at the Amazon Basin, location was restored to original conditions once the project CCS-EOR where over 90% of terrain is dominated by tropical rainforest. was completed. Also, drill cuttings and mud were disposed to Oi lP ipe Gas Processing Facilities lin Throughout its business operations, PetroChina has always landfills after treatment, water was re-injected underground Gas e Pipe attached great importance to environmental protection. In fact, and associated gas was used to generate electricity. The Andes line Natural Gas Mixed Gases The Company has taken a series of measures to minimize the Project was nominated for the Annual World Oil Awards’ Recycled Processing Station as Oil/water/Gas footprint it leaves on the planet. Some of its activities include “Best HSE / Sustainable Development Award” and the Energy ral G Natu Separation Facilities Water dynamic environmental monitoring, environmental restoration, Institute’s “Environmental Protection Award” in recognition of its integrated environmental protection and environmentallyactive and effective measures in the field of environmental protection. friendly wastewater treatment management. Water Injection Station During the project’s preliminary stage, helicopters were used to inspect sites in order to avoid damage to the rainforest. Drill sites Alternating CO2 and Water Injection were also established in a limited and pre-defined area. Once the operation was under process, horizontal wells and wastewater Gas Reservoir reinjection techniques were constructed to minimize the impact of emissions on the land and the environment. Finally, the 36 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 37 1. Enhancing Quality Management At PetroChina, quality is always a top priority. We strictly regulate product quality and standardize management to better fulfill our responsibility as a major petrochemical producer and supplier. In 2012, under State Council’s Quality Development Program (20112020), we developed a plan to enhance our quality management system, to strengthen measurement and testing capabilities. Well-established Quality System We developed and implemented a quality management system titled the Promotional Plan for Building Quality Management System in order to facilitate the formulation and certification of quality management systems at all of the Company’s subsidiaries. In 2012, 32 subsidiary companies were reviewed to ensure that their quality management systems were effective. We also raised investments in laboratories and inspection equipment, and reinforced quality control measures in our production and marketing processes. Quality supervision was strengthened through products spot checks. Lanzhou Petrochemical’s QC team was granted the title of “Quality Benchmark of the Year” in the petroleum and petrochemical sector for its achievements in quality assurance. Enhancing Measurement Level In 2012, we accelerated the inspection of subsidiary companies’ 04 metering instruments and upgraded a total of 120,000 units. We continued to regulate oil and gas transfer measurements, coordinate tests and measurements for cross-border oil and gas pipelines, inspect measurement facilities and transfer measurement parameters. China’s most sophisticated natural gas 120 166 metering system at the Nanjing metering station of the WestCUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE East Gas Pipeline was put into use to ensure reliable and accurate measurements in the oil and gas trade. thousand units Petrochemical products play a vital role in China’s national economy as well as in Achievements in Standardization upgraded 120,000 units developed and modified the lives of Chinese people. The Company pursues a business where the “emphasis In 2012, a clearly defined set of standards and operating of metering instruments 166 corporate standards is placed on the environment, safety, quality and people”. It also adheres to a procedures were developed for both research results and management experiences. Workshops were organized to principle of “honesty and quality excellence”. In this respect, the Company actively address issues in developing and amending standards and pursues its goal for turning out products that have “zero defects”, “zero accidents”, improving management standardization. Throughout the year, and are of “leading first-class quality both domestically and internationally”. We try we developed and modified 166 corporate standards, all of which our best to provide clean, qualified and diversified products generated through were effectively implemented. Subsidiary companies were also inspected to ensure product quality. strong management and technological innovation. In this way, we can guarantee the delivery of satisfactory services to our customers. 38 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 39 2. Focusing on Research and Development Case Study Total quality management for premium oil products In line with our technological philosophy of “Strategy-Driven, Goal-Oriented and Top-Tier Design”, we executed our innovative strategy to implement As the automobile becomes a daily necessity in China, the the three core projects in innovative technology. In addition, we continued to focus on science and technology projects at both company and specific pumps, pipelines, tanks and vehicles, to prevent quality, quantity, and safety of oil products have taken on greater national levels, sparing no efforts to make key technological breakthroughs. To ensure a steady stream of funds for scientific research, we strengthened confusion among different products. At oil depots, oil products significance for consumers. PetroChina’s production and sales of our R&D in new technologies, processes, equipment and materials, upgrade our production facilities and carry out product innovation based on are handled and stored by product categories, grades and oil products are centered on these three “red line” items of “quality, market demand, to offer customers more varied, quality products. quality designations and tested regularly to prevent spoilage. To quantity and safety”. prevent contamination during transportation, products that do In 2012, we developed more than 80 types/brands of new chemical not conform to specifications are not allowed to be added into Refineries strengthen meticulous. Our refineries adopt a products which accounted for a total volume of over 800,000 tons. tanks and delivered to end users. meticulous approach to managing operations in complying We successfully resolved major technical bottlenecks in nitrogen Case Study Karamay Petrochemical developed with national and industrial standards for crude oil processing. Sales strengthen quality control. When oil products arrive fertilizer production which enabled 98% of the key equipment to be its special machining strategy We maintain strictly-controlled processes to make products of at service stations, density inspections are carried out to ensure produced domestically. The first set of technical process that uses high quality which meet high standards. All refined products they meet the requirements set out in national standards. natural gas as a raw material with package of 450Kt/year synthetic ammonia and 800Kt/year urea plant has been successfully developed The main raw material used at Karamay Petrochemical is are tested with a quality certificate required for their release for To ensure accurate meter readings, we work with technical and applied on Ningxia Petrochemical’s fertilizer project. The naphthenic heavy oil, a high-acid, high-calcium crude oil sale. To ensure the reliability and accuracy of factory inspections, supervision agencies to periodically check our fuel pumps, and development of catalytic cracking catalyst presented a breakthrough, with a high viscosity, making it difficult and costly to process. we have upgraded our testing equipment and introduced new withdraw from service any with an error rate below the national and the hydrocracking catalyst underwent a successful trial under Through its R&D efforts, the company has developed a series of testing items. standard. As part of our quality supervision program, all our an industrial application for the first time. Clean gasoline production processing techniques and catalysts and received more than 30 refineries and marketing companies have passed GB/T19001 Oil deports strengthen strict management. Oil products are and diesel oil production technologies meeting national IV emission patents. With a wide range of naphthenic products, including quality management system certification by a third party. sorted by different categories, grades and quality designations standards have become key considerations for the Company when rubber oils and electric oils, the company has become the largest after inspection and then transported to oil depots by using upgrading the quality of its oil products. producer of naphthenic lubricants in China and a major producer of heavy duty asphalts and low-pour-point diesel for key roads in In addition, two projects, “Method for Preparing Highly Chlorinated northwestern China. The company is a leading supplier of white Polypropylene” and “Method for Preparing Dodecyl Oleate”, were rubber oils and refrigerator oils in the world by market share, with granted the national invention patents. The project “Research on and a number of products including rubber oils winning the National Industrial Application of Premium Motor Oil Additives” won the 2nd Customer Satisfaction Award. In February 2012, the project of prize in National Awards for Scientific and Technological Progress. “Research on and Industrial Application of the Techniques for The project “Integrated Technologies for 50Kt/a NBR Unit” won the 2nd Manufacturing High-grade Products with Naphthenic Heavy prizes at National Awards for Scientific and Technological Progress in Oil” in Karamay Petrochemical won the first prize in the National Energy. Application of these technologies will offer customers more Awards for Scientific and Technological Progress. environment-friendly, energy-saving, and durable chemical products. Newly Developed Refined Products in 2012 Name Description It is tougher, more flexible and balanced with better transparency and gloss, allowing it to be widely RP340N Polypropylene used in the manufacture of thin-walled products with high transparency, such as containers of food, cosmetics and drugs. It features high strength, high modulus, high impact strength and high gloss, allowing it to be widely EP548N Polypropylene used in the manufacturing of appliance housing, electric appliances, grocery containers, cleaning devices, hotel carts as well as industrial vacuum cleaner housing and billboards, etc. DNDC-7148 Ethylene-hexene It is used for hollow containers, industrial barrels, chemical tanks and storage containers for Copolymer outdoor uses. 2320D Polyethylene It is characteristic of high transparency and high strength, and used in the manufacture of Membrane packaging materials. HF-7042 Ethylene It has better light transmission and extensibility. 40 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 41 3. Providing High-Quality Products 4. Delivering More Personalized Services We are constantly improving our product mix. Our products, natural gas for industrial and residential facilities, to promote local including gasoline, diesel, lubricants and different grades of socio-economic development. chemical products, are widely used in many industries such as automobile, building materials, electronics, pharmaceuticals, Providing Quality Chemical Products printing, household appliances and daily-use chemicals. We constantly strive to develop new chemical products and give Continuous Upgrading of Oil Products consumers a wide range of high-quality and environmentalfriendly solutions. In 2012, we supplied more than 24 million tons Quality of chemical products. Five of our products, i.e. fully refined paraffin In 2012, we continued to upgrade the quality of our refined oil wax, petroleum benzene, heavy duty asphalt, butadiene rubber products to ensure all automobile fuels, i.e. gasoline and diesel, and polyacrylamide, were awarded the “Distinguished Brand” meet the National III emission standards. The proportion of highstatus in China Petroleum and Chemical Industry. The urea, resin grade gasoline reached 98.4%, 1.7 percentage points higher than and rubber and chemical products from Lanzhou Petrochemical last year. In particular, the output of 97# gasoline and jet fuels achieved a 100% compliance rate as determined by the General increased 30.8% and 30.3% respectively year on year. In support of Administration of Quality Supervision. The large-particle-size and Beijing government’s call for high-grade oil products and cleaner small-particle-size urea of Ningxia Petrochemical had a first-grade air, we replaced six oil depots (700 oil tanks) and more than 190 rate of 99.93% and compound fertilizers had a compliance rate of service stations with Beijing V standard oil products. Jinzhou, 100% in factory inspection. Huabei and Liaoyang Petrochemicals completed their production targets for the Beijing V car fuel on schedule, with a total output of more than 1.3 million tons. Promoting End-User Consumption of Liquefied natural gas (LNG), composed mainly of methane, Serving customers and striving for excellence Natural Gas is natural gas that has been converted to liquid form at In 2012, we continued to promote the end-user consumption of -162oC. It is colorless, odorless, non-toxic and non-corrosive, natural gas in the Bohai Rim, Yangtze River Delta and Sichuantaking up approximately 1/600 of the volume of natural For better customer satisfaction, we strive to expand the coverage Improving Service Quality Chongqing regions. We promoted LNG as an alternative for gas in gaseous state and weighing approximately 45% of of our service network, function and improve our services and equivalent volume of water. The burning of LNG is associated quality to offer a better experience to our customers. We launched the “Serving the People and Striving for Excellence” vehicle fuel, and also provided a steady and reliable source of fuel with low pollution, higher heating value, and higher ignition initiative in 2012, rolling out initiative guidelines and 22 related and products for LNG’s vehicle to enhance public transport in Beijing, Chongqing and Hebei etc. Meanwhile, we accelerated the point compared to refined oil. It is also less easily ignited, Expanding Our Service Network measures. We encouraged quality service, and raised awareness of oil quality, consumption and gas station measurement. We construction of LNG filling stations as well as LNG storage facilities and evaporates quickly in case of leakage. It is deemed as a We continued to expand our service network and improved our took the initiative to provide consumers with product information and transportation. We signed cooperation agreements with the clean, safe and efficient source of energy. management of service stations to provide more diverse and and technical advisory services. We started an end-to-end governments of Guangzhou and Hefei to provide high-quality convenient service to customers. In 2012, we opened 748 new tracking service to track customer experiences, recommendations service stations and grew our sales network by 5 million tons. and satisfaction to build a caring and harmonious customer We currently have 19,840 service stations. We opened more than environment, and continued to improve service quality. 1,800 new uSmile convenience stores, with more than 13,100 service stations now featuring a convenience store to provide a 748 1,800 one-stop service. Our services are now available in 32 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) nationwide. opened 748 new 1,800+ new uSmile convenience service stations stores in operation 42 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 43 5. Stabilizing Oil and Gas Supply Maintaining the Integrity of Our Services We are committed to providing a safe user environment. In the Case Study Ningxia Petrochemical As a leading oil and gas supplier in China, we ensure the “Quality Month” of 2012, PetroChina jointly signed the Letter of Selfprovides end-to-end customer service stability and safety of oil and gas supplies. In 2012, we improved regulation on Quality, Safety and Integrity in Production and Sales our forecasting capabilities, monitored the latest market of Car Fuels with Sinopec and CNOOC. The Company pledged its Ningxia Petrochemical improved its service capabilities in predevelopments and increased diesel/gasoline ratio in line with commitment to fulfilling its responsibilities in product quality, sale, sale and after-sale stages, with the goal of delivering a market demand. We are responsible for over 40% of the domestic safety and consumer health, upholding the integrity of diesel in first-class customer experience. In the pre-sales period, the market supply for oil products, and 70% of the same for natural automobile industry, and providing safe and clean oil products company builds a good understanding of customer needs gas, meeting the needs of urban residents, public utilities and key to the community through inspections and risk surveillance in and market demand through customer visits, and developing customers. tandem with the National Supervision and Inspection Program for a tailored production plan to ensure timely and sufficient Product Quality. supply. The company’s urea products have maintained a Stabilizing Supply in Peak Periods 100% compliance rate for a long time, and a first-grade rate exceeding 96%. During the sales process, the Company During the peak periods in spring, summer and autumn, we provides technical support through customer service hotlines improved the transport and distribution of diesel fuel, boosted and online information platforms, to teach farmers the fertilizer production and provided high-quality products and proper use of urea products and attend to their queries. In supporting services for agricultural production. In view of tight the after-sale period, we conduct follow-up visits in Ningxia, supplies in the flood season, we took effective measures to Inner Mongolia, Qinghai and Gansu to solicit feedback and ensure the safety of oil and gas production, transportation and suggestions from agricultural companies, distributors and sales operations. farmers. In a 2012 survey, Ningxia Petrochemical’s products and services were rated by consumers to be “very satisfactory”. The company struck a reasonable balance in the use of domestic and foreign resources, accelerated the construction of new projects and ensured the coordinated operation of downstream projects. By improving network operations and fully utilizing the peak shaving capacity of underground gas storages, pipeline Introducing oil products for customers network storages and LNG terminals, we were able to maintain the supply of natural gas in peak periods such as during summer. Ensuring Supplies for Disaster Relief oil Strengthening oil tranportation in peak times Products We established an effective contingency plan for responding to natural disasters like cold snaps, floods and droughts. In early 2012, a cold snap hit Inner Mongolia, Heilongjiang and Liaoning Ensuring Natural Gas Supply in Winter in northern China while southern provinces such as Yunnan suffered from droughts. We increased diesel fuel production, During the winter of 2012, some regions experienced a temporary adjusted the diesel-gasoline ratio and production and increased tight supply of natural gas due to wide-spread low temperatures, the production of low-freezing-point diesel oil. Meanwhile, resource supplies constraints and the switch to gas-fueled heating we increased resource allocation and transportation, opened boilers to improve air quality in urban areas. Faced with this specific filling stations and “green channels” to facilitate the situation, the Company stabilized domestic natural gas market transportation of diesel fuel. We also increased the supply of by significantly raising output from its domestic operations by 10 refined oil and low-freezing-point diesel oil by 15% on a year on million cubic meters daily, boosting LNG supplies by increasing year basis, which was timely in maintaining its stability. Following purchases, gasification volume at LNG terminals etc., stabilizing the Yunnan earthquake in September 2012, we promptly the supply of imported pipeline gas resources, increasing gas activated our emergency plan by appointing four working production from gas storage, and improving demand-side groups to coordinate rescue efforts, relief supplies, logistics and management with a 363 million cubic meter in gas supply during communications. We opened 14 service stations with a green peak periods (up by 15%). channel which connected Kunming, Zhaotong and Yiliang to support earthquake relief efforts. 44 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 45 1. Employees’ Rights 13.7% We remain committed to a “People First” philosophy in treating our employees with respect and equality, and protecting their legitimate rights. We strive to resolve the most pressing and most 12.1% practical issues faced by our employees, so that they can share the fruits of our development. 59.5% 8.0% Fair Treatment 1.8% At PetroChina, we strictly abide by Labour Act of the People’s 4.9% Republic of China and Labour Contract Act of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions Sales staff Management staff where we operate. We also scrupulously meet all obligations Financial staff Technicians under the international conventions endorsed by the Chinese Others Operating staff government. We have a wellestablished employment management system covering labor contract, remuneration, insurance and benefits, performance review, rewards and disciplinary measures, training and leave benefits. We make every 2.6% effort to look after our employees’ interests and protect their legitimate rights, to build a mechanism to have the Company and 25.4% employees benefit equally from growth. 50.0% We provide equal opportunities and fair treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We strictly prohibit the employment and use of child labor and avoid all forms of forced labor. Additionally, the Company has always emphasized the employment of 05 local residents, women and ethnic minorities to increase job 22.0% opportunities for local communities. Masters degree and above Remuneration and Motivation University College We have further improved the performance appraisal and Secondary technical school or below “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE remuneration system, as well as the framework of employee compensation and benefits highlighting the value and DEVELOPMENT performance of employees in different positions, so that every employee can reach his potential. In addition, we steadily extended the coverage of social security programs to our employees, and maintained their supplementary medical care At PetroChina, employees are our most valuable asset. The overall and insurance, enterprise annuity and living allowance schemes development of employees has been one of our development priorities. under the Social Insurance Act of the People’s Republic of China to 67.5% 32.5% ensure employees’ interests and rights are addressed. In 2012, We strive to create a working environment of inclusion, equality, mutual the Company’s compensation and benefits policy continued trust and coordination. We protect employees’ rights, care for their wellto favor employees taking front-line positions, working in harsh Female being and provide a career development platform. We keep promoting environments and assuming key responsibilities. Further, we put Male in place an incentive mechanism for key front-line positions and the localization and diversification of our staff, and strengthen the security implemented a job rotation program in our overseas operations. in overseas operations. As such, we aim to achieve the optimization of both corporate values and employees’ benefits. 46 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 47 Democratic Participation The Company places great impor tance on democratic Case Study Oil workers in the microblog era management, participation and super vision. Apart from establishing trade unions, it has put in place a democratic style At the Hounan Block of Changqing Oilfield’s No.1 Production of management and transparent approach to industrial affairs Plant, workers from different sites and stations do not see to ensure employees are well-informed and have the means each other often due to busy work schedules. In early 2012, for participation in and oversight of corporate management. By a microblog group was formed to encourage them to share clarifying obligations and rights, organization system and working their thoughts and ideas. Through this useful tool, veterans system of the employee representative congress, we have further share work-related experiences and offer advice to junior standardized the content, procedures and forms of the Industrial staff, while the management get to find out the latest from Affairs Open System to continuously improve democracy in the workers and discuss work-life balance issues, creating corporate governance. a cohesive atmosphere among group members. Workers contribute their suggestions and opinions on how to improve crew competence, operational safety and after-work activities in the group, which have improved the management of the sites and stations. In 2012, a total of 102 suggestions and proposals were tabled and 68 were implemented. 2. Occupational Health Energetic young employees The Company abides by the amended PRC Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases Act in its occupational health management, focusing Investigation and Prevention of health centers to promote medical examination standards on the prevention and management of hazards as well as the implementation of such measures. By emphasizing health management in field and emphasize service quality, health report analysis, feedback operations, we have completely prevented workplace hazards and public health emergencies. Occupational Diseases and health intervention. Employee health surveillance records We have proac tively implementing the monitor ing of are properly maintained. In 2012, over 95% of our employees occupational hazards at workplaces, and conducted special underwent medical examination. Awareness of Occupational Diseases investigations on hazards induced by noise and dust. In addition, Prevention we have tailored such monitoring to the special characteristics of Occupational Health Assessment for specific workplaces and positions, enhancing protective measure Construction Projects All PetroChina staff have been informed of the amended for our facilities and employees. The Company has leveraged provisions of the PRC Prevention and Control of Occupational its experience in occupational hazards prevention and control In compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we Diseases Act through various channels such as lectures and a for high-sulfur oil and gas fields at Liaohe and Sichuan Oilfields, standardize the occupational health assessment and ensure that series of “week-long publicity” campaigns. In 2012, we provided strengthening the monitoring and control of hydrogen sulfide labor safety and health facilities in any construction project are tailored training courses to managers and 420 occupational related hazards, to ensure our employees’ health and safety. designed, constructed and operated alongside the main project healthcare professionals. We continued to strengthen concurrently. We have conducted pre-appraisal of occupational employees’ awareness and knowledge on occupational diseases Medical Examination and Surveillance hazards and designed protective facilities for a number of projects, prevention and treatment. For example, over 400,000 PetroChina including the Third West-East Gas Pipeline, to ensure that the employees participated in the knowledge quiz held by the State Caring for physical and mental health of employees Employee medical examination has always been an important occupational hazards can be identified and prevented at the very Administration of Work Safety and All-China Federation of Trade part of our health surveillance programs. Priority is given to our start. Unions and 18 subsidiary companies were awarded. Further, our front-line staff, contractors and temporary workers. We have employees are trained to use and maintain protective equipment carried out specific programs at our affiliated occupational and appliances. 48 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 49 3. Platform for Employee Development Case Study Health management at Lanzhou At PetroChina, we continue to improve our training centers and training networks from the perspective of a modern enterprise, aiming to Petrochemical build a learning organization with knowledge-based employees. We address our employees’ need for career development at different stages and provide career planning counsel for people to achieve their personal goals. Adhering to the philosophy of “putting health first”, Lanzhou Petrochemical strove to enhance employee health conditions experts entitled to skilled experts academics at the Chinese the Government by building health awareness, addressing behavioral issues Academy of Sciences and 231 Special Allowance senior technical and fostering healthy lifestyle. experts the Chinese Academy of 1,058 management Engineering 224 14 experts Assessment of Health Risks. A pilot program of health intervention was introduced to build awareness, encourage behavioral changes and promote healthy living. Occupational 91 health management as part of health management was Mental health class for employess focused on workplace health hazard monitoring, health care and workplace protection. Health Infrastructure. IT-enabled health management Healthcare Management and Services for platform and medical examination platform were launched. Employee Development Mechanism was developed for distance training administrators and the distance training platform was further improved to deliver three Operation Crews Working environment and conditions were improved With a corporate culture that values moral integrity as well online training projects with extensive courseware. New training to ensure a continuous improvement in addressing the as professional competence, the Company has developed a materials were compiled and reviewed, covering more than 140 The Company places great importance on healthcare and workplace health hazards. selection process that is open, competitive and merit-based to training courses on management and technology. The PetroChina disease prevention for its operation crews. We continue to create a positive workplace atmosphere, enabling the recognition Trainer Program and the Double-100 Program (100 celebrated provide healthcare services to front-line workers and implement Health Culture and Knowledge. Employees were and best use of talent. In 2012, we forged ahead with an initiative trainers and 100 classic training courses) were launched to a health management system to address hazards in relation to encouraged to join the “Health is in Your Hands” initiative – a to build the talent pools for business management, technical improve the quality and effectiveness of training. occupational poisoning, health damage, infectious diseases, food move advocating care for life and health. A newsletter with expertise and operating skills. We improved the management poisoning and psychological illness. We have launched a series health quizzes and an employee health column were used structure in terms of age, expertise and experience, and provided Skills training is available at multiple levels, through numerous of initiatives on health management, disease prevention, food/ to explain health concepts and build health knowledge, as more career opportunities for young employees. Over the course channels and forms to enhance the overall competence of water safety, and psychological health counseling. Seminars part of the efforts to guide positive behavioral changes and of competing for the professional and technical positions, a large managers, technical professionals, operators and international and academic exchanges on preventive medicine and health promote a positive attitude. number of talent with a long-standing commitment to technical talent. For managers, we provide training on accountability, management are conducted and campaigns for health education, work stood out. Meanwhile, we stepped up the building of strategic thinking, global perspective and HSE, with more than healthy lifestyle, fitness exercises, healthy diet and smoking national studios for skilled masters and experts. In particular, Shu 100 managers and candidates for management positions cessation are introduced throughout the Company. Binxia Studio and Zuo Chengyu Studio have become operational undergoing training throughout the year. For front-line operators, at Liaohe Oilfield and Daqing Petrochemical respectively. Our the Company has published guidance on enhancing training people have achieved impressive results at skill competitions at for front-line workers, focusing on professional techniques and home and abroad. operating skills. More than 1,500 employees have received training on professional techniques and skills through over 20 training At the end of 2012, the Company had 14 academics at the classes designed for senior technicians and technicians. For Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy international talent, a dozen training classes have been conducted of Engineering, 1,058 experts entitled to the Government for more than 200 employees. Some managers have been given Special Allowance, as well as 224 senior technical experts, 91 the opportunity to visit and train at internationally renowned management experts, and 231 skilled experts. We have further universities. Technical experts were selected to participate in introduced high caliber people from other countries and 17 advanced management and technology workshops in Canada. candidates have been evaluated under the “Thousand People” Demonstration courses on Arabic, Spanish and other languages Plan, a national program aimed at attracting outstanding talent were offered to expatriates in our overseas projects to improve from abroad. their professional competence as well as language proficiency. In 2012, the headquarters of the Company organized 142 training Employee Training System programs with approximately 20,000 participants. All senior technicians and employees working in key positions underwent In 2012, we continued to step up the construction of training training in the year. bases, curriculum and teaching faculties. A training program 50 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 51 4. Local Staff Development 5. Security in Overseas Operations At PetroChina, we embrace a respectful, open and inclusive Management of Local Employees The safety of our employees has always been an overriding culture and uphold the principles of local hiring, professionalism priority in our overseas operations. A security management and market-orientation in managing overseas talent. While we We have developed Protocols on Local Employee Management system has been established for our international operations to establish ourselves as a global energy company, we also promote in Overseas Operation in line with the laws and regulations in introduce rules and regulations under a systematic management workforce localization. host countries, covering hiring, the monitoring of attendance, framework. We have published management manuals and vacation, performance evaluation, incentives and penalties for procedures, developed 12 training courses on system building, Local Hiring each management process and position, to attract and retain and streamlined the security-related risk management process. outstanding local talent. On an organizational level, security management bodies have We proactively recruit and train local employees and select the been set up for overseas subsidiaries and affiliates, including the right people among local candidates for management positions HSE Committee for International Cooperation and the Counterthrough fair competition. As of the end of 2012, local employees terrorism, Security and HSE Office. In 10 countries marked by accounted for 94% of our overseas workforce. conflicts and tight security, the Company set up social security task forces with dedicated security managers. With employee Respect for Cultural Differences safety being part of our performance review, the Company signs 94% a Safety and Environment Agreement with each overseas affiliate PetroChina fully respects cultural diversity and local customs. Great attention was paid to security and health of overseas employees to identify security-related roles and responsibilities in overseas We promote understanding and respect for different values and projects. In addition, it develops a dynamic, multi-tiered system for traditions and foster cross-culture cooperation in a culturally risk management and evaluation mechanism to eliminate security diverse workplace. Chinese employees are encouraged to learn hazards and improve crisis plans. The mechanisms to cooperate about the laws, history, culture and religious customs of local local employees with host governments, Chinese embassies and security agencies, communities. On the other hand, foreign employees are invited to and to gather intelligence, were introduced to enable early visit our headquarters in China and experience Chinese culture. warning and preparedness. A range of training programs tailored to overseas operations was developed for security managers, site managers and operating crews to improve emergency response capabilities. Case Study Local hiring in Kazakhstan With an open and inclusive attitude, PetroChina has upheld the principle of local hiring in its operations in Kazakhstan, Case Study Emergency medical services for Halfaya project focusing on employee training and cultural diversity. In 2012, locals accounted for more than 98% of our staff headcount in PetroChina’s Halfaya Project is located in Iraq, lacking access to Kazakhstan. healthcare resources. With employee safety as an overriding priority, an emergency medical system is taking shape. In 2012, a We respect Kazakh employees’ religious beliefs and customs, round-the-clock medical emergency network with professional and provide special amenities in accordance with the local paramedics was established to cover the entire area of operations. culture encompassing food, festivals and lifestyles. We In view of the poor medical conditions in the local communities, celebrate traditional festivals of Kazakhstan and China in emergency medical resources including a fleet of ground and air multiple forms such as ceremonies and parties, for employees ambulances have been made available to ensure efficient and with different cultural backgrounds to build mutual high-quality medical evacuation services. In addition, Iraqi doctors Local hiring at PetroChina's Algeria project understanding. We also developed training, education and and bilingual healthcare professionals have been recruited to job rotation programs and worked with the universities and provide on-site medical services. Periodic training and lectures training institutions in Kazakhstan to provide training courses on first-aid skills as well as healthcare knowledge are given to on technology, management, marketing, HSE, business employees to enhance their first aid skills in emergencies. practices and language skills etc. 52 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 53 1. Promoting Development of Local Economies PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support of the south Xinjiang area operated by the Company, is now under Government, communities and the public. In turn, our sustainable construction. The Kashgar-Zepu and Hetian-Zepu sections of and stable energy supply has also boosted China’s sociothe South Xinjiang Natural Gas Projects, which aim to benefit economic development. We are committed to the development local communities, have been completed temporarily. They form and construction of oil and gas fields, refining chemicals and a ring network together with the existing South Xinjiang Gas pipelines, as well as cultivating local suppliers and contractors, Supply Pipelines, which delivers natural gas to Kashgar, Hetian driving the development of relevant local industries and creating and Kizilsu Kergez Prefecture, to fuel economic development and jobs opportunities. improve living conditions in southern Xinjiang. Meanwhile, we unveiled the “Development Plan for Petroleum and Petrochemical In 2012, PetroChina has worked with Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Business in the Sichuan and Chongqing Area” to facilitate socioRegion and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps to create economic development in Sichuan, Chongqing and the rest of a new model for strategic cooperation among local enterprises, southwest China by strengthening oil and gas exploration and governments and corps in the oil and gas sector. The Company development, and by building up natural gas production bases also developed the Karamay Hongshan Oilfield, to promote local and demonstration areas for commercialized natural gas usage. economic and social development. The Karamay Aksu Fertilizer Plant, the largest natural gas deep processing project in the Case Study Fueling socio-economic development in Guangxi Beibu Gulf in Guangxi has shown strong growth momentum in recent years and has become an economic development hub in southwestern China. In 2007, construction of the 10Mt/a refining project at Guangxi Petrochemical was kicked off in Qinzhou. The project became operational in 2010, providing oil products for Guangxi and the rest of southwest China and generating over 06 RMB 10 billion of tax revenue for Qinzhou government. This made Qinzhou the fourth city in Guangxi with more than RMB 10 billion of fiscal revenue, behind Nanning, Liuzhou and Guilin. With the 10Mt/a refining project at Guangxi Petrochemical, PetroChina has set up, expanded or jointly built 16 enterprises GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY in Guangxi, comprising refinery, oil products marketing, oil and gas pipelines, city gas, oil reserves, international trade, the manufacture and maintenance of oil equipment, oil exploration and development, logistics and distribution, etc. These businesses As our wealth comes from society, it is also our duty to give back to cover almost the entire operations of PetroChina and in essence form an entire industrial chain. The Company has invested over the community. Holding socio-economic development as our ultimate 25 billion RMB in Guangxi since 2005. goal, we attach great importance to the well-being of people and social In 2012, the Company paid over 17 billion RMB in taxes to the advancement. We never waver in helping the poor, assisting students Guangxi government and provided more than 18,000 full-time with financial difficulties, volunteering in community services, and jobs, making a positive contribution to the economic and social participating in community building. Through our efforts, we strive to development in Guangxi. build a harmonious society. 54 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 55 Feature Story Ten-Year Targeted Programs and Pairing 2. Poverty Alleviation Assistance Programs for Poverty Alleviation Poverty is a key constraint on sustainable development and tends to be exacerbated by natural disasters. The Company supports and Poverty alleviation is key to social cohesion, prosperity and technology transfer to Taiqian County in Henan Province. The promotes poverty alleviation by promoting related projects and providing more job opportunities. harmony. Since engaging in our targeted poverty alleviation Company also assisted Hengrun Petrochemical, a leading local and pairing assistance programs, PetroChina has addressed the company, in expanding its C4 BTX aromatics project. In 2012, the greatest and most pressing concerns of the poor by leveraging project has been entirely operated by Hengrun Petrochemical and our strengths in the industry, technology and people. This has is expected to generate more than RMB 100 million in taxes to the Targeted and Pairing Assistance Programs jointly promoted the development of the local community local government and to create 400 jobs for rural workers. for Poverty Alleviation Voice from Recipient Governments alongside our business, helping the poor rise up the wealth ladder. A Wider Range of Aid Measures. The Company continues We have been actively participating in poverty alleviation efforts to expand poverty alleviation programs focusing equally on in 14 poverty stricken counties and villages in 8 provinces, PetroChina provided its expertise in the C4 aromatization An Expanding Scope of Aid. In the last decade, the scope of our intellectual and financial aspects with an emphasis on promoting namely Xinjiang, Henan, Tibet, Qinghai, Chongqing, Guizhou technique on an ex-gratia basis to support the business poverty alleviation and pairing assistance programs has widened self-help among locals. Over the last decade, we have built and Jiangxi and Fujian. In 2012, we scored a number of major growth of Hengrun Petrochemical and to build Taiqian from six counties in Xinjiang, i.e. Nilka, Barkol, etc., to 14 counties training centers for farmers and herders in the recipient areas, achievements through our targeted programs and pairing Chemical Industry Park into one of the key industrial parks (townships) in eight provinces (municipalities and autonomous offering a series of skills training courses such as masonry, welding, assistance programs for poverty alleviation. In Taiqian County, in Henan Province. This laid a solid foundation for boosting regions). In 2011, the Company proactively participated in poverty cooking, driving and vehicle repair, etc. We have arranged study Henan Province, Hengrun Petrochemical’s expansion project for economic growth and improving people’s livelihoods. With alleviation programs in Xishui County, Guizhou Province. In 2012, tours and further educational opportunities for local agricultural the production of C4 BTX aromatics is now operational with our PetroChina’s support, Taiqian County’s socio-economic we assisted the local government in building 13.5km of rural technicians, teachers and healthcare professionals, which have assistance. We have supported Kai County in Chongqing for over development is on the fast track, heralding a growing roads, which benefitted around 10,000 residents in 11 neighboring helped to lift them out of poverty by creating jobs and enhancing a decade, implementing seven assistance initiatives in culture, industrial sector, breakthrough achievements in key projects, villages. We also donated more than 20,000 books, 140 computers their competency. In addition, as part of its poverty alleviation education, healthcare and tourism. In addition, we helped to and an expanding industry cluster… and other teaching equipment to 30 local primary schools. measures, the Company also donates educational equipment to build infrastructure for the local communities to improve their rural primary and secondary schools to improve the intellectual living conditions, and boosted the growth of the public sector. —People’s Government of Taiqian County, Henan Province A New Paradigm for Poverty Alleviation. PetroChina has capacity of the community. PetroChina Southwest Oil & Gas Field Company has been adopted a new paradigm for poverty alleviation, moving recognized by the Three Gorges Project Construction Committee from donations in cash and kind to helping the poor through Over the past decade, PetroChina has promoted socio-economic of State Council as an “Excellent Unit in Assisting in Resettlement development and cooperation. We have developed an industrydevelopment in poverty-stricken areas by leveraging its strengths from the Three Gorges Reservoir Area”. We donated RMB 41.24 PetroChina has provided Hengfeng County with immense driven approach to boost socio-economic growth in the recipient and resources. Through these measures and using innovative million yuan in poverty alleviation initiatives during the year. financial resources and economic opportunities. Over means, we have improved people’s livelihoods and promoted selfcommunities by providing financial and technological resources the course of working with the Company, we have been development in the communities. to local governments. In 2011, the Company made a free C4 Disaster Relief impressed by the concern it has shown to our people’s wellbeing, and its commitment to poverty alleviation as a It is a traditional Chinese virtue and also an esteemed tradition good corporate citizen. of PetroChina to “help people in need”. In view of the ongoing drought in Yunnan Province, we set up a dedicated donation —People’s Government of Hengfeng County, Jiangxi Province fund to alleviate drought and drinking water shortages. After the earthquake in Weining, Guizhou Province, the Company immediately activated its contingency plan to help the quake Since 2007, PetroChina has provided comprehensive victims overcome the difficulties in the wake of the disaster. assistance to Fanxian County in areas such as projects, industrial sectors, financial resources, technical support and information, to boost the local socio-economic development. —People’s Government of Fan County, Henan Province Health care service for local Tibetans 56 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 57 3. Support for Education 4. Volunteer Activities As a responsible member of the community, each and every one of us has an obligation to contribute to promoting social harmony Case Study Building Schools for Children and civilization. At PetroChina, we encourage and support of Migrants our employees to volunteer in their communities. As of 2012, the Company had 7,500 youth volunteer teams with over 100 In 2011, PetroChina provided funding for the building of two thousand members, and the teams have been actively engaged in schools in the Ecological Resettlement areas in Ningixa Hui volunteer activities in the spirit of “dedication, friendship, mutualAutonomous Region. Construction began in July 2011 and aid and development”. Kuankoujing School in Zhongning County was completed and opened in September 2012. Covering 11,000 m2 and The Guo Mingyi Volunteer Team from PetroChina Jilin Marketing taking in 1,600 students with a campus comprising a Company volunteered to promote urban traffic safety, raise teaching building, canteen and standard gymnasium, the awareness of traffic rules and provide relevant consultation school has all of the features required to help offer excellent services. At No. 4 Production Plant of Daqing Oilfield, a Young education to children in the region. “This is the largest school Volunteers Association was established comprising four here,” said a resettled resident. “Kids from nearby villages now professional branches including “Helping the Seniors and Volunteers telling stories for children with local teachers have a place to study.” Impoverished”, “Energy Conser vation and Environmental Protection”, “Educational Support” and “Social Services”. The Serving for training and selection of key automotive talent volunteer team of Jinxi Petrochemical, also known as “Jewelry Flower”, carried out voluntary work in a systematic and regular manner. In addition, on ” Learning from Lei Feng Day”, a variety of Supporting educational initiatives is an important part of our voluntary activities was carried out to help the handicapped, assist contribution to social development. By establishing various seniors and to keep communities clean. scholarships and fellowships, donating funds to build primary schools, subsidizing teachers and students in impoverished regions and building schools for local communities in our overseas operations sites, we are proud to be active in contributing to the most meaningful cause of education. Case Study “We Share the Blue Sky” Since the establishment of our scholarship fund in 2001, the Company has provided scholarships for seven petroleum and For eight consecutive years since 2005, there has been a deprived children were able to experience how it feels to have petrochemical institutions and fifteen “211” universities. These tremendous amount of community service in the community a joyful and normal childhood. Highly praised for their work, scholarships honor students and teachers for their outstanding where the Harbin Branch of PetroChina’s Northeast Marketing the volunteer team from the Harbin Branch was named by the academic achievements, motivation and for contributions to Company is based. Employees of the branch have launched a local government an Excellent Unit of the “Caring for the Next attracting talent. So far, these scholarships have been awarded to volunteer initiative — “We Share the Blue Sky” — to help kids Generation Program” a number of times. more than 7,000 students and 500 teachers, among which over from neighboring poor families and single-parent families in a 2,300 students have finished their studies through scholarship number of ways. funding. PetroChina also co-sponsors FSAE-China with China Society of Automotive Engineers and other universities by offering With the support of our young volunteers, a 50-member a grand prize for the winner as an incentive and by providing a children’s ensemble was formed to perform songs to kids and public platform for training and the selection of key automotive to participate in local art performances. Aimed at “creating a talent which enhances the overall quality of automotive better world hand-in-hand”, the volunteers teach kids to make engineering majors. In 2012, we donated to the Hope Primary jiaozi (Chinese dumplings) for the more severely deprived School in Xixia District of Yinchuan City, Ningxia Hui Autonomous families, bringing them happiness through hard work and Region to improve its educational conditions. We also launched dedication. A special fund was also created at a children’s charity the “Hope Library” initiative, donating 1,000 bookshelves and store, and employees were encouraged to make donations. 200,000 books to the schools in the deprived agricultural and Through a variety of cultural, sporting and social activities, the grazing areas of Qinghai Province. In 2012, our donation for education totaled RMB 91.51 million yuan. 58 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 59 5. Contributions to Overseas Communities Feature Story PetroChina in Indonesia PetroChina has long adhered to the principle of “cooperation Since PetroChina launched its oil and gas operations in Indonesia local employees every year to cover multiple disciplines such for mutual benefit and joint development”, and this has been in 2002, we have maintained an annual growth rate of 15.7% in as petroleum technology and risk management in accordance beneficial to developing long-term partnerships with the oil and gas exploration and development projects. During this with the job requirements and personal needs. Since 2004, the countries in which we operate. We respect the cultures, beliefs time, PetroChina has boosted local economic development, Company has also conducted a training program that allows and customs of these different countries and try to promote fostered local talent, participated in public welfare undertakings Indonesian employees to study at the China University of positive socio-economic development in each local community. and promoted common development for enterprises and Petroleum. In 2012, 422 employees have received training under local communities. As a result of this, in 2012, we won the “Ten this program. Local Procurement Year’s Excellent Operation Prize” which was given by BPMIGAS, Indonesia's upstream oil and gas regulatory body. Local Economic Growth. The Company vigorously promotes Local procurement can boost the development of local SMEs and the development of local SMEs and creates a large number of create jobs for local communities indirectly. Therefore, PetroChina Safety and Clean Production. Indonesia has large areas of job opportunities through local procurement and technical places strong emphasis on the procurement of local products tropical rainforest. Over the past decade, the Company has cooperation. Over the past decade, we have provided more and services. In Indonesia, we rely as much as possible on local been adhering to international standards on health, safety and than 3,000 direct jobs and nearly 5,000 indirect jobs for the resources, conduct technical cooperation with local enterprises environmental protection in order to protect the environment. communities in which we operate and paid over US 7 billion in and work with local SMEs for logistical support. In addition to this, we have been leveraging new techniques for taxes to the Indonesian government. energy conservation and emissions reduction to help achieve Environmental Protection clean production. These initiatives and our well-established Public Welfare. We build roads at our project sites to help bring HSE management system have allowed us to help protect the convenience to local residents. We also develop and implement We have always had a strong focus on environmental protection rainforest ecosystem. As of the end of 2012, the Company has healthcare programs to provide medical devices and offer free while developing our projects. We protect the local ecological recorded 2,807 days of zero accidents and 3,891 days of zero medical examinations and treatment for seniors. Our educational environments and try to minimize the impact of our operations pollution/injuries, with an impressive safety performance highly and cultural initiatives provide funding for underprivileged on the environment by optimizing our technical processes and by praised by the Indonesian government. children to receive education, and our upgrading of schools and applying energy-saving and emissions reduction technologies. libraries help to improve educational facilities in the community. In South America, we act in strict compliance with the applicable Local Training. The Company actively pursues the localization When Indonesia was hit by natural disasters such as tsunamis, laws and international standards on environmental protection. We of its workforce and tailors its human resources management earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, the Company was active in have also implemented a complete range of practical measures to system to this end. As of 2012, locally-hired employees account for disaster relief efforts by donating in cash and kind. effectively protect the tropical rainforest ecosystem. 99.2% of our workforce in Indonesia. We place great importance on employee training, offering a one-week training program for Community Construction We are actively involved in infrastructure construction, poverty alleviation, disaster relief and professional training to help improve the living standards of local people and have realized that this is a common goal we share with the local communities. In Niger, two PetroChina-funded classrooms have already been put into use in Bakin Birgi, and so far, we have donated 14 school buildings in Agadez, Diffa and Zinder. Environmental protection at PetroChina's Ecuador project In Oman, while working with local partners to boost oil and gas production, we were named “the Best Petroleum Enterprise in Oman 2011-2012” by the local government for our contributions to educational and community development. 60 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 61 Investor FAQs Does PetroChina have an ethics committee? Key performance evaluation indicators are divided into three PetroChina is dedicated to operating in a safer, more efficient important resources. The ideas of caring for life and protecting categories: effectiveness, operations and control. Effectiveness and more environment-friendly manner so as to achieve a good the environment are par t of our motto. We stick to the The Company has put in place various policies governing indicators mainly include returns on invested capital (ROIC), net balance between the economy, environment and society. principles weighted towards a people-oriented, preventionethical issues, including the Code of Ethics for Senior Managers profit and free cash flow. Operations indicators consist of cost driven approach, advocate total participation and continuous and Code of Ethics for Employees. In addition, the Supervisory indicators (the cost of oil and gas operations, the unit cost of Does the Company conduct regular risk improvement to achieve zero injuries, pollution and accidents, Committee is responsible for monitoring the behavior of directors processing, the unit cost of marketing, etc.), investment budget assessments to identify potential failures in both its and have established a resource-saving, environment-friendly and senior managers. PetroChina has also actively promoted the control indicators (the difference between the budget and infrastructure and operations? and safe production enterprise. PetroChina strictly adheres to establishment of a proper health, safety and environment (HSE) actual capital expenditures), and long-term development of national production safety laws and regulations, implements a management system to strengthen integrated HSE management. the Company (the oil reserve replacement ratio, etc.). Control responsibility system for production safety and environmental Yes. Our affiliates hire third-party technical institutes to carry In 2009, as per the overall deployment of the Plan for Establishment indicators mainly refer to the Company’s safety, quality and protection, and advocates safety production principles out safety evaluation programs on a regular basis to identify of the HSE Management System, we issued the nine principles environmental protection standards. The annual working target throughout the Company. We have also proactively promoted potential problems in infrastructure and during operations. of HSE management to reinforce the awareness of managers’ of the Company is taken into consideration when selecting the the establishment of our HSE management system, established Furthermore, we have implemented the HAZOP analysis method responsibilities and to clarify the division of horizontal and vertical specific key performance indicators to evaluate senior managers. a monitoring-based management system for safe production, recently. Our HSE committees at all levels also meet regularly to responsibilities. Moreover, as a member of the UN Global Compact, Indicators that are not included in the system described above adopted the latest skills and technologies for safe production, and discuss safety and environmental issues. the Company has made significant progress in aligning with the may be supplemented according to our operational needs. improved working conditions to ensure employee safety. 10 principles of the Global Compact and submits annual reports to Are there any policies and institutions within illustrate these advances. Do you have any measures on anti-corruption? PetroChina’s headquarters, together with its affiliates, has the Company to properly maintain infrastructure established and implemented the Company’s HSE system. We (pipelines, oil tankers, etc.)? Are all group policies reviewed on a regular basis? We have been striving to strengthen our ethical standards have formulated a series of quantifiable HSE indicators that all staff, and have established codes of conduct for both senior managers contractors and suppliers are responsible for meeting together. The Company has management institutions in place This ensures that the Company’s safety and environmental We manage the Company in accordance with all legal and employees according to which all employees must not make regarding equipment and safety management for details protection steps are implemented by all units, crew and staff, as requirements, which we consider to be our basic operational use of the Company’s property for personal interests. We have pertaining to infrastructure checks and maintenance. well as other related parties. standard. We strive to ensure that the corporate structure is well also formulated strict guidelines regarding souvenir exchanges in coordinated and balanced and that the Company’s values are fully our business. Apart from the codes of conduct, we have also put regulations in place regarding ethical occupation standards for How do you assess safety accidents? PetroChina considers HSE work to be its top priority. The to the fore. We have established a standard corporate governance structure and follow various laws, including the Company Law both senior managers and employees. What’s more, our senior Board of Directors has established the HSE Committee to include of the People’s Republic of China, rules and regulations where the managers have to confirm in writing on a yearly basis that ethical According to the Regulations on Reporting, Investigation and safety and environmental protection as part of the performance Company is listed. The Company’s shareholder meetings, Board occupation standards have been met. Disposition of Work Safety Accidents (Decree No. 493 of the State evaluation indicators for its management. Moreover, safety and of Directors and related professional committees, and Board of Council of the People's Republic of China), production-related environmental protection responsibilities are well assigned accidents can be classified with the grades below in line with internally, with the head of every unit taking full responsibility for Supervisors and executive bodies all operate independently, in How are projec t hazard risks assessed and personal injury and direct economic loss. (1) Very Tremendous safety and environmental protection. accordance with the regulations of the Company. managed? Accident, which refers to accidents that cause more than 30 deaths or grievous bodily harm to more than 100 people The formulation and adjustment of the Company’s major We hire professional technical service institutes to assess What are the updates of your safe production and (including acute industrial toxicity) or direct economic losses development strategies must be discussed and approved by the occupational health, production safety and environmental HSE management systems? of more than RMB 100 million. (2) Tremendous Accident, which Company’s management and Board of Directors. We ensure the protection at the project proposal stage, conduct special reviews refers to accidents that cause 10 to 30 deaths or grievous bodily stability of our development strategies and policies, and constantly at the project design stage for the HSE capability of the design, We have always placed great emphasis on our HSE initiatives harm to 50 to 100 people (including acute industrial toxicity) review and adjust these strategies and policies according to carry out acceptance checks after the project goes into operation, and are therefore constantly enhancing and improving our or direct economic losses of more than RMB 50-100 million. (3) changes in the business environment so as to optimize the and launch safety assessments regularly for amendments to HSE management systems. In 2012, we continued to promote Severe Accident, refers to the accidents that cause 3 to 10 deaths Company’s development. counter hidden dangers. the building of our HSE systems, enhanced our safety and or grievous bodily harm to 10 to 50 people (including acute environmental management initiatives, strengthened our industrial toxicity) or direct economic losses of more than RMB 10Is any part of annual executive remuneration linked While we recognise that PetroChina does not source control and process monitoring and raised our safety and 50 million. to environmental, social or governance targets? directly commission animal testing, does the Company environmental protection standards. Safety and environmental use the results of testing by third parties? protection is an area on which we are constantly focused and will How does PetroChina ensure operational safety? continue to refine. Annual executive remuneration for the Company’s senior managers mainly comprises base salaries and bonuses, which Our businesses do not perform animal testing. We operate in PetroChina addresses production safety and believes that are based on the results of their annual performance evaluation. strict accordance with relevant national and industry standards. people and the natural environment are the world’s most 62 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 63 PetroChina advocates the principles of “people-oriented at the technical and management levels. Additionally, we will How does PetroChina review the quality of What quantitative environmental targets has the safety management”, and we believe that “safety comes from hold relevant units and personnel responsible for accidents in contractor work during implementation? Are there Company set going forward? Does it have plans to responsibility, design, quality and prevention”. As a result, we have accordance to the applicable laws. Ultimately, this has the aim regular audits? publish these? adopted production safety as one of our core values, and have of identifying and troubleshooting safety hazards and further implemented this concept in all our sectors of production and strengthening construction safety for new areas, new businesses We generally hire third-party companies to conduct on-site PetroChina places great emphasis on energy savings and operation. Specific measures include supervision enhancement, and rapidly developing businesses. supervision during the project period. We also conduct both emissions reduction, which is a key part of our corporate social carrying out regular safety checks and risk prevention activities regular and unscheduled check-ups on work-in-progress. These responsibility program as well as one of our main focuses and establishing a sound and effective emergency rescue system include evaluations to identify and rectify problems if any are for future development. The sustainability report discloses Does the Company have any measures in place to respond to accidents. found. information annually and includes indicators such as the amount for the HSE management of its contractors? Do these include any significant changes? of oil discharged in waste water, energy and water saved, COD In our overseas operations, we launched the Upgrade As part of the project planning process, does the discharge in waste water and the SO2 discharged in the air. Plan of HSE Management System, developed HSE information As mentioned, we attach great importance to the safety of Group conduct any environmental or social impact system upgrade plans to organize HSE training for management our contractors and have incorporated their HSE management assessments? How does PetroChina reduce its greenhouse gas personnel, strengthened our HSE consultant training program, into our own systems. In 2012, PetroChina continued to improve emissions? In what ways do you disclose information enhanced the HSE training programs for our front-line employees HSE qualification and performance evaluation criteria for its pertaining to carbon dioxide and other environmental The Company regularly addresses any potential impact that and promoted our HSE training matrix. contractors' and also established a withdrawal system for matters? its business operations might have on both the environment and contractor in which we no longer work with contractors that fall society. Therefore, before moving forward to any project design Can you provide updates regarding any recent short of our HSE standards. Our affiliated companies have also stage, we conduct detailed evaluations on the potential impacts Cutting greenhouse gas emissions and protecting the health and safety issues? formulated contractor safety management systems to ensure that that the project might have on the environment and society. environment are serious challenges confronting society they meet healthy and safe operational standards. Apart from worldwide. Since 2008, PetroChina has conducted intensive We adhere to the Emergency Response Law of the People's that, we signed the Safety and Environment Accountability Pledge research, and in 2010, unveiled its “Green, International and We hire professional technical service institutions to carry Republic of China by promoting the establishment of emergency with our overseas business units, which ensure that relevant Sustainable” ideas for development. These ideas call for reducing out assessments on occupational health, production safety, management systems and regularly organizing emergency responsibilities in terms of securities will be implemented at each CO2 emissions and including data on them in the internal statistics and environmental protection at the project proposal stage, safety drills. In 2012, the Company decided to launch its first of our overseas projects. system. However, since there is no standardized method of conduct special reviews at the project design stage to evaluate comprehensive audit of its HSE management system. The audit the HSE capabilities of the design, conduct acceptance checks calculating CO2 emissions for the oil and gas industry either in conducted in the first half of the year was highly detailed as it What is the selection criteria for PetroChina when after the project goes into operation, and carry out regular safety China or globally, the report did not feature this data to avoid was the largest in scale, featured the most participants, took the choosing a contractor? To what extent and in what assessments to make any necessary amendments in order to large discrepancies and misunderstanding. longest time and offered the most extensive analysis available in ways are contractors' HSE and risk management avoid potential dangers. recent years. capabilities assessed before they are engaged by The Company has always made it a priority to improve the PetroChina? What are the Company’s views on energy savings processes in place for the disclosure of information pertaining Apart from being concerned about the safety of its staff, and emissions reduction? to the following six areas: greenhouse gas emissions, impacts on PetroChina is also very concerned over the wellbeing of its We h a v e fo r m u l a t e d t h e C o n s t r u c t i o n C o n t r a c t o r health and safety, and the local environment, business operations contractors. Due to this concern, the Company has decided to Management Approach (“the Approach”) to manage the process and transparency, labor practices and ecosystem services. This is We adhere to the concept of “Prioritizing environmental incorporate the management of its contractors’ HSE standards into of admittance for our contractors. According to the Approach, why the report features environment-related content and figures protection and putting safe production first”. Therefore, we are the Company’s HSE systems. To ensure safety in their construction contractors are divided into three categories and reviewed arranged section-by-section. PetroChina believes that by applying strong advocates of promoting the development and utilization of work, we have launched special campaigns highlighting safety individually. Their details are kept on record by our headquarters, effective management strategies to mitigate the impact to the technologies related to energy savings and emissions reduction. management for our contractors, reinforced our safety training professional companies and corporate organizations, respectively. environment, communities and corporate governance, we will be Additionally, we believe in the promotion of technologies related initiatives and closely monitored adherence to these regulations able to create long-term value for our shareholders and for society. to the optimization of energy systems. This commitment can be to prevent any violations. Contractors for specific projects are selected through tender. clearly seen in our 10 Energy Savings Projects and 10 Emissions Assessments of contractors’ HSE and management capabilities Reduction Projects. Is the Group’s EMS ISO 14001 certified? Are the To ensure safety for all, PetroChina continues to take are then carried out in three phases prior to their engagement. entire group’s operations covered by this certification? precautions by carrying out a series of activities which include Firstly, HSE and risk management capabilities are included as We built and promoted market-oriented energy-savings regular safety checks, eliminating safety hazards, improving part of the basic requirements for contractors at the admittance The Company’s subsidiaries have implemented ISO 14000 mechanisms mainly in the form of contracting and implementing safety drills. We are fully aware that in order to reduce the stage, and unqualified contractors are not be accepted. Secondly, standards according to the scope of their businesses and energy management projects. Through these initiatives, we number of accidents and to ensure the safety and stability of our contractors' HSE and risk management capabilities are reviewed actual needs. These subsidiaries have also applied for ISO 14001 were able to achieve satisfactory economic and social benefits. operations, we must strengthen our security risk management as a key requirement during the tender process. Thirdly, if certification according to their actual needs. All subsidiaries of the In addition, the Company launched a promotion week featuring vigorously. Therefore, PetroChina has deployed technology and contractors' HSE performance deteriorates, they will be reCompany have established and implemented HSE management energy savings with the aim of enhancing awareness of energy management experts to conduct in-depth post-accident analysis evaluated or even disqualified. systems which includes key elements of ISO 14000 standards. savings and emissions reduction among our employees. 64 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 65 What is the Company ’s policy on the use of democratic procedures through the holding of staff gatherings, gather employees’ opinions as well as to assist us in making more average level of the industry. The Company has also avoided hazardous substances? democratic discussion and meetings with staff representatives. informed and practical decisions. environmental pollution and ecological damage in its overseas In this way, employees’ opinions are solicited and employees business. Meanwhile, the occupational disease rate of our The Company carries out HSE risk assessments on a regular are also encouraged to participate in the enterprise’s operations What HSE management measures are there with overseas employees is zero. basis according to our HSE management systems. This includes and management. In addition, the labour relations coordination regard to the overseas business and how have they assessments on the use of hazardous substances and ensuring mechanism has been further improved to achieve even more improved HSE management so far? How does the Company reduce overseas business that the use of these hazardous substances is terminated harmonious labour relations. risks and sustain the safety of its overseas assets? according to relevant laws and industrial policies. For example, We have founded an HSE Committee for International we no longer use insulation materials with fluorine content in our How has the Group improved its human rights? Cooperation. Also, Office for Overseas Anti-terrorism, Security and The Company is very careful with regard to its overseas pipelines. HSE has established social security working teams in 10 countries investment opportunities and has taken positive measures to PetroChina consistently adheres to a “people-oriented” where security situations were rather tense. We introduced a reduce various types of risks in its foreign operations. Firstly, the What steps will the Company take in waste philosophy. We respect and maintain the legitimate rights of our controlling system for social security risks, allocated emergency Company conducts various aspects of risk evaluation, including recycling? employees and strictly adhere to the Labor Law of the People's response resources, and improved related plans, so as to manage political, legal, economic and technological aspects, when Republic of China, the Labor Contract Law of the People's Republic of and evaluate such risks. In addition, we have formed partnerships evaluating potential investments in projects overseas. It does The Company has formulated and published Guidelines China and the Trade Union Law of the People's Republic of China, as and joint emergency response mechanisms with the local not enter countries and regions that have potential or ongoing for Wastewater Management and Guidelines for Solid Waste well as other relevant laws and regulations in countries in which governments, Chinese embassies and consulates, and security political conflicts, or are at high risk of UN sanctions. Meanwhile, Management. According to the environmental requirements for the Company operates. Furthermore, we have established a sound institutions in overseas countries to conduct anti-terrorism, in terms of the investment structure of its projects overseas, the production and operation processes, the Company has carried employment management system. security and emergency response training, as well as training to the Company is very careful in choosing investment partners in out clean production assessments based on the HSE management improve the management and skills of overseas project security order to reduce political risks. For example, the Company tries to system. The Company has conducted waste recycling through We rigorously comply with all local laws and regulations and teams. enhance cooperation with large international oil companies and several steps, including recycling, advanced treatment, effective adhere to an equal and nondiscriminatory employment policy in resource countries to reduce such risks. The Company’s overseas treatment and waste resource utilization so as to convert waste every country and region. We provide equal opportunities and No general industry safety accidents have been reported business is safe at present. into resources. fair treatment to all employees regardless of their nationality, in our overseas business operations, bettering the international ethnicity, race, gender, religion and culture. We strictly prohibit We have oil spill prevention programs in relation to marine the employment and use of child labor and resist all forms of oil operations and the transport of oil by sea. We have also forced labor. Male and female employees enjoy equal rights established a Marine Emergency Rescue Center that is equipped in the company. Additionally, the Company has always aimed with vessels and oil waste recycling facilities. Our Special to promote the employment of local residents, females and Contingency Plan for Offshore Oil Exploration Emergencies and ethnic minorities in an effort to increase job opportunities Special Contingency Plan for Environmental Emergencies also for local communities. We established the Tentative Foreign include oil spill prevention programs. Labor Management Guidelines in 2010 in order to enhance the management of foreign labor and to better regulate employment practices. Currently, international employees make up 94% of all What percentage of employees are represented by of the Company’s overseas employees. trade unions? The Company respects the rights of employees to know, Attaching great importance to democratic management, to participate, to express and to supervise. The Company has participation and supervision, the Company has established established and improved all levels of workers' congress systems trade unions, as well as the Democratic Management System and and trade unions, as well as the democratic management and Factory Affairs Publicizing System, through staff representative company disclosure systems. Moreover, trade unions represent associations. Currently, almost all staff are members of trade front line staff and employees at all levels, communicating and unions. In addition, the Company has further enhanced the negotiating with the Company in any and all matters of vital authority of staff representative associations, regulated and interest to employees. improved staff representative association system and proposed new ways and methods for publicizing the democratic management of factory affairs so as to enhance the level of We have also established numerous and varied platforms for democratic management in the Company. The Company and communication in order to strengthen the Company’s relationship all its affiliated enterprises have established multiple channels with its employees. Policies such as “Open Day”, “Contact Point”, to communicate with employees at all levels and adheres to employee-sharing sessions, email access and hotlines are used to 66 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 67 Objectives and Plans Looking ahead to 2013, guided by its scientific approach to development, PetroChina will continue to implement its strategies as they pertain to resources, the market and internationalization and fulfill its economic, environmental and social responsibilities. The Company will focus on accelerating independent innovation, consolidating the basis for business management and promoting the shift in the model of growth to further enhance its capabilities to grow in an all-round, harmonious and sustainable way. Aspects 2013 Objectives 2013 Action Plans Aspects 2013 Objectives 2013 Action Plans 1. Continue to firmly adhere to the resources strategy and strengthen our 1. Enhance work force competence to suppor t long-term corporate leading position in China’s upstream operations. development; push forward team building with business management, 2. Carry out steady and balanced refining and petrochemical production professional techniques and skilled experts, especially to build a team of To accelerate oil and gas To further enhance a high-quality international talent. while remaining market-oriented and cost-efficient. operations in China and Employee competent workforce and Oil & Gas 3. Adapt to market changes and actively promote the healthy growth of oil Development 2. Strengthen skills training, targeting key positions and overseas employees. strengthen capacities, to solid frontline structure and Production product sales. to improve overall team 3. Reinforce the fostering of frontline teams with a focus on skill training, and Supply expand the scope of overseas 4. Accelerate natural gas market development and ensure safe, steady and capabilities performance, management, innovation and coordination. oil and gas cooperation and enhance internationalization orderly supply. 4. Carry on identifying and monitoring occupational hazards, strengthen 5. Strengthen the portfolio of reserves for the development of oil and gas occupational surveillance, and improve the operating environment and cooperation through independent exploration activities, M&As and new occupational health management. projects. 1. Actively support and participate in public welfare activities, strengthen and improve the management of charitable donations, and maximize the social 1. Continue to improve the centralized HSE management system while recognition of philanthropic initiatives. streamlining its assessment procedures, identifying and addressing hazards 2. Strengthen communication with local governments and integrate the in a timely manner and ensuring the further improvement and more To actively undertake Company’s development with local economic development plans. efficient implementation of the system. social responsibilities that Public Welfare support public welfare 3. Continue to push ahead with poverty alleviation efforts, including disaster 2. Step up HSE activities such as hidden hazard identification, evaluation, relief, and donations towards education and youth volunteering initiatives countermeasures approval, supervision and project completion review; and the development of a harmonious society with a focus on technology and education-driven poverty alleviation. To improve the HSE system monitor the control process of major hazards and build a long-term 4. Establish a long-term poverty alleviation mechanism, ensure financial input, Safety and and further promote its mechanism for hazard control to eliminate the possibility of future hazards. Environmental implementation so as improve alleviation methodology, actively carry out alleviation initiatives 3. Emphasize enforcement with a focus on accountability and anti “3 and solve the difficulties of those in need in a timely manner. Protection to improve safety both violations”, strictly implement disciplinary administrative sanctions for intrinsically and effectively preventable accidents, strengthen management of operational safety contracts and staff performance reviews, identify each staff member’s 1. Enhance education and promote the fight against corruption. safety and environmental responsibilities to ensure all procedures are well To enhance anticorruption 2. Strengthen integrity and risk control systems, and implement a more aligned. efforts and ensure the effective system for combating and preventing corruption. 4. Push ahead with ecological civilization, with a greater focus on energy integrity of the management, 3. Set up role models among the management team to showcase integrity conservation and emissions reduction, and enhance accountability, Anticorruption and thus guarantee the and self-discipline. supervision and evaluation. continued growth of 4. Continue to strengthen investigatory efforts and resolutely punish violations an international energy and irregularities. company 5. Ensure the promotion of integrity, and enhance the link between investigation results and accountability. 68 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 69 Performance Statistics Category Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Category Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total assets (RMB 108) 11,962 14,503 16,565 19,176 21,689 Energy conserved (104 TCE) 176 171 173 113 121 Turnover (RMB 108) 10,726 10,193 14,654 20,038 21,953 Water conserved (104 cubic meters) 5,336 3,188 2,865 1,744 1,926 Net Profit (RMB 108) 1,145 1,034 1,400 1,330 1,153 Oil discharged in waste water (tons) 779 701 698 642 604 Environment Taxes (RMB 108) 2,227 2,045 2,870 3,744 3,620 COD discharged in wastewater (tons) 19,751 16,949 18,741 17,731 18,005 Proven crude reserves (106 barrels) 11,221 11,263 11,278 11,128 11,018 SO2 discharged in waste gas (tons) 123,500 105,044 114,200 111,321 111,015 Proven gas reserves (108 ft3) 611,890 632,440 655,030 666,530 675,810 Number of employees (104) 47.8 53.9 55.3 55.3 54.8 Economic Oil equivalent production (106 barrels) 1,182 1,196 1,228 1,286 1,343.1 Percentage of employees receiving Employee occupational health checks (%) 96 96 96 95 95 Crude oil production (106 barrels ) 871 844 858 886 916.5 Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in overseas hires (%) 92 94 94 94 94 Marketable natural gas production (108 ft3) 18,642 21,122 22,212 23,964 25,588 Total length of crude oil pipelines (km) Contribution to poverty alleviation 11,028 13,164 14,782 14,782 16,344 (RMB 104) 12,272 5,828 6,308 3,706 4,124 Total length of refined products pipelines (km) 5,656 8,868 9,257 9,334 9,437 Educational donations (RMB 104) 12,968 3,782 3,458 11,928 9,151 Public Total length of natural gas pipelines welfare 24,037 28,595 32,801 36,116 40,995 Donations to disaster relief (RMB 104) 9,009 935 4,499 595 1,881 (km) Crude runs (106 barrels) 850 829 904 985 1,012.5 Environmental protection (RMB 104) 876 569 5,588 75 965 Ethylene production (104 tons) 268 299 361 347 369 Note: Measurement units Death rate caused by accidents 1 BOE = 1 barrel of crude = 6,000 cubic feet of NG = 169.9 cubic meter of NG (person/100 million working hours) 0.50 0.36 1.02 0.70 0.20 Safety 1 cubic meter of NG = 35.315 cubic feet of NG Total accident rate (incidents/million 0.03 0.0264 0.0120 0.0326 0.0387 working hours ) 1 metric ton of crude = 7.389 barrels of crude (API = 34) 70 Energize . Harmonize . Realize 2012 Sustainability Report 71 Global Compact and Us About This Report The Global Compact is a global framework initiated and advocated by the United Nations aiming at the promotion of sustainable development This report illustrates activities the Company undertook in 2012 pursuant to its ongoing and the collective improvement of social well-being through responsible and innovative business practices. As a member of the UN Global commitment to advance the community, the economy and the environment. All information Compact, we are committed to observing and supporting the Ten Principles advocated by the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, disclosed in this report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents and statistics as well labor rights, environment protection and anti-corruption, using the Ten Principles to guide our practices in fulfilling social responsibilities. And as from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated enterprises. It takes into account the we will continue to disclose our progress in keeping with the Ten Principles in the Global Compact in our annual report. Company's development priorities and stakeholder concerns. This report has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. For continuity and comparability purposes, this report provides explanations on Ten Principles in the Global Compact Corresponding sections herein past and future initiatives on certain issues. This report is formulated according to the key principles of accuracy, transparency and 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 5.1 Employees’ Rights consistency. We took reference from Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of internationally proclaimed human rights; Investor FAQs Corporate Social Responsibility issued by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Environmental, Social Human Rights and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Furthermore, 5.1 Employees’ Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. we continued to consult Sustainability Reporting Guideline (Version 3.1) released by the Global Investor FAQs Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2010) copublished by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 5.1 Employees’ Rights (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). As a member of the United Nations Global effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Investor FAQs Compact (UNGC), we report our progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to be posted on UNGC’s website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5.1 Employees’ Rights This report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Excluding historical facts, all Investor FAQs Labour events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation Rights and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized as Forward-Looking 5. the effective abolition of child labour; 5.1 Employees’ Rights Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, actual outcomes or the future Investor FAQs climate may differ from those expressed in the Forward-Looking Statements. As the Forward-Looking Statements were made prior to December 31, 2012, PetroChina holds no 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 5.1 Employees’ Rights responsibility or liability for any modifications made subsequent to said date. and occupation. Investor FAQs Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We welcome any comments and suggestions you may have as we believe that your feedback can improve our performance. This report is 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 3.5 Addressing Climate Change published, along with the Company’s Annual Report 2012 on March 2013, in simplified Chinese, environmental challenges; Investor FAQs traditional Chinese and English. In the case of any discrepancy, the version in simplified Chinese shall act as the lead publication. Please visit our website (www.petrochina.com.cn) for 3.2 Heightening Safety Management more information or to download the electronic version of this report. 3.3 Promoting Energy Saving and Environment 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Emission Reduction Protection responsibility; and 3.4 Environmental Protection 3.5 Addressing Climate Change The Board and all the Company’s directors hereby certify that there are no misrepresentations, Investor FAQs misleading statements or material omissions in this report. Furthermore, we jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 3.5 Addressing Climate Change friendly technologies. Investor FAQs Please visit www.petrochina.com.cn to review PetroChina’s compliance with Sustainability Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption of all kinds, About PetroChina Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1) released by the Global Reporting Initiative and Oil and Corruption including extortion and bribery. Investor FAQs Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2010). We support
