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rinciple Actions Outcomes Further information Human Principle 1: General Commitment Sources: rights Businesses DB´s Code of Conduct is a policy that underDB’s Code of Conduct contains binding Homepage Deutsche Bahn AG should suplines the respect of internationally proclaimed standards and expectations regarding the www.deutschebahn.com/en port and human rights (including social security and proday-to-day actions of all employees of the DB respect the tection, free choice of employment, just and Group. These principles are binding upon all Corporate Principles Ethics – protection of favorable conditions of work and protection board members, managing directors, execuCode of Conduct interagainst unemployment, health and well-being, tives and employees worldwide. www.deutschebahn.com/en/group/ nationally right to education, full development of human DB has been taking part in the United Nations compliance/standards.html proclaimed personality, etc.). DB states in its Corporate Global Compact since 2009. human Principles Ethics “…that the company is conSustainability in the DB Group rights. vinced that social responsibility is a key factor www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai for the long-term success of its company and nability/ consequently an indispensable element of its value-driven corporate management. All corpo2012 Annual Report rate activities are therefore bound by our obligahttp://www1.deutschebahn.com/ec tion to be a good corporate citizen. Growth and m2-db-en/ir/ job stability are important factors for the success of the DB Group. We respect commonly accepted human rights.” Management Systems The majority of the company’s employees are The corporate guideline on “Health & Safety located in countries ensuring standards regardManagement” has been in existence since ing health and safety by law. 2001 (updated in 2008 as OHSAS 18001). In DB Group has implemented a comprehensive 2011, a total of 120,000 (2010: 110,000) exoccupational health and safety management aminations were performed by company physystem. The strategic goal in occupational sicians. health and safety is the prevention of work acciThe accident rate for 2010 was 38, and sank dents and maintaining the good level achieved to 35.6 in 2011 (number of accidents at work so far in preventing accidents and occupational resulting in absences lasting longer than three illnesses, as well as in occupational health and days per 1,000 employees). There were three safety management. fatal accidents at work in 2010 and two in 2011 (not including DB Schenker Logistics). March 28, 2013 Page 1 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information Today the Health and Safety Management System based on OHSAS 18001:2007 has been The absenteeism rate due to illness remained developed further at DB AG. Risk controlling is unchanged in 2012 at 4.9 % (Germany witha key element in DB AG Health & Safety Standout DB Schenker Logistics). ard Operating Procedure and regular risk assessments are mandatory in order to minimize Every year more than 500 employees who work-related risks. DB AG is currently defining can no longer perform their job for health reathe requirements and preconditions of a global sons receive special training and access to IT system that will enable the company to globnew career opportunities within DB through ally collect additional relevant data. Central the Group’s internal job market. global monitoring of rates of injury, occupational diseases and total number of work-related fatalities will be introduced. A global HR management team will be established as well. DB advises and trains many international rail operators (e.g. in Russia, China, Spain, South Africa) on topics related to safety culture and occupational safety and health. Activities Right to Education DB is not just one of Germany’s largest employIn 2012, some 3,800 (2011: 3,600) young ers, it is also one of the country’s largest vocapeople began vocational training at DB and an tional training companies. Vocational training additional approximately 300 (2011: 280) and dual work/study programs form the basis for began a dual work/study program there. DB securing of junior staff through which more than has a current total of more than 11,000 train90 % of our specialists are recruited. ees and students (2011: 10,000) combining a degree course with work placement. In 2012, about 94 % received a job offer from DB after finishing their vocational training. In 2012, DB reorganized its Talent Acquisition Career Website DB: activities to increase the employer attractivewww.deutschebahn.com/karriere ness and to professionalize recruiting for its vacancies. As part of that, DB started a new March 28, 2013 Page 2 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information recruiting campaign “A job like no other” and developed a new career website. DB has implemented a clear policy on continued A total of 240,000 participants (2011: employability and strategic skill management 148,000) took part in the approximately and offers comprehensive training measures. 23,000 (2011: 16,000) seminars conducted by DB Training. DB creates attractive and fair employment conIn addition, 44 % of the round about 7,000 ditions including lifelong learning initiatives with executives took part in DB Akademie protraining opportunities for all age groups executgrams and 8 % in dialog events in 2012 foed by two in-house educational institutions (DB cusing on topics such as strategy, leadership Training and DB Akademie). To qualify its emprinciples and discussion of values. ployees in its market of growing importance China, DB Schenker opened its own educationDB has 350 school cooperation partners in al institution in Beijing in October 2012. Germany who provide professional orientation, information about working environments In addition, DB is actively involved in the training and job prospects. of children and young people in schools during As part of the Chance Plus Program , in their education. The company also works close2012 DB offered on ten sites nationwide 315 ly together with selected universities and uniplaces for young people (2011: 400), who do versities of applied sciences. not yet meet the entry requirements for a traineeship for future employment. The career education program gives those young people the opportunity to get themselves ready to embark on their careers. DB has been actively promoting children’s readA total of 40,000 participants, of which 800 Reading Day (German): ing skills for over 16 years now. were DB employees, took part in the nationwww.vorlesetag.de/startseite wide Reading Day in 2012. This meant a quadruplication of the former record of 12,000 readers in 2011. Protection against unemployment A total of 16,599 re-assignments took place Employees in Germany covered by the Collecwithin the DB internal job market between March 28, 2013 Page 3 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information tive Agreement on Safeguarding Jobs receive 2005 and 2011, and 1,293 re-assignments in extensive job protection as part of the employ2012. ment alliance between DB and social partners. These employees cannot be laid off for operational reasons. Participation / Involvement In 2010, DB established a program to further In 2012, to continue the cultural development develop its corporate culture and initiate a longprocess and to further involve business units term cultural development process. Employees and regions into the process, 14 regional conand executives outlined issues that were imferences and an international conference in portant to them and ideas for change in an Barcelona were hold on the future of DB. open dialog in the context of conferences on the future. In autumn 2012, DB conducted its first compa61.4 % of the workforce participated in the ny-wide employee survey. In this survey all first survey in 2012. The results showed a 300.000 employees had the opportunity to restrained positive prevailing mood. In about communicate their satisfaction or discontent 7,800 follow-up-workshops the results will be with DB and their working life. Surveying the worked up systematically. employee satisfaction provides the basis for concrete changes and improvement measures. Professional idea management gives all emWithin the scope of the idea management ployees the opportunity to propose suggestions program, a total of 11,418 suggestions were for improvement for a wide variety of areas in submitted by the employees in 2012 (2011: day-to-day business life. The best ideas are 12,198); of which more than 6,100 (2011: honored with awards. 5,160) were implemented to provide DB with total benefits worth € 20.6 million (2011: € 17.7 million). Principle 2: General Commitment Sources: Businesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in Corporate Principles Ethics – should make Principle 1. Code of Conduct sure they Within the Code of Conduct, DB states that it www.deutschebahn.com/en/group/ are not encourages its business partners to implement compliance/standards.html March 28, 2013 Page 4 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information complicit in similar ethical principles based on internationally human accepted values. “We expect our business partwww.deutschebahn.com/business rights abusners to conduct their business in a manner conpartners es. sistent with the principles detailed in this document”. Further, DB’s Management Board has adopted the DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners in 2012. It implements ethical principals in the supply chain and is currently being rolled out. Activities The local DB Schenker Logistics management in every country is responsible for ensuring compliance regarding child labor and compulsory labor. There is a neutral partner (ombudswoman) for A total of 358 conflict cases were reported to all employees who believe they have experithe ombudswoman in 2012. enced discrimination or have not been accorded appropriate treatment under the Collective Job Security Agreement (BeSiTV from 1 April 2013 superseded by the provisions of DemografieTV). In conflict management, mediation is used to A Group works council agreement on the use facilitate constructive handling of internal conof mediation has been in effect since 2011. A flicts. pool with 80 internal mediators has been formed. Labor Principle 3: General Commitment Sources: Businesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in All employees of DB Group in Europe which Sectoral social dialogue Railshould upPrinciple 1. Within the Code of Conduct, DB means more than 90 % of the DB workforce ways: hold the states: “The DB Group acknowledges the right worldwide (in FTE) are covered by collective ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId freedom of of freedom of assembly and the formation of bargaining agreements. For the rest of the =480&langId=en&intPageId=59 association interest groups. We stand up for the protection employees (3 % in North America, 5 % in Asia and the efof these rights in all our business units worldand 1 % in other non-European countries), the March 28, 2013 Page 5 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information fective wide and also expect our business partners to DB Group organizes the wage settlement recognition do so. Our cooperation and dealings with one processes pursuant to the existing national of the right another are defined by mutual respect and aplabor laws in each country of operation. to collective preciation. We behave cooperatively and ensure bargaining. a positive working environment.” Activities High priority is accorded to involvement of emNearly 380 collective agreements were signed ployees in the decision-making processes in the in Germany between 2007 and 2011. company. Since its establishment, the DB Group has maintained a social partnership with DB founded a European Works Council in employee representatives and unions. The DB 2005. The European Works Council currently management works together with the works consists of 47 members from 23 countries councils in a spirit of partnership and trust. In including Norway and Switzerland. this way, agreements on wages are negotiated and signed on a regular basis. DB is an active partner in the social dialog with the unions on EU level. Job security questions are addressed and important answers to demographic changes deThe demographic contract will be come into veloped together with the unions. In 2012, a force on 1 April 2013. It lays down more indibargaining agreement laying down innovative vidual and flexible conditions for all phases of guidelines for demographically prepared HR work life. It includes e.g. measures for lifelong policy for the coming years was approved with learning, age-appropriate work, job offers for the Railway and Transport Union (EVG). Negothe whole junior staff after finishing their vocatiations with the Train Driver’s Union (GDL) are tional training successfully and gap times for still in process executives. Principle 4: General Commitment DB Group Compliance Businesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in www.deutschebahn.com/en/group/ should upPrinciple 1 compliance hold the Within the Code of Conduct, DB states: “The DB elimination Group rejects child labor and any form of forced of all forms labor.” March 28, 2013 Page 6 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information of forced and comActivities pulsory laCompliance with the basic principles is reviewed An IT-supported tool for compliance risk analbor. within the scope of the compliance risk analysis. ysis that enables structured inquiry on busiAmong other things, questions on the issue of ness unit level was introduced in 2011. human rights, and in countries with a particular risk situation, specifically on forced labor are addressed here. The compliance risk analysis is an integral component for identification and minimization of risks in the Group. Principle 5: General Commitment DB Group Compliance Businesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in www.deutschebahn.com/en/group/ should upPrinciple 1. Within the Code of Conduct, DB compliance hold the states: “The DB Group rejects child labor and effective any form of forced labor.” abolition of child labor. Activities Compliance with the basic principles is reviewed An IT-supported tool for compliance risk analwithin the scope of the compliance risk analysis. ysis that enables structured inquiry on busiAmong other things, questions on the issue of ness unit level was introduced in 2011. human rights, and in countries with a particular risk situation, specifically on child labor are addressed here. The compliance risk analysis is an integral component for identification and minimization of risks in the Group. Principle 6: General Commitment Sources. Businesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in In 2012, the DB workforce worldwide (in FTE) should upPrinciple 1. Within the Code of Conduct, DB was structured as follows: Germany: 64.7 %, hold the states: “The employees of the DB Group reflect rest of Europe: 27 %; Asia / Pacific: 4.9 %; elimination the diversity of society, languages, cultures and North America: 2.6 %; rest of world: 0.8 %. of discrimilifestyles. We respect and promote this diversity, nation in as it is the guarantee of our closeness to socieOn 1 December 2012 the organizational unit Charter of Diversity: respect of ty, to our customers, and our openness to new Diversity Management was instituted. Its main http://www.vielfalt-als-chance.de/ March 28, 2013 Page 7 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information employment ideas. We do not tolerate any discrimination tasks are the development of a diversity stratand occupaagainst individuals, in particular due to their egy as part of the established strategy proHomepage on sustainability: tion. descent, religion, sexual orientation, nationality, cess and the development of concrete comwww.deutschebahn.com/en/susta origin, political or trade union activities or owing pany-wide und business-unit specific diversity inabilto their age, gender or any disability.” goals. ity/encourage_young_people.html DB has implemented policies on equal opportunities and non-discrimination: e.g. the Corporate Employer Works Council Agreement “Partnership in the Workplace” and “For Equality and Loyal Cooperation – against Xenophobia and Anti-Democratic Tendencies”. DB signed the “Charter of Diversity” (Charta der Vielfalt) in 2008 and is founding member of the association “Charta der Vielfalt e. V.” People with disabilities receive professional The share of severely disabled employees support from DB Group in order to retain the was 5.9 % in 2011 and rose to 6.1 % in 2012 employees at the company and to facilitate their (2010: 5.8 %) (average value in Germany). career (Konzernbetriebsvereinbarung). In addition, DB has established an action plan to implement the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. DB cultivates close partnership with organizations such as the National Paralympic Committee Germany (Deutscher Behindertensportverband). Activities DB has initiated programs enabling employees The share of part-time employees (excluding to organize their working days individually partially retired employees) was 7.1 % in 2011 based on their private duties (e.g.: part-time and 7.4 % in 2012 (Germany without DB work, gradual retirement, telework, work from Schenker Logistics). home, comprehensive health management, reduction of working time). March 28, 2013 Page 8 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information DB has set itself the goal of increasing the The share of women employees was 21.9 % share of women employees to 25 % and of in 2011 and 22.1 % in 2012 (Germany). women in management positions to 20 % by 2015 and has implemented appropriate proDB earned the Total E-Quality Award for the grams (e.g. the mentoring programs “Karriere fifth time in 2010. Companies that successfulmit Kindern” (Career with Children) and “Potenly work to achieve equal opportunities for zialträgerinnen” (female high potentials)). In women receive this award. addition, we are involved in the European project Women in Rail . The project aims to increase the proportion of women in the European railways. We also participate in the research project Unternehmenskultur verändern – Karrierrebrüche vermeiden” (Corporate Cultures change career breaks to avoid” of the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft. DB is committed to non-harassment and runs a Within the scope of the project “Deutsche Bahn Trainees against Hatred and special program on this subject. As part of this Bahn Trainees against Hatred and Violence,” Violence (German): program, trainees in their first and second traina total of 700 participants took part in 90 prowww.deutschebahn.com/de/nach ing years become involved in activities to comjects in 2012 (2011: 400 participants in 50 halbat xenophobia and to promote more tolerance projects). tigkeit/soziales/azubis_gegen_ha in society. ss_und_gewalt/ DB is actively involved in the project Off-Road Between 1994 and 2012, DB helped approx. Off Road Kids Initiative Kids (e.g. covers project costs for the DB Kids 2,700 children through the Off-Road Kids www.offroadkids.de/ Camp, social workers can travel free of charge project. with the “Railway Card 100” by any train at any time, DB’s CEO Rüdiger Grube has taken over patronage of the foundation). Environ Principle 7: General Commitment Ecology: ronBusinesses Satisfying the growing demand for mobility while www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai ment should supsimultaneously protecting the environment and nability/ecology port a prenature is a central concern at DB: cautionary March 28, 2013 Page 9 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information approach to See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in Principle environmen1. Within the Code of Conduct, DB states: “Protal challengtection of the corporate assets and achieving a es. sustainable increase in the value of the company are the objectives of our corporate work.” DB’s Environment Policy: “Our business activiDB’s Environmental Policy has been a Group ties around the world are bound by the principle directive with worldwide scope since 2010. of sustainability. Environmental protection is a corporate and social value that we seek to preserve and promote.” Activities DB actively promotes environmentally friendly In 2010, DB signed the UIC Declaration on UIC: and safety transport internationally as well. ToSustainable Mobility & Transport. www.uic.org/download.php/publica gether with the Internation Union of Railways tion/525E.pdf (UIC), DB developed the “UIC Declaration on Sustainable Mobility and Tranport.” 2° – German entrepreneurs for CEO Dr. Rüdiger Grube has joined forces with In 2009, DB signed the “2° – German entreclimate protection: other German entrepreneurs to support the preneurs for climate protection”. www.stiftung2grad.de/?opGerman Federal government’s climate protection=com_content&task=view&id= tion efforts with the “2° – German entrepreneurs 6&Itemid=5&lang=en for climate protection” alliance. Because climate protection requires global action, a system must be in place to hold all countries accountable, pursuant to the initiative. Once a year, the DB CEO and Chairman of the DB has arranged an annual summit with Management Board together with the chairperenvironmental groups since 2000. sons of the major environmental organizations, discuss current transport and the environmental issues. March 28, 2013 Page 10 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information Environmental Management Environmental management is organizationally In 2010, 86 % of DB’s major subsidiaries had and functionally anchored in the DB Environan environmental management system and ment Center. The DB Environment Center re59 % were certified under ISO 14001. ports directly to the Management Board and is the central contact for all inquiries related to In 2011, 88 % of DB’s major subsidiaries had ecology. an environmental management system and The DB Group has established a Group-wide 68 % were certified under ISO 14001. environmental management system which conforms to ISO requirements. All business units with relevant environmental impact are to ensure their own appropriate environmental management system within the scope of the Groupwide environmental management system. For the DB Group, environmental management is the systematic basis for the strict implementation of our environmental strategy and for matching achievable objectives and activities globally. The specific strategies, approaches and measures for an innovative, pro-active approach to environmental protection are based on our own data and also take into account global mega-trends, stakeholder demands and requirements, as well as the needs of customers. Principle 8: General Commitment Businesses DB has long been taking a proactive approach should unto environmental responsibility and has also set dertake inichallenging targets for the future to ensure its tiatives to environmental compatibility and future viability. promote The main focus is on climate protection, noise greater envireduction, resource efficiency (part. waste reronmental duction), air pollution and nature conservation. responsibilMarch 28, 2013 Page 11 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information ity. Activities Climate Protection Compared to cars and airplanes, the railway is By 2012, DB had reduced its specific CO2 Climate Protection: the most environment-friendly modes of emissions by 45 % in rail transport as comwww.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai transport. But even good things can be impared to 1990. nabilproved even further. By 2020, DB wants to furity/ecology/Climate_protection/ ther reduce its specific carbon emissions by Furthermore, DB reduced its global mode20% as compared to 2006, across the entire wide specific CO2 emissions by roughly company – referring to its transportation activi11.9 % between 2006 and 2012. ties by rail, road, in the air and on the water. All business units make a defined contribution to reaching the Group goal. The contribution is quantitatively anchored in the target system for the business units. The CO2 emissions in the stationary area In absolute terms, stationary primary energy SusStation: (plants, terminals, offices, etc.) compose apconsumption in Germany was reduced 20.4 % www1.deutschebahn.com/ecm2prox. 6 % of overall emissions. Here, too, DB is between 2006 and 2011. In 2012, DB started susstation/start pursuing a set reduction goal: stationary energy the construction of the first climate-neutral consumption is to be reduced by 1.5 % annualtrain station in Kerpen-Horrem in North Rhinely. Westphalia, Germany. Another green train station is being constructed in LutherstadtWittenberg in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. First and foremost, Deutsche Bahn will tap its By 2016, DB will invest more than 12 billion Saving energy: full potential to create ecologically efficient euros in renewal and modernization of its www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai transportation and travel chains and increasingrolling stock. Therefore, future trains will connabilly shift to energy-efficient modes of transportasume up to 30 % less energy per passenger ity/ecology/Climate_protection/ene tion. The important key for DB’s own contributhan previous models thanks to their improved rgy_efficiency.html tion to reach our climate targets is to increase aerodynamics and less in weight. energy efficiency by: ‒ Using modern and energy-efficient vehicles, A total of 2,000 DB locomotives and multiple a higher proportion of electrically-powered units convert braking energy into electricity, trains and increasing vehicle capacity utilisaving DB enough energy to power a city with zation. 200,000 households. March 28, 2013 Page 12 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information ‒ Continuing training in energy-efficient drivReducing CO2 in road freight transport is one ing for train, truck and bus drivers: all train of DB Schenker’s major goals. To this end, and truck drivers at DB receive training in DB Schenker has trained all of its own drivers energy-saving driving techniques. DB as well as drivers of European subcontractors Schenker Logistics has instituted nationwide – about 30,000 truck drivers in all in the end of training for its own truck drivers and subcon2012 – in environmentally friendly driving tractors’ truck drivers as part of the “Green techniques, cutting fuel consumption by up to Road” project. 10 %. ‒ Pooling shipments and land transport through hub systems. ‒ Close cooperation and monitoring of subcontractors in the field of land transport, air and ocean freight. ‒ Energy saving in stationary areas (manufacturing plants, terminals logistics centers). Green Products & Ecological Footprint In order to also help our customers avoid and With the temporary sales promotion of the test CO2-free products: reduce CO2 emissions, DB offers CO2-free, discount card „BahnCard 25 Eco” DB offered www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai CO2-reduced or CO2-neutral products for nearly in 2012 also its private customers the possibilnabilall of its transport products. ity of CO2-neutral traveling for the first time. ity/ecology/Climate_protection/co2 About 17.000 green BahnCard were sold __free__products.html For its CO2-free products, DB calculates the during the short promotion period. Starting in absolute energy consumption per train trip or April 2013, the five million BahnCard customrail freight transport and fully compensates for it ers as same as all registered bahn.corporate with power from renewable energy sources. business travelers will be traveling with 100 % Emissions are thus not even created. Business renewable energies without extra charge in all customers receive a certificate from TÜV SÜD ICE, IC and Eurocity trains in Germany. This attesting to the CO2 emissions avoided in this will represent at least 75 % of all longmanner. distance train rides in Germany and means a triplication of the share of renewable energies In areas where CO2-free products are not posin long-distance rail. sible – in particular the non-rail area – DB offer Besides, DB offers its “Eco Plus” product CO2-neutral or CO2-reduced products. family in rail freight transport and its „UmweltPlus” product family in passenger traffic. March 28, 2013 Page 13 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information Moreover, all business trips of DB employees, the entire S-Bahn traffic in Hamburg as well as the local traffic in Saarland is fully provided with renewable energies. The amount of renewable energies for CO2free products– in 2012 283 GWh –is purchased additionally and not part of the companywide goal of 35 % renewable energies in the traction current mix. In addition, DB offers private and business cusEnvironmental Mobility Check: tomers various ways of easily learning more http://www.deutschebahn.com/en/ about the environmental impact of the mode of sustainabiltransportation chosen. The UmweltMobilCheck ity/ecology/environmental_compari (Environmental Mobility Check) integrated into son/mobilecheck.html DB’s electronic travel information compiles an environmental comparison for individual journeys door-to-door by rail, road and air. It has been possible to examine journeys within Germany or across Europe from an environmental point of view since April 2009. Customers have DB also creates an annual ecological footprint an overview of how their company’s CO2 footof business travel for over 1,000 corporate print has improved and can use the documentapassenger transportation customers. tion for their own reports. EcoTransIT World The online-tool »EcoTransIT World« enables The tool EcoTransIT World is freely available www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai customers to optimize their global logistics on the internet to all logistics customers. nabilchains using fact-based calculation of the enviity/ecology/environmental_compari ronmental effects of transport as CO2-emissions son/ecotransit.html and pollutants. Now customers can decide for themselves which transport chain is the most www.ecotransit.org profitable and ecological. March 28, 2013 Page 14 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information Noise Reduction Even if fewer people feel disturbed by train Between 1999 and 2012, DB built around 442 Noise reduction: noise than by the noise levels caused by cars, kilometers of noise barriers and installed www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai trucks or airplanes, noise protection is still an sound-proof windows in 48,300 homes. Noise nability/ecology/noise_reduction/ important matter at DB. By 2020, the company barriers were installed along some 55 kilomeaims to cut the noise produced by rail transport ters of track and sound insulation measures www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai in half. were installed in 2,000 homes in 2012 alone. nabilIn 2012, DB started the project “noise manageAll in all, the noise remediation program coity/ecology/noise_reduction/whisp ment” with the aim to coordinate and bundle all vers around 3,700 kilometers of track, of er_brakes.html company-wide noise reduction activities and which 1,200 kilometers have already been thereby to realize the ambitious noise reduction remediated. The erection of further 55 km goals. As part of the reorganization, a noise noise barriers and renovation of 2,500 homes representative was appointed for the first time are planned for 2013. with the task to develop implementation strategies for all business departments based on the One of the most effective measures for noise existing measures. remediation is installing composite brake In addition, further noise barriers will be erected blocks in freight trains, preventing noise at its along sections of track with particular noise source. Until 2020, all freight cars of DB problems, while nearby homes are being Schenker Rail will be equipped with whisper equipped with noise-protection windows. brakes that create just half the noise level generated by a freight train. Since 2001 all new freight cars purchased by DB are equipped with composite brake blocks. In 2012, 150 of total 1,250 existing freight trains have been retrofitted with composite brake blocks primarily in the Rhine corridor as part of the Federal Government’s noise abatement program For the years 2014 and 2015 DB Schenker Rail plans to retrofit about 10,000 more cars, provided that the Europe-wide expected approval and availability of the LLcomposite brake blocks will be given next year. Already 7,600 (6,890 until end of 2011) freight wagons were in use until the end of 2012. March 28, 2013 Page 15 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information Waste reduction DB wants to reduce its waste. On the one hand, In 2011, the waste utilization quota in Germawe want to reduce the amount of waste wherny accounted for 98.3 % The high utilization ever possible based on commercial and enviquota is attributable in large part to optimized ronmental considerations or ideally avoid it altodisposal routes for construction waste from gether. However, such an approach reaches its DB construction activities. limits wherever business activities make waste unavoidable. In this case, DB conserves natural resources in terms of sustainable waste management by recycling materials as fully as possible and by according priority to recycling of unavoidable waste and returning it to circulation as secondary raw materials. Reducing air pollution Reducing air pollution from fine dust and diesel Around 100 of the diesel locomotives are now Air pollution control: soot particulates is another environmental issue powered by low-pollution engines. www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai at Deutsche Bahn. Emissions from diesel vehiBetween 1990 and 2011, DB managed to cut nabilcles have been drastically reduced in recent its nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) by 71 % ity/ecology/reducing_pollution.html years. DB aims to improve these values even and its direct and indirect emissions of fine further. dust and particulate matter by a total of 89 %. Nature Conservation Protecting nature and the environment is highly DB has developed its own geo-information Nature conservation: valued in Germany. In many cases, nature and system containing all important information http://www.deutschebahn.com/en/ rail travel exist side by side – ideally they coexabout the conservation areas. The system sustainabiliist – without any problems. When conflicts do provided a detailed overview of ecologically ty/ecology/nature_conservation/ occur, DB looks for ecologically and economisensitive areas for maintenance and planning. cally responsible solutions. When DB builds new lines or maintains and In 2012, DB finished the construction of a upgrades existing ones, it takes nature conserbridge over the valley of Saale-Elster, Germavation into account from the planning process ny. The bridge is constructed with environonward. If interventions in the ecosystem cannot mentally friendly materials, aligns with the March 28, 2013 Page 16 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information be avoided completely, DB creates correspondnatural flooding process and consumes a ing compensation areas, thus ensuring that minimal amount of land. The remaining internatural habitats for rare species are not lost, for vention in nature is compensated with grassexample. land and wood planting and renaturation of streaming water on an area of 1,000 hectares. Deutsche Bahn and the three major environDestination Nature provides CO2-free travel to mental organizations BUND, NABU and VCD and from your destination through Ameropa. st have joined forces to enable customers to expeIn 2013, Destination Nature started its 21 rience nature through the Destination Nature cooperation with a protected area in the Black program. Destination Nature invites travel enForest. thusiasts to discover the most beautiful protected areas in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. DB AG supports the non-profit association Beginning of 2012 the 100,000th tree was Bergwaldprojekt: Bergwaldprojekt e.V.: Bergwaldprojekt e.V. has planted through the Bergwaldprojekt e.V. This http://www.deutschebahn.com/en/ been committed to protecting, preserving and was possible thanks to donations from DB sustainabilimaintaining forests, especially alpine forests, and its bahn.bonus.customers. ty/ecology/partner__kooperationen since 1987. /bergwaldproject.html Principle 9: General Commitment Businesses Traditionally, the use and further development Wind Power: should enof environmentally friendly technologies, in parwww.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai courage the ticular in the area of infrastructure and vehicles, nabilidevelopis of key importance to DB as a large consumer ty/ecology/Climate_protection/rene ment and of materials and resources. In 2009, DB therewable_energies/wind_power.html diffusion of fore bundled its technology and environmental environmenexpertise in its own Technology Board Division, tally friendly to which the DB Environment Center also betechnololongs. gies. Activities Expanding renewable energy sourcesDB’s vision for rail transport is to be entirely CO2-free March 28, 2013 Page 17 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information in 2050. In the interim, it aims to increase the percentage of renewable energy in the traction current mix to at least 35 percent by 2020. It is well on its way to reaching this goal. Wind power is one energy source of the future. In 2012, the percentage of renewable energy DB began feeding wind energy directly into its in the traction current mix was increased by traction current network in 2009. 2.2 percentage points to a total of 24.0 %. In 2012, DB signed another contract on the supply of 900 million kilowatt-hours of renewable energy each year beginning in 2014. Fourteen German hydropower plants will supply renewable energy that DB will use in part to expand its CO2-free products in the future. Additionally, another contract on the supply of 600 million kilowatt-hours of hydropower was Hybrid power plant: signed in 2012. Beginning in 2015, the elecwww.enertrag.com/en/projecttric-ity will be supplied by E.ON’s hydropower development/hybrid-powerplants at Main, Donau, Lech, Isar and Inn. plant.html www.deutschebahn.com/en/sustai Currently, DB trains are powered by green nabilelectricity generated by a total of 48 wind ity/ecology/Climate_protection/Hyb turbines (2012: 33 wind turbines). ridkraftwerk.html DB is supporting the pilot project to test the world’s first hybrid power plant. Excess wind The world’s first hydrogen hybrid power plant energy is transformed into hydrogen here and was launched in 2011 with involvement of DB. saved in this format. The power plant generates 16 gigawatt-hours of green electricity a year, which is equivalent to the energy consumed each year by 4,000 families. Eco Rail Innovation (ERI) The collaborative “Eco Rail Innovation” project In 2012, further cooperation partners were Eco Rail Innovation is focused on sustainable mobility solutions. DB won for ERI. The project encompassing now www.ecorailinnovation.com/ and well-known industrial enterprises, research 17 partners work on the goal to make the institutions and organizations have signed a March 28, 2013 Page 18 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information cooperation agreement to develop the technical vision of zero emissions reality in 2050. Moreinnovations necessary for those solutions, test over, in May 2012 ERI founded an endowed them in practice and prepare them for the marprofessorship for “Energy Efficient Systems in ket. Together, the partners plan to use ERI as a Rail Technology” at the university of applied platform to help equip the rail sector for the fuscience Brandenburg. ture, both economically and environmentally. The project partners’ overarching goal is to make zero emissions a reality for vehicles and installations. Their focus will be on promoting low-emission, energy-efficient components and drive systems – such as energy-storage devices for rail vehicles. The rail sector plans to use ERI to contribute to sustainable mobility, strengthening its role as a technological and scientific leader. Carsharing and Electromobility DB regards intermodal linking of modes of Some 200 electric cars can be booked under e-Flinkster: transport as an important key to climate-friendly the name “e-Flinkster” in Berlin, Hamburg, www.flinkster.de/ mobility. In the future, our customers can travel Stuttgart and Frankfurt. door-to-door CO2-free through usage of the electric-powered vehicles and bicycles in our Moreover, in cooperation with Citroen the first Multicity: carsharing offer. DB is consistently pursuing the totally electric carsharing-program with 100 % www.multicity-carsharing.de/ “electrification” of its carsharing fleet (“Flinkrenewable energy called “Multicity” is tested ster”). since September 2012 in Berlin. DB is involved in various projects, among other To expand its intermodal offers with electric things within the scope of the “Electromobility vehicles, in the pilot project in Berlin Model Regions” program from the German Fed“BahnCard 25 plus” customers can use all eral Ministry of Transport, Building and Urban transport modes of local and main-line traffic Affairs (BMVBS). The goal of research activities as same as Flinkster and Call a Bike with just with the partner companies from the energy one card. industry, automotive supplier industry, solar industry and IT service sector is to increase the After successfully finishing the first phase of appeal of e-vehicles and tap new customer the project, the follow-up project “BeMobility BeMobility: March 28, 2013 Page 19 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information groups by integrating these vehicles into public 2.0” has started in 2012. It receives funding of www.bemobility.de/site/bemobility/ transport systems. DB has been heading the the German Federal Ministry of Transport, de/start.html project BeMobility in Berlin since 2009 and has Building and Urban Affairs for two more years. lead-management of the project. Converting Braking Energy DB’s new electric traction units have used In 2011, approximately 930 gigawatt-hours trains’ kinetic energy when braking to generate (GWh) of electricity, or nearly 9 % of all tracelectricity, similarly to hybrid automobiles, since tion current consumed, was fed back into the the late 1980s. traction current network using this method. 65 % of all electric locomotives at DB Schenker Rail were able to recover energy in 2010. Energy-efficient infrastructure DB’s goal is to use innovative solutions to reIn 2012, the German Sustainable Building duce consumption of stationary energy. That is Council (DGNB) certified a 10,000 qm big the reason why DB is investing in energy effilogistic center in Augsburg Prologis Parc. The ciency at its stationary facilities as well. logistic center owns an efficient heating system and water-saving armatures. Moreover, low-polluting materials and Forest Stewardsship Council (FSC)-certified wood were used in the new construction. In Grosbeeren, DB Schenker opened a new logistic hub. The hub is equipped with a combination of geothermal energy generation mechanisms and innovative climate technology. Thereby the energy consumption for heating and air conditioning can be reduced to one quarter of the usual consumption. In Japan, DB Schenker signed a contract for a 10 years usage of an environmentally friendly hub in the metropolitan area of Tokyo. The building will be built on a 9,000 qm area and be equipped with a photovoltaic power plant March 28, 2013 Page 20 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information as well as with a system to reuse rain water. AntiPrinciple 10: General Commitment CorrupBusinesses See DB´s Code of Conduct detailed in The DB Group anticorruption protion should work Principle 1: gram: against corWithin the Code of Conduct, DB states: “The DB DB Group is a corporate member of Transwww.deutschebahn.com/en/group/ ruption in all Group will not condone corruption and unfair parency International and signed a commitcompliance/ its forms, business practices by employees or third parties ment to follow highest ethical standards in all including commissioned by us. We do not offer or accept aspects of its business activities in 2011. www.deutschebahn.com/business extortion any inducements, privileges or benefits which partners and bribery. could influence a person’s ability to make objecIn 2012, 49 compliance risk analyses were tive and fair business decisions.” carried out within DB Group. Thus, DB is fully committed to conducting all As of 1 January 2012, DB Group Compliance aspects of its business in accordance with ethicomprised the following organizational units: cally and legally irreproachable standards. This Compliance Policies and Principles commitment includes compliance with applicaCompliance Risk Analysis ble national and foreign anti-corruption legislaCompliance Processes tion. Compliance Management Client Teams Compliance Helpdesk Hotline and WhisThe DB Group has had a member of its Mantleblowing Management agement Board responsible solely for compliance, privacy, legal affairs and corporate security since mid-2009. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to this member of the Management Board. Compliance Management System The DB Group has a long history of fighting In 2012, DB carried out a project with a specorruption. A compliance management system cial focus on compliance risks within the infrahas been established and it is continuously bestructure business field of DB Group. This ing further developed. Furthermore, a Compli“Infrastructure Initiative” aimed inter alia to ance Committee has been established consistprotect large infrastructure investments fiing of the heads of Corporate Internal Audit, nanced also by public funds. The program Corporate Security and Corporate HR and included specific risk assessments and analwhich is headed by the Chief Compliance Ofyses as well as a communication campaign ficer. This Committee monitors investigations on (specific brochures, posters and a compliance March 28, 2013 Page 21 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information compliance matters, in particular corruption and clip) and an infrastructure summit attended by fraud, and advises on case management issues representatives of public authorities, the sciand potential sanctions. entific society, relevant organizations and the A compliance reporting system was implementbusiness partners. ed within DB Group in 2011. In 2012, compliance trainings were conducted Activities: for around 6,100 managers and employees in 1. Establishment of the decentralized compliabout 300 classroom training seminars on a ance organization in addition to DB Group national and international level. Compliance as an interface between Group The Compliance Helpdesk answered approxand business units to implement compliance imately 1,100 inquiries in 2012. in daily business. 2. Development and roll-out of customized Elearnings on anti-corruption and business integrity for managers and employees. 3. Implementation of an IT-based third-party due diligence process for managing corruption risks associated with third parties. Rollout at DBI commenced in September 2012 and expected to be finalized by April 2013 in all regions DBI conducts its business 4. Implementation of a paper-based third-party due diligence process for managing corruption risks associated with third parties. After development of model process by DB Group Compliance customization of process for DB Schenker Rail. Roll out at DB Logistics is expected to commence in Q2 2013. Implementation at other businesses or subsidiaries of DB is to be determined on a riskbased approach. 5. Adoption of the DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners, which has a strong emphasis on anti-corruption. March 28, 2013 Page 22 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used. Principle Actions Outcomes Further information 6. Implementation of a structured process for anti-corruption due diligence in mergers and acquisitions 7. Development of a standardized compliance post-merger integration plan (which is adapted to the specific needs of acquired companies) in order to implement DB’s compliance management in a structured process The DB Group whistleblowing system has been reshaped to be more efficient, especially with the new online tool “BKMS” providing for an anonymous web based access as additional way of contact. BKMS will be available globally in seven languages as of April 2013 March 28, 2013 Page 23 Most data in this document refers to 2012. If current data was not yet available at the time this document was created, the corresponding values from 2011 were used.
