Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2012 Corporate Data (as of February 29, 2012) Revenue from operations and operating income Company name Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. (Billion yen) Revenue from operations Operating income (Billion yen) 6,000 400 Headquarters 8-8 Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8452, Japan 5,111 , , 5,119 Established September 1, 2005 4,786 Businesses Planning, management, and operations for the various Group 4,500 292 300 companies, centered on convenience stores, general merchandise 243 226 stores, department stores, supermarkets, food services, financial 3,000 200 services, and IT/services Paid-in capital ¥50 billion 1,500 100 Employees 134,689* (consolidated) *Including part-time employees (monthly average number, with 8 0 0 hours/day counted as one employee) 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Website http://www.7andi.com/en/ Revenue from operations (FY2011) Net sales (FY2011) Consolidated employees Seven & i Other 6.5% Japan 77.8% Food services 1.6% Other Food Systems 1.0% 1.0% China 6.6% Seven-Eleven Japan*1 North Seven Bank 1.1%*2 Financial services 2.7% 41.2% America 15.5% Superstore Department store York-Benimaru 3.9% operations operations 41.2% 18.6% Sogo & Seibu 9.7% By business By business Convenience Ito-Yokado By geographic area segment company store operations 16.2% 7-Eleven, Inc.*1 34.9% 20.4% China 1.9% *1 The sales represent total store sales. North *2 The sales represent ordinary income. America 23.1% Japan By geographic 75.0% area segment Corporate information and financial details are available on the website. Web http://www.7andi.com/en/ir/index.html 2 About the CSR Report The CSR Report 2012 mainly covers measures being Contents implemented by Seven & i Holdings, the holding company, as well as major initiatives by operating companies. It was Messages from CEO and COO 4 compiled in line with the Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group (see page 5). Our View on Responsibilities to Stakeholders 6 Progress in Measures Regarding Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group 8 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management 10 ● Report coverage The Report mainly covers the following organizations. Information on Special Feature each company is also available on the following websites. Contributing to Resolution of Diverse Sales of reporting organizations Challenges as Social Infrastructure 16 as a percentage of overall sales 94.8% Report on Major Activities Conducted in the Year Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://c.sej.co.jp/corp/social/ Reducing the Environmental Impact 20 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) Providing Safe, Reliable http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html Products and Services 28 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Creating Fulfilling Workplaces 32 Seven Bank, Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/corp/csr/ 7-Eleven, Inc. http://corp.7-eleven.com/ Coexisting with Local Communities 35 SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. http://www.7elevenhawaii.com/home SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) CO., LTD. (in Chinese) http://www.7-11bj.com.cn/ Overseas Initiatives 37 Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.ht-store.com/d/index.do Data on the Six Domestic Operating Companies 46 Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.iy-cd.com/ Greenhouse Gas Emission Verification Statement 64 Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.wfj-yokado.com/ Awards and Evaluations by Outside Parties 65 Results of Questionnaire to the Readers of the CSR Report 2011 66 ● Period of the Report In principle, this Report covers our activities during FY2011 (March 2011 to February 2012). Some of our activities in FY2012 are also included. ● References ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines – Towards a Sustainable Society – (FY2007 Version), Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ● ISO26000 ● Current Report September 2012 Disclaimer The data shown in this report are based on information as of the time of writing. Actual activities and ● Scheduled publication of next Report September 2013 results may differ depending on future social changes. 3 Messages from CEO and COO We aim to make even greater leaps forward, as a company that continues to gain customers’ trust Toshifumi Suzuki Noritoshi Murata Chairman and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Operating Officer Our supply chain was confirmed to be solid Indonesia that began in FY2009. Not only providing financial In 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake inflicted a tremendous assistance, we plan to dispatch employees to the forest amount of damage on the country. This was a particularly difficult conservation activities and implement measures that only retailers year for the Seven & i Group as well. Yet we were able to confirm are capable of, such as developing products that use wood from the unity of the entire supply chain, including our business forest thinning. partners, which is capable of stably procuring and shipping In addition, a project for promoting diversity began in FY2011, products to stores under any circumstances, and which comprises and store operations by women started in FY2012. We will reliable store operators. It was, therefore, a year in which we were promote store operations that utilize the viewpoints of women, who able to utilize the Group’s strengths for contributing to society. account for 70% of our customers, as well as a working environment that is a comfortable workplace for women and all Creating businesses that contribute to resolve other employees. social issues Not limited to our response to the earthquake, the Seven & i Group Signed the United Nations Global Compact at all times assumes a role as part of the social infrastructure. With In order to promote CSR, we reviewed the relevant organizations, the aim of contributing to resolving social issues, for instance, we and revised the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines in focus our efforts on expansion of products and services handled at FY2011. In July 2012, we signed the United Nations Global our stores, as well as mobile stores and Net Supermarket, that Compact that sets forth 10 rules related to human rights, labor, the bring products closer to customers, with the hope of addressing environment and anti-corruption. As a global corporate group that the increasing number of people having difficulty in shopping. is expanding the number of companies under its umbrella as well In order to make these corporate policies clear to both in-house as its business scale, we recognize our great responsibility to and external parties, we announced the brand message across the society through these measures, and are determined to fulfill our Group in April 2012 – “It’s a New Day.” The message embodies our diverse responsibilities, including the reduction of environmental commitment to continually take on challenges in order to convey impact, assurance of product quality something new about ourselves to customers every day. and safety, and making use of diverse human resources. Matters of focus in FY2011 and onward While expanding our businesses, in FY 2011 we strived to reduce environmental impact by aggressively introducing energy-saving facilities mainly at Seven-Eleven stores. Also, as a measure to reduce CO2 emissions other than in business operations, we decided in FY2012 to engage in domestic forest improvement activities, following the activities for conserving tropical forests in 4 CSR policies and challenges facing the Seven & i Group Policy for promoting CSR We conduct business activities based on the corporate creed of aiming to be a sincere company trusted by all stakeholders. In the form of Corporate Action Guidelines, we have stated the actions for realizing that creed. Diagram showing the relationship among policies related to CSR Our solid beliefs We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. Corporate Creed The basic posture of Seven & i Group employees Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/guidelines.html 1. Compliance 4. Relationship with Shareholders and Investors 7. Environmental Management Seven & i Holdings 2. Relationship with Customers 5. Relationship with Local Communities 8. Social and Cultural Contribution Activities Corporate Action Guidelines 3. Relationship with Business Partners 6. Human Resources and Workplace Environment 9. Reporting Misconduct and Violative Conduct Policies for each measure Specific policies for each area Environmental guidelines and environmental rules Web http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/environment.html (In Japanese) Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration Fundamental Polices Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/environment_02.html Basic Policy on Social and Cultural Contribution Social and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/contribute.html Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management (1) Strengthening internal control (4) Promoting fair business practices (2) Strengthening CSR management (5) Establishing corporate ethics (3) Ensuring compliance (6) Promoting CSR procurement Reducing the Environmental Impact (1) Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impacts (4) Implementing measures for biodiversity (2) Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy (5) Offering eco-friendly products (3) Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society (6) Raising environmental awareness among employees Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services (1) Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services (4) Developing stores and facilities customers (2) Assuring appropriate information provision can visit with a sense of security (3) Responding sincerely to customer opinions Creating Fulfilling Workplaces (1) Supporting development of employee abilities (4) Making use of diverse human resources (2) Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees (5) Assuring consideration for worker health and safety (3) Achieving a work-life balance Coexisting with Local Communities (1) Supporting young parents and the elderly (3) Providing support in times of disaster (2) Assisting local community revitalization (4) Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities 5 Our View on Responsibilities to Stakeholders We will fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) in consideration of the characteristics of our businesses Order placement Stores and purchasing Business partners Employees Provision of products Products, source materials, etc. and services Joint development Transportation Major CSR to business partners Major CSR to employees ● Establishing fair relationships with business partners ● Providing employment opportunities and making use of diverse ● Developing safe and reliable products human resources ● Ensuring traceability ● Capacity building, assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees, and assuring consideration of worker health and safety Business ature features Business ature features E Employment of diverse employees and 1 C Collaborating with many business partners 2 ccapacity building The Seven & i Group has diverse business partners, ranging from Over 130,000 employees work with the Seven & i Group. We offer agricultural producers and manufacturers to wholesalers and employment opportunities to many people through diverse working distributors. To achieve CSR at all stages of our business arrangements, including part-time staff and temporary workers, activities, including the provision of safe and high-quality products, and support capacity building and career development of each it is important to build cooperative relations with them as equal worker through education, training and fair assessment. partners and promote CSR jointly. The Seven & i Group has In order to heighten customer satisfaction and respond to the formulated the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action trust customers place in us, we strive to improve the ability of each Guidelines for promoting our business partners’ understanding of of our salespeople to communicate and deal with customers, and CSR, and established the Business Partner Help Line outside the raise awareness of compliance among employees. company. Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management P.10 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces P.32 Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services P.28 6 CO2 Environmental impact from business operations Local Customers communities Environment Major CSR to customers Major CSR to local communities Major CSR to the environment ● Providing safe, reliable products ● Supporting young parents and the elderly ● Promoting energy conservation measures and services ● Assisting in local community revitalization ● Reducing waste ● Sincerely responding to customers and crime prevention ● Offering eco-friendly products ● Developing stores and facilities ● Providing support in times of disaster that customers can visit with a sense of security Business ature features Business ature features B Balancing between business expansion 3 U Utilizing our stores as infrastructure 4 aand environmental impact There are about 46,600 stores in the seven & i Group in the world In order to fulfill our mission of offering society safe and reliable (including stores operated by companies granted a defined area products and convenience, the Seven & i Group has continued license), and about 48 million customers visit them each day (see page 37). Making use of the characteristics of stores, which bring aggressively opening new stores and developing products and together many people, we hope to make our stores part of the services. The increasing number of stores, products and services infrastructure of daily lives so they can be useful to customers in accompanies the increase in electricity consumption and waste diverse ways. For example, we have offered consultation services to parents on raising their children, a service they can use casually volume. While suppressing the expansion of the environmental when shopping, and as a part of our supporting measures for impact to the extent possible, we strive to maintain the best school education we have been accepting students to offer them balance between the benefits of our business activities to society work experience. We have also helped to link customers with various social issues through various measures, such as installing and their environmental impact. At the same time, by participating collection boxes for aiding disaster-affected areas, environmental in forest conservation and other projects both in Japan and abroad conservation and other issues. we support society-wide efforts to suppress CO2 emissions. Contributing to Resolution of Diverse Challenges as Social Infrastructure P.16 Reducing the Environmental Impact P.20 Coexisting with Local Communities P.35 7 Progress in Measures Regarding Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group As the holding company, we have established the group policies and the Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group and promoted CSR management Setting the Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group CSR organization was revised by establishing the CSR In 2009, through dialogue with outside experts, Seven & i Holdings Management Committee, which is chaired by the president of Seven set the five Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group. The & i Holdings and composed of the people responsible for the Challenges were also established with reference to ISO26000, CSR-related divisions, and three subcommittees under its which are international guidelines on social responsibility, and management—Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee, GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Seven & i Holdings and Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee, and each of the operating companies work on CSR measures to Environment Subcommittee. address the Challenges. Each subcommittee formulated targets for activities in line with the Challenges, and set up project teams for each specific activity to Revising CSR management organizations be pursued. Through an unprecedented move of establishing project In order to strengthen measures regarding the Challenges and CSR teams, we are striving to accelerate the implementation of activities. activities, we established the CSR Department which reports directly At the same time, many operating companies are made to to the president in April 2011 by integrating the CSR and social participate in the projects in order to raise the overall level of the contribution divisions. Furthermore, in September of the same year, Group. Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group FY2005-2010 Established Group-wide Help Line for employees of domestic Group Strengthening Corporate companies in a third-party organization P.13 Governance and Formulated the Business Partner Action Guidelines CSR Management Established the Business Partner Help Line in a third party organization PP.14-15 Third-party reviews of CO2 emissions data was Made trial calculations on carbon conducted for each of the five operating footprints for 15 Seven Premium Reducing the companies, and the calculation conditions of all products Environmental Impact the companies were unified Opened eco-friendly Started Tropical Forest Conservation Project stores P.22 in Indonesia P.27 Providing Safe, Reliable Formulated New Influenza Products and Services Countermeasures manual Creating Fulfilling Transferred Ito-Yokado’s Human Rights Awareness Workplaces Office to the holding company for raising awareness on human rights in the Group P.32 Concluded cooperation Coexisting with agreements for comprehensive Local Communities regional activation (started in 2004) P.35 8 Activity targets of the three CSR management subcommittees Junro Ito Director Subcommittee Targets Senior Officer of CSR Department Corporate Ethics and ● Thoroughly ensuring compliance Culture Subcommittee ● Creating fulfilling workplaces ● Responding sincerely to customer Consumer Affairs and opinions Fair Business Practices ● Ensuring the quality and safety of Subcommittee products and services ● Establishing fair business practices Environment ● Reducing the environmental impact Subcommittee ● Conserving the global environment Details are reported on pages 12-13. Toward Sustainable Growth of Society and Business Entities A year has passed since the establishment of the CSR initiative in promoting strategic CSR through various Department, and an even more solid organization for measures, such as building new business models that could promoting CSR has been built. In response to the publication help resolve social issues through business activities, as well and revision of ISO26000, the Keidanren Corporate Behavior as collaboration for CSR measures with NGOs and other Charter, and other guidelines, we revised the Seven & i organizations. Measures the Group implements will also be Holdings Corporate Action Guidelines in September 2011 for objectively verified with reference to ISO and other CSR clearly restating the Group’ s philosophy. The Guidelines are guidelines published both in Japan and overseas. By steadily based on the latest social demands both in Japan and abroad, pursuing these activities we will strive to fulfill the corporate as well as incorporating the supply chain perspective. social responsibilities of the Seven & i Group in the hopes of From here forward, the CSR Department will take the ensuring sustainable growth of society and business. FY2011 FY2012 Renewed the Held briefings for the Business Partner Action Established the CSR Department subcommittees of the CSR Guidelines, and began CSR auditing at our Management Committee P.12 business partners P.14 Posted CSR information in the Group magazine P.27 Revised the Corporate Signed the United Nations Global Compact P.4 Action Guidelines P.5 Established Environment Subcommittee P.12 Conducted verification of the CO2 Started Forest Conservation Expanded use of LED lighting and emissions data of the five operating smart sensors in stores PP.22-23 Project in Nagano Prefecture companies by an independent organization P.64 P.27 Released LED bulbs by the private brand Seven Premium Established Consumer Affairs and Formulated Large-Scale Disaster Started various seminar programs Fair Business Practices Countermeasures Procedures Subcommittee jointly by the Group companies P.12 Started Disaster Prevention P.28, P.31 Project P.11 Established Group’s Training Center P.33 Began studies on measures to promote diversity P.32 Began store operation by women P.32 Started Diversity Promotion Project P.32 Responding to the Great East Japan Earthquake P.31, P.36 Established indicators for ensuring Registered with Chiyoda preliminary decisions and measuring Corporate Volunteer Association Serving people having difficulty in shopping PP.16-17 results of social contribution programs 9 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management As a holding company that oversees and controls its operating companies, it is our mission to strengthen corporate governance and maximize the enterprise value of our Group. Corporate Governance System Supported by and suggestions to ensure the validity and appropriateness of Executive Officer and Corporate Auditor Systems decisions made by Directors and their operating performance, and by exchanging opinions with Directors and others at meetings The Board of Directors of Seven & i Holdings is composed of 16 concerning company operations, corporate governance, and other Directors (of whom three are independent outside Directors). The matters. term of Directors has been set to one year, to reflect the intentions *1 Seven & i Holdings emphasizes on the independence of outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Individuals who are selected are unlikely to be in a of shareholders in a timely manner. The Executive Officer system conflict of interest with general shareholders and who are capable of offering has been adopted for prompt decision making and operations. The supervision, auditing, advice, and suggestions based on expert knowledge and experience, from objective and neutral standpoints. Board of Directors is responsible for formulating business *2 The number is as of the end of July 2012. strategies and supervising operations, and 17 Executive Officers, including those who also serve as Directors, are in charge of Internal Control Systems operating performance. The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of five members (of Seven & i Holdings has worked to improve and reinforce Internal whom three are independent outside members), and monitors Control Systems, to ensure the following: (1) effectiveness and administration. In addition to attending Board Meetings and other efficiency of business operations; (2) credibility of financial important meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members statements; (3) compliance of business activities with laws and exchange opinions with the Representative Director and interview regulations; and (4) proper conservation of assets. Directors regarding the status of operational performance. They The Auditing Office, which is the independent internal auditing share information with Directors, Members of the Audit & division, has the management function to confirm and instruct Supervisory Board, and other officers of operating companies, and internal auditing by operating companies, and the internal auditing strictly audit Directors’ performance of duties. They also exchange function for auditing the holding company Seven & i Holdings. In information with Independent Auditors, and collaborate closely addition to the persons in charge of business audits for performing with them in auditing. these operations, persons in charge of internal control and Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members evaluation have been appointed, and they evaluate internal control supervise and audit operating performance by presenting advice by the entire Group. Corporate governance and CSR Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment, pp dismissal Appointment, pp dismissal Board of Directors (16 members, Auditing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Appointment, dismissal including 3 Outside Directors) (5 members, including 3 outside members) Reporting R ti Appointment, A i t t supervision i i Auditing A diti Auditing Independent Auditors Representative Directors CSR Management Committee Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Consultation Consumer Affairs and Lawyers Auditing Office Risk Management Committee Fair Business Practices Subcommittee Information Management Committee Environment Subcommittee Auditing Group Synergy Committee Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies Operating companies 10 Committees collaboration with the Information Management Committee, and compliance organization was strengthened in collaboration with Seven & i Holdings has established the CSR Management the CSR Management Committee. Committee, Risk Management Committee, Information In FY2012, fusion with the administrative management will be Management Committee, and Group Synergy Committee which attempted for improving the enterprise value of our Group, in report to the Representative Director in order to strengthen addition to strengthening risk management of each operating corporate governance. Each committee cooperates with the company, while at the same time refining the indicators for operating companies for determining and disseminating Group evaluation of business efficiency. policies. Information Management Committee CSR Management Committee The Information Management Committee aims to control issues The CSR Management Committee endeavors to maintain related to information management. compliance with the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action In FY2011, efforts were made to fully enforce the information Guidelines, with the basic motto of “acting sincerely” with respect reporting rules and regulations to prevent insider trading for to customers, business partners, shareholders, local communities, reinforcing information security, in addition to formulating the employees, and various other stakeholders as advocated by the Guidelines Related to IT Information Security and Internet Corporate Creed. To ensure compliance with the Action Businesses. Guidelines, three Subcommittees have been established under In FY2012, voluntary and third-party checking will be promoted the CSR Management Committee. (See pp.12-13) on the status of compliance with the above guidelines, for configuring even more precise organization of information reporting. Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee regards all phenomena that Group Synergy Committee threaten continuation of our businesses as risks, measures them The Group Synergy Committee is composed of subcommittees on quantitatively wherever possible, and verifies whether they may be merchandising, systems, building equipment, sales promotion, etc. fully absorbed in view of equity capital. Then, priority is set from the By sharing and utilizing the expertise in product development, sales, perspectives of seriousness and urgency, to implement promotion, etc. that each operating company has separately countermeasures. cultivated, our Group creates safe, reliable, and useful products and During FY2011, the Business Continuation Plan was services of high quality; of which Seven Premium products are the reestablished assuming an earthquake with its epicenter in the leading example. Making use of the scale merit brought about for the Tokyo metropolitan area, information security management was Group, significant cost reductions have also been attempted through strengthened with regard to the Internet businesses in collaborative purchasing of commercial and construction materials. TOPICS Measures for assuring business continuity in times of large-scale disasters To further improve disaster-response capabilities building on our utilizing the Group’s capabilities. experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake, a disaster To maintain communication networks in times of emergency, prevention project has begun, with each division of Seven & i we have also established doubled telecommunications networks Holdings participating, in efforts to develop organizations and and installed satellite mobile telephones in the homes of main systems for dealing with disasters. Based on the fundamental executives, while at the same time installing wireless policies of saving lives and ensuring safety, cooperating with local communication systems at the headquarters, main stores, and communities in rescue efforts, and promptly restarting store distribution centers. Efforts are also being made for establishing operations, we will strive to secure products in times of emergency organization for continuing business, by stockpiling emergency through collaboration between operating companies and major food, drinking water, blankets, portable toilets, and other items business partners, secure transportation means for goods by needed in times of emergency in the headquarters and major establishing emergency cooperative systems with logistics offices. partners, and establish sales structure in times of emergency 11 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management Activities are being pursued in line with the Challenges Facing the Seven & i Group CSR organization To ensure the effectiveness and viability of the Group’s CSR standpoint of the business features of the Group. A project team activities, Seven & i Holdings revised the CSR organization and in was established for each priority challenge for formulating specific September 2011 established the Corporate Ethics and Culture measures for achieving solutions. The formulated measures are Subcommittee, Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices reported at quarterly Subcommittee meetings for approval by the Subcommittee, and Environment Subcommittee under the CSR subcommittee and instructions are made to all the operating Management Committee. Each subcommittee extracted and companies of the Group to implement the measures. prioritized the main challenges to be addressed from the Targets and progress by each subcommittee Results of major activities in FY2011 to first half of FY2012 Evaluation* Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee (1) Thoroughly ensuring compliance ● Revised the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action guidelines and formulate guidelines for each operating company ○ ● Held a training seminar by lawyers for Group buyers concerning prevention of bribery in overseas transactions ○ ● Conducted a questionnaire survey for Group companies concerning labor management △ ● Formulated training programs for the Group’s executives for thoroughly disseminating the management philosophy and cultivating a common sense of values ○ ● Held briefings on the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines with business partners of Seven Premium products and direct overseas ○ suppliers of Ito-Yokado (p.15) (2) Creating fulfilling workplaces ● Conducted opinion survey on the work environment for female employees, and listed issues and formulated measures to be addressed ○ ● Organized the Diversity (of human resources) Promotion Project (p.32) ○ ● Conducted questionnaire surveys with Group companies for clarifying issues related to employment of persons with disabilities △ ● Personnel in charge of hiring at each operating company visited special-needs schools for observation ○ Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee (1) Responding sincerely to customer opinions ● Formulated the Seven & i Holdings Voluntary Code of Conduct Concerning Customers and disseminated them among operating companies ○ ● Held seminars by outside lecturers for personnel in charge of customer service of all Group companies ○ (2) Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ● Conducted joint seminars mainly for buyers in all Group companies ○ (First seminar: Regulations on harmful substances in fiber products; second seminar: Household Goods Quality Labeling Act; third seminar: Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations) ● Formulated the Group’s common Check Sheet for Business Partners’ Factories for food factories ○ ● Formulated the Group’s common Appropriate Product Labeling Guidelines for food products ○ (3) Establishing fair business practices ● Established Fair Trade (FT) Committee at each Group company and appointing personnel in charge of FT ○ ● Held seminars for Group FT personnel regarding abuse of dominant bargaining position ○ Environment Subcommittee (1) Reducing the environmental impact ● Conducted third-party verification on CO2 emissions from stores (p.64) ○ (2) Conserving the global environment ● Started the Seven & i Forest Project in Nagano Prefecture (p.27) ○ ● Employee volunteers conducted forest improvement in the Seven & i Forest ○ 12 Organization of CSR Management Committee CSR Management Committee Consumer Affairs and Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Fair Business Practices Subcommittee Environment Subcommittee ＜Major challenges＞ ＜Projects＞ ＜Major challenges＞ ＜Projects＞ ＜Major challenges＞ ＜Projects＞ Thoroughly ensuring Developing training Responding sincerely Developing Voluntary Reducing Reducing CO2 compliance programs for to customer opinions Code of Conduct environmental impact emissions Group executives Concerning Customers Promoting the 3Rs*2 Developing appropriate Reviewing customer work environments service manuals Forest conservation Enhancing customer Conserving the Studying employee service skills global environment opinion surveys Improving product Holding buyer Environmental Creating fulfilling Promoting quality and ensuring training seminars awareness workplaces normalization*1 safety raising workshop Improving quality control Promoting diversity Establishing fair Thorough assurance business practices of appropriate product labeling *1 Normalization: enabling everyone to take part in social activities in a range of areas, irrespective of Compliance with Anti-Monopoly Act age or handicap and related laws *2 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle and regulations * Evaluation： ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Plans for latter half of FY2012 Help Line for employees We have established the Group-Wide Help Line in a third-party organization. In view of the increasing number of contacts ● Making the Guidelines thoroughly known among employees regarding mental health-related issues, the contact number of ● Study conducting employee opinion surveys mental health consultation services, at which expert consultants ● Study measures to address revisions to the Labor Contract Act ● Consider revising employee training programs for each company and tier of workers are available, was indicated on a poster informing of the Help Line ● Conduct CSR audits with business partners in FY2011. Number of consultations in FY2011: 589 (93% year on year) ● Sharing of career plans and life plans through interviews with managers * The number indicates the total of those accepted at the consultation desk shared by ● Adopting the mentor system Group companies and those established by respective operating companies. Some ● Promoting communications with employees on parenting leave via use of social networking services (SNS) operating companies have established their own consultation desk in addition to that ● Conducting interviews by managers with employees before taking parental leave and when returning to work shared by Group companies. ● Consider obtaining the next generation authorization mark by Seven-Eleven Japan to support raising children * The Data for Consultation Services for Employees in the Data Section (pp.46-63) report ● Holding an event for developing networks among women on the situation regarding consultations received during FY2011 for each operating ● Starting awareness-raising activities utilizing in-house newsletter, etc. company. ● Study holding joint briefing for the Group for promoting employment of persons with disabilities ● Developing employee education tools common to all Group companies and strengthening education Unknown 22％ Others 0.3％ Employees of tenants, temporary workers, and subcontractors 4％ ● Holding regular seminars on customer service ● Improving customer service skills of the customer service offices of all Group companies By user category Part-time staff 58％ Families of employees 5％ (FY2011) ● Holding seminars on product safety ● Holding seminars for each product category Fulltime employee 11％ ● Adopting the Check Sheet for each Group company ● Making the Guidelines thoroughly known among buyers and sales promotion personnel of each Group company Others 5％ Topics not in the scope of consultation 10％ ● Developing and strengthening daily and regular monitoring systems for each Group company ● Holding seminars on Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors Sexual harassment 2％ Work environment, Suspected human relations 42％ ● Improving CO2 management taking third-party verification into consideration non-compliance 10％ By topic ● Promoting reduction of packaging materials (FY2011) ● Deciding on the subsequent candidate forests of forest conservation project Power harassment 13％ ● Continuing with employee volunteer work Employment, work attendance, ● Planning use of wood from forest thinning for store construction, with office supplies, and for product development overtime work, etc. 19％ 13 Strengthening Corporate Governance and CSR Management We work jointly with our business partners for performing CSR in the entire supply chain Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines comply with the Guidelines, we aim to build stable business Since 2007, Seven & i Holdings has advocated the Seven & i relations for them and for our company by averting risks of Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines that summarize the business stoppage caused by violation of laws or regulations, as nine CSR items that it wishes to be promoted by business well as customer boycotts and other damaging situations. partners, requesting their understanding and compliance thereof. We have asked the contract manufacturers of our Group’s Revision of the Self-Check Sheet private brands and original products of operating companies, Referring to ISO 26000, Keidanren Corporate Behavior Charter, among our business partners, to submit a Self-Check Sheet with and the revised OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, items related to the Guidelines. The Sheet allows us to understand items mainly related to product safety were reviewed and the the status of implementation of CSR measures by the entire supply number of check items was revised from 52 to 61 in June 2012. chain, including our business partners. At the same time, we are Advance implementation of the revised Shelf-Check Sheet began hoping that our business partners will promote understanding and in June 2012 with business partners involved with Seven Premium measures concerning CSR. products, which are the Group’s common strategic products, as Also, by asking our business partners to understand and well as direct overseas suppliers of Ito-Yokado. Upon start of CSR audit Seven & i Holdings Business Partner Action Guidelines In the latter half of FY2012, the CSR audit is scheduled to start with 1. Legal Compliance about ten factories owned by business partners who implemented 2. Respect for Human Rights and Dignity 3. Human Resources and Workplace Environment the revised Self-Check Sheet. In the CSR audit, outside 4. Environmental Management verification organizations check the status of business partners’ 5. Relationship with Society and Local Communities compliance with the Guidelines in accordance with about 140 audit 6. Information Management items established independently by Seven & i Holdings (see chart 7. Products Safety Assurance example on p.15). For non-compliance matters found in the audit, 8. Fair Business Practices 9. Monitoring corrective measures will be implemented pursuant to the For the full text, please visit the following site: Corrective Action Plan (CAP) issued by the business partner within 10 days of completion of the audit and under the guidance of the Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/suppliers/guide.html verification organization. A compliance certificate will then be Process flow of Business Partner Action Guidelines operation (for Seven Premium products) (1) Requesting compliance with the Business Partner Action Guidelines and submission of Self-Check Sheet (7) If any problem was found in (6), requesting improvement of CSR activities CSR Management Committee of Seven & i Holdings Reporting Business partners Seven Premium product development teams (2) Submission of Self-Check Sheet (6) Report on the audit results Factories CSR Department of Seven & i Holdings (4) Conducting the audit (3) Request for audit Third-party verification organizations (5) Report on the audit 14 issued when corrective measures on the important and Operating Business Partner Help Line quality-related non-compliance issues and the chief minor non-compliance issues have been completed. In view of the start We have established the Business Partner Help Line for accepting of the CSR audit, in May 2012 briefings on compliance with the questions and opinions regarding transactions and promptly Guidelines and the audit were held for business partners located in making improvements, with the aim of establishing fair business Tsingtao and Shanghai that are involved with apparel and practices. household products, which are imported directly by Ito-Yokado, A subcontracting agreement and confidentiality agreement and in June for business partners of Seven Premium products in have been concluded with third-party organizations that run the Japan. Help Line, in order to strictly protect personal information and The CSR audit was conducted in advance on a trial basis with privacy of individuals who made contact and reports. Reports can some of the business partners in China. Executive Officer and be made anonymously to Seven & i Holdings by submitting one’s Officer of CSR Department of Seven & i Holdings accompanied the verification organization to confirm the audit methods and name and affiliation only to the third-party organization. To ensure procedures. that individuals who ask consultation and do whistle-blowing are Also, a joint seminar was also held in June 2012 for buyers of subjected to no unfair treatment by Seven & i Holdings and/or the Group to raise their awareness of the importance of CSR for Group companies, about one month after the handling of the report the entire supply chain. The Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action the third-party organizations check in with the contacting party as Guidelines to be complied with by all employees of the Group, to whether any retaliatory action has been taken. which were revised in 2011, were again made thoroughly known among Group employees, while at the same time explaining the importance of fulfillment of social responsibilities in collaboration For the details, please visit the following site: with business partners, to about 500 people working with the 17 Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/suppliers/helpline.html operating companies. Number of consultations in FY2011: 15 (12 in FY2010) By user category Business partner employees 11 Business partner sales representatives 1 Briefings held in China Trial CSR audit at factories Suppliers to business partners 1 Unknown 2 Chart example of audit results By topic 1. Management systems and code implementation 16. Community Suspected noncompliance (the Group companies) 5 100 2. Forced labor benefits 80 Suspected noncompliance (business partners) 3 15. Security management 3. Freedom of association 65 60 100 Communications 3 14. Product safety 100 66 83 40 4. Health and safety Others 4 100 20 13. Fair business 66 5. Child labor and practices 100 90 young workers 12. Environment 87 100 6. Living wage 100 100 11. Discipline 7. Working hours 100 93 100 10. Subcontracting, home 8. Discrimination working, and external 9. Regular employment processing 15 Special Feature Contributing to Resolution of Diverse Challenges as Social Infrastructure The Seven & i Group offers products and Superstore services that make use of the features Convenience store Declining birthrate and operations aging of society operations of its stores, which function as a form Increasing number Environmental of people having conservation of social infrastructure. We aim to difficulties in shopping Proactive contributions Department store D and resolutions operations be a corporate group that Social issues Measures by the Seven & i Group contributes to building an even Strategically developing Revitalization of local into businesses better society by focusing on Agricultural issues communities Food services F measures to resolve social issues Health considerations and strategically developing them into Financial services IT/Services businesses. Responding to the Increasing Number of 1 People Having Difficulty in Shopping Supporting Daily Shopping A As Retail R t il Stores St Close Cl to t You―― Y The number of retail stores in Japan has decreased in many Also, changes in lifestyles have also been seen, along with areas, along with shrinking public transportation networks, due the increasing number of single or two-person households and to the declining birthrate, the aging of society, and the women’s advancing into society. decreasing number of household members. Increasing Responding to these social trends, the Seven & i Group has numbers of people also feel worried about driving as they age. attempted to create new services for supporting daily shopping, For these reasons, the number of people who have difficulties utilizing the store networks, and the logistics and information with daily shopping has increased, mainly among the elderly, systems that it has developed over many years. and this has become a social issue. Operating Shuttle Buses Offering Transportation Services at Stores in Areas of Tohoku Affected by the Disaster For customers facing difficulties due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, such as store closures in their neighborhoods or loss of transportation means to reach stores, several Ito-Yokado and York-Benimaru stores in the Tohoku region operated shuttle buses. Some York-Benimaru stores continue to operate these buses. 16 Mobile Store 21 vehicles (As of the end of July 2012) Mobile Sale Service Delivering Products Bringing Products Close Reducing the Burden to Customers Accompanying Shopping Seven-Eleven Japan has advocated “close by convenient” as its concept since 2009 for strengthening its roles as life Carrying heavy or bulky products requires a great deal of infrastructure for local communities in all aspects, including effort for elderly customers and customers with small product lineup focused on prepared foods, as well as handling of children. Ito-Yokado offers Porter Service Kiiroi Rakuda public services. to these customers by delivering the products purchased Against this backdrop, Seven-Eleven began mobile stores in in stores to the customers’ homes on the same day. The Ibaraki Prefecture in May 2011. The service utilizes our Net Supermarket is also available, which enables proprietary light trucks equipped with store facilities, which go to customers to place their orders at any time via PC or areas that are inconvenient for daily shopping and where many mobile phone and have their products delivered in the residents are elderly people who have trouble securing means of time frame that they choose. As of the end of February transportation.*。 2012, the service was being offered at 137 of 173 *The service was offered in eleven areas across Japan as of the end of July 2012. Ito-Yokado stores, which was greatly appreciated by customers who are unable to spend sufficient time on shopping. Held Sales from Net Supermarket and change in membership (100 million yen) 116 (10,000 people) 670 times (FY2011) 4000 120 Membership 3000 1.16 million 86 350 90 Direct Sales 300 Offering Many People the 200 60 Pleasure of Selecting Products Ito-Yokado conducts direct sales at elderly care homes 100 30 and other facilities in areas around its stores. For the elderly who rarely have the chance to go shopping, the service offers them the great pleasure of selecting the 0 0 products that they want for themselves. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 17 Special Feature Contributing to the Resolution of Diverse Challenges as Social Infrastructure 2 Dealing with the Present Society Shifting to the Nuclear Family with a Decreasing Birthrate Supporting Young Parents and Fostering Future Generations As a Place Where Many People Gather In the present society shifting to the nuclear family with a decreasing birthrate, the number of parents who have no one they can ask for advice on parenting without inhibition is increasing. The Seven & i Group therefore concentrated its efforts for supporting young parents, implementing a host of measures in its stores. Our Group also supports cultivation of young people through means such as providing them with opportunities for work experience. Supporting Young Parents Baby Rooms and Consultation Services on Raising Children Childcare Events Lounges were created in Ito-Yokado and Sogo-Seibu stores The Tsukuno Ito-Yokado and Akachan Honpo stores jointly at which parents can change their babies’ diapers, feed them, host regular events for infants and mothers. Under the theme and prepare milk; as well as free consultation services offered of “collaboration among industry, government, and academia, and enjoyment for the entire family,” the Graduate School of by public health nurses and midwives. (At 124 Ito-Yokado and Sports Sciences of Waseda University, Sakai City 14 Sogo-Seibu department stores as of the end of June 2012) government of Osaka Prefecture, and several manufacturers Seminars on maternity and events have also been held for take part, and the events also offer good opportunities for the spreading the joys of childrearing among many people. government and manufacturers to interact with residents of local communities. Held for Visitors over 170,000 12 times 327 people (In the six months after the participated (FY2011) opening of PEP Kids Koriyama, Supporting Children in Areas an indoor playground) Affected by the Disaster Indoor Playgrounds and Enhancing Parent-Child Communications Mobile Libraries York-Benimaru has leased land, facilities, and fixtures free of charge to the Story Hours city of Koriyama in Fukushima Prefecture as places for children to play Seven Bank supports Soldier Bonolon of the without concern about radioactive contamination. Events are also being Forest—a picture book to be read to planned in collaboration with pediatricians and business partners in the area. children—and distributed the book with the Children are playing energetically in well-organized play areas. aim of improving communications between The Seven & i Group supports a bookmobile project that aims to provide sources of comfort and joy to children in disaster-affected areas, by way of parents and children. Employees have held books. Bookmobiles carrying about 2,000 picture books and children’s books story hours at Ario and other staffed stores. have toured regularly in Miyagi Prefecture since the end of October 2011. 18 Offering Diverse Services as a “Close by Convenient” Life Infrastructure Available 24 Hours a Day While people’s time of life varies, the number of bank teller windows and other service bases has decreased. Amid this situation, Seven-Eleven Japan has sought to improve store convenience drawing on its nationwide network of over 14,000 stores open 24 hours a day. Ever Since the company began accepting orders for door-to-door package delivery in 1981, the type of services it offers has continued to increase, such as handling pubic utility fee transactions and installing ATMs. Increasing numbers of people use these services each year; for instance, the amount handled through payment services reached 3,432.6 billion yen in FY2011. Quick Overseas Money Transfer Services Seven Bank collaborates with Western Union, which offers the world’s largest-scale money transfer services, and began overseas money transfer Orders on money transfer are accepted service in March 2011. Orders for overseas money transfers are typically accepted only at bank teller windows, which charge about a 5,000-yen 24 hours a day, commission. Seven Bank, however, offers convenient services by which users can place money transfers via PC, mobile phone, or ATM from Seven Bank 365 days a year (as a rule) accounts, allowing the recipient to withdraw money within as little as a few minutes, all at reasonable charges. Issuing Copies of Residence Certificate and Seal Registration Certificate Used about 100,000 times At Seven-Eleven, customers can take advantage of a special service that issues a copy of their residence certificate or seal registration certificate with a multi-functional copier machine. As of the end of August 2012, 56 (FY2011) municipalities participated in the service. We have promoted further expansion of the services, and 13 municipalities currently make issuance of copies of family register certificate possible, with 11 municipalities allowing 99,576 copies of tax certificates to be issued. Residents can use the services times including nighttime and on holidays by simply holding their basic resident 252 registration card over the copier. Personal information is protected securely 12,610 by the exclusive network and advanced security systems, at the same time FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 preventing forging and tampering using special printing and other functions. Easy Subscription to Insurance Plans and Premiums Payment Screen of a multifunctional copier Used about In 1990, Seven-Eleven was the first in the industry to start services for application for motorcycle liability insurance plans and payment 25,000 times (Total in eight months from of insurance premiums. In view of the increasing number of bicycle start of service) liability accidents these days and growing demands placed on insurance, in November 2011 we started services that allow users to subscribe to a bicycle liability insurance plan and easily pay the premium by a multi-functional copier machine in the store. Application is possible 24 hours a day by entering one’s name, address and other necessary information on the screen and paying at the cash register. 19 Major Activities Conducted in the Year Reducing the Environmental Impact Implementing a range of anti-climate change measures in Japan and overseas The Seven & i Group is addressing a range of measures to reduce the environmental impact caused by expansion of business such Efforts in product development P.25 as opening new stores and increasing products and services. ● Simplifying packages For example, as a measure for reducing CO2 emissions, we are ● Using plant-derived plastic materials adopting energy-saving equipment for new stores and refurbished stores. We are also proactively conducting environmental activities in cooperation with customers by selling eco-friendly products, reducing the use of plastic disposable bags, and collecting donations for environmental protection. Moreover, as a corporate group that operates globally, we are Boxed meal sealed by tapes instead of being filmed implementing forest conservation projects both within and outside Japan to reduce CO2 emissions on a global scale. We are continuing these activities to curb CO2 emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, which represent one of the Increasing efficiency in logistics operations factors contributing to climate change; to foster CO2 absorption by P.24 ● Introducing eco-friendly vehicles forests; and to secure habitats for diverse living forms. ● Improving fuel efficiency ● Reducing the frequency of delivery to stores CO2 emissions in FY2011 (1,000 t-CO2)* Seven & i Food Systems 83（4%） York-Benimaru 130（7%） Sogo & Seibu 174（9%） Seven-Eleven Japan 1,893 1,039（55%） Ito-Yokado 466（25%） Energy conservation at stores ● Introducing LED lights * CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations, logistics and ● Opening eco-friendly stores headquarters For the calculation method, please see the Data Section (on page 46 onwards). Reducing waste including food waste Reducing water use P.22-26 Number of the Seven-Eleven Japan stores using LED lights 8,966 in total (as of the end of FY 2011) 20 CO2 emissions reduction and biodiversity Communication conservation ● Publishing CSR reports P.27 (The CSR Report 2011 won Excellence Award in sustainability report section ● Tropical Forest Conservation Project in Indonesia of 15th Environmental Report/Sustainability Report Awards .) ● Forest Conservation Project in Nagano ● Introducing initiatives taken by the operating companies (Use of forest thinning as materials for stores and office supplies in their websites and for product development) ● Participating in the Eco-Products Exhibition (We offset the CO2 emissions from the opening of the booth at Eco-Products 2011 with the domestic emission credits obtained by supporting the Tohoku region affected by the March 11 earthquake.) Targeted area Photo©ITTO/TJ Bruder About 58,200 ha Visitors to the booth About 25,000 Cooperation with employees P.27 ● Environmental education ● Conducting volunteer activities Reducing environmental impact in various aspects Cooperation with customers Measures related to products Measures taken at stores P.27 ● Selling eco-friendly products P.35 ● Both the money donated by customers through the ● Reducing the use of disposable plastic bags P.25 collection boxes installed at Seven-Eleven Japan stores and the donations made by the headquarters are sent to and used by the Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation to give support to environmental organizations and conduct activities to protect and conserve the natural environment. Total amount of donations made at Seven-Eleven stores About 422.05 million yen Poster made by the Japan Franchise Association (FY 2011) to reduce the use of plastic bags 21 Major Activities Conducted in the Year/Reducing the Environmental Impact number at the end of the previous fiscal year. At eco-friendly Energy conservation at stores stores, the company aims to reduce the annual use of electricity by 30% relative to existing stores, and plans to open another 300 In FY2011, Seven-Eleven Japan accelerated the introduction of eco-friendly stores within FY 2012. energy-saving equipment to its stores, such as LED lights, top CO2 emissions from store operations*1 lights to take in sunshine, and solar panels installed on the rooftop CO2 emissions per Seven-Eleven store for the maximum use of natural energy. The number of stores (1,000 t-CO2) （t-CO2） 2,500 100 installed solar panels has increased significantly from 210 at the Seven-Eleven Japan 897 2,000 1,881 80 1,839 end of FY 2010 to 1,393 at the end of FY2011. 1,707 Ito-Yokado 440 1,500 69.4 66.4 60 69.9 In addition, the company has been increasing the number of Sogo & Seibu 173 1,000 40 eco-friendly stores, in which a range of devices, such as York-Benimaru 116 500 20 energy-saving air conditioning systems and circulation ventilation Seven & i 0 Food Systems 81 0 systems are installed. The number of these stores reached 239 as 2009 2010 2011 *2 (FY) of the end of February 2012, increased by 3.7 times from the *1 For the calculation method, please see the Data Section (on page 46 onwards). *2 Verified by an independent organization Energy conservation measures taken at Seven-Eleven stores (the number of stores is as of the end of Feb. 2012) Solar power generation Top lights Pole signs Using the generated power Taking in sunshine to reduce Replacing with LED lights to reduce power use for in-store lighting the use of electricity for lighting Installed in 1,393 stores Number of eco-friendly stores Store signboards Replacing with LED lights 239 stores to reduce power use Power use reduction target About 30%/year relative to existing stores Numbers of stores using LED lights Store signboards Pole signs 9,433 LEDs In-store lighting 8,966 Store signboards + pole signs 8,254 LEDs consume less power and have longer lives than fluorescent lights. Seven-Eleven Japan began adopting LED lights for the lighting of signboards in December 2008 and for the lighting of its new stores 3,071 and refurbished stores in August 2009. At new stores established in 1,322* 1,838 and after September 2011, LED lights are used as standard lights. 10 122 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * For FY2009, the total for store signboards and pole signs is shown. 22 TOPICS Striving to make use of geo-heat, Opening stores made of wood a promising new energy Stores made of wood have smaller CO2 emissions at the time Seven-Eleven Japan introduced an air conditioning system using of their construction than conventional steel-frame stores. geo-heat to two stores in Saitama and Fukuoka in February 2012. Seven-Eleven Japan began opening these stores in FY2009 The company plans to implement a demonstration test on thermal and the number substantially increased from 18 stores as of the energy measuring technology by February 2014, which will be end of the previous fiscal year to 45 stores as of the end of carried out jointly with the manufacturer that has developed the system. The test, which will be the first of the kind conducted at FY2011. The company convenience stores, is designed to demonstrate the effectiveness plans to continuously of air conditioning using geo-heat and the utilization of the Green open more in the Heat Certificate* in the future. future. By the use of geo-heat, which is warm in winter and cold in summer compared with external temperature, both the consumption of electricity by air conditioners and CO2 emissions Wooden store under construction from them are expected to be reduced by about 30%. * Green Heat Certificate: In addition to its value as thermal energy, heat generated by renewable energy has an environmental added value as a contributor to energy conservation, CO2 emissions reduction, etc. The certificate approves the environmental value of the heat to make it tradable in the market. Geo-heat pump Smart sensors system Only by attaching a smart sensor to the power distribution board of the store, the store staff can check when, where, and how much electricity was used on a PC so that they can reduce the waste of electricity. In addition to the “visualization” of power use, Seven-Eleven Japan also urges store employees to follow the in-house “10 energy conservation rules” that provide for the cleaning of machines and temperature settings for more energy conservation. Number of Seven-Eleven Following Seven-Eleven Japan, some of stores installed smart sensors Ito-Yokado stores, Denny’s restaurants, and 5,752stores York Mart stores have also conducted tests to use smart sensors. 11stores 2010 2011 (FY) TOPICS Updating equipment It also helps reduce the use of electricity to update in-store equipment Reusing construction materials and fixtures with advanced, highly energy-efficient machines. In FY2011, from old stores Seven-Eleven Japan updated the following machines: freezers, air Seven-Eleven Japan repairs and reuses the shelves and other conditioners, Chinese bun warmers, energy drink cases, and fixture salvaged from the stores to be rebuilt or to be closed. microwave ovens. Moreover the company attached wind protectors to Also to reduce the construction waste generated from refrigeration cases and introduced frost-free doors to the showcases disassembled stores, the company uses reusable steel frames of frozen food. and recyclable sashes as construction materials for new stores. Pleasant work environment In the fall of 2010, the company had a whole store Accompanying the revision of the disassembled and moved to a new place to open it as a new store. By the end of February 2012, the company removed and temperature settings at its stores, rebuilt three stores in total in this manner. Seven-Eleven Japan newly prepared polo shirt-type summer uniforms for store staff in FY2011. 23 Major Activities Conducted in the Year/Reducing the Environmental Impact Reducing CO2 emissions from logistics operations Measures for waste The Seven & i Group is introducing eco-friendly vehicles and The Seven & i Group is endeavoring to increase the waste improving fuel efficiency while reducing the frequency of the recycling rate by thoroughly sorting waste.* Also the company is delivery of goods to its stores. Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, simplifying product packages and reducing the use of disposable and York-Benimaru are reviewing the locations of their distribution plastic bags at the stores to reduce the generation of waste, centers and establishing intermediate centers to deliver various receiving support from customers. products, including those that need to be kept at different * For the waste generated by each company, please see the Data Section (on page 46 temperatures, all together to their stores. Moreover Seven-Eleven onwards). Japan and Ito-Yokado are fostering the introduction of drive data Reducing food waste by a range of methods recording terminals to their trucks to give advice to truck drivers based on the data, while holding eco-driving training sessions. The Seven & i Group is committed to improving the food recycling rate as a priority. Ito-Yokado turns the food residues from its stores into compost Energy conservation at distribution centers and cultivates crops using the compost at its dedicated Seven Seven-Eleven Japan has been promoting a modal shift from truck Farms. The harvested crops are sold mainly at neighboring to railway for the transportation of materials at room temperatures. Ito-Yokado stores. There are six Seven Farms (37 hectares in In November 2011, the company changed the means of total) across Japan as of the end of July 2012, where closed-loop transportation from its Saitama Center to Fukuoka and Sapporo agriculture is conducted. The number of the farms is planned to be Centers to railroad (the CO2 emissions are expected to be reduced increased to 10 by the end of FY2013 (see page 29). by 331 tons a year). Also at the distribution centers, the introduction of demand controllers has been fostered to monitor and control each facility’s use of electricity. As of the end of 2011, Closed-loop food recycling system 52 centers out of 149 have already introduced the controllers to Business partners reduce the waste of electricity. Also at the Chilled Rice Product Composting Niigata Center, a total of 280 solar panels were installed (the facilities expected reduction of CO2 emissions is 1.4 tons per year). Compost Food waste collected from stores CO2 emissions per Dedicated Seven Farms CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles Stores Ito-Yokado Seven-Eleven Japan store farm (1,000 t-CO2) （t-CO2） 200 13 181 180 175 Seven-Eleven Japan*1 150 140 12 Ito-Yokado 24 11.2 100 11.0 York-Benimaru 11 9 10.4 50 10 Seven & i Food Systems*2 2 Vegetables production on the company-operated 0 0 2009 2010 2011 *3 (FY) *1 Seven-Eleven Japan’s data include CO2 emissions from the operation of distribution centers. *2 This value is for Denny’s only *3 Some data are missing due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. 24 Ito-Yokado introduced a system to treat garbage by using Reducing the use of disposable plastic bags microorganisms in October 2011. The system breaks down garbage into water and carbon The Seven & i Group asks customers to bring their own shopping dioxide to reduce the amount of bags to the stores, sells its original eco-bags, and posts waste effectively. As of the end enlightenment posters. Moreover at Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, of July 2012, the company and Sogo & Seibu stores, “No Plastic Bags” cards are prepared at introduced this system in two of checkout counters for use by customers who want to decline its stores. accepting disposable bags. Ito-Yokado and York-Benimaru also Seven-Eleven Japan collects expired food products to recycle provide customers who do not accept plastic bags with discounts, them into compost or livestock feed. The area in which this activity while charging fees for plastic bags based on agreements is conducted has been expanded year by year. As of the end of concluded with local governments and citizen groups. February 2012, the number of stores using the system was by Also starting from September 2011, some Ito-Yokado stores ask 16.5% larger than that in the previous fiscal year. Also oil wasted their Net Supermarket customers to choose the packaging method from the in-store cooking process is recycled into materials for (whether to use a plastic bag or a basket) in placing their orders. livestock feed, industrial products and fuels. The use of returnable and reusable baskets helps reduce the use of plastic bags. Subsequently, in May 2012, all the stores started Food waste recycling rate this initiative, and as of July 2012, about 30% of the online （%） 60 customers chose the use of baskets. (At some stores the Sogo & Seibu 51.2 percentage exceeded 50%.) 40 Ito-Yokado 39.4 Seven-Eleven Japan 34.1 Seven & i Food Systems 33.0 20 York-Benimaru 24.0 0 2009 2010 2011 (FY) * For the calculation method, please see the Data Section (on page 46 onwards). Packed in disposable plastic bags Packed in a basket Adopting eco-friendly packages Plastic bag turndown rate (food section) （%） At Ito-Yokado and York-Benimaru stores, a lot of foodstuffs are 75 York-Benimaru* processed and cooked, so various efforts are being made to 70.8 50 reduce the use of packaging materials as well as to review their Ito-Yokado 43.3 materials. At some stores, for example, blocks of meat are now 25 sold in plastic bags or being vacuum-packed, instead of being sold 0 on trays. Also for packaging of cut fruits, Ito-Yokado uses 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) plant-based plastic as an elaboration of packaging materials * For data in and before FY2009, calculations were made based on the number of Eco themselves. Stamp cards collected. In FY2010, we changed the calculation method, which is now based on the number of customers who do not accept plastic bags at checkout counters. 25 Major Activities Conducted in the Year/Reducing the Environmental Impact Fostering the recycling of the PET bottles Measures to save water Ito-Yokado and York-Benimaru began to install automatic PET bottle collection machines in March 2012 and July 2012, Seven & i Group companies are making daily efforts to reduce respectively. Unlike the conventional collection boxes, the their water use while introducing water-saving faucets and other machines automatically sort bottles and reduce their volume by devices and using rainwater. compressing or crushing. York-Benimaru has adopted inverter-type pumps to standardize Because the machines remove foreign matter in the sorting water supply pressures, thereby reducing its water use. process, recycling companies can obtain PET bottles in conditions Seven & i Food Systems has asked the cleaners of its uniforms suitable for recycling. Moreover, because their volume is reduced, to clean them only by water without using solvents that contain stores do not need to spend much labor and backyard space for volatile organic compounds (VOC) and other substances that the bottles. Also logistics companies can transport more bottles at might cause photochemical smog. The water used for the cleaning one time, and together with utilizing the transportation routes of the is purified by microorganisms (by adsorption and decomposition) Seven & i Group, they can achieve highly efficient transportation. to be reused as cleaning water. The PET bottles thus collected are recycled again into PET * For the water use by four operating companies excluding Seven-Eleven Japan, please bottles in Japan for use by beverage companies. This “closed-loop see the Data Section (on page 46 onwards). recycling” system to recycle PET bottles to PET bottles is the first attempt by a major retail chain in Japan to be implemented on a large scale. Management of CFCs In order to foster PET bottle collection, we provide “recycle points” that can be exchanged with “nanaco” (the Group’s At Seven & i Group stores, devices using CFCs are replaced with electronic money) points to customers who bring used PET bottles those using CFC alternatives at such occasions as when the to stores. stores are refurbished. The stores also daily conduct temperature The automatic collection machines will be introduced to a total checks on the devices for the early detection of any CFC leakages. of 200 stores of Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru and York Mart by the The devices using CFCs are disposed of by professional end of FY2012. companies in compliance with laws, and the stores receive collection certificates from the companies as the proof of appropriate disposal. PET bottle recycling system using an automatic collection machine Recycling PET bottles into PET bottles ● Circulation of recycled products ● Circulation of resources in Japan Ito-Yokado Automatic PET Logistics Recycling Container and Consumers bottle collection company beverage York-Benimaru company machine companies York Mart ● Bringing PET bottles Highly efficient Closed-loop recycling Using recycled materials ● Exchanging the obtained transportation (Purchasing the in manufacturing resource and (Use of recycled “recycle points” with “nanaco” points ● Issuing “recycle points” to users manufacturing materials materials for the products ● Shopping using the points ● Sorting and reducing the volume of PET bottles for recycled PET bottles to be manufactured and on the spot by using advanced skills) sold) 26 Implementing measures for biodiversity Raising environmental awareness among employees The Seven & i Group has been implementing the “REDD+* project” The Seven & i Group and Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation are at Meru Betiri National Park (about 58,000 hectares) in Indonesia asking Group employees to participate in environmental activities. since 2010. This project helps to conserve biodiversity and For example, the Foundation has been conducting a reforestation mitigate climate change while also contribute to improving the lives activity on Miyake Island* since 2008, in which a total of 554 of local people. In FY2011, we implemented plans to plant trees in proportion to the number of replies made to the questionnaire employees have participated and planted 18,000 trees in the area survey conducted on readers of the CSR Report. In this activity, of about 7.2 hectares. In this activity, employees are given only trees bearing fruit were planted, such as avocado trees, so opportunities to learn about biodiversity and the local natural that the activity would help conserve the forest while also environment to increase their environmental awareness. supporting local citizens, who would be able to sell the fruit to earn money. Also, a campaign to encourage all Group employees to In June 2012, jointly with the Seven-Eleven Memorial conserve energy at their homes was implemented for three Foundation (see the column below), the Group launched a project months from July 2011, following the one implemented in FY2010. to foster forest improvement in Japan. Under this project we will Moreover, a CSR section has been created in the Group conduct activities to address current domestic issues regarding magazine for employees, in which the Group’s environmental forests, such as thinning artificial forests, clearing brush, and planting different tree species, in order to conserve the forests in a issues are regularly introduced. sustainable manner and in harmony with biodiversity conservation. * In June 2000, the island suffered great damage due to the eruption of Mt. Oyama. * “REDD+” means to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, and boost carbon absorption by conserving forests and managing them in a sustainable manner Web Tropical Forest Conservation Project: Web http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/indonesia.html Reforestation activity on Miyake Island Local people are involved in environmental education by teaching children how to grow seedlings TOPICS Seven-Eleven Web http://www.7midori.org/ (in Japanese) Memorial Foundation The Seven-Eleven Memorial Foundation was established in 1993 stores and a total of 158,980,713 yen was used to give financial for Seven-Eleven Japan headquarters and its franchise stores to support to 240 organizations. conduct environmental contribution activities together. The Example of activities conducted to protect and conserve money donated by customers through collection boxes installed natural heritage at the stores is sent to the Foundation together with the The Foundation concluded a partnership agreement with donations made by the headquarters of the company. The money Kiritappu Wetland National Trust, an authorized NPO in is used to support environmental NPOs chosen through a public Hokkaido. Based on this agreement, the Foundation has offering and to conduct activities for mitigating global warming purchased private land within the wetland to conserve the natural and to protect and conserve the natural environment. In FY2011, heritage. As of the end of FY2011, it acquired wetland extending a total of 422,053,005 yen was donated by customers at the over a total of about 405 hectares. 27 Major Activities Conducted in the Year Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services We developed a private brand called Foods with Traceability that links producers with The Seven & i Group places the greatest importance on safety and customers. reliability in all stages, from product planning to retail. At our Foods with Traceability is a private brand developed by stores, product quality is comprehensively checked, and we sell Ito-Yokado. Based on the concept of bringing producers and private brand items that place value on the location and method of customers closer together, we disclose information on producers’ sincere efforts for ensuring safety to customers. In September production as well as on the traceability of food products. 2011, the inspection system on radioactive substances was Measures are also being implemented for the stable operation of strengthened for the production stage and prior to shipment in financial, IT, and other service products. order to eliminate customers’ worries about the presence of Since March 2012, a joint training seminar is being conducted radioactivity. We have also begun disclosing the inspection results for those in charge of purchasing at our Group companies in order on our website. to further improve the quality of our products. In recognition of the efforts regarding Good Agricultural Practices (GAP – methods of agricultural production process Commended by the Ministry of Economy, management promoted by the Trade and Industry for product safety measures government) in relation to Fruits and Vegetables with Traceability Ito-Yokado applies its unique quality standards formulated in line we received the GAP with the public standards for each product group; taking into Dissemination Award in July 2012, The producer and other information can consideration previously identified accidents and issues, as well as be confirmed via PC and mobile phone first among retailers. requests from customers. For private brand products, domestic and overseas plants have Traceability System for fruit and vegetables been audited in collaboration with inspection organizations. Comprehensive follow up is being conducted at plants where Entire system is proprietary standard problems were found in order to make steady improvements. Prior to product launch, quality is inspected by a third-party organization. Seminars are also held with business partners for Information disclosure from producers sharing product safety measures and information on quality. Who produced what vegetables and In recognition of these efforts, Ito-Yokado received the Minister how is disclosed on the website of Economy, Trade and Industry Award, first among general supermarkets, in the Large Retailer Category of the Fifth (FY Information Information Producers Ito-Yokado Customers 2011) Best Contributors to Product Safety Awards. Since the Products Products commendation, Ito-Yokado has participated as a committee member in a range of efforts to formulate product safety standards Only stock domestically grown in response to requests by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and agricultural products Industry and other administrative and public organizations. “Good vegetables come from good land” –careful selection of producers Pesticide use is scaled back to who properly grow vegetables on less than half the average suitable land Checks by third parties to ensure reliability Logo granted by the Ministry of Economy, Third party institutions (audits and inspections) Trade and Industry to recipients 28 Sales of Foods with Traceability Products (Sales: billions of yen) (Number of products) Safety is ensured through a system that enables interaction 30 240 between products and source materials to be traced. 25 Number of products 200 Seven-Eleven Japan uses an average of 40 types of source 20 Sales (fish) 160 materials for each rice-based food item, prepared dish and other 15 120 daily delivered food products. We sell upward of 1,000 prepared Sales 10 (fruit and vegetables) 80 food options and release 100 new items each week. In order to manage each of these products, we apply the Recipe 5 40 Sales (meat) Master System that regulates what kind of source materials are 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) being used, their quantity, and at which plant. For this system, complete information from over 300 partner manufacturers and about 170 dedicated plants is managed in a database, enabling the relation between source materials and products to be traced. We support agriculture through Seven Farm, As a result, we are able to promptly address any problem that is which links producers with stores. found concerning a source material by immediately seeing which The agriculture environment in Japan has faced a major turning products used it. point, brought about by the aging of farmers, increase of farmland We also voluntarily conduct DNA assays on rice to prevent that is no longer cultivated, and amendments to the Agricultural mixing of varieties, as well as inspections on radioactive Land Act. Ito-Yokado has responded by establishing Seven Farm substances contained in food products. in different areas, based on the concept of helping agriculture and Also notable is that no preservatives or artificial colorings are promoting recycling. We strive to contribute to the revitalization of used in original brand products of Seven-Eleven Japan, . regional agriculture and improvement of agricultural productivity. Traceability management by Recipe Master System In our efforts, we have established a system for maintaining (Onigiri rice ball to be wrapped in seaweed) freshness in all processes from the field to the storefront, by Seaweed connecting producers with a retailer. We also sell irregular Produced in Ariake Sea, products, which have typically been discarded, enabling efficient grades 2 to 4 (by Fishery Associations) sales without waste. (See p.24) Filling Rice DNA assay and Seasoning radioactive substance Kombu (kelp) inspections are from Hidaka conducted monthly. Locations of Seven Farm (As of end of July 2012) Kamikawa-gun, Hokkaido ● Kombu (kelp) ● Soy sauce ● Sugar ● Reduced syrup ● Hydrolyzed protein ● Salt ● Soybeans Produced in Fukaya-shi, Saitama ・ Japan Seven Farm Tomisato ・ ・ Produced in Chikusei-shi, Ibaraki US Hekinan-shi, Aichi ● Wheat ・ ・ ・ Tomisato-shi, Chiba The source materials used are Tracing back also to the comprehensively managed countries of origin of secondary Yokosuka-shi, utilizing databases. source materials Kanagawa 29 Major Activities Conducted in the Year Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Assuring appropriate information provision We continue efforts to reduce trans-fatty acids and disclose information. The Seven & i Group strives to disclose accurate information on Based on the initiative for developing safe and reliable products, products and prices that customers need. In addition to allergic Seven-Eleven Japan continually strives to improve quality. As a food substances, for which the Food Sanitation Act mandates part of these efforts, since 2005 we have sought to reduce indication, our Group also displays food substances for which trans-fatty acids, which are said to increase the risk of heart indication is recommended. There are also operating companies disease. The fryer oil, fatty pastes and cream we use have been that handle anti-allergic food products. switched to exclusive source materials containing lower amounts At the storefront, staff in charge check for inappropriate product of trans-fatty acids, in our pursuit of improvements with source labels and displays/information. And training seminars are held to material manufacturers. With Strawberry Jam & Margarine, one of thoroughly educate employees on proper indication. our most popular bread products, the trans-fatty acid content in During the first half of FY2012, comprehensive guidelines for 2011 had been reduced by 91% compared to the same product in the Group were prepared concerning unclear expressions that are 2005. outside the scope of provisions of the JAS Act and Food Sanitation Also, since May 2011 pursuant to the Guidelines on Information Act in order to avoid expressions which may cause customer Disclosure about Trans-Fatty Acid issued by the Consumer Affairs misunderstandings. Agency in February 2011, we have disclosed on our website the saturated fatty acid, trans-fatty acid and cholesterol content in our We confirm labels and indications in order to major products. prevent misunderstanding. Grams of trans-fatty acid contained in every 100 g of At Ito-Yokado, members of the secretariat of the Fair Trade (FT) Strawberry Jam & Margarine bread (calculated value) Subcommittee conduct labeling and information indication FY2005 FY2007 FY2012 inspection in all stores every half term. At the same time, they 1.86g 0.18g 0.15g provide storefront education and interview section managers for labeling and information indication inspection. They evaluate stores based on objective numeric values and implement specific Developing stores and facilities that customers can measures for improvement in collaboration with store managers visit with a sense of security and assistant managers in charge of each store. With the hope of enabling all of our customers to shop comfortably at our stores with a sense of security, the Seven & i Group Labeling and information indication inspection conducts daily storefront patrol and inspection, has installed crime A B C prevention and disaster prevention equipment. We have also 2009 adopted the notion of universal design in our store designs, and 81 17 2 conducted employee training for assisting customers with physical 2010 disabilities. 91 9 0 Sogo & Seibu has also established the Seven Prohibited 2011 Actions for managing personal information of customers, which (FY) 95 5 0 have been thoroughly disseminated among all employees. 0 20 40 60 80 100 (%) Seven Prohibited Actions for maintaining customers’ trust A: Labels and displayed information are appropriate, and employees are fully aware of 1. Sending emails to customers from personal computers on the sales floors labeling requirements. 2. Maintaining personal information on personal computers B: There is room for improvement, and employees in some divisions lack sufficient awareness. 3. Leaving documents containing personal information unattended C: There is room for improvement, and employees require training in truth in labeling. 4. Taking personal information outside of the store D: Immediate improvement is required, and the entire store organization must be 5. Maintaining personal information in a location other than that designated by the store reconsidered. 6. Sending advertising mail without the approval of the Sales Promotion Manager 7. Receiving or delivering personal information without keeping a Personal Information Handling Record. 30 Improving service for responding to customers’ expectations We continue to make improvements from the customer’s standpoint In order to continue improving our products and services from the Ito-Yokado consigns storefront surveys to qualified advisory customer’s standpoint, each Seven & i Group company has specialists for collecting customers’ opinions on customer service, established a customer consultation desk for receiving customers’ sales floor design and product lineup. Also, in February 2012, opinions and requests and responding to them promptly. The outside mystery shoppers conducted sales floor surveys at all our information collected is sorted according to the contents and distributed to relevant divisions and stores for making stores. They paid unannounced visits to stores and graded the improvements. three items as above as they shopped. Stores were ranked Notable examples of comments of appreciation sent in by based on the survey results, and the ranks were announced at a customers to Group companies are featured in the monthly Seven store managers’ meeting. & i Group in-house magazine in order to improve the Group’s The Operation Support Division of Seven & i Food Systems overall ability to communicate and deal with customers. Starting in FY2012, has conducted mystery shopper surveys 10 times each year per employees in charge of store (in areas excluding employee cafeterias) on 130 items the customer concerning customer service, food products, cleanliness and consultation desk at other matters in order to identify issues needing attention. The each of the Group family restaurant chain Denny’ s has also gathered customers’ companies have also been given training by opinions and comments on specific menu options on its website outside lecturers. in order to develop products that reflect customers’ evaluations Seminar by an outside lecturer and opinions. TOPICS Assisting business partners in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake through Employee's voice product development Each of the Seven & i Group companies strives to contribute to the The Seafood Division of Ito-Yokado continues to support region’s recovery from the Earthquake and founding of sustainable producers and processors, so they can supply us with regional industry through sales of products from the region. products while they maintain a sense of security. Ito-Yokado has sold Iwate Tohno beef, produced in the Fish farmers in Rikuzentakata from whom we have comprehensive production system covering all the processes from purchased raw wakame seaweed for many years had their business halted by the earthquake. We visited them and breeding to retailing, jointly with the Tohno City government in asked them to continue production because we are more Iwate Prefecture and food product manufacturers, as a private than willing to sell their products; a move that help rid them of brand product called “Meat with Traceability.” Outstanding some anxiety and restart their operations. processed meat products made from Iwate Tohno beef born and Concerning the issue of radioactive residue, we have used bred in Tohno have been developed in efforts to configure a new the Group’s expertise to advise business model that supports Iwate Prefecture’s quick recovery. producers on methods for Seven-Eleven Japan has sold onigiri rice balls and salad using self-initiated inspections and indexes wakame seaweed from Sanriku area beaches. Sogo & Seibu also to be met for selling products. Since sponsors the Tohoku Cotton Project, which supports farmers the earthquake, we have come to trying to restart farming by cultivating cotton that can withstand soil realize that we are engaged in the with high saline content, in farmlands where rice breeding is not important task of conveying the possible due to salt damage from the tsunami. Products using the thoughts of producers to our Masami Takeuchi, customers. buyer, Seafood Division, harvested cotton have been sold in department stores. Ito-Yokado. 31 Major Activities Conducted in the Year Creating Fulfilling Workplaces Helping female employees demonstrate more Making use of diverse human resources of their abilities, aiming to create a system that provides a range of work style options The Seven & i Group adheres to fair and unbiased employment, transfer, and promotion as its basic policy. In February 2010, the In FY2011, we began implementing measures to provide female Human Rights Awareness Office was moved from Ito-Yokado to employees, who tend to face the necessity of changing their work Seven & i Holdings to enhance human rights education and styles due to marriage, childbirth, and childcare, with a view to awareness across the Group. providing workplaces where a range of human resources can bring about new value and vigor to their company through friendly Number of employees competition for a significant period of time. Employees 83,301 As part of this effort, we have been operating an Ito-Yokado Percentage of full-time employees 29％ (males: 76% and females: 24%) store, a York-Benimaru store, a Seibu store, and a Denny’s Percentage of part-time staff 71％ restaurant where regular employees are all women since April * Scope of aggregation: Six companies (Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, Sogo & Seibu, Seven & i Food Systems, and Seven Bank) 2012. Also Seven-Eleven Japan launched the store operation counseling service provided only by women in a district. Through the service we are reviewing the existing business operations, Placing the right people in the right jobs while creating and arranging sales floors, selecting products, and With respect for the will of the employees so that they can fully providing services from the viewpoints and sensibility of women in demonstrate their abilities—we are implementing the “Human consideration of the fact that 70% of our customers are women. Resources Public Recruitment System” at the Seven & i Group Moreover in June 2012 we launched the Diversity Promotion that goes beyond the operating company. Project. We will proactively implement measures going forward to Other Group companies also have in-house public recruitment help female employees demonstrate more of their abilities and systems. For example, Ito-Yokado, employees who have worked support all employees in achieving their work-life balance. for at least two years for the company can apply for all the managerial positions and jobs regardless of their work experience or seniority. In FY2011, 102 of 462 applicants got the positions or jobs of their choice. Promoting the employment of people with disabilities We are committed to assisting people with disabilities to demonstrate abilities at their workplaces. To this end, the operating companies assign those employees to the workplaces and jobs that are suitable for them in consideration of the level and details of the disabilities and their own preferences. The Group’s employment rate of people with disabilities* including Terre Verte, which is a special subsidiary established to foster the employment of people with severe disabilities, is 1.89% (as of June 1, 2012) against the statutory rate of 1.8%. * The percentage is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Upper: Seven-Eleven Japan Verte, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Lower: Ito-Yokado 32 Supporting development of employee abilities Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Seven & i Group operating companies are committed to Seven & i Group companies are implementing personnel developing human resources by providing employees with training evaluation systems to maximize employees’ abilities and assess programs suitable for their business features. them in a transparent and fair manner. The companies’ employees Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, and Seven & i Food Systems are self-evaluate their job performance and then their managers also operating in-house qualification programs to certify the skills conduct an appraisal. Subsequently through interviews, the necessary for their business operations. Ito-Yokado, Sogo & employees talk about the appraisal results with the managers to Seibu, and Seven Bank are supporting the self-education of understand their strong points and challenges. employees by sharing the cost of correspondence education. Moreover each Group company is working to establish the In FY2011, Seven-Eleven Japan began providing employees of systems in which individuals can choose from among different its franchise stores with the Cashier Customer Service Training for working styles to work with higher motivation. For example, Franchisees to improve their customer service abilities. Also Sogo Ito-Yokado has a program enabling part-timers to choose from & Seibu started the Career-Up Seminar as an open educational diverse working styles based on their personal circumstances and program in which employees can participate if they want. beliefs. Seven & i Food Systems promotes part-timers to full-timers, under which a total of 184 part-timers have actually got promotion for last five years, or appoints them as store managers . Achieving a work-life balance The Seven & i Group is improving its childcare and nursing care systems to help employees, including part-timers, continue Opening a training center working. All Group companies are operating childcare systems In March 2012, we opened a training center for the Group. The that are better than the legal standard. center is fully equipped with the rooms used for training on sales In April 2012, Ito-Yokado prolonged the deadline until which floor displays, checkout services, and skills for handling fresh employees raising their children can work shorter hours from April foods (prepared foods, fish, sushi, meat, vegetables and fruits). In 15 of the year in which the child becomes a second grader at the skills training room, a large monitor on which trainees can see elementary school to April 15 of the year in which the child the hands of the lecturer in an enlarged size as well as a device becomes a fifth grader at elementary school. (Also Seven-Eleven to send the images shown on the monitor to each store are Japan prolonged the deadline to the same date and Seven & i prepared to provide an Food Systems to April 15 of the year in which the child becomes a effective learning first grader at junior high school.) environment. Moreover Moreover, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i there are 65 rooms for Food Systems have a volunteer leave system to support the accommodations, including participation of employees in volunteer activities. Further in four rooms with universal FY2011, Ito-Yokado made it possible also for part-timers to take design where people in volunteer leave. wheelchairs can stay. 33 Major Activities Conducted in the Year/Creating Fulfilling Workplaces At the headquarters of Seven & i Holdings, health consultations Assuring consideration for worker health and safety are held by inviting dieticians of Seven & i Food Systems, which provide employees with opportunities to raise awareness about The Seven & i Group is striving to maintain safe and comfortable their health and dietary habits. workplaces for employees. To this end, each Group company In addition, to prevent industrial accidents, Ito-Yokado provides regularly holds meetings of its safety and health committee and employees dealing with fresh food with education on the treatment provides employees with regular health checkups, while the of knives and other tools, while at some meetings of Seven-Eleven Group’s headquarters set up a health management center for Japan, executive managers give cautions for safe driving to OFC employees. Moreover, the group has introduced a system in which (Operations Field Consultants) who drive vehicles for their jobs. clinical psychotherapists and counselors provide employees with Seven & i Food Systems urges employees to prevent industrial counseling services on their mental health by phone and via accidents by posting awareness posters, etc. at its restaurants e-mail. The Group also provides both employees and their families twice a year. The company also conducts interview surveys on with health counseling and services to introduce medical those that had industrial accidents to investigate the cause and institutions. share the specific measures to prevent the reoccurrence of similar accidents. Breakdown of consultation requests made by employees by topic (FY2011) Others 10% Health advice 9% Mental health 17% Total 1,088 inquiries* Diseases and treatment 64% * Including those from employees’ families Health consultation TOPICS Sound labor-management relationships The federation of Seven & i Group labor unions is composed of issues as revising wages and increasing the number of holidays eight*1 Japanese labor unions. The labor unions exchange given to part-timer members under the condolence leave and information about the organizational management and working volunteer leave systems to the number of the holidays given to conditions for the members based on the principle of enhancing their regular employees. organizations while maintaining their independence. Furthermore, in FY2012 the personnel system was revised Ito-Yokado’s labor union, which implements the union shop focusing on the management of labor hours by managers in charge, system, is the largest of the Group, with about 39,000 members. As with a view to providing National/Area/Expert employees*2 with an of September 2012, 89% of all its employees, excluding students appropriate treatment according to their job details, which has been working as part-time staff, belong to the labor union. continuously discussed. Ito-Yokado respects the union’s activities based on the three rights of labor. For example, when the labor union holds an *1 The labor unions of Ito-Yokado, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, Marudai, K.K. Sanei, York-Benimaru, Akachan Honpo, and Sogo & Seibu important plenary meeting, a round table meeting or training seminar The federation also shares information and cooperates with the labor unions of during the opening hours of the stores, the company makes the following Group companies: Life Foods, SHELL GARDEN and THE LOFT. necessary arrangements on the working hours of the union (Total of about 66,000 members as of September 2012) members. In FY2011, the company and labor union concluded *2 Ito-Yokado classifies its regular employees into these three types. seven labor agreements by discussing and negotiating on such 34 Coexisting with Local Communities Making social contributions in cooperation with local Seven & i Group governments and organizations The Seven & i Group sells a range of Seven Premium The Seven & i Group has concluded cooperation agreements for products made using domestically produced rice powder. By comprehensive regional activation with a total of 42 municipal cooperating with the Komeko Club governments (as of the end of August 2012) and is fostering project implemented as part of the cooperation with organizations based on the policy, “contribute to FOOD ACTION NIPPON initiative and attaching the logo of the Club local development and establishment of a prosperous living to the rice powder product environment through our business” packages, the Group contributes to increasing public awareness Breakdown of the social contribution activity costs (FY2011) Snack made using rice powder and consumption of rice powder. Health, medicine, and sports 3% Social welfare 5% Others 2% Activities for local communities and the preservation of historic Sogo & Seibu sites and traditional culture 13% Environment 36% 2777.27 Education and social million yen Sogo & Seibu sells 96 eco-friendly product items that are education 13% Support to in total areas affected assessed by a third-party organization to meet the criteria set by disasters 28% independently by the company (as of the end of February 2012). Also the company proposes “green wrapping” to customers, * Total amount of costs calculated for Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, through which they can make social contributions. Specifically, it Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, Sogo & Seibu, Seven & i Food Systems, Seven Bank, is proposed that customers purchase a wrapping ribbon with a York Mart, and Akachan Honpo. The calculation was made in line with the Japan leaf-shaped mascot at the unit price of 100 yen, of which 50 yen Business Federation’s guidelines on the implementation of surveys on social will be donated to tree planting and growing activities. Moreover contribution activities (2011). the company asks its customers to choose “simple packaging” when they purchase summer and winter gifts, which leads to the planting of one tree per 4,000 gifts. Making social contributions through merchandise sale We are selling goods and implementing campaigns, through which we enable our customers to participate in environmental conservation and social contribution activities. Proposing “ eco-friendly product” to Green wrapping customers on a POP sign showing the merit of the product. Ito-Yokado In 2000, Ito-Yokado began installing automatic vending machines, sales of which are partially donated to international humanitarian Seven Bank support organizations, jointly with beverage manufacturers. (As of the end of July 2012, 377 Since July 2011, Seven Bank issues Bonolon Cash Cards, units are installed at 78 stores.) Through this which are designed based on a main character of a picture activity, the company has donated a total of 37.7 book for reading that Seven Bank co-sponsors, to customers million yen while also selling other goods the sales of which are partially donated. who have opened their accounts at the bank and chosen the issuance of the card. The Bank donates 100 yen per each of the card issued as the fund to create a specially edited picture book. The copies of the book were distributed to about 3,000 child centers across Japan in Message cards the sales May 2012. Bonolon Cash Card Two types of rice, the sales of which are partially of which are partially donated to environmental protection funds for donated to UNICEF conserving two rare species of birds 35 Major Activities Conducted in the Year/Coexisting with Local Communities Sogo & Seibu Conducting store-based activities Sogo & Seibu has At stores to which a lot of people visit, the Group companies have been collecting been conducting activities, such as installing donation collection donations and holding awareness-raising boxes and brochure stands for organ donor cards and holding a events for the training range of events. of seeing-eye dogs. In FY2011 the company donated a Ito-Yokado total of 34,709,964 yen for the purpose, including donations from employees and Ito-Yokado opened the “eco & universal design corner” at six the labor-management fund. Moreover the company has a children’s shoes trade-in of its stores (as of the end of February 2012), focusing on the counter at each of its stores and sends the shoes brought by theme “friendly to both the Earth and people.” At this space, customers to the counter to the Republic of Zambia through the the company international NGO JOICFP. In FY2011 about 24,000 pairs of introduces its shoes were donated initiatives for energy to the country in this conservation, activity, in order to recycling and reuse help prevent local of materials, and children from getting infected by tetanus natural energy or parasitic diseases using panels and as a result of going images. barefoot and getting injured. TOPICS Supporting recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake ● Seven & i Food Systems Affairs and Communications, and sold the world’s first Valentine’s From April to November 2011, Seven & i Food Systems sold Day message cards with CO2 emission rights. Specifically, the “meals with donations.” Specifically the company donated 20 yen Store purchased CO2 emission rights sold within Iwate Prefecture per meal* (7,081,320 yen in total) to the Japanese Red Cross (one of the earthquake-affected areas), divided them into Society. 10-kilogram emission rights, assigned each of them to the cards, * For the period from April 15 to May 15, customers were also able to donate 20 yen and sold the cards at the unit price of 100 yen. The CO2 emission in this activity conducted by the company. rights purchased by customers could be used to reduce CO2 ● York-Benimaru emissions from the activities conducted by the organizations Upon request from Fukushima Prefecture, York-Bemimaru has supporting the recovery from the earthquake, and thus Sogo & established the furusato kizuna information station at seven of its Seibu made it possible for purchasers of the cards to support the stores in the prefecture, where information from the local affected areas and also make environmental contributions. governments of the earthquake-affected areas and consultation Moreover to support evacuates from Iitate Village in services are available and local inhabitants can make mutual Fukushima Prefecture, the Sogo Kashiwa Store held an event to exchanges. sell the clothes and clothing accessories that female citizens of Also, in response to a substantial decrease in the recruitment of the village had made by recycling old clothes at their temporary graduates from senior high schools located in the Tohoku region houses. In this event held for two days in March 2012, Sogo & and in particular in Fukushima Prefecture, the company increased Seibu not only provided the the employment of graduates from senior high schools located in citizens with a place to sell the prefecture through additional recruitment in August 2011. their products, but also gave them design advice ● Sogo & Seibu and comprehensively The Sogo Yokohama Store cooperated to a demonstration supported them in experiment conducted by the Japanese Ministry of International Event to sell the products made by citizens of advertisement and sales. Iitate Village 36 Overseas initiatives South Korea China The Seven & i Group operates globally, Sweden Canada Denmark Japan U.S. in 16 countries and regions Norway Taiwan Hawaii Thailand around the world. Philippines Mexico Malaysia Indonesia Singapore Australia Worldwide Store Network 46,600stores *The number of stores (end of February 2012 for Japan; end of December 2011 for other countries/regions) includes the following: ● Stores operated in various countries/regions by our subsidiaries ● Stores operated in each country by area licensees of 7-Eleven, Inc. (approx.)* ● Stores operated using trademarks pursuant to agreements concluded with Sogo & Seibu Social contribution activities by overseas companies 7-Eleven, Inc. 7,149 stores SEVEN-ELEVEN（HAWAII）, INC. 58 stores 7-Eleven engages in social contribution activities with the aim of As a good corporate citizen, we support activities and promoting the well-being of youth, supporting military families, and organizations involved with children, education, public welfare, helping to relieve hunger. In FY2011, as part of our continuing and health. In FY2011, we served as a sponsor of major charity Operation Chill activities, one million coupons for a free Slurpee® events and our employees were distributed to local police to also participated. be handed out to children who perform good deeds such as helping others. Hua Tang Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado, SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) 147 stores Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado 15 stores in total A charity box is set up in each store to collect contributions from The above companies all engage in support of education, cleanup, customers. Funds raised are donated to the government-certified and other activities, as seen in donations collected via the Yokado environmental organization Beijing Green Foundation. In FY2011, Charity Fund for Assisting with the Education of Children 148,586 yuan was raised. TOPICS 7-Eleven operating companies in different countries * Companies holding area licenses operate 7-Eleven stores in different countries. CP ALL Public Company Ltd. operates 6,276 stores in Thailand and Korea Seven Co., Ltd. (Lotte Group), which operates 5,249 stores in actively provided support for areas affected by the massive flooding that South Korea, donates daily necessities to the Korea Social Service struck the country in 2011. For example, the company donated meals, Association, and uses 1% of the profits from sales of prepackaged meals, bakery products and drinking water to governmental organizations cakes, and other items to be able to offer powdered milk for babies. immediately after the flood. It also offered relief agencies use of 7-Eleven President Chain Store Co., Ltd., which operates 4,801 stores in stores nationwide to raise funds from the public. 7-Eleven stores in Taiwan, has for over a decade taken part in a cleanup campaign, on flooded areas were opened to supply necessary items to communities as which 30 million Taiwan dollars have been spent and more than 300,000 long as they could be operated. After the floods subsided, the company people, including the general public, have participated. Employee began selling two popular packed lunch products and beverages at the volunteers also conduct support activities to enable persons with lowest possible prices in 11 affected provinces in order to help people disabilities to acquire the basic skills for independent living. who needed to reserve their funds for the expenses involved in recovery. 37 Overseas initiatives – United States 7-Eleven, Inc. Environmental data on the United States and Canada Reducing the environmental impact FY2012 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Targets 7-Eleven, Inc. (hereinafter “SEI”) strives to alleviate the burden its Stores 6,389 6,610 7,149 7,779 business activities place on the environment, such as in resource CO2 emissions from consumption as well as waste and CO2 emissions. In FY2011, the store operations 1,128 1,117 1,138 1,242 annualized reduction of CO2 emissions due to energy and (1,000 tons-CO2)* sustainability measures was 244,500 tons and the annualized Water consumption (1,000 m3) 6,344 6,728 5,955 6,225 financial savings topped $40 million; enabled through energy conservation measures in new stores and other energy-related Plastic bag ― ― 1,496 1,390 consumption (tons) and environmental measures. * Calculated based on an emission coefficient conforming to the standards of USEPA Major efforts for reducing environmental impact When activities began/Activity description Since FY2009 (Continued activities) ・ Created the Corporate Energy and Sustainability Program Manual ・ Developed several energy conservation and environmental Before (left) and after (right) interior LED lighting installation sustainability programs 7-Eleven wins award for corporate ・ Established a centralized database to closely monitor and grasp detailed energy usage and cost data energy management ・ Implemented energy-efficient designs that include LED lighting, efficient HVAC units, and energy-management In recognition of 7-Eleven’s initiatives for energy efficiency, the systems in all new stores Association of Energy Engineers selected SEI to receive the ・ Installed a portfolio of more than 1,200 Energy Management Region IV Corporate Energy Management Award for 2011. The Systems in stores ・ Replaced lighting and air-conditioning equipment award recognizes outstanding accomplishments in developing, ・ Issued Temperature Set Point standards for stores organizing, managing and implementing corporate energy ・ Specified HVAC systems that are highly energy-efficient and management programs. The award ceremony was held in Chicago use environmentally benign refrigerants ・ Introduced electronic billing and payment systems for utilities prior to the opening of the World Energy Engineering Congress in and various vendors, eliminating approximately 0.8 tons/year October 2011. of paper consumption ・ Provided incentives for urging headquarters employees to use public transportation FY2011 (New activities) ・ Closed field offices in the U.S. and Canada and asked approximately 1,200 employees to work from their homes ・ Consolidated delivery of goods and conducted collective delivery, thereby reducing the number of trucks used and CO2 Association of Energy Engineers Region IV Corporate emissions by approximately 3,000 tons Energy Management Award Ceremony; accepting on ・ Reduced electricity per-store consumption by 15,665 kWh by behalf of 7-Eleven was James Chemp, Director, (third introducing interior LED lights in 4,493 stores, thereby from left), Engineering & Energy Management reducing annual CO2 emissions by 10.7 tons 38 Social contribution activities in the U.S. Campaign to help relieve domestic hunger, pursued in collaboration with business partner SEI hopes to help improve the quality of life in local communities SEI and PepsiCo, Inc. in October-December 2011 partnered in a through unified activities by the headquarters and franchisees. In campaign to help relieve domestic hunger. PepsiCo, Inc. donated FY2011, more than $3.7 million in cash equivalent value was five cents for each 20-oz. Pepsi product purchased to the food donated to more than 400 organizations, including cash donations bank organization Feeding America. Consumers were able to from customers, franchisees, employees, and the company, as double the contribution by checking-in to the Facebook page of well as in-kind contributions and volunteer hours for local SEI during the campaign period. initiatives. A total of $250,000 was raised, as well as another $180,000 Amount of cash donations in the U.S. by SEI (FY2011)* through a related campaign by SEI, bringing the total to $430,000. Military 4％ International relationships and cooperation 3％ The entire amount will be used in emergency food assistance for a Others 2％ Economic development, advertising 5％ total of 37 million Americans, including 14 million children (each Health and medical care 7％ year), who have difficulty securing food. Support for areas Total amount struck by disaster 60％ Safety 8％ $ 1,038,736 Education 11％ Healthy foods * Budget As a company engaged in the neighborhood retail business, SEI Support for military personnel believes that it assumes roles and responsibilities of offering For the month of November in 2011, the Operation: Thank You healthy foods and drinks to our customers. In response to the campaign was held for raising funds to be donated to the United recently increasing instances of obesity and the rising popularity of Service Organization (USO), the largest organizations in the U.S. convenient nutritional foods, it is now more important that we sell for supporting the welfare of members of the military and their healthy foods. families. For each $1 contribution, 7-Eleven customers received a Given this climate, SEI has established product lineups that USO thank you card they could write a name on and post at a enable customers to easily consume nutritiously balanced meals. store. This let them show their appreciation to family members Through news releases on our website, we also convey and friends who are serving or who have served in the military. information on recommended products for breakfast, lunch, The card also comes with a tear-off coupon that can be used for snacks, and beverages. the next purchase, making the campaign enjoyable for those who make contributions as well. The funds amounting to more than $224,000 raised through the campaign enabled the sending of about 9,000 Operation Care Packages that provided snacks, toiletries, telephone cards, and other items for troops on overseas missions. 7-Eleven dietitian Patsy Ross shows food and beverages at 7-Eleven stores for customers who want to maintain their intention to eat healthily, but still want convenience The USO thank you card 39 Overseas initiatives – United States Initiatives started in FY2011 include Supporting employee skill development 1 College of Operations Leadership (C.O.O.L.) program SEI has more than 19,000 U.S. and Canadian employees and With the help of the National Business Leadership approximately 4,000 franchisees. The company takes efforts for Council, 7-Eleven’s franchisee and employee leadership committee, curriculums that further appropriate hiring and employee education, developing develop operational knowledge and skills have employees capable of actively engaging in diverse communities. been developed for new franchisees. 7-Eleven’s employee development policies include producing meaningful job experiences that challenge and stretch the 2 R.I.G.H.T. Behavior Model employee’s capabilities, offering opportunities for learning and 7-Eleven also designed the R.I.G.H.T. behavior model toolkit to help franchisees and sales staff deliver an outstanding customer experience growth, and ensuring a fair evaluation based on a performance through five core behaviors. This program will be rolled out for stores in assessment standard. FY2012. In FY2011, learning tools for franchisees and employees were R : Respond to our Guest identified as keys to 7-Eleven’s future success. The company I : Interact with our Guest as a friend G : Great appearance expanded its development portfolio with three new initiatives, H : Helpful – serving our Guest promptly shown on the right, to support our staff in their current roles, define T : Thank and invite back and manage career path objectives, and better serve our 3 7-Excel University customers. 7-Excel University, a new human-development plan that will help develop OFCs (Operations Field Consultants) and headquarter employees, is launched in FY2012. This is an ongoing, in-house educational curriculum that aims to improve employees’ soft skills, including leadership and management, as well as their hard skills such as technical and administrative abilities, sales planning, and business process skills. Employee's voice Personnel Data in the U.S. and Canada (as of December 31, 2011) Part-time staff 5,977 Fulltime employees 13,217 (Percentage of part-time staff31％) We believe that development of Employees Male 5,691 employees’ abilities is one of our 19,194 greatest competitive advantages Female 7,526 against other companies. Successful employee development requires a balance between an individual’s career ● Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.9％ ● Percentage of women in management positions, excluding executive officers 22％ needs and goals and the organization’s need to get work done. 7-Eleven’s Miya Maysent Vice President, Talent employee development programs Management, 7-Eleven, proactively contribute to establishing a Inc. highly skilled workforce and stronger organizational performance. 40 SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. Social contribution Step out walk to stop diabetes Diabetes is the fifth leading cause of death in Hawaii. People of Hawaiian, Japanese, and Filipino ancestry make up the majority of In FY2011, SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. (hereinafter “SEH”) those afflicted with the disease. Since many SEH employees come donated more than $160,000 in cash equivalent value to 60 from these backgrounds, the issue is a familiar one for the organizations, including cash donations from customers, company as well. franchisees, employees, and the company, as well as in-kind The American Diabetes Association of Hawaii—which is contributions and volunteer hours for local initiatives. engaged in research to prevent and cure diabetes, as well as to raise awareness on the disease—holds “Step Out Walk to Stop Cash donations by SEH (FY2011) Diabetes” every spring; an event for raising funds for the Education 5％ Others 4％ organization’s research. In this popular event, approximately 3,000 Social welfare 12％ people walk a course around Kapiolani Park in Waikiki. SEH has Health and Support for areas struck sponsored the event since 2008. Our employees are urged to medical care 12％ Total amount by disaster 50％ $ 39,665 participate in the event and to prevent occurrence of the disease Local community services 17％ through maintenance of healthy lifestyles among employees, families, and friends. 7-Eleven Charity Golf Classic As a part of its charity activities, SEH has sponsored a golf tournament every year since 1978. Proceeds from participants over these years have been donated to the Muscular Dystrophy Association. In response to the association’s establishment of a Enhancing customer satisfaction fundraising system, we also began contributing to organizations involved with children, education, welfare, and health. Thus far, we To raise the level of customer satisfaction, each division of SEH have made donations to organizations engaged in care for abused engages in the improvement of sales capabilities, human children, offering of meals to the disabled and elderly, and resources development, and expansion of store networks. To education for preventing drug abuse. Many SEH employee advance these initiatives efficiently, we have developed 7-Central, volunteers support the charity event, and the tournament a system on the intranet that enables accurate conveyance of continues to be popular on Oahu as an outstanding charity golf information. event. SEH plans to continue this successful undertaking in the The system comprehensively manages e-mails, emergency future. broadcasts, reports, phone contacts, manuals, planning calendars, etc., allowing easier viewing and greater convenience for employees. Use of the system has led to increased business productivity, fewer wasted products, higher customer satisfaction, and other positive outcomes. 41 Overseas initiatives – China SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) Product development Preventing non-compliance SEB strives to concisely grasp customer needs through detailed SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) (hereinafter “SEB”) has surveys and analyses on market situations during its product established its own action guidelines to thoroughly development processes in order to develop products that match disseminate fair business activities that comply with the law. customers’ preferences and maintain overall balance with regard To disseminate the action guidelines among employees, to attributes such as taste and quality. Product development education is given in monthly group seminars for meetings are held for deciding on product concepts, targeting merchandisers. customers, and targeting quality and sales. Product development personnel repeat tasting and make improvements for developing Examples of educational program only optimal products that align with the Seven-Eleven concepts. ・Conducting sincere and fair transactions with business partners, and striving to build and maintain trust-based relationships ・Acting in conformity with the company’s rules regarding accepting The voice of a product business entertainment or gifts from business partners development employee ・Maintaining an appropriate attitude when dealing with business If the products I develop are accepted partners, without conforming to unreasonable business customs widely among customers, I can not only ・Maintaining business and corporate secrets of business partners with contribute toward store sales, but also strict confidentiality make customers aware of the sense of freshness and the appeal of Seven-Eleven. So I feel our tasks are challenging and rewarding. I hope to An Hong MD (in charge of product make it known among the people of development), Daily Delivered Food Products China that Seven-Eleven offers “close Division, SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) by convenient” stores, as in Japan, by developing excellent products Meeting of SMDs (product development managers) and raising recognition through positive word-of-mouth. We hope to gain even greater knowledge about product development, and we strive to continually develop new products. Development of safe, reliable products I personally hope to be promoted to team leader within five years, and to lead my team in developing top-selling products, one after another. Interest in food safety has heightened in China. SEB has implemented a range of measures for offering safe, reliable products. 42 Selecting business partners Reducing the environmental impact SEB has self-initiated standards that are more stringent than the domestic laws of China, and handles only products of business Electricity charges have gone up in China due to supply failing to partners that meet these criteria. For instance, for oden (a keep pace with growing demand. Businesses are mandated to Japanese hotpot dish with assorted ingredients) we have conserve electricity to reduce costs as well as decrease their standards for stringent manufacturing process management and environmental impact. microbial measurement. Before starting transactions, we ask In FY2011, SEB installed new, energy-conserving lighting manufacturers to submit product specification documents, fixtures when its stores were renovated, while decreasing the inspection reports, and other pertinent documents for confirming number of such fixtures. In some stores, air conditioning how they handle these matters. Dedicated quality management equipment was replaced with inverter-type systems. personnel are also appointed for visiting factories and head offices To further save electricity, we plan to conduct trial adoption of of business partners after starting transactions in order to confirm inverter-type freezers while at the same time installing in-store their onsite conditions. LED lights. And by introducing a device equipped with a timer and optical sensor for automatically switching store signboards on and Management and improvement of source off, we seek to prevent losses incurred when store personnel material quality forget to manually turn them off. SEB specifies production locations of the source materials for all of In addition to these energy conservation measures, we also its daily delivered food products, including steamed rice and study a switch to refrigeration equipment using refrigerant gas that ready-to-eat dishes, and uses only those that are manufactured contains no chlorofluorocarbons. under comprehensive management. For example, the company has its own standards for each process from rice polishing at Stores and environmental data of SEB production sites to use in factories for the rice used for FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 prepackaged, boxed meals and in onigiri rice balls. Stores 92 100 147 We also promote development of Seven Premium brand Electricity consumption (MWh) 9,626 11,851 13,216 products suited to the Chinese market. In addition to carefully Water consumption (1,000 m3) 55 54 55 selecting source materials that meet the stringent criteria, SEB independently inspects manufacturing plants and designates factories that have high levels of quality, such as companies that export products to Japan. In this way we develop and offer safe Personnel data and reliable products. Among products of national brands, we offer an increasing Personnel data of SEB (as of December 31, 2011) number of high-quality, additive-free products that are free of Fulltime employees 588 preservatives. Since June 2009, we have collaborated with Male 353 Japanese manufacturers for selling milk and fruit juice that are free Employees Female 235 of additives and preservatives. This was made possible by 2,195 adopting the logistics system of Seven-Eleven Japan, in which a Part-time staff* 1,607 (Part-time staff ratio: 73%) set temperature is maintained throughout the entire process. * Including workers on temporary payroll ● Percentage of employees with disabilities 1.7％ ● Percentage of women in management positions, excluding executive officers 42.5％ ● Ratio of executive officers who are Chinese 33％ Seven Premium products developed for the Chinese market 43 Overseas initiatives – China Hua Tang Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado, Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado Situations of appointments at Chengu Ito-Yokado Promoting localization and supporting skill development Item Percentage Percentage of Chinese employees among all employees 99.5% At Hua Tang Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado and Beijing Wang fu Percentage of Chinese employees among store managers 100% jing Yokado, we are conducting efforts to organize store operations led by Chinese staff, and at the same time promoting appointment Percentage of Chinese employees among managers and 100% of women. At Chengdu Ito-Yokado, Chinese employees have been higher management positions (excluding executive officers) appointed to top executive positions, including General Managers Percentage of women among managers and higher 54.3% of the Administration Department, as well as store managers and management positions (excluding executive officers) General Managers of divisions in charge of apparel, household, and food products. Japanese employees have assumed supporting roles in the system. At Hua Tang Yokado and Beijing Developing safe and reliable products Wang fu jing Yokado as well, Chinese employees have been appointed to upward of 90% of store or headquarters manager or higher management positions (excluding executive officers). Also In China, which continues to achieve remarkable economic notable is that women have been appointed to almost half of the development, interest in food safety and reliability has rapidly manager and higher positions at all three stores. increased. To respond to customer demand like this, Hua Tang While striving to localize store operations, efforts are also being Yokado, Chengdu Ito-Yokado, and Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado taken to support building employees’ capacities. At Hua Tang comprehensively implement quality management procedures that Yokado and Chengdu Ito-Yokado, meetings for employees to were developed in Japan for safe and reliable products. Efforts are report the results of their efforts are held every quarter concerning also being taken in the area of traceability management, while at customer service, sales promotion, cost reduction, and other the same time expanding usage of organic food products. relevant topics. At these meetings, individual employees and departments report on examples and outstanding performance to Sanitary management be commended. At Chengdu Ito-Yokado, seminars have been held for personnel in charge of food and other products at the store, on food sanitation, quality, POP, and labeling. These seminars were held four times in 2011. Hua Tang Yokado and Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado also hold seminars on sanitary and freshness management. Traceability management and sales of organic food products At Hua Tang Yokado and Chengdu Ito-Yokado, terminals for searching have been installed on the sales floor to enable checking of production history for certain food products (vegetables, fresh meats, eggs, etc.) Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado sells Vegetables with Traceability (about 40 items) purchased from 44 farmers who produce safe and reliable vegetables in the Beijing Environmental measures suburbs, along with traceable pork. Hua Tang Yokado places top priority of food division on development of manufacturing organization for safe and reliable The demand for electricity has continued to surge along with food products, and since FY2010 has collaborated with business rapid economic growth, and the saving of electricity is a critical partners to strive to increase the amount of organic food products issue. Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado replaced lighting fixtures for it handles. For purchasing organic vegetables, Hua Tang Yokado sales floors and the head office of the Jinsong store with LED has collaborated with producers for lighting in March 2011. Similarly, Hua Tang Yokado and Chengdu obtaining certification for organic Ito-Yokado are promoting replacement of old systems with LED products, confirmed the safety lighting. Efforts are also management organization, and being taken for raising the prepared annual cultivation plans; awareness of employees, and began selling 27 selected items urging them to make sure in April 2012. The handling of organic they turn off lights for Terminals for searching installed areas not in use. pork is scheduled to begin in June LED lighting at sales floor 2012. Stores and environmental data of three companies in China Stores Social contribution activities FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Hua Tang Yokado 9 8 8 As members of the local community, the three companies have Chengdu Ito-Yokado 4 4 5 pursued social contribution activities. To commemorate its 10th Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado 1 1 2 anniversary, Hua Tang Yokado in April 2008 established the Yokado Charity Fund for Assisting with the Education of Children Electricity consumption (GWh) （GWh） collaboration with the Beijing Charity Society Since then, the 150 company has continued activities that support education. In 120 125 120 FY2011, it donated 222,180 yuan for improving school facilities. 104 Chengdu Ito-Yokado contributed a total of 165,039 yuan in 90 61 Hua Tang 56 FY2011 mainly for supporting school education and social 52 60 education. Employees of Beijing Wang fu jing Yokado clean the walkways around the store twice a day, with the sales floors 30 60 Chengdu 61 48 taking turns. Wang fu jing 3 0 4 4 2009 2010 2011 (FY) Breakdown of social contribution costs of Chengdu Ito-Yokado (FY2011) Water consumption Environment (donations to Beijing Green Foundation) (1,000 m3) 0.08％ 1,200 Social welfare 12％ School education and 1,000 980 1,006 social education 65％ Local community activities 22％ Total amount 800 752 407 Hua Tang 413 165,039 yuan 600 370 400 550 Chengdu 571 200 357 0 25 23 Wang fu jing 22 2009 2010 2011 (FY) 45 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd Number of stores as of the end of FY2011: 14,005 Website: http://c.sej.co.jp/corp/social/ (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved ：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy Install solar panels at 1,000 stores 1,393 stores CO2 emissions per store: Reduce to 66.4 Replace the lights for store signs with LED lights at 9,433 stores tons or below 5,000 stores Install solar panels at 5,000 stores Replace indoors lights with LED lights at 5,000 stores 8,966 stores Install smart sensors at 6,000 stores 5,752 stores Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Reduce the use of plastic bags Use of plastic bags: 103% of the previous Reduce the use of plastic bags relative to Increase the food waste recycling rate to at least fiscal year’s level the previous fiscal year 33.7% Food waste recycling rate: 34.1% Food waste recycling rate: 36.1% or higher Raising environmental awareness among employees Expand the number of employees participating in the Number of participants in the energy Review the details of training provided to energy conservation campaign conservation campaign: 9,580 (245% of the employees Enhance information disclosure at the website previous fiscal year’s level) Publish a leaflet on CSR Updated information focusing on energy conservation measures taken at stores and in logistics operations Environmental Data Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 CO2 emissions*1 *2 t-CO2 949,133 1,022,901 1,039,043 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store)*2 t-CO2 808,964 (69.4) 880,044 (69.9) 897,183 (66.4) Logistics-related CO2 emissions*3 t-CO2 138,272 140,742 140,121 Electricity consumption in store operations*2 GWh 2,069 2,241 2,285 Plastic bag consumption per store (by weight) t 0.85 0.89 0.92 Waste disposal (recycling rate)*4 t (%) 307,002 (47.5) 324,540 (45.3) 308,724 (43.8) Food waste recycling rate*5 % 31.5 31.7 34.1 Supplemental information *1 The data show CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, logistics, headquarters, training center and district office operations. *2 The figures for FY2009 represent total electricity consumption by all but a few stores for which the electricity consumption figures were unavailable. The figures for FY2010 represent total electricity consumption at all but for a few stores, where the figures were calculated based on the estimated values since their electric consumption is unavailable. *3 This data represents CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy for distribution center operation and delivery trucks. For FY2011, some data were not available due to the influence of the Great East Japan Earthquake. *4 These calculations are based on estimated emissions by the stores in Tokyo. The period of the calculations was January to December, and the amount of baseline emissions was changed in FY2011. The amount of food waste was calculated based on the standard of *5. *5 Calculated based on the reports submitted by food recycling companies. The period of the calculations was April to March. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Description of contacts received by Customer Data for Customer Response Services Response Service by topic (FY2011) Contacts received: 81,903 Based on the concept of “close by, convenient stores,” we have endeavored to improve (106% of the previous year) services through the development of safe and secure products and customer response Environment 3% Compliments 1% training for employees. We recognize that inquiries and complaints sent in to our Others 14% customer consultation desk indicate customers’ expectations for our stores, and we have Service 5% Customer tried to progressively make improvements as we listen intently to their voices. General care 52% inquiries 10% Products 14% 46 Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Take efforts in a planned manner, to have all plants Certified plants: 145 of 161 Take efforts in a planned manner, to have all obtain NDF-HACCP certification Certification ratio: 90.1% (86.2% in the plants obtain NDF-HACCP certification previous year) Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of security Continue adoption of barrier-free facilities 279 stores (127% of the previous year) Stores adopting barrier-free design: 294 Establish a system where the minimum necessary 1,201 stores (126% of the previous year) Stores where the minimum necessary facilities continue operation even during blackouts facilities continue operation even during blackouts: 1,350 Assuring appropriate information provision Make information on the reduction of trans-fatty acids, Made information on the reduction of Make part of the products and other elimination of artificial preservatives and coloring, and trans-fatty acids available on the website information on the website viewable on measures designed to ensure food safety and smartphones reliability available on the website Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Update the layout of the website page for inquiries to Compliments: 1,001 (126.9% of the previous Post the toll-free phone number on the be easily viewable, with the aim of increasing the year). Many customers sent in words of website, with a target of increasing the number of comments of appreciation by 10% from appreciation to our company at the time of number of calls received to 110% of the the previous year the Great East Japan Earthquake. previous year Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Enhance product lineups and services based on the Began full-scale operation of mobile stores. Increase the number of delivery service concept of “close by, convenient stores” Ten vehicles are in operation in seven vehicles in operation to 50, and strengthen Enhance goods delivery service by visiting customers’ prefectures. the supporting measures for product homes delivery. Assisting in local community revitalization Continue giving support based on the comprehensive Concluded a comprehensive agreement for Continue with support for boosting the local agreements and boost the local economy by community revitalization with three economy based on the comprehensive expanding the initiative for local production and prefectures and one city (cumulative number agreements consumption, as well as for local production and of municipalities: 31 prefectures including outside consumption Tokyo and nine cities) Providing support in times of disaster Continue with measures to donate relief goods and Concluded agreements with Yamanashi, Deepen collaboration with disaster provide drinking water, restrooms and road traffic Toyama, Mie and Kagoshima Prefectures prevention desk of municipalities for building information to people having difficulties returning an organization that enables even more home in the event of a disaster, based on the disaster prompt responses support agreements concluded with municipalities Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Increase the membership ratio in crime prevention Membership ratio to crime prevention Increase the membership ratio in crime council and participation ratio among member stores council: 42.6% prevention council and the participation ratio in crime prevention drills to 50% Participation ratio to crime prevention drills: among member stores in crime prevention 46.0% drills to 50% 47 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Improve various in-house training programs Launched training for new managers Start providing Operations Field Consultants Enhance employees’ language abilities for Launched language training for executives ○ (OFCs) with annual training globalization Enhance the education program for OFC candidates Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Further promote the candidate system Number of applicants: 134 (154 in the Number of applicants to the candidate Promote the use of female employees previous fiscal year) system: 120% of the previous fiscal year’s Rate of female managers: 7.1% (7.0% in the × level previous fiscal year) Rate of female managers: 10% Achieving a work-life balance Promote the use of the parental leave system by male Number of male users: 0 (0 in the previous Increase the number of male users at least employees fiscal year) × to one Promote the use of various leave systems by Rate of paid days off taken: 5.7% (5.5% in Encourage employees to take consecutive employees the previous fiscal year) leave twice a year Making use of diverse human resources Promote the employment of foreign students Employed 17 foreign nationals (9 in the Employ 30 foreign students Promote the employment of people with disabilities previous fiscal year) △ Employ 15 people with disabilities Employed 2 people with disabilities (4 in the previous fiscal year) Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Eliminate the accidents and violations caused by Number of traffic accidents and violations: Reduce the number of traffic accidents and vehicle users 99% of the previous fiscal year’s level △ violations by 10% year on year Provide education to prevent industrial accidents Industrial accidents: 95% of the previous Reduce the number of industrial accidents fiscal year’s level by 10% year on year Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2012) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 5,686 Average length of service (full time employees) 8years 4months 9years 0months 9years 7months Males 4,342 Number of full time employees (males) who took parental leave 40 (0) 45 (0) 65 (0) Females 1,344 Number of full time employees who took nursing leave (males) 0 0 0 Part time staff*1 3,698 Number of volunteer leave recipients 1 1 0 Employees (full time Percentage of women in management positions*2 7.0% 7.0% 7.1% employees + part time staff) 9,384 Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 2.23% 1.87% 1.89% New graduate employees hired 322 (Males: 162, Females: 160) Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*4 6.4% 5.5% 5.7% Mid-career employees hired 146 Frequency rate of industrial accidents*5 0.73 0.60 Re-employment 23 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.002 0.003 0.002 *1 Number of part time staff working at directly operated stores (the monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee) *2 Excluding executive officers *3 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. The method of calculation was changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding fiscal year are not included. *5 The frequency rate of industrial accidents is shown only for FY2010 and FY2011. Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service (FY2011) Data for Consultation Services for Employees Contacts received: 34 (90% of the previous fiscal year’s level) The number of contacts made in FY2011 totaled 34, and By topic By user category many of them involved the need to improve the Others 6% Unrelated consulting workplace environment. In response in FY2012, the 15% Corporate Ethics and Culture Promotion Office will make Suspected Unknown 21% Part time staff noncompliCommunications 44% examinations to enhance compliance-related education ance 12% 53% Full time and increase employees’ communication abilities. Working employees conditions 35% 15% 48 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2011: 173 Website: http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved ：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy Improve the environmental impact index*1 by 1% Improved the environmental impact index by Improve the environmental impact index by Reduce CO2 emissions from delivery vehicles by 1% 21% 1% year on year CO2 emissions from delivery vehicles Reduce the delivery distance per store by increased by 0.2% year on year. 1% Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Increase the food waste recycling rate and the number Food waste recycling rate: 39.4% Food waste recycling rate: 45% of stores that implement the recycling to 40% and 90 Stores that implement the recycling: 85 Stores that implement the recycling: 100 stores, respectively stores stores Increase the turndown rate of plastic bags to 50% in Turndown rate of plastic bags: 43.3% Turndown rate of plastic bags in the final the final month of FY2011 Expand the use of recycled trays to reduce CO2 CO2 emissions reduction: 1,890 tons month of FY2012: 50% emissions by 800 tons Environmental Data Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 CO2 emissions*2 t-CO2 597,858 591,464 466,187 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 569,248 564,975 439,934 (Environmental impact index*1) (t-CO2／m2 × 1 million h) (72.3) (76.7) (60.4) CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles t-CO2 25,355 24,017 24,070*3 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 1,272 1,256 943 Water consumption in store operation 1,000m3 7,598 7,353 7,684 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section t (%) 3,065 (30.1) 2,717 (43.1) 2,725 (43.3) Waste disposal (recycling rate)*4 t (%) 145,459 (62.0) 131,918 (65.2) 129,375 (66.2) Food waste recycling rate*5 % 31.4 36.7 39.4 Supplemental information *1 CO2 emissions per (total sales floor area x opening hours) *2 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, headquarters, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *3 For some vehicles, the in-vehicle terminal models were updated to include CO2 emissions from transportation between delivery companies and distribution centers, because of which the amount of CO2 emissions increased. For FY2011, some data were not available due to the influence of the Great East Japan Earthquake. *4 The period of the calculations was from January to December *5 The period of the calculations was April to March. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. TOPICS Opening of the Ario Ueda Environmentally Advanced Shopping Center Ito-Yokado has been introducing energy-saving equipment so that its environmental impact will not increase in proportion to increases in the size and number of its stores. The company installed LED lamps on the largest scale in Nagano (6,447 LED lamps) at the Ario Ueda shopping center, which was opened in April 2011. (The LED lamps account for about 80% of the lamps installed at the sales floors and 60% of all the lamps installed at the shopping center.) As a result, electricity consumed at the shopping center will be halved from the level at an ordinary shopping center in a similar size. In addition, illumination level-adjustable lamps and highly energy-efficient lighting equipment will be introduced to the sales floors, and motion sensors will also be adopted for stairs to reduce CO2 emissions from the shopping center by about 630 tons a year. Moreover a total of 560 solar panels (774 m2) that can generate electricity of up to 106 kW are installed on the roof and the southeastern wall. Further, 12 outdoor lamps are lit by wind and solar power generation to make proactive use of Solar panels installed at the store natural energy. 49 Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2011) During FY2011 as well, stores and headquarters collaborated in analysis of the causes Contacts received: 82,178 (93% of the previous year) of issues pointed out by customers, and studied measures to prevent recurrence. The number of contacts received from customers in FY2011 was 82,178 (93% of the Household goods 10% Others, tenants 5% previous year), showing a continuing declining trend. About 31% were opinions and comments about services. We will continue analyzing the causes of complaints and Apparel 11% Service 31% strengthen measures to respond to them. Cash registers 18% Food 27% Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Conduct self-checking using the plant audit sheet at Conducted audits at two domestic and 74 Revise our own quality standards for the first the existing overseas partner plants, and based on the overseas plants for apparel products and at time in five years, including product results, conduct onsite inspections at major priority 18 domestic and 24 overseas plants for categories plants household goods Introduce the general-purpose, basic Good Agricultural Completed introduction 100% Practice (GAP) methods recommended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries at 50% of producers of fruit and vegetables with traceability Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of Security In view of the lessons learned from the Great East Revisions were made to: (1) responses Formulate countermeasures against volcanic Japan Earthquake and actual situations, revise the (1) regarding emergency relief goods; and (2) disasters accompanying earthquakes Large-Scale Disaster Countermeasures; and (2) countermeasures against fire damage, traffic Tokyo Metropolitan Area Epicentral Earthquake restriction issues, safety confirmation issues Countermeasures and people having difficulty returning home. Assuring appropriate information provision In order to raise the ratio of store indication check Ratio of items graded A: 95% Improve educational programs conducted at items graded A, conduct training on labeling at the (Improved by 4 points from the previous year) the time of management meetings for the time of management meetings for the apparel, apparel, household goods and food products household goods and food products divisions divisions in order to maintain appropriate labeling Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) For improvements regarding the number of complaints Apparel products: 100% of the previous year Reduce complaints on services received in relation to apparel and household goods, Household goods: 75% of the previous year Increase the number of complimentary enhance seminars for buyers and quality improvement comments meetings with business partners Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Develop nursing care goods for the elderly with the Conducted collective training twice a year Develop products that will help the elderly functions that meet the expectations of customers, and individual store training for about 30 live more convenient and comfortable lives, and cooperate with business partners to educate times a year not limited to nursing care goods, and salespeople so that they can appropriately explain the enhance the education of salespeople so that they can appropriately explain the product functions to customers product functions to customers Providing support in times of disaster Promote the conclusion of agreements with Hiroshima, Made negotiations for the conclusion of the Foster the conclusion of the agreements with Hyogo and Okayama Prefectures agreements municipalities continually and make Clarify the responsibilities for the treatment of relief Revised the measures for relief goods examinations to newly conclude an goods, from their acceptance to shipment among the measures against large disasters agreement with the Japan Self Defense Forces 50 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Increase the rate of employees who are certified with Rate of personnel in ranks 1 to 3: 42% Increase the rate of employees in ranks 1 to ranks 1 to 3 of an internal license to 55% Total number of participants in the training 3 to 60% Mandate those targeted for manager training to held for 14 times: 387 Provide managers of existing stores with receive that training at least once a year new training Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Promote the establishment of workplaces where the Rate of female managers: 16.7% Promote the establishment of workplaces abilities of employees are fairly evaluated regardless (Up 0.4% year on year) where the abilities of employees are fairly of gender evaluated regardless of gender Achieving a work-life balance Reduce the overtime to 95% of the previous fiscal 118% of the previous fiscal year’s level Reduce the overtime to 95% of the previous year’s level fiscal year’s level Making use of diverse human resources Continue providing education on human rights and Total number of participants in the training Hold easy-to-understand and highly persuasive normalization as part of education for managers and held for 40 times: 3,129 seminars on human rights and normalization, for new employees by showing the backgrounds, specific examples, and numerical data to participants Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Dispatch information and continue education without fail to Frequency of industrial accidents: 93% of Examine the causes of industrial accidents prevent industrial accidents the previous fiscal year’s level and countermeasures, and make all Create and implement an annual health and safety plan for employees aware of the results to prevent each store to reduce the frequency of industrial accidents. the reoccurrence of similar accidents Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2012) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 9,136 Average length of service (full time employees) 18years 7months 19years 2months 20years 0months Males 6,797 Number of parental leave recipients (males and part time staff) 201 (0, 85) 201 (0, 87) 192 (0, 97) Females 2,339 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part time staff) 15 (1, 13) 26 (2, 23) 8 (7, 1) Part time staff*1 29,853 Number of volunteer leave recipients 6 3 14 Employees (full time Percentage of women in management positions*2 16.9% 16.3% 16.7% employees + part time staff) 38,989 Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 2.23% 1.87% 1.89% New graduate employees hired 91 (Males: 36, Females: 55) Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*4 16.3% 16.5% 11.2% Mid-career employees hired 19 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 1.54 1.72 1.67 Re-employment 126 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.03 0.03 0.03 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive officers *3 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. The method of calculation has been changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding fiscal year are not included. Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service (FY2011) Data for Consultation Services for Employees Contacts received: 241 (98% of the previous fiscal year’s level) In light of the fact that consultations regarding communiBy topic By user category cations between employees and their managers Others 3% Families of employees 3% accounted for a large percent of the total, details of the Suspected Unrelated consulting 14% relevant contacts made to the helpline were introduced in noncompliUnknown 22% the training for new managers to enhance their educaance 4% Full time Part time staff tion. In FY2012, we will improve education on the employees 65% Working 9% Group’s Corporate Action Guidelines and Ito-Yokado’s conditions Communications 21% 53% Action Guidelines, which were revised in FY2011. 51 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2011: 176 Website: http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved ：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy Reduce the use of electricity during summer (from July Reduced the annual use of electricity by Limit the use of electricity to up to 110% of 1) by 15% 15.8% year on year (by continuing energy the previous fiscal year’s level Increase the fuel economy of delivery vehicles saving efforts also in winter) Open more all electric stores Promote the opening of all electric stores Precise data was not available because the distribution center was damaged by the disaster. A total of 25 stores are all electric stores as of the end of February 2012, including the eight stores opened in the fiscal year. Environmental Data Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 CO2 emissions*1 t-CO2 151,984 156,865 130,307 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) t-CO2 132,623 (809) 138,777 (816) 116,011 (659) CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles t-CO2 14,666 13,094 9,169*2 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 319 333 280 Water consumption in store operation (1,000m3) 1,000m3 1,098 1,078 1,004 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section*3 t (%) 547 (39.6) 381 (70.3) 370 (70.8) Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (%) 41,040 (54.5) 40,661 (52.4) 41,372 (47.5) Food waste recycling rate*4 % 29.6 30.2 24.0 Supplemental information *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, headquarters, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *2 Excluding the data for March to May, which was unavailable due to the influence of the Great East Japan Earthquake *3 For data in FY2009, calculations were made based on the number of Eco Stamp cards collected. In FY2010, we changed the calculation method, which is now based on the number of customers who do not accept plastic bags at checkout counters. *4 The calculation period is from April to March. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Description of contacts received by Customer Data for Customer Response Services Response Service by topic (FY2011) In order to hear customers’ opinions, requests, complaints and inquiries sent to stores Contacts received: 2,501 (85% of the previous year) and the headquarters and reflect them in our daily operations, we established a Others 41% Customer customer consultation desk that can be reached via a toll-free phone number. The desk care 26% will strive to promptly address customers’ voices in collaboration with relevant in-house divisions and stores in order to utilize them for improving our product development Compliments Sales 17% efforts, product lineup, store design, services, store facilities, etc. 5% Sales promotion Facilities 4% 7% 52 Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Increase the amount of sales of three-star vegetables 108.0% of the previous year 126.0% of the previous year to 117.8% compared to the previous year 93.9% of the previous year 120.1% of the previous year Increase the amount of sales of locally produced vegetables to 134% compared to the previous year Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of security Increase the number of stores certified pursuant to the 88 stores Increase the number of stores certified revised Barrier-Free Law pursuant to the revised Barrier-Free Law Assuring appropriate information provision Increase the number of times accessing the website 24,062 times accessed (413.5% of the regarding searches on production history previous year) * The number increased significantly due to the radiation dosage issue. Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Listen carefully to customer opinions and handle them Installing toll-free phone numbers and Installing toll-free phone numbers and sincerely, one by one customer feedback box customer feedback box Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Continue the blood donation activity 'Heartful Number of participants: 307 Number of participants: 450 Saturday' (70.3% of the previous fiscal year’s level) Assisting in local community revitalization Continue holding the Opening Memorial festival as an Continued holding the festival, though it was Continue holding the festival opportunity for the stores and local communities to not held right after the March disaster make exchanges Providing support in times of disaster Continue to cooperate with municipalities by Concluded agreements on cooperation and Continue to cooperate with municipalities by concluding comprehensive agreements, etc. support in the event of disasters with a total concluding comprehensive agreements and of 21 municipalities other measures Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Promote the activity to provide children with “shelters” Continued the activity Continue the activity TOPICS Establishing the Furusato Kizuna Information Station Since November 2011, York-Benimaru has established the Furusato Kizuna Information Station at seven of its stores in Fukushima Prefecture. The Information Station is designed to provide victims of the March disaster who are living in various towns in Fukushima Prefecture as evacuees with information from the disaster-affected municipalities, consultation services, and a place to make exchanges with each other. The company established the Station upon request from the government of Fukushima Prefecture, which wanted to establish the Station within commercial facilities in Koriyama City, Fukushima City, Iwaki City, and Aizuwakamatsu City. The Station is operated by Utsukushima NPO Network, and the operation will be continued until March 2013, by one year longer than initially planned. 53 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Increase employees’ awareness of the Target The use of the Records was promoted not only in Make steady use of the Target Achievement Achievement Records to promote the use of the the formulation of individual development plans Records in OJT system but also in OJT toward the establishment of a new educational system. The average results were slightly improved (from 2.30 in September 2010 to 2.43 in March 2012). Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Promote the use of female employees Rate of female managers: 7.1% Increase the rate of female managers to Review the personnel evaluation system in reference The personnel evaluation system was not 10% to external information reviewed. Achieving a work-life balance Increase the awareness of the parental leave system The parental leave system was used by a Encourage more male employees to use the among male employees and managers male employee for the first time. system and take paid holidays for childcare. Making use of diverse human resources Increase the employment rate of people with The rate slightly decreased to 1.9%. Increase the employment rate of people with disabilities to 2.0% disabilities to 2.0% Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Provide education on industrial accidents as part of The education on industrial accidents was Provide education on industrial accidents in education for new employees and of Off-JT steadily provided in the education for new Off-JT employees but not always provided in Off-JT. Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2012) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 2,495 Average length of service (full time employees) 12years 7months 12years 6months 14years 7months Males 2,230 Number of parental leave recipients (males and part time staff) 29 (0, 8) 37 (0, 36) 74 (1, 67) Females 265 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part time staff) 0 5 (0, 5) 4 (2, 2) Part time staff*1 10,165 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Employees (full time Percentage of women in management positions*2 29.0% 25.9% 7.1% employees + part time staff) 12,660 Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 2.08% 1.96% 1.90% New graduate employees hired 110 (Males: 74, Females: 36) Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*4 10.5% 9.8% 8.8% Mid-career employees hired 0 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 2.64 2.56 2.94 Re-employment 12 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.020 0.008 0.030 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive officers (The scope of tabulation was changed for FY 2011 data, following the launch of the new personnel system in February 2012. Under the system, those who serve as deputy store managers or in lower positions are not regarded as “managers.”) *3 The method of calculation has been changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *4 Holidays remaining from the preceding fiscal year are not included. Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service (FY2011) Data for Consultation Services for Employees Contacts received: 55 (52% of the previous fiscal year’s level) York-Benimaru provides employees with the help line By topic By user category service. The service enables them to report the violations Suspected Others 7% Others 9% of the laws, social norms, and York-Benimaru’s corporate noncompliance 8% philosophy and ethics that they have noticed directly to CommuniPart time cations Unknown staff the company. In FY2012, we will conduct surveys and 65% 29% 62% announce the results about the reports made by Working conditions employees in a more prompt manner. 20% 54 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2011: 26 Website: http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved ：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Attaining an appropriate grasp of environmental impact Examine collecting environmental data based on ISO Began collecting environmental data Launched measures to acquire ISO 14001 14001 at two Robison stores certification at two Robison stores Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy (1) Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% (1) Reduced CO2 emissions by 15.8% Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% (2) Study measures to further reduce power use (e.g. (2) Introduced LED lights to the fitting rooms Examine introducing more LED lights introducing LED lights) of four core stores and to the common use space of the flagship store in Ikebukuro. Reduced power use by 15.1%. Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society (1) Waste recycling rate: 60% (1) Waste recycling rate: 61.2% Food waste recycling rate: 52% (2) Food waste recycling rate: 43.5% (2) Food waste recycling rate: 51.2% Increase the waste recycling rate to 100% at (3) Continue reducing the use of packaging paper and (3) Continued reducing the use of packaging the main store in Ikebukuro bags paper and bags Implementing measures for biodiversity Increase the awareness of the tree planting activity Planted 1,130 trees by achieving 3.69 million Increase people’s awareness of green conducted in linkage with green wrapping and the cases of the simple wrapping and 11,051 wrapping to plant 1,200 trees simple wrapping of summer and year-end gifts to cases of green wrapping. Plant trees in the Kai Zenko-ji forest to make donations equivalent to the cost of planting create an ecologically rich satoyama forest 1,100 trees Offering eco-friendly products Introduce new type Eco-bags Introduced new type Eco-bags (two types in Continue proposing environmentally friendly Continue proposing eco-friendly products three colors) products Proposed “cool biz” and other environmentally friendly products Raising environmental awareness among employees Have all targeted full time employees receive All full time employees received the education at all Increase employees’ awareness on a education on the environment by e-learning the stores continual basis Increase employees’ awareness of energy Raised employees’ awareness by introducing energy Implement a campaign to encourage conservation and electricity saving by the use of and electricity conservation initiatives in the monthly employees to save the use of electricity at in-house tools environmental newsletter sent to all the stores their homes Environmental Data Unit FY2009 Supplemental information FY2010 FY2011 Robinson’s is included in the CO2 emissions*1 t-CO2 224,587 206,473 173,868 results. *1 CO2 emissions stemming from CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 223,947 205,937 173,365 the use of energy in store, Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 477 444 376 headquarters and distribution center operations. Water consumption in store operation 1,000m3 3,844 3,708 3,496 *2 Robinson’s is not included in the results. CO2 emissions Packaging consumption t 1,790 1,720 1,675 were calculated according to Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (%) 32,249 (53.9) 31,687 (58.2)*2 32,749 (61.2) the Seven & i Holdings Group-wide CO2 Emissions Food waste recycling rate % 24.1*2 42.5*2 51.2 Calculation Manual. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2011) During FY2011, measures at the Customer Center established for reflecting customers’ Contacts received: 14,642 (94% of the previous year) voices on business activities were improved, and “Practical Ways to Deal with Misunderstanding or Complaints at Sites” were featured in a series in the in-house newsletter Smile. In Others 3% unreasonable complaints 3% addition to clearly mentioning the causes of complaints and recurrence-prevention measures, improvement measures for attitude, language and systems were suggested Products 23% Customer care to salespeople and implemented. In FY2012, customers’ requests will be analyzed for services 42% each sales floor, and issues identified will be reflected in the sales measures. Service 29% 55 Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Product Division and Quality Management Office are Conducted at 119 plants Continue with audit of plants of private brand to audit plants of private brand food products and Training was given to 96 buyers of apparel food products and confirmation of the directly confirm the production processes and general merchandise production processes Prepare and distribute quality management procedural Continued giving onsite instruction on food Store managers and other management document for buyers of apparel and general hygiene personnel are to conduct hygiene inspection merchandise Basic food hygiene education was given to in kitchens. Acquisition of the Department Continue with onsite instruction on food hygiene 2,200 workers Store Food Safety Adviser qualification is to Provide basic food hygiene education to 2,200 be mandated. workers Plants of private brand apparel and general merchandise are to be audited Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of security Conduct studies to introduce more facilities when Slopes along the two access ways on the Further installation of facilities is to be renovating sales floors first basement floor of the Kobe Store and studied for renovated sales floors beside the elevators on the first floor of the Yao Store parking space are to be renovated with a non-slippery surface. A net is to be installed in the open section of the parking space of the Chiba Store Junnu Building for preventing falls. Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Further promote activities to resolve customer Article series called “Practical Ways to Deal Promote activities to analyze customers’ dissatisfaction and reflect their needs on operational with Complaints at Sites” was featured nine requests at each sales floor, thereby measures times in the in-house newsletter in order to identifying issues for each sales floor and increase customer response abilities at reflecting them in operation measures stores Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Increase the frequency of customers’ visits to our Number of consultations Expand “Pre-Mama Stations” department stores by making the consultation service Flagship store in Ikebukuro: 1,883; Establish the Pre-Mama Counter at all the always available (Establish a “Pre-Mama Stations”, Store in Yokohama: 6,008 stores, where customers can consult with where a midwives provide them with consultation Held a monthly seminar for parents and midwives and health nurses on a regular services) children at Ikebukuro main store and basis Continue and promote the monthly classes Yokohama store Develop more products by incorporating the Assort more goods for childcare, incorporating the Assorted more goods and developed opinions given by customers to the midwives opinions of customers who have used the counseling products for childcare, incorporating the Develop more specialty salespersons services opinions expressed by customers to the (1) 50 Heartful Advisors, (2) 12 baby goods Develop more specialty salespersons: (1) 50 Heartful midwives. At Ikebukuro main store, a “corner advisers, and (3) 45 shoe fitters Advisors, (2) 12 baby goods advisers, and (3) 40 shoe for childcare goods” was established. Continue to operate the permanent trade-in fitters (1) 41 Heartful Advisors, (2) 10 baby goods service corners for children’s shoes Continue to operate the permanent trade-in service advisers, and (3) 40 shoe fitters corners for children’s shoes Continued to operate the permanent trade-in service corners for children’s shoes Assisting in local community revitalization Plan and hold localized events at each store Conducted local events at stores, such as Hold more localized events local production and consumption campaigns, water sprinkling activities, and provided elementary school students with work experience Concluded a comprehensive agreement with Kanagawa Prefecture Providing support in times of disaster Examine expanding disaster support Started making adjustments toward the Continue fostering cooperation with local conclusion of an agreement with Omiya City, governments and companies, including in response to the request made by the city measures for people having difficulties in following the Great East Japan Earthquake going home in the event of large Participated in the council to discuss the measures for people having difficulties in earthquakes going home in the event of disasters, which is composed of companies and municipalities located around the main terminal stations in Tokyo (eight stations including Ikebukuro and Shibuya Stations), and discussed how to cooperate with each other in the event of disasters Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Continue to cooperate with local communities to Conducted a drill to deal with people having Continue to cooperate with local establish disaster and crime prevention systems difficulties in going home in the event of communities to establish disaster and crime large earthquakes at the flagship store in prevention systems Ikebukuro on February 3, 2012 The flagship store in Ikebukuro and stores in Shibuya, Yokohama, and Fukui participated in local crime prevention patrols. 56 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Start providing open seminars on sales skills, etc (37 Number of participants: 3,109 Hold even better seminars for another 3,000 seminars), expecting 3,000 people will attend the people seminars per year Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Rate of female mangers: (1) team leaders: 50.0% and (1) Team leaders: 34.1% (2) Section Rate of female managers: (1) team leaders: (2) section managers and those in higher positions: managers and those in higher positions: 6.0% 50.0% and (2) section managers and those 10.0% Number of applicants: 83, of whom 24 passed in higher positions: 10.0% Provide more chances to take on challenges through Number of participants in the training for next-generation managers: 50 public recruitment system Achieving a work-life balance Create and distribute the copies of a brochure on the Published a PR magazine focusing on the Hold a consultation meeting to help childcare support system in cooperation with the labor childcare support system-related activities employees who will return to work from union (March 2011) parental leave relieve their concerns Expand and enhance the system to allow employees to work shorter hours for childcare Making use of diverse human resources Make better use of non-regular employees through the Number of people promoted to full time Continue implementing the system to promotion system established for such employees employees: 17 promote non-regular employees to regular Promote employment of people with disabilities to Percentage of employees with disabilities: employees (about five employees) comply with the revised Disabled Persons 1.89% (up 0.04% year on year) Employment Promotion Act (factoring short-term Mid-career employees hired: 9 workers into the denominator) Continue mid-career recruitment Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Establish a system for counseling services by local Established a mental counseling system at The Health and Safety Committee carried psychiatrists all stores, which the industrial physicians out inspections on the workplace Create a program to help employees on leave return and those in charge of personnel affairs can environment to decrease the number of to work introduce to employees industrial accidents year on year. Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2012)*1 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 4,975 Average length of service (full time employees) 19years 4months 19years 6months 20years 9months Males 3,331 Number of parental leave recipients (males and part time staff) 66 (0, 34) 48 (0, 23) 89 (0, 12) Females 1,644 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part time staff) 5 (0, 3) 2 (0, 2) 4 (1, 4) Part time staff*2 5,179 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Employees (full time Percentage of women in management positions*3 23.9% 24.3% 23.3% employees + part time staff) 10,154 Percentage of employees with disabilities*4 1.80% 1.85% 1.89% New graduate employees hired 51 (Males: 21, Females: 30) Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*5 6.7% 12.8% 11.4% Mid-career employees hired 9 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 1.10 0.43 0.59 Re-employment 394 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.02 0.01 0.01 Robinson’s is not included in the results. *1 Robinson’s is included in the result. *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *3 Excluding executive officers *4 The method of calculation has been changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *5 Holidays remaining from the preceding fiscal year are not included for FY2010. Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service (FY2011) Data for Consultation Services for Employees Contacts received: 83 (111% of the previous fiscal year’s level) Most of the consultations about “Suspected noncompliBy topic By user category ance” were those on inappropriate business operations. Business partner In FY2011, the stores and divisions about which contacts Unrelated consulting Unknown 29% employees Others 2% 11% 44% were made received training as necessary, and in Working Families of conditions employees Full time FY2012 compliance training will continue to be 12% 44% employees 22% intensively provided on legal affairs, safety management, Suspected Communiand quality management to prevent the occurrence of noncomplications Part time staff ance 24% 51% 19% any problems or incidents. 57 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. Number of stores as of the end of FY2011 Website: http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fc/company/csr.html (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved ：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy Introduce LED bulbs to more stores (to 30 Denny’s Stores with LED bulbs installed: 33 stores, Stores with LED bulbs installed: 166 stores, restaurants) and reduce CO2 emissions by 90 tons (a with CO2 emissions reduced by 219 tons with CO2 emissions reduced by 434 tons reduction that is by five times larger than that achieved CO2 emissions from delivery vehicles Verify the effect of introducing a hybrid car in the previous fiscal year) increased by 10% year on year, due to (since November 2011) as a delivery vehicle Review the number of delivery vehicles and reduce the increases in the transportation distance delivery frequency to five times a week from the latter following the opening of stores in remote half of the term, thereby reducing CO2 emissions from areas delivery vehicles by 8% year on year Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Promote waste sorting to increase the food waste Achieved the food waste recycling rate of Continue to promote waste sorting and recycling rate to at least 33% 33% by promoting waste sorting and reduce waste generation to increase the reducing waste generation food waste recycling rate to 35% or higher Raising environmental awareness among employees Hold meetings and training seminars regularly to Unable to hold the meetings and seminars Hold a explanatory meeting on waste collect information about waste-related problems on a continual basis sorting, reduction of waste generation, and faced by stores, thereby planning and implementing Distributed reference materials on energy recycling of food waste improvement measures conservation for four times a year to stores, Distribute the reference materials for six Distribute reference materials on energy conservation thereby increasing all employees’ times a year to stores six times a year to stores, thereby increasing all awareness of the matter employees’ awareness of the matter Environmental Data Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 CO2 emissions*1 t-CO2 109,320 93,274 83,147 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 104,702 91,225 80,927 CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles*2 t-CO2 2,315 1,904 2,091 Electricity consumption in store operations GWh 189 172 156 Water consumption in store operation 1,000m3 2,555 2,403 2,272 Waste disposal (recycling rate) t (%) 15,505 (24.9) 13,103 (24.7) 10,557 (25.6) Food waste recycling rate % 23.4 30.7 33.0 Supplemental information *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations (Seven & i Food Systems) and in headquarters operations and by delivery vehicles (Denny's only). *2 The values are for Denny's only. CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2011) Contacts received in FY2011 decreased to 7,270 (91% year on year). Compliments Contacts received: 7,270 (91% of the previous year) received increased to 734 (119% year on year), combined with the compliments Facilities 6% Store cleanliness 5% regarding measures taken in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. Menu and Others 10% In FY2012, we will continue activities for reflecting customers’ needs in operation menu measures, in the hopes of heightening customer satisfaction. suggestions Customer 7% care 44% Compliments 9% Cooking 20% 58 Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services Exchange our own transaction conditions documents Promoted the confirmation that all food Observation of plants: about 400 times for all food materials, enabling staff in charge to materials conform to the standards of Confirm that requirements in transaction observe plants and confirm that quality is being transaction conditions documents. conditions documents are complied with managed pursuant to the standards. Continue Observations of plants: conducted about 350 confirming the suitability of quality and traceability times management through regular observations of production sites of source materials being used Assuring appropriate information provision Introduce a search system for the mobile phone Start a search service on the usage Continue a search service on the usage website, enabling customers to check on allergenic conditions of allergenic substances conditions of allergenic substances substances when they view menu books (designated source materials and quasi-designated source materials) on the mobile phone website (This is accessed by scanning the QR codes printed in menu books. The system displays menu items that do not use the allergenic substances that were selected from the list.) Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Categorize suggestions and complaints from Had managers of stores where many issues Establish Operation Support Division customers to respond to them in detail. Continue to had been identified participate in customer Customer Satisfaction (CS) for sorting out hold customer service seminars for managers of service seminars; promoted thorough customers’ opinions and results of store stores where a large number of complaints have been understanding of basic customer service at monitor surveys and disseminating filed. all stores in order to resolve customers’ information in an appropriate manner, dissatisfaction thereby improving customer satisfaction Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Improve the teaching materials on healthy diets and Revised the materials based on the Review the acceptance system and desirable restaurants for people who will have work documents published by governmental reference materials to be distributed experience at the restaurants agencies. Number of people accepted for Expand support to childcare Continue and expand support to childcare work experience: 403 at 143 stores (95% of the previous fiscal year level) Conducted childcare support activities at 146 stores in 6 districts (162% of the level of the previous fiscal year, when the activities were conducted at 90 stores in 5 districts) Assisting in local community revitalization Continue developing and selling menus made using (1) Made a registration for the initiative Continue developing and selling menus local products for the promotion of local production “Three-Star Restaurants for Food Education using local products for the promotion of and consumption, and help locals pass down their in the Shinshu” implemented by Nagano local production and consumption food culture to next generations Prefecture to pass down local food culture to Give support for the succession of local food next generations, and served local menus culture through support to childcare and made using locally produced vegetables other activities (2) Gave childcare support services at stores Develop menus that help promote health in Nagano, Saitama, Kanagawa, Shizuoka, and beauty Aichi and Hyogo Prefectures (3) Helped parents provide their children with dietary education by introducing table manners and the roles of foodstuffs in the menu book for children Providing support in times of disaster Continue implementing measures to support people Continued implementing measures to Send store employees to training seminars having difficulties in going home in the event of support people having difficulties in going held by local governments to foster disasters and provide all employees education on home in the event of disasters. At the time of information sharing disaster responses the Great East Japan Earthquake, the stores were unable to communicate with the headquarters and independently implemented the support measures. 59 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Review the employment manuals for part timers and Review the education tools, such as DVDs Utilize the personnel records in which the temporary workers to increase the retention rate of and videos, to make better use of them in items for business operations are clearly these workers initial education shown, thereby improving the level of business operations Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees Review the self-check evaluation and complete the Revised the self-check evaluation items Make the targeted employees carry out the implementation Revised the evaluation system self-check evaluation and treat them Review the evaluation system according to job details according to the results Achieving a work-life balance Reduce the working hours at the restaurants by Set a limit on the working hours Review the job details by job type to “visualizing” the number of employees necessary for increase the work efficiency and ensure that the store operation and the abilities of individuals, and no employees will work longer than the limit set a limit on the working hours Making use of diverse human resources Promote mid-career recruitment based on the Mid-career employees hired: 14 (0 in the Proactively promote part timers to full time personnel plans previous fiscal year) employees Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Have employees on leave take interviews with industrial Had employees on leave take interviews Enhance the system to have employees on physicians and fully participate in rehabilitation programs with industrial physicians leave take interviews with industrial Conduct follow-ups for health checkups and schedule Provided employees with health checkup physicians and support them in returning to interviews to prevent diseases once a year for employees opportunities work Give guidance on the use of tools and equipment to Decrease the number of industrial accidents prevent industrial accidents through risk assessments Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of the end of February 2012) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 1,290 Average length of service (full time employees) 13years10months 13years 6months 14years 2months Males 1,130 Number of parental leave recipients (males and part time staff) 40 (0, 36) 46 (1, 30) 67 (0, 53) Females 160 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part time staff) 0 0 0 Part time staff*1 10,432 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 0 Employees (full time Percentage of women in management positions*2 18.3% 21.7% 28.8% employees + part time staff) 11,722 Percentage of employees with disabilities*3 2.23% 1.87% 1.89% New graduate employees hired 0 Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*4 8.2% 7.0% 9.8% Mid-career employees hired 14 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 1.50 1.22 1.28 Re-employment 17 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.04 0.03 0.02 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 Excluding executive officers *3 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. The method of calculation has been changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *4 Remaining holidays from the preceding fiscal year are not included. Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service (FY2011) Data for Consultation Services for Employees Contacts received: 90 (107% of the previous fiscal year’s level) The contacts received were dealt with in collaboration By topic By user category among the Information Management Committee, Fair Families of Others 15% Unknown 11% employees 4% Trade Subcommittee, and Personnel Affairs Department. Unrelated consulting 7% Information sharing was attempted through monthly Full time Suspected employees Part time reports and Corporate Ethics and Culture Committee noncompli11% staff ance 7% 74% meetings held quarterly. In FY2012, we will revise our Working Communiconditions cations Action Guidelines and enhance employee education to 17% 54% foster the solution of problems. 60 Seven Bank, Ltd. Number of ATMs installed as of the end of FY2011: 16,632 Website: http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/corp/csr/ (in Japanese) Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy Replace ATMs with the third-generation machines Replaced about 2,700 ATMs and completed Devise measures to reduce the use of Reduce electricity consumption per ATM in July to the replacement of about 2,900 machines electricity at offices by introducing complex September by 15% from the previous year (about 17% of the total) as of the end of machines which incorporate a printer, a fax Reduce electricity consumption in offices between July FY2011 machine and a copier, and updating the Reduced electricity consumption per ATM in and September by 20% from the previous year July to September by 15% by implementing in-house OA systems power-saving measures, including Replace about 4,900 ATMs with decreasing the second display brightness third-generation machines and complete the and making the ATMs enter the replacement of 7,800 machines (about 45% energy-saving mode faster of the total) by the end of FY2012 Reduced electricity consumption by about Implement power-saving measures 20% year on year, by discontinuing the use voluntarily and in response to requests from of some lights and switching off lights more frequently society Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society Continue using recycled paper Continued using recycled paper Formulate the guidelines for green Improve the rate of green procurement 54.2% (67.0% of the previous fiscal year’s purchasing and procurement level) Implementing measures for biodiversity Continue with the cleaning activity by employees and The activity was canceled due to a typhoon. their families at forests by the foot of Mt. Fuji Offering eco-friendly products Replace ATMs with third-generation machines Third-generation ATMs accounted for about Third-generation ATMs accounted for about 17% of the total. 45% of the total Raising environmental awareness among employees Continue holding environmental seminars twice a year More than 300 employees attended each of Proactively participate in the environmental Continue disseminating environmental information using the seminars. volunteer activities held by the Seven & i Intranet and other media Dispatched information about the internal Group energy conservation campaigns and Conduct environmental volunteer activities under Seven Bank’s own programs participation in the Eco Products Exhibition Environmental Data Unit FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Volume of paper ordered for office automation equipment 1,000 sheets 8,080 7,152 6,898 Electricity used at the offices* MWh 1,416 1,501 1,204 * Data was not available for some rental offices. The number of offices has been increasing since FY2010, and the use of electricity includes use at all the offices, including stores stationed with staff and directly managed ATM corners. TOPICS Increasing Environmental Friendliness through Replacement with Third-Generation ATMs Seven Bank has been fostering the replacement of ATMs with new third-generation machines since 2010. The third-generation ATMs are constantly operated in the energy-saving mode except for during the opening hours, and LED lights are used About 48% for the screen and the second display to reduce the use of electricity per machine by reduction about 48% relative to a second-generation machine. Moreover to conserve resources, long-life components and recyclable materials are used in the ATMs. About 2,900 machines, which accounted for about 17% of the total, were replaced by the end of FY2011. By the end of FY2012, another 4,900 will be replaced to increase the number of third-generation ATMs to about 45% of the total. 61 Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic (FY2011) Data for Customer Response Services By contact point (outer circle) By topic (inner circle) The Customer Service Department of Seven Bank strives to heighten customer satisfaction (CS) through improvement of customer response and service, under the Telephone centers Comments and 33% requests 0.4% slogan “Best for You (doing our best for customers),” by compiling the over 640,000 customer opinions and comments that are filed each year, and sharing them with Inquiries ATM call 99.6% relevant divisions and with management. centers 67% * The method of aggregation has changed since FY2011. Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services -Verify and revise the BCM (business continuity -Reconfigured the BCP by adding new Conduct comprehensive drills and seminars management) and BCP (business continuity plan) that scenarios that assume an earthquake with that also consider the new scenarios were formulated at the time of Great East Japan its epicenter in the Tokyo metropolitan area Earthquake strikes -Start overseas money transfer services on ATMs -Started in March 2011 Developing stores and facilities customers can visit with a sense of Security Improve recognition of voice guidance services even Conducted voice guidance service Pursue better visibility on ATM display further campaign; transactions made during the screens 46-day campaign period: 2,018 (up 25% from the previous year) Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) Hold more discover meetings, aiming to discover new Held discover meetings three times (with 74 Study indexes aiming at even further ways to achieve customer satisfaction (CS) participants from all divisions) improvement of CS Coexisting with Local Communities Targets and Results in FY2011 and Targets in FY2012 ：Target achieved ：Target nearly achieved X：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly Continue distributing the picture book Solider Bonolon Continued distributing the books (a total of Hold local story hours at children’s centers, of the Forest to be read to children 41 issues as of February 2012) etc. Continue holding story hours Held story hours for 12 times with the Continue the donation of picture books Contribute picture books to children’s facilities in a participation of 327 people in total (and with Make examinations to give support to the number commensurate with the number of Solider 31 employees working as the organizer) recovery of children’s centers in the Bonolon of the Forest cash cards issued to customers Issued 10,002 cards and donated picture disaster-affected areas according to their choice books to about 3,000 children’s centers across the country Assisting in local community revitalization Continue offering employees opportunities to take part Dispatched volunteer-related information Make examinations for the introduction of a in volunteer activities through the intranet every month volunteer leave system Providing support in times of disaster Maintain stable operation of ATMs Responded to cash needs in affected areas Respond to cash needs in affected areas with mobile from May to August with three mobile ATM ATM Vehicles Vehicles Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities Continue cooperating with the police to eradicate Cases of cooperation with the police: 56,016 Implement measures against financial financial crime crimes promptly, and collect information about new types of crimes 62 Creating Fulfilling Workplaces FY2011 Targets and Results and FY2012 Targets ○：Target achieved △：Target nearly achieved ×：Fell significantly short of target Challenges FY2011 Targets and Plans FY2011 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2012 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities Build staff skills in communicating in foreign languages Gave support to a total of 20 employees in Continue the provision of training regard to correspondence education, the TOEIC examination and external language training Achieving a work-life balance Continue providing support for maintaining work-life Changed the fiscal year targeted for the Enhance the parental leave system balance provision of support to FY2012 Encourage male employees to take parental leave Number of male employees who took parental leave: 0 Making use of diverse human resources Continue employment of part time and temporary Promoted some part time staff to contract Continue implementing measures to workers employees, and directly employed some of maintain the employment rate of people with Maintain the statutory employment ratio of persons the staff dispatched from employment disabilities with disabilities agencies Recorded 2.06% for the employment rate of people with disabilities, thereby achieving the statutory rate Assuring consideration for worker health and safety Strengthen measures to deal with mental health Enhanced cooperation with external medical Ensure that employees will take consecutive issues, in collaboration with outside medical institutions (EPA companies and industrial leave institutions physicians) Devise measures to ensure that employees will Continue with interviews and guidance by public Continued with interviews and guidance by go home on time at least during the targeted health nurses week and verify the results public health nurses Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees (as of March 31, 2012) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Full time employees 324 Average length of service (full time employees)*2 3years 10months 4years 6months 5years 3months Males 265 Number of parental leave recipients (males and part time staff) 2 (0, 0) 6 (0, 0) 4 (0, 0) Females 59 Number of nursing leave recipients (males and part time staff) 0 1 (1, 0) 0 (0, 0) Part time staff*1 68 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system Contract employees 50 Percentage of women in management positions*3 5.5% 7.3% 8.3% Temporary employees 35 Percentage of employees with disabilities*4 1.82% 1.97% 2.06% New graduate employees hired 4 (Male 2, Femaile 2) Ratio of full time employees taking paid holidays*5 88.0% 81.8% 75.8% Mid-career employees hired 39 Frequency rate of industrial accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 Re-employment 35 Severity rate of industrial accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 *1 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee *2 The company was founded in 2001. *3 Excluding executive officers *4 The method of calculation has been changed in FY2010, to reflect the amendment to relevant laws in July 2010. *5 Remaining holidays from the preceding fiscal year are not included. Data for Consultation Services for Employees Seven Bank has established a system to ensure compliance, and urges employees to read out the compliance rules in the morning meetings held at their workplaces to raise their compliance awareness. Also the company has distributed to all employees a handy brochure (as shown in the right photo) that introduces where and how they can receive advice about compliance issues. In FY2011, one full time employee and one part timer received advice each on a communication-related issue. Thus advice was given on two issues in total (on one issue in the previous fiscal year). Brochure on the use of the “Internal Consultation Services” 63 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT 64 Awards and Evaluations by Outside Parties Major Awards and Recognition in FY2011 Title of recognition or award Organizer or awarding Reason for recognition Intended recipient organization CSR Report 2011 received Excellence Co-hosted Green In recognition of establishment of solid CSR Award in sustainability report section of Seven & i Holdings Co., Reporting Forum with management organization and clear 15th Environmental Report/Sustainability Ltd. Toyo Keizai, Inc. management of targets and results Report Awards In recognition of using LED lighting for Received Grand Prix in Second replacement in stores and on signboards, Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Kanagawa Global Warming Prevention Kanagawa Prefecture installation of solar panels, use of smart Ltd Award sensors, and other actions Selected as an outstanding example in commercial and hotel facilities section of Ministry of the In recognition of eco-friendly stores with Seven-Eleven Japan Co., 2011 Energy-saving Lighting Design Environment abundant leading-edge technologies Ltd Award In recognition of youth development support In Chiyoda Ward Environmental Festa programs and employee environmental 2012, Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Seven-Eleven Japan Co., education reported respectively in the Plan and received Local Community Contribution Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo Ltd., Report on Global Warming-Considerate Award and Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Activities of the Chiyoda Ward Global received Environmental Education Award Warming-Considerate Action Plan System In recognition of environmental activities Ranked first in retail and restaurant conducted at stores that reflect employees’ section of 15th Environmental Nikkei, Inc. Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. opinions, and promotion of green wrapping, Management Survey green curtains, etc In recognition of distinguished accomplishment Received Region IV Corporate Energy Association of Energy in development, organization, and 7-Eleven, Inc. Management Award for 2011 Engineers implementation of energy management programs Ario Hashimoto received Fourth In recognition of store facilities that take Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd., Kanagawa Prefecture Barrier-Free Urban Kanagawa Prefecture considerations for the convenience for all Mall & SC Development Development Award people Inc. Received Minister of Economy, Trade and In recognition of formulation and operation of Industry Award in the Large Retailer unique quality standards, assurance on safety Ministry of Economy, of private-brand products, and establishment of Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Category of the Fifth (FY2011) Best Trade and Industry product safety culture that also encompasses Contributors to Product Safety Awards business partners Hosted Food Action In recognition of use of abundant domestic Received Grand Prix Award for Nippon Award (co-hosted vegetables in prepackaged, boxed meals and Seven-Meal Service, Co., manufacturing, distribution, and systems by Ministry of Agriculture, ready-to-eat dishes, which contributes to Ltd. section of Food Action Nippon Award 2011 Forestry and Fisheries) raising the food self-sufficiency rate Received letter of appreciation from National Federation of All In recognition of fundraising activities to Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd., National Federation of All Japan Guide Japan Guide Dog Training support guide dogs, held every June since York Mart Co., Ltd. and Dog Training Institutions Institutions 1991 others 1) Japan Guide Dog Association 2) Eye Mate Association 3) Hokkaido Guide Dogs for the Blind Association 4) East Japan Guide Dog Association 5) Chubu Guide Dog In recognition of ongoing fundraising efforts at Received letter of appreciation from nine Association storefronts and by the company, labor unions, Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. guide dog training institutions 6) Kansai Guide Dogs for and employees, and publicity activities for the Blind Association customers conducted twice a year at all stores 7) Nippon Lighthouse Welfare Center for the Blind 8) Hyogo Guide Dog Association 9) Kyushu Guide Dog Association Received a letter of appreciation for Seven-Eleven Japan Co., In recognition of displaying of donor cards activities to disseminate organ donor Minister of Health, Labour Ltd., since 1999 and facilitating access to the cards cards, in recognition of efforts to spread and Welfare Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. and by local residents and raise awareness others In recognition of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) (as of September 13, 2012) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. is selected as a constituent in the following index. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index ETHIBEL Excellence ETHIBEL Sustainability Index Global 65 Results of Questionnaire for Readers of the CSR Report 2011 We thank you for the 154 responses we received for the Questionnaire for Readers of the Seven & i Holdings CSR Report 2011. Please find the aggregated results below. The 153 results received by the end of February 2012 led to planting of 153 trees (p.27). We would like to express our appreciation to all those who cooperated. Since the fall of 2012, a system has been in place for accepting responses to the questionnaire from online readers. We will continue incorporating stakeholders’ opinions in report editing and our activities. Your candid opinions and comments are greatly appreciated. Results of Questionnaire for Readers of the CSR Report 2011 Responses collected: 154 Q. Position of the respondent Q. Clarity of the report Q. Number of pages; amount Educator 1% Researcher 1% of information Supplier 1% Government, administrative agency 1% Difficult to Company contact person 4% Other 1% understand 2% Too much 0.6% Seven-Eleven Easy to franchisee 6% understand Average 57% Ample 99.4% Customer 9% Employee 41% 77% Q. Items of interest that ranked first Q. About data collection on Q. Compared with last year’s report to fifth (multiple responses were the website (Only those who read last year’s report) accepted) First: Responding to the Great East Japan No data is needed 4% Earthquake Difficult to read 1% Have not read them 14% Second: Providing Safe, Reliable Products and Services No Easy to Easier to read if difference read 61% Third: Messages from CEO and COO Good appended to 38% Fourth: Creating Fulfilling Workplaces the booklet 58% Fifth: Coexisting with Local Communities 24% Q. Opinions and requests regarding this report and Group CSR activities, and our responses Readers’ opinions and requests Our responses It would be better if CSR The report was edited with an intent to focus on noteworthy activities. measures were more actively There is an abridged version of the full report, so as to create a booklet that is easy to handle. promoted There are now more operating companies that publish a separate booklet on CSR activities. A new CSR Action page (in Japanese) was added to the website for featuring the latest activities by employees. http://www.7andi.com/csr/acction.html The fonts used are too small We tried to avoid using small fonts. Each page is displayed in PDF format per unit of one page instead of two facing pages. 66 CSR Department 8-8, Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8452, Japan TEL. 03-6238-2448 http://www.7andi.com/en/
