Sustainable values. Sustainable living. Social Responsibility Report 2011 Contents Message from the Board p.1 Business overview p.2 About our reporting Sustainability milestones p.4 Managing our impacts p.6 This report marks the ninth year of social, environmenEngaging stakeholders p.8 tal and ethical reporting by Coca-Cola Hellenic. Integrating sustainability p.12 In preparing this report, we were guided by the three Consumer health p.16 principles of the AA 1000 Assurance Standard: materiality, inclusiveness and responsiveness. We measure Water stewardship p.20 and report our performance using leading standards and methodologies. These include the Global Reporting Energy and climate change p.28 Initiative (GRI), Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Global Water Footprint Standard, Eco-Indicator 99 and LBG Model. Packaging and recycling p.34 For the second consecutive year, this report has been Employee development p.40 independently audited. In addition, environmental, Supplier engagement p.46 quality, health and safety management systems and data are audited annually by third-parties at all 76 Community involvement p.50 bottling plants. Both suppliers and Company-owned operations are subject to independent assessments Supporting the UN Global Compact p.56 of workplace conditions. Community investment data Environmental data table p.58 are submitted to London Benchmarking Group (LBG). Our compliance with industry codes on responsible Social and economic data table p.60 sales and marketing is also independently audited. GRI Index p.61 This report includes full data related to the bottling, disAwards and recognition p.62 tribution and sales activities in all 28 countries of operaValidation statement p.64 tion for calendar year 2011. The following investments Stakeholder review statement p.66 are not considered here: our brewing interests in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) and Glossary of terms p.68 Bulgaria, Greek snacks company Tsakiris, vending businesses in Hungary and Ireland, and the distribution of premium spirits. None of these represents more Consumer health Water stewardship than 1% of volume. More information about our strategy and programmes, including Disclosures of Management Approach, can be found on the corporate website. Country-level websites and sustainability reports are another source of information. Energy and climate change Packaging and recycling This report was independently assessed to meet GRI application Level A+. This report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and we deem it to meet the criteria for GC Advanced level. Our self-assessment is available on the Global Compact website. Employee development Supplier engagement Community involvement Message from the Board Dear Stakeholders, and convenience are influenced by trust, honesty and environmental considerations, and our customers know this. The year 2011 was challenging for Coca-Cola Hellenic. Economic In the workplace we have seen significant improvement in pergrowth was sluggish or worse, formance with regard to Health and Safety, but further work is and consumer confidence fell in needed to achieve our goal of establishing a world-class safety many of the countries in which culture. we operate. Costs of raw materiWe are extending our efforts beyond our own operations also in als soared. Despite this, we made the drive against corruption. According to Transparency Internaseveral important strides in retional, some of the countries in which we operate are perceived as ducing our environmental impact being among the most corrupt in world rankings. As a company and encouraging community environmental stewardship. committed to ethical values and integrity we will not turn a blind In such difficult conditions, good governance and policies for suseye to examples of corrupt practices in business. We therefore tainability retain all their importance. The challenges posed by support initiatives which address this issue in a growing numclimate change and pressure on resources have not diminished. ber of countries. In 2011, I was able to present our zero-tolerance When our CEO Dimitris Lois reaffirmed our Company’s commitapproach to corruption to a distinguished group of investors in ment to sustainability, it was therefore no mere gesture but a Switzerland and to discuss some of these questions with them. strong reaffirmation of one of our core values. Another major social issue that we must help to address conThe importance that we attach to sustainability at all levels of our cerns energy balance: calories in versus calories out, and the business was acknowledged by the listing of Coca-Cola Hellenic increasing growth in the level of chronic disease. Efforts are befor the fourth successive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability Ining stepped up to tackle this issue and promote better consumer dexes (World and STOXX). This places us among the top 10% of health. The key to good nutrition and diet is balance and moderacompanies worldwide for sustainability. Our managers and emtion. It is estimated that improved diet alone could result in a 28% ployees can take pride in this, with no sense of complacency bereduction in cardiovascular disease*, a 24% reduction in Type 2 cause there is still much to be done to improve our performance. diabetes ** and a 20% reduction in some cancers***. Industry and civil society must work together to achieve these goals. Our sustainability programmes are long-term investments, building value over time for our business and communities. For It remains a part of our mission to improve the quality of life in local example, in 2003 we undertook that all Company wastewater communities, especially in developing and emerging economies. would be treated to levels that supported aquatic life. In 2011, In such countries, regulations and laws may require less than the we achieved this goal, having built 44 on-site wastewater treatminimum standards we accept for our business. As a result, we ment plants in countries where wastewater is not adequately are ready where necessary to take a lead, and projects such as treated. Another major programme that will be completed in our wastewater treatment plants or certifications are the first to 2012 is the certification of all bottling plants against internabe introduced in some of the countries in which we operate. tionally recognised management system standards for enviTo help promote sustainability and corporate responsibility, ronment, quality, food safety, occupational health and safety. we support local networks of the Global Compact and other business initiatives. We continued to work towards our goal to build 20 combined heat and power (CHP) plants by 2015. This is the largest CHP The world’s population is expected to reach nine billion by the programme in our industry. On completion it will reduce carbon year 2050, with almost all growth in the less developed regions. emissions overall, in the community and our own operations, by Emerging economies already represent almost half of our sales a calculated 250,000 tonnes each year from which our operations volume and are home to 400 million people. By 2050, the populawill benefit in proportion. I look forward to seeing our latest CHP tion of just one of these countries Nigeria will reach this same plant inaugurated at Kiev in early June. figure. These are striking figures. We need to look forward, to plan, and to understand the implications of economic, social and As programmes in our own operations become better estabenvironmental change for our business and for the future of the lished, we can turn more attention to our supply chain, where communities we serve. the greatest environmental and social impacts of our business are to be found. We have set targets to reduce carbon emissions throughout our value chain and have begun work with suppliers to address water use in agriculture. Sustainability plays a growing part in creating value for customers, too. Increasingly we see in Sir Michael Llewellyn Smith surveys that traditional purchase decisions based on price, quality Chairman, Social Responsibility Committee * H.-C. Hung 2005 (J Nat Cancer Ins) ** F.B. Hu 2001 (New Eng J Med) *** WHO 2003 Message from the Board |1 Business overview Coca-Cola Hellenic is one of the largest Coca-Cola bottlers globally in terms of revenue. Across 28 countries with diverse cultures and geographies, we serve a population of approximately 570 million people. The Company owns and operates 76 bottling plants as well as 365 warehouses and distribution centres. By sourcing and manufacturing locally, we remain close to our customers and consumers, while generating local employment and other benefits. €877 million EBITDA 76 bottling plants 2.08 41,302 billion unit case sales employees Beverages and brands Coca-Cola beverages around the world. Together with The Coca-Cola Company, these bottlers comprise the Coca-Cola We offer a wide range of non-alcoholic beverages: waters, business system. The Coca-Cola Company owns the brands juices and juice drinks, ready-to-drink coffees and ice and manufactures and sells concentrates, beverage bases teas, sports and energy drinks in addition to our core sparand syrups to bottling partners who manufacture, packkling soft drinks. Our portfolio of global brands, such as age, merchandise and distribute the finished beverages Coca-Cola, Fanta and Sprite, is complemented by leading to customers. national brands designed to meet local tastes. We produce and distribute beverages under licence agreements. Brands of The Coca-Cola Company accounted for Ownership about 90% of sales in 2011. A further 7% came from brands Our Company’s largest shareholders are the Kar-Tess Group owned by other companies, such as Nestea, illy café, Dr and The Coca-Cola Company. Coca-Cola Hellenic is listed on Pepper, Schweppes and Tuborg. Coca-Cola Hellenic’s own the Athens Stock Exchange, with a secondary listing on the brands, including Amita juices and Avra mineral water, London Stock Exchange. American Depository Receipts are represented the remaining 3%. listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The Coca-Cola System Sustainability Coca-Cola Hellenic is one of approximately 300 bottlers of Coca-Cola Hellenic has been included on the Dow Jones 2 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Emerging markets Armenia FYROM Romania Belarus Moldova Russia Bosnia and Montenegro Serbia Herzegovina Nigeria Ukraine Bulgaria Developing markets Croatia Hungary Poland Czech Republic Latvia Slovakia Estonia Lithuania Slovenia Established markets Austria Italy Switzerland Cyprus Northern Ireland Greece Republic of Ireland Sustainability Indexes (World and STOXX) since 2008. This places us among the top 10% of companies worldwide for Sustained credit rating sustainability. We are one of only three beverage companies S&P rating Moody’s rating on the DJSI World Index, and one of two in the DJSI Europe. AAA Aaa We have also been included in the FTSE4Good since 2001. A+ A1 In the Index’s new Environmental, Social and Governance AA3 (ESG) ratings, we scored 4.15 out of 5, giving a 93% rating BBBBaa3 in our global supersector. B B2 CC Ca Volume Net sales revenue D C (million unit cases) (million €) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Hellenic Republic Moody’s Coca-Cola Hellenic Moody’s 6,981 6,544 6,794 6,854 2,019 2,115 2,069 2,100 2,083 6,462 Hellenic Republic S&P Coca-Cola Hellenic S&P Another aspect of a company’s sustainability is its long-term financial solidity. Credit ratings help investors, analysts and banks to ascertain the financial strength of a company. Since establishment in 2000, Coca-Cola Hellenic has been rated ‘investment grade’ by S&P and Moody’s (A and A3 respectively). This is based on our financial rigour and strong growth prospects, as well as our close Comparable net profit Comparable return on business relationship with The Coca-Cola Company. invested capital (million €) Our credit rating has withstood the economic (percent) turbulence of recent years (see graph). In May 2011, 471 453 427 420 12.2 S&P took the unusual step of announcing that the 11.0 330 10.5 10.8 rating of Coca-Cola Hellenic remained unaffected by 8.5 the significant downgrade of Greece, where the Company is headquartered, since most revenue derives from markets outside Greece. Moody’s issued a similar announcement although the Company was placed on negative outlook in November 2011. Business overview |3 Sustainability milestones 2011 2010 2009 2008 First GRI A+ CSR report Signed Consumer Goods Started construction of 15 Included in the Dow Jones Forum resolutions on CHP units to reduce CO2 Sustainability Index in European beverage deforestation and from bottling operations by refrigeration over 20% Launched Stakeholder industry Panel Launched solar energy First absolute reductions programme in water, energy and waste Launched the “Business in operations friends of the Danube” Stepped up commitment to fund build 20 CHP units Over two-thirds of operations certified Extended Safe and Eco Third consecutive year of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, driving courses to all Completed construction absolute water reduction OHSAS 18001 and countries of wastewater treatment Launched carbon-efficient ISO 22000 Increased use of recycled plants, ensuring fleet of commercial coolers, First submission to Carbon PET by 70% versus commitment to buy only Disclosure Project previous year that 100% of wastewater such coolers from 2015 is now treated First report on Launched three year New anti-corruption implementation of CEO Safety plan training rolled out across Water Mandate and Caring all operations Αcquired Southern for Climate Italy Coca-Cola bottling Built three additional All 76 bottling plants Employer of choice awards First corporate water operations CHP units now certified in 16 countries footprint to ISO 9001 13-point rise in employee engagement since 2007 Founding member of European Water Footprint Sounding Board for sugar Purchased and installed First Stakeholder review of 29,000 eco-friendly CSR report coolers Over 99% of volume produced by ISO 9001 certified plants Long-term goals 2004 baseline Water ratio in plants (l/lpb) 2.86 -22% Total water use in plants (billion litres) 27.8 -6% Water footprint (billion litres) 51.7 -58% Energy ratio in plants (MJ/lpb) 0.73 -21% Total energy use in plants (MJ) 6.5 +3% CO2 ratio (g CO2/lpb) 98.5 -32% Total CO2 emissions (thousand tonnes) 792 -2% Landfilled waste ratio (g/lpb) 5.0 -75% Total waste landfilled (million tonnes) 41.7 -65% * Will be equal to (actual production volume) x (target use ratio). 4 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report 2007 2006 2005 2004 2002 Signed CEO Water Annual sales of waters Launched Green Danube First CSR Policies ratified FTSE4Good listing Mandate, Caring for and juices exceeded 33% of Partnership with ICPDR for Human Rights, Equality confirmed Climate statement and the sales for first time of Opportunity, HIV/AIDS, Bali Communiqué Signed the UN Global Health & Safety, Launched WWF Water Stopped using HFCs in Compact Environment and Quality Savers tool Launched GDA labelling insulation of cold drink equipment Ratified the UNESDA First GRI report in the Acquired Baltics Opened 1st industry commitments non-alcoholic beverage Coca-Cola operations owned PET-to-PET Named Notable Reporter industry recycling plant in Europe by the UNGC Acquired mineral water Acquired mineral water companies Bankya in Acquired mineral water companies Valser in Launched Green IT Launched front-of-pack Bulgaria and Vlasinka company Gotalka in Switzerland and Dorna initiative nutritional labelling in Serbia and fruit juice Croatia Apemin in Romania in EU countries company Multon in Russia Joined London Benchmarking Group (LBG) Acquired mineral water company Fonti del Vulture 2003 2001 in Italy, fruit juice company First country operation Joined CSR Europe Fresh&Co in Serbia Formed Social Responsibility Committee certified ISO 14001 First country operations and beverage and dairy commitment to certify all company Lanitis in Cyprus of the Board and certified ISO 22000, executive-level council operations commitment to certify all operations First country operations Acquired Russian certified OHSAS 18001 Coca-Cola operations Acquired beverage commitment to certify all company Aquavision in Russia operations Acquired mineral water 2000 companies Römerquelle Creation of in Austria and Multivita in Coca-Cola Hellenic Poland Bottling Company S.A. Business milestones www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/history/milestones/ 2011 improvement 2011 result 2012 target 2020 goal vs 2004 -2.3% 2.24 -4.7% -40% -5% 26.0 * +0% -11% 21 -2% -75% +2% 0.580 -10% -40% -0.4% 6.7 * +0% -5% 66.9 -2% -40% -7% 776 -2% -20% -16% 1.2 -1.6% -90% -18% 14.5 * -80% Sustainability milestones & Long-term goals |5 Managing our impacts As we consider our wider economic, social and environmental impacts, we are expanding sustainability efforts further into our value chain. We recognise that these indirect impacts are significantly greater than those of our own operations. As we do so, we work with our partners in growth, The Coca-Cola Company in particular. We also endeavour to manage the broader impacts on our communities. Suppliers More than 41,300 people work in our business. Our core values include caring for our people Our network of around 84,000 suppliers accounts and learning and we aim to help employees to for 36% of our ecological impacts. Packaging is reach their potential. Developing a world-class one of the largest sources of carbon emissions safety culture is another key focus. Accidents fell in our supply chain, around one-third of our total a further 27% in 2011. carbon footprint. Similarly, sugar production is the biggest contributor to our total water footprint and represents 47% of grey water. We work Fleet and transportation with suppliers, The Coca-Cola Company and others to address these impacts. In addition, we We own or lease around 19,000 trucks, cars and develop innovative technologies with suppliers, vehicles and most products are delivered by most notably climate-friendly refrigeration and road. Nevertheless, our transportation footprint quad-generation CHP plants. is relatively small due to local manufacturing and sourcing. In 2011, our vehicles consumed 69 milTo promote workplace rights, suppliers are sublion litres of fuel and accounted for 3.6% of our ject to independent audits against our Supplier total carbon footprint. Through efforts to reduce Guiding Principles. Approximately 90% of our this, we avoided 41,000 tonnes of CO2 in 2011 supplier spend remains within our territories, compared to 2010. thereby generating local economic benefit. Road safety is a priority, particularly in emerging and developing markets. Although road trafBottling plants fic accidents fell by a further 32% in 2011, they claimed the lives of two employees and two conCoca-Cola Hellenic operations span 76 bottling tractors, out of a total of six fatalities. plants, as well as 365 warehouses and distribution centres and corporate offices. All bottling plants are now certified to ISO 9001 and will Customers reach full certification against internationally recognised management system standards for The cold drink equipment on customer premises food safety, environment, health and safety by is one of the biggest contributors to our total end 2012. carbon footprint. More than 1.5 million coolers, vendors and fountains chill our beverages for All Company wastewater is now treated to levels immediate consumption. New cooler models are that support aquatic life. Forty-four of our plants free of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and are up to are equipped with an on-site wastewater treat63% more energy-efficient than in 2004. We also ment system, the others are connected to muimprove the energy efficiency of existing equipnicipal systems. To reduce CO2 emissions, we ment, retrofitting 13,000 energy management have commissioned nine combined heat and devices in 2011. power (CHP) units, committing to build 20 by 2015. Our relative energy and water use has As part of creating shared value, we work indropped by 21% and 22% respectively since 2004. creasingly on joint sustainability programmes 6 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report More low-calorie beverages 84,000 suppliers 70% of beverage packaging collected and recycled, or recovered, 36% of our ecological impacts in 19 countries with recovery systems Suppliers Consumers 19,000 trucks, vehicles and cars 32% fewer road traffic accidents Fleet and transportation Bottling plants Communities Wastewater from all 76 plants €8 million on treated to corporate standards community investment 9 Combined Heat and Power plants Customers water stewardship programmes more than 41,300 employees 1.5 million coolers, in 26 countries vendors and fountains more than 3 million 123,000 coolers with people in sports and fitness energy saving devices programmes with customers. Smaller independent customers countries with recovery systems already active. and distributors also receive our help to grow Company-sponsored music, sports and other their businesses. events collect packaging for recycling. Consumers Communities By offering more reduced-calorie and nutritionWe support local communities through our core ally enhanced beverages, we aim to meet growbusiness activities, as well as corporate coming health and wellness concerns of consumers. munity investment. In 2011, we spent €8 million In a leadership role, we now have nutritional on these community programmes, representing information on front-of-pack labels in every 1.5% of pre-tax profits. country of operation. We also abide by stringent Our watershed protection programmes span 26 codes on responsible sales and marketing. countries. More than three million people took We encourage consumers to place empty packpart in our sports and fitness programmes. Our ages into the collection and recovery systems growing partnership with the Red Cross Red we have helped to set up in 20 countries. During Crescent societies ensures that we deliver emer2011, an average of 70% of beverage packaging gency relief as needed to local communities. was collected and recycled or recovered in 19 Managing our impacts |7 Engaging stakeholders We must listen and respond to the needs of our stakeholders, those who affect our business or who are affected by us. By helping them to achieve their goals, we benefit our own business, too. From caring for employees and building community trust to winning with customers and driving consumer preference, our underlying aim remains the same: to create shared value. This is embedded in our new business strategy and values. Our approach Employees We cannot achieve our sustainability goals alone. InOur Company’s new set of corporate values have stead, we engage with others in the following ways: been developed following an extensive internal consultation process. Two of these values focus spe• Integrating sustainability into core business recifically on employees: Caring for Our People and lationships Learning. This new framework was introduced to • Developing strategic partnerships to address key senior management in 2011 and is being cascaded sustainability issues across our business during 2012. • Raising awareness and promoting action Initiatives are also underway to address concerns • Seeking expert input on our sustainability strategy raised in our latest employee survey. These inand reporting. clude promoting work-life balance and expanding opportunities for employee input into the busiPublic-private partnerships are increasingly acknowness. In the 2010 survey, our overall engagement ledged as the only way to solve key sustainability isscore rose 13 points to 56%. sues, from climate change to the obesity epidemic. We therefore build long-term partnerships with Efforts to engage employees in our sustainabilNGOs, UN agencies, governments and others, thereity strategy took a step forward with a series of by gaining access to technical expertise and on-theevents in 2011, including our Company’s first ground networks. Group-wide Health and Safety Week, EU Sustainable Energy Week and Live Positively Week. Since 2005, our Green Danube partnership with the ICPDR has spawned conservation programmes, awareness and education campaigns Customers in 11 countries. Coca-Cola Hellenic was invited Joint value creation teams will help our drive to to address national environment ministers of the be our customers’ preferred partner. Helping five Tisza River basin countries and our partnerto meet customer sustainability goals is part of ship was cited as best practice. We were also this. By certifying all bottling plants against interinvited to participate in the 6th biennial Internanational food safety standard certification FSSC tional Waters Conference, organised by the GEF 22000, we are addressing a priority issue for and UNDP. customers. In addition, we support broader industry platAt country level, joint awareness campaigns have forms. As a longstanding participant of the UN included active lifestyle events, recycling exhibiGlobal Compact, we have also signed the CEO tions and promotions. We also work together on Water Mandate and Caring for Climate. Across efficiency programmes that deliver environmental our business, we support local networks of the benefits, such as backhaul programmes in which Global Compact and other initiatives to promote long distance hauler trucks return with full loads. corporate responsibility and sustainability. Consumers Engagement by stakeholder groups Health and wellness represents an issue of concern During 2011, we worked with all key groups of among consumers. In response, we continue to instakeholders to advance sustainability initiatives. troduce more reduced-calorie beverages, as well as 8 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report implementing front-of-pack nutritional information joint disaster preparedness plans in our counand responsible marketing practices. tries of operation. We also use our brands to engage consumers on other sustainability issues. On-pack information is Governments used increasingly, from limited-edition polar bear In almost every country, we work with governcans with WWF in Russia to water sustainability ment agencies to implement sustainability proinformation included with multi-packs in Serbia. grammes. These include: establishing packaging Cause-related marketing and promotions offer management schemes, promoting water stewother engagement opportunities. In Hungary, for ardship and integrating active lifestyles and susexample, Tesco shoppers received a free bottle tainability education into school curricula. of our local mineral water in exchange for returning empty PET bottles for recycling. Across We aim to keep governments informed and to be our business, we support awareness campaigns transparent about the positions we take. For examto encourage consumers to recycle. ple, we call for urgent government action on climate change, including raising EU emissions reduction targets from 20% to 30%, and we champion the proNGOs and IGOs ducer responsibility principle as we establish packaging management schemes across our business. We are challenged and guided by NGO partners and their technical expertise. Partners in our waAlthough we aim to play our part, we oppose meater stewardship programmes include the ICPDR, sures that single out products or industries, such WWF, Water Footprint Network and UN agencies as soft drink taxes or bans on bottled water. We such as UNDP and UNESCO. We are also expandalso challenge proposals that seem motivated ing our collaboration with the IFRC, the world’s more by short-term financial gain than long-term largest humanitarian organisation, to implement sustainability. Groupwide partnerships UNGC United Nations Global Compact CEO Water Mandate Caring for Climate International Commission for the Protection ICPDR of the Danube River Country partnerships WWF World Wide Fund for Nature IFRC International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies UNDP United Nations Development Programme GWP Global Water Partnership UNESCO United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation Engaging stakeholders |9 Engaging stakeholders Dealings with politicians and government agen1.5% of pre-tax profit. We also encourage local comcies are governed by our Code of Business Conmunities to become informed and involved in susduct. In 2011, we complied with our prohibition on tainability issues. Community volunteers helped us to political contributions. clean up 750 kilometres of riverbanks and beaches, while hundreds of thousands took part in our highprofile river festivals. In addition, over three million Suppliers people took part in our sports and fitness activiWe work increasingly with suppliers to address ties. During 2011, 62,000 people visited our bottling the indirect impacts of our business. Areas of foplants, seeing quad-generation CHP, wastewater cus include water use in our agricultural supply treatment and other sustainability initiatives in action. chain, as well as carbon and energy management among packaging suppliers. Since many smaller suppliers struggle to gain credit during the ecoInvestors nomic crisis, we have developed innovative programmes to allow them to obtain cheaper and During 2011, Coca-Cola Hellenic met with invesmore readily available financing. tors to discuss our strategies on anti-corruption and water stewardship (see below). In addition, we engage with ratings agencies, SRI analysts, Communities investors and the Carbon Disclosure Project. We continued to invest in community projects The Fondation Guilé provides an annual asthroughout the recession, responding to local needs. sessment of our sustainability performance During 2011, we invested more than €8 million, or and reporting. Coca-Cola Hellenic was voted by Engaging with investors on sustainability During 2011, we presented our sustainability performance at an investor roundtable organised by Swiss-based fund manager PPT&Co. The meeting showed mainstream investors how active stakeholder engagement can positively impact a company’s sustainability strategy. Sir Michael Llewellyn Smith, Chairman of our Social Responsibility Committee, presented the Company’s efforts to prevent corruption. Investors also learned about our water stewardship and financial performance. The Fondation Guilé, advisor to the Guilé Funds, promotes adherence and improvement towards the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Coca-Cola Hellenic is one of 45 companies worldwide selected as a member of the Guilé Emerging Markets Fund. 10 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report analysts as among the top three in Europe for The Panel noted that Coca-Cola Hellenic is already investor relations. among CSR leaders but making the leap to being a One Planet Business will involve leadership, innovation (transforming our industry), restoration Our Stakeholder Panel (making a net positive contribution to the environOur Stakeholder Panel meets annually to disment) and transformation of systems (lobbying for cuss current and emerging sustainability issues green economy policies). In addition, we were enand to challenge us to take a leadership role. couraged to focus on creating shared value. Members include NGOs, academia, investors, The Panel provided feedback on our reporting, too, trade associations, supplier representatives and commending the use of independent assurance CSR specialists. and external commentary. Our greater coverage In 2011, discussions focused on the scale of of compliance, anti-corruption and diversity issues global sustainability challenges by the year 2050. also gained positive feedback. Nevertheless, we Coca-Cola Hellenic was encouraged to adopt the were encouraged to disclose yet more information. mindset of a ‘One Planet Business’, as presented Specific recommendations by the Panel and Fonby WWF, recognising that although we have only dation Guilé are listed below, along with our actions one planet’s worth of resources, we collectively in response. The Panel also produced a review of use significantly more at present. this report (see p.66). What stakeholders said How we responded Show the process and criteria used to identify We include a materiality matrix to show how we topics for inclusion in reporting identify topics to include in this report (see p.13). Discuss negatives as well as positives We report more on the challenges encountered in our sustainability programme: the gaps, dilemmas and trade-offs. In 2011, most difficulties were due to the economic challenges faced by our business as well as the countries in which we operate. Provide longer-term targets We now include targets until 2020 and have started to set broader targets that extend through our value chain. Include benchmarking against others Although comparable information is not always available, we provide more benchmarking than in previous reports. More detail on preventing corruption, especially We describe external anti-corruption initiatives in developing and emerging markets we support, particularly those in developing and emerging markets. Engaging stakeholders | 11 Integrating sustainability The mission of Coca-Cola Hellenic requires that the Company grows in a way that contributes to the quality of life in local communities. Our new business strategy and core values go a step further, recognising the critical importance of creating shared value: for employees, consumers, customers and communities, too. To achieve this, sustainability must be deeply embedded into our business. tegic risks, sets standards and targets and reviews performance. The Council reports quarterly to the CSR Committee of the Board, which reviews risks, strategy and performance. Region Directors and Country General Managers are responsible for social and environmental performance in their territories. They are supported by cross-functional CSR teams at country level, as well as health, safety and environmental coordinators at each bottling plant. We have also built up internal networks of specialists in the areas of water, energy, packaging and safety. Corruption-related risks are reported directly to the Audit Committee by our Internal Audit function. Each operation is assessed for risk every two to three years; those in higherrisk countries are audited more frequently. Our approach We work closely with The Coca-Cola Company on our sustainability agenda. Joint governance structures include the We have worked to integrate sustainability throughout our global Environment Council and the Corporate ResponCompany. During our first decade, we: sibility and Sustainability Board in Europe. The Coca-Cola • Established governance structures for sustainability, from Company also works on behalf of our business system to Board of Directors to bottling plants address such issues as sustainable agriculture and human • Identified material issues and developed strategies in response rights at global level. • Adopted world-class standards and demanding targets • Assigned accountability throughout our business and deAddressing material issues veloped training programmes Coca-Cola Hellenic focuses its sustainability strategy and re• Set up rigorous reviews of performance and compliance, porting on the most important issues to internal and external reporting results externally. stakeholders. To identify issues, we rely on three main sources of information: Sustainability is now clearly part of how we do business. As we continue to embed sustainability into our business, our • Ongoing analysis of trends – from media coverage, research focus now is to: and other sources • Establish longer-term thinking and longer-term targets • Interviews with decision-makers across our Company and business system • Further embed sustainability into business processes and decision-making • Engagement with external stakeholders including our Stakeholder Panel (see p. 11), as well as surveys and direct • Ensure sustainability is every employee’s responsibility interviews. • Expand efforts deeper into our value chain. We prioritise these issues using a materiality assessment process developed in line with GRI guidance to identify which CSR Governance and management topics are of greatest concern to our business and our stakeAt corporate level, our sustainability agenda is driven by the holders. The CSR Council regularly reviews these priorities in cross-functional Group CSR Council. This body identifies stralight of changing issues and expectations. 12 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Issues materiality matrix water use healthy products High obesity climate change energy use packaging recovery Relevance to stakeholders biodiversity loss transport agricultural Moderate impacts packaging use water habitats human rights redundancies air pollution water landfilled waste governance anti-corruption food safety corporate littering cold drink virtual governance non-discrimination Low water wastewater equipment packaged employee water development labour rights responsible marketing safety at work Very low Very low Low Moderate High Relevance to Company Extent of impact (small/moderate/large) Systems and standards health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and food safety (ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000). Coca-Cola Hellenic has adopted internationally recognised management systems to guide the Company’s approach. We In 2011, we achieved full ISO 9001 certification of all 76 bothave also developed a framework of sustainability-related tling plants. We are close to full certification for environment, policies (see p.15) which are periodically reviewed and uphealth and safety and food safety, too (see graph p.14). Pardated by the CSR Council. ticular progress has been made in food safety, with 36 plants acquiring FSSC 22000 certification in 2011 alone. As we near completion of this major certification proCode of Business Conduct gramme, we are assessing certifications for sustainable Our Code of Business Conduct defines how employees are buildings. Although ISO 26000 is not a certification standard, expected to do business. The Code has been reviewed and we have also begun to follow its guidance. updated to take into account the new UK Anti-Bribery Act. In addition to mandatory training, each employee receives an annual letter from our CEO underlining our zero-tolerance Ensuring compliance approach to corruption. Regular reviews check that we adhere to all applicable laws and regulations, our Code of Business Conduct and internal standards. Compliance and continuous improvement are Management systems also integral to our management systems. Annual certificaBy 2012, all bottling plants will be certified to internationally tion confirms that we are in legal compliance, processes are recognised management system standards. These include well implemented, targets are set and reached and reporting standards for quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO 14001), is timely and accurate. Coca-Cola Hellenic received no sigIntegrating sustainability | 13 Integrating sustainability nificant fines1 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Embedding into business processes in 2011. Sustainability considerations continue to be integrated into Another way that we assess compliance with internal stankey business processes. From developing products and dards is through our whistleblower confidential hotline and packaging to managing risk, developing our leadership pipeemail system. This system is widely publicised and all conline to managing supplier relationships, we aim to embed cerns or grievances raised are independently investigated sustainability into decision-making. with findings reported to our Audit Committee. The system We also work to resolve trade-offs and dilemmas that is also subject to independent auditing. All violations of our emerge. In response to growing consumer demand for Code result in disciplinary action, even dismissal. juices and nutritionally enhanced beverages, we invested in aseptic technology since this allows optimum safety and Everyone’s responsibility flavour without the need for added preservatives – another consumer preference. Nevertheless, the technology uses Every employee of Coca-Cola Hellenic has a role to play in significantly more water and energy than traditional producmaking our business and communities more sustainable. tion lines. We are therefore working with suppliers to deWe therefore train and equip our people so that they can fulfil velop ways to compensate for this. their responsibilities. Further improvements in our environmental performance At the most fundamental level, all employees must follow will likely require significant capital investment. Yet waterour Code of Business Conduct and undergo practical training saving projects do not typically have a short-term payback to ensure they understand its requirements. Online training since water currently has a low financial value. To help and certification is offered in the 14 most widely used lanour business evaluate and prioritise future investments in guages across our business. To date, over 80% of employees water-savings projects, we intend to develop a new green have gained certification and 8,000 renewed their re-certifiaccounting methodology. cation in 2011. Those who work without email currently receive in-person training. Extending into our value chain Depending on their roles, employees also trained and inThe greatest impacts of our business lie in our supply chain. volved in key aspects of sustainability. Drivers are trained in We work increasingly with suppliers and others to undersafe and eco-driving programmes, while our salesforce are stand and address such issues as water use in our agricultrained in competition law and responsible marketing. tural supply chain. In addition, we have begun collaboraCSR is one of seven key results areas in our Leadership tive work with customers on joint sustainability initiatives. Pipeline and all leadership development programmes inTogether with The Coca-Cola Company, we are now setting corporate sustainability components. In addition, we conlong-term sustainability targets for our business that include duct dedicated training for country management teams. All our supply chain in a lifecycle approach. managers have sustainability-related objectives in their performance appraisal. These contribute to both variable comCertifications of bottling plants pensation and career progression. % of plants certified 100 FSSC 22000 90 Engaging employees 80 ISO 22000 70 OHSAS 18001 We encourage employees to learn about sustainability is60 50 ISO 14001 sues and to participate in our programmes. In 2011, we 40 ISO 9001 conducted high-profile safe driving campaigns in all 28 30 20 countries (see p.45). During EU Sustainable Energy Week, 10 employees took part in the 32 events held across our busi0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ness to promote energy efficiency. We also promote volunBy 2012, we expect all bottling plants to be fully certified for teering activities and more than 5,000 employees particiquality, environment, health and safety as well as food safety. pated in our environmental and social projects during 2011. 1. Fines of €1 million or more are deemed significant by financial auditors. 14 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Standards and policies Issue External standards Internal policies Overall • UN Global Compact • Mission and values • GRI Reporting Guidelines • Code of Business Conduct • ISO 14001 Water stewardship • CEO Water Mandate • Environmental policy • Water Stewardship policy Energy and climate • Caring for Climate • Climate Change policy • GHG Protocol • Environmental policy • CGF Resolutions Packaging and recycling • UNGC – Environment • Packaging Waste policy • EU Packaging Waste Directive Consumer health • ICBA Guidelines • Health and Wellness policy • EU Pledge & UNESDA commitments • GMO Statement • ISO 9001, FSSC 22000 Employee development • UNGC – Human Rights, Labour, Anti-Corruption • Human Rights policy • UN Declaration of Universal Human Rights • Equality policy • OHSAS 18001 • Health and Safety policy • UN Guiding Principles for Business & Human Rights • HIV-AIDS policy • ILO Codes • Fleet Safety policy Supplier engagement • UNGC – Environment, Human Rights, Labour, • Code of Business Conduct Anti-Corruption • Supplier Guiding Principles Community involvement • UNGC – Environment, Human Rights, • Human Rights Policy Labour Standards, Anti-Corruption • Code of Business Conduct • LBG Model Anti-Corruption • UNGC – Anti-Corruption • Code of Business Conduct • UN Convention against Corruption • Code of Ethics • Code for Dealing in Shares • Supplier Guiding Principles Building sustainability into brands Sustainability is part of the DNA of Austrian water brand Römerquelle. The bottling plant works with local farmers to protect the water source from pesticides and fertilisers. Renewable energy provides 100% of the Römerquelle plant’s electricity and the brand’s bottles now include 45% recycled PET content. The brand is certified to the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) and was the first company worldwide to present an eco-audit in 1986. In 2011, Römerquelle was named one of only 11 Green Brands in Austria by a high-ranking jury and independent brand-marketing organisation Green Brand. Integrating sustainability | 15 Consumer health Ageing populations and smaller households are among the ways that our societies are changing. People lead on-the-go lifestyles and demand greater convenience. For our business to grow, we must meet consumers’ changing needs and demands. All sparkling beverages carry front-of-pack 27 calorie information in multiple sports and all EU countries physical activity programmes in countries 26% 3 of our sales with million volume is low more participants or no-calorie than in 2011 We also recognise concern about rising levels of Offering more choice obesity. According to the World Health OrganisaOur growing range of beverages includes waters, tion, 2.3 billion adults will be overweight by 2015, juices, iced teas and ready-to-drink coffees, sports more than 700 million of them obese. Obesity is a and energy drinks. Nevertheless, sparkling beverages complex issue with no single cause and no simple remain the heart of our business. As consumer needs solution. Combating the problem effectively will evolve, we are expanding our reduced-calorie options. require innovative and sustained multi-sectoral Yet with balance and moderation, all of our beverages collaboration. can have a place in a healthy diet. Our approach Our product portfolio www.coca-colahellenic.com/aboutus/productportfolio/ Coca-Cola Hellenic aims to provide refreshment for European Hydration Institute every occasion: hydration, energy, nourishment, rewww.europeanhydrationinstitute.org/partners_and_ laxation and enjoyment. We are also determined to collaborators.html play our part in tackling obesity and provide leaderBeverage Institute for Health and Wellness ship on the issue. In doing so, we work closely with www.beverageinstitute.org/en_US/pages/ The Coca-Cola Company and the European Beverage Association, UNESDA. Our strategy focuses on: Reduced calorie content • Offering greater beverage choice, with a focus The sugar in our beverages provides energy in the on reduced-calorie options form of calories. Yet if people do not expend these calories, they may gain weight. As we increase our • Reducing the calorie content of products range of reduced-calorie beverages, we replace • Providing clear nutritional information on the some or all of this sugar content with non-nutritive front of packages sweeteners. • Marketing and selling beverages responsibly Although the taste of Coca-Cola is enjoyed around the world, the full-calorie version is not for everyone. • Promoting active lifestyles. We now offer Coke Zero, which has the same great We work with governments, sports and nutrition experts taste but zero calories, in addition to Coca-Cola Light/ to educate and empower consumers. At international diet Coke. Two-thirds of our beverages already have level, we support the EU Platform on Diet, Physical Aca lowor no-calorie option and we plan to launch tivity and Health through industry association UNESDA. reduced-calorie versions of others. 16 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Other full-calorie beverages are being reformulated ing further innovation. Derived from the stevia plant, to become mid-calorie beverages. the sweetener was approved for use by the EU in During 2011, reduced-calorie sparkling beverages 2011 although already in use elsewhere. Nestea accounted for 6% of volume while waters reprewith stevia was introduced in Switzerland in 2011 sented another 20%. Consequently, the average and stevia-sweetened beverages will be distributed calorie content of our beverages has fallen by 19% in eight countries in 2012. since 2001. We will also actively market reduced-calorie beverBy 2020, we will reduce the calorie content of our ages. Since research shows that the benefits of zerosparkling soft drinks by a further 10%. calorie, zero-sugar beverages are not yet widely unThe zero-calorie stevia sweetener will be key, drivderstood, we need to expand consumer education. Growth of our beverage categories (sales volume in million litres) 12,000 9,000 6,000 3,000 0 Coca-Cola Sprite Coca-Cola Light/Zero Teas Juices Fanta Other Sparkling Water Energy and sports Consumer health | 17 Consumer health they need to make appropriate choices. Key nutritional information is on front-of-pack labels of our bottles and cans. In Europe, we have pioneered the use of Guideline Daily Amounts (GDAs) on front-of-pack labels since 2009. These show calorie and sugar content in absolute values and as a percentage of daily intake. Front-of-pack labelling of calorie content is now in the final stages of being rolled out across non-EU countries of operation, too. Responsible sales and marketing More than three million young people took part in our sports and fitness To ensure our beverages are marketed and sold programmes during 2011. in a responsible manner, we have adopted industry codes of practice. These include: We also encourage retailers, restaurants and other customers to offer these options consistently along• EU Pledge on advertising to children side regular beverages. • UNESDA Commitments to the EU Platform Varied serving sizes • Global Guidelines on Marketing to Children of the International Council of Beverage AssociaAnother way that we help consumers to manage tions (ICBA). calorie intake is by offering a range of package sizes. During 2011, we launched smaller 200ml bottles, 150 Common premises include respect for the authorand 250 ml cans in Ireland and Italy, in addition to traity of parents and caregivers as well as a commitditional 250ml bottles and 330ml cans. ment not to target marketing at children under the age of 12. Codes have been implemented throughout our business and industry compliance is indeNutritionally enhanced beverages pendently verified. In response to growing interest in health and wellIn 2011, Accenture’s annual audit of these guideness, we are marketing juices, juice drinks and neclines found that compliance ranged from 95.7% for tars in most territories. Some also include added television to 100% for print and internet. Similar vitamins, minerals and other wellness benefits, from compliance rates with European codes were preprebiotics and fibre to omega-3 and antioxidants. sented to the EU Platform in 2011. We also offer low-cost options to meet the needs of lower-income consumers, too. UNESDA commitments www.unesda.org/ Natural ingredients International Council of Beverages Associations To meet rising demand for juices, we have invested www.icba-net.org/ significantly in aseptic technology. This allows us to produce juices and other still beverages without adding preservatives. Other beverages have been Promoting active lifestyles reformulated to meet growing consumer preference for natural ingredients. Fanta soft drinks now contain Helping consumers manage their calorie intake is only natural flavours and colours. only part of the energy balance. It is equally important to help them lead active lifestyles. In Europe, more than half of the population is not active enough Nutritional information to meet health recommendations. Since balance and moderation are key to healthy Coca-Cola Hellenic has a long tradition of supporting diets, we aim to give consumers the information sports and fitness programmes. During 2011, more 18 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report than three million people actively participated in our We also provide safe and fun areas for children projects which span many sports and range from to be active. To date, we have provided nearly grassroots events to national tournaments. Football 120 playgrounds and sports grounds in Russia, is a particular focus and we conduct programmes in Armenia, Ukraine, Belarus, Bosnia and Bulgaria. 19 countries. Many programmes promote participation among Maintaining high quality standards people of all ages and abilities. Since its start-up in Food safety is of paramount concern to customers; it 2005, the Coca-Cola Wake Your Body active lifestyle is also fundamental to consumer trust. programme has created opportunities for over three million people to engage in leisure sports Coca-Cola Hellenic has adopted international food in over 500 occasions and over 50 diverse sports, safety management system standards. To date, 67 including running, biking and various fitness acbottling plants have been certified to FSSC 22000; tivities. Our employees actively participate in 70 have gained ISO 22000 certification. All plants will these events, too, as part of our Workplace Health achieve full certification within 2012. programme. As a recognition of the work the If products do not meet quality standards, they may Coca-Cola System has done in leisure sports, we be removed although safe to consume. During 2011, were invited to present our programme at the World we experienced two instances of non-compliance. Sports for All Conference and we are honoured to be In Slovakia, labels on isolated batches of beverages part of the Leisure Sports section of the Hungarian were incomplete. In Serbia, a harmless precipitate Olympic Committee. formed over time in a batch of local mineral water. Employees are encouraged to take part in these acIn each case, we worked with the authorities to take tivities, as well as workplace programmes. corrective action. No food safety risk was involved in any issue. In 2011, we received only 0.26 consumer complaints Schools for every million containers that we sold. Developing exercise habits at a formative age Following the precautionary principle, Coca-Cola is important. We therefore support schools proHellenic does not use ingredients which are genetigrammes together with government agencies, cally modified or derived from GMOs or nanotechsports and nutritional experts. In Greece, our nology until proven safe and accepted by the public Moderation-Balance-Diversity programme has in our territories. reached 73,000 students in 1,088 schools. We support broader industry partnerships, too. Quality and Food Safety policy, GMO statement Now in its fifth year, the Polish Keep Fit initiative www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ sustainabilitypolicy/ has involved more than three million teenagers. Zero-calorie stevia sweetener opens door to innovation Stevia sweetener contains zero calories and is derived from the stevia plant, which has been used to sweeten drinks in its native Paraguay for over 200 years. First introduced commercially 40 years ago in Japan, stevia sweetener is today used in more than a dozen countries in Europe as well as in the USA. Coca-Cola Hellenic has already launched Nestea with stevia in Switzerland with 30% less calories. Following EU approval in 2011, we aim to launch stevia-sweetened beverages in Italy, Romania, Baltics and Poland in 2012. This new addition to our range of sweeteners will allow greater innovation as we develop more reduced-calorie beverages. Consumer health | 19 Water stewardship Freshwater is a renewable but finite resource. As the world’s population grows, demands for freshwater compete. In some areas, there may not be enough to meet domestic, agricultural, industrial and ecological needs. Climate change will exacerbate this as water stress grows. cleared 100% of our wastewater is now fully treated 750 of river banks km and beaches 58% 26 operational smaller supporting watershed water than conservation and policy footprint is 2004 engagement in countries Continuing to mitigate the risk of water issues reprocesses, after which it is cleaned and returned sulting from climate change requires meaningful safely to the environment. participation by all stakeholders. Coca-Cola Hellenic Since water stewardship is critical to our ability to grow, is committed to playing its part. By 2020, we will rewe have a comprehensive strategy which focuses on: duce our relative water consumption by 40% com• Ensuring the sustainability of our water extraction pared to 2004. We are also working to raise awareness of water sustainability, tackle water use in our • Minimising our water use supply chain and protect our watersheds. • Ensuring 100% of our wastewater is treated • Addressing water use in our supply chain by Our approach working with others As a beverage manufacturer, our business is about • Protecting the local watersheds in which we hydrating and refreshing consumers. Around half operate of the water we use goes into our beverages; the • Promoting awareness of water issues in our other half is used in manufacturing and cleaning communities. Water availability in our watersheds Annual water supply levels • Location of bottling operations Extreme scarcity < 500 m3/person/year Scarcity 500-1,000 m3/person/year Stress 1,000-1,700 m3/person/year Sufficient 1,700-4,000 m3/person/year Abundant > 4,000 m3/person/year Although most plants are in water-abundant river basins, eight are in areas facing baseline water stress (Source: WBCSD Water Tool). 20 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report In 2011, we reached a major milestone: 100% of our Water use ratio wastewater across all 28 countries of operation is (litres / lpb) now treated to levels that support aquatic life. -22% 2.86 vs 2004 Our strategy is underpinned by the CEO Water 2.24 Mandate, of which we are a founding member, 2.59 2.48 2.40 -40% 2.30 vs 2004 and ISO 14001 certification, which all bottling 2.14 plants will achieve within 2012. CEO Water Mandate ceowatermandate.org/ Our progress on Water Mandate www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ Our relative water use in bottling operations (normalised for production) progressperformance/ has decreased significantly due to water-saving activities. Total water use Understanding water risks (billion litres) Since water is an inherently local issue, all bottling Later acquisitions plants monitor the availability and quality of supProduction volume -6% plies. We recognise that water is a human right and vs baseline commit not to negatively impact the water available 1.3 to meet the basic needs of local communities. 5.7 26 no 29.1 28.9 28 27.3 increase Although most plants operate in water-abundant 22.2 river basins, eight are in areas that face baseline water stress, such as the Vistula and Dniepr basins. Others in the eastern Mediterranean and northern Nigeria experience seasonal water scarcity. Water stress is likely to worsen in southern and eastern regions as climate change takes hold. The absolute water use of Coca-Cola Hellenic in bottling operations is During 2011, each bottling plant completed an gradually decreasing. Much of the early increase resulted from strong business growth as well as the acquisition of bottling businesses and the in-depth assessment of source vulnerability, internalisation of their water use. When correcting for these acquisitions, analysing risks to supplies; plant use vis-à-vis the total 2011 water use is 6% below 2004. Water stewardship | 21 Water stewardship other users; and engagement on water issues. Improving our efficiency Based on these assessments, each plant will Water is not only a key beverage ingredient; it is develop comprehensive source water protection also used in cleaning and other manufacturing plans within 2012. Plan implementation will be processes. Nevertheless, our industry is a highly reviewed by the CSR Council. efficient user of water. Since 2004, we have reduced relative water conWater footprint from bottling operations sumption by 22%. On average, we use 2.24 litres to produce one litre of beverage. Although we nar(million m3) rowly missed our year-on-year target, we are on track to meet our 2020 goal of a 40% reduction. Since our business will continue to grow, absolute 6.9 9.9 -58% water use must remain stable. vs baseline 34.9 Our internal network of experts helps to identify 15 13.4 -2% -75% 14.2 13.8 13.6 vs baseline water-saving opportunities and technologies. Fol15.4 13.1 lowing trials in 2011, we are introducing electro13.3 12.1 10.1 9.8 7.7 7.5 chemically activated water for cleaning since it 3.1 uses 20% less water than conventional processes. We are also investigating how to compensate for Later acquisitions blue and grey water the water-intensive cleaning required by aseptic Blue water production lines. Although we previously reported Grey water that trials had successfully recovered aseptic rinse Production volume water, the approach could not be scaled up due to The water footprint of our bottling plants has decreased by 58% since 2004, inherent technical and cost limitations. We are now although production volume has increased by 55% in the same period. investigating alternative methods. The blue water footprint measures water that is extracted but not returned to the watershed – in our case the water in the beverages. The grey water In 2012, we will launch a more detailed version is an indicator of water pollution, resulting from wastewater – in our case considerably reduced by the wastewater treatment systems put in place. of the efficiency survey we developed with The Coca-Cola Company. By installing flow meters on individual production lines and key equipment, we Wider water footprint of our supply chain aim to identify further water savings opportunities. (million m3) Bottling operations As we develop plans, one challenge we face is that Packaging water footprint water footprint (21) water does not currently have much financial value. (151) As a result, existing processes to evaluate projects by investment and payback do not adequately prioritise water efficiency projects: the capital investment is significant, financial savings are low and payback periods considerable. In 2011, we used 26 billion litres of water, This represents 0.014% of freshwater use in the EU 27 Sugar countries or 16% of the water used by the city of water footprint (798) Budapest. Blue water footprint Green water footprint Grey water footprint Treating 100% of wastewater Most of our global water footprint lies in our supply chain. The blue In 2011, we met our longstanding goal to ensure water footprint results from the irrigation of sugar beet, cane and corn. The green water footprint corresponds to rain water used by sugar that all Company wastewater is treated to levels that beet, cane and corn, and the trees that were used to make palettes and support aquatic life. Since wastewater infrastructure cardboard. The grey water footprint indicates the pollution linked to agriculture and packaging manufacture. Our own operations account is inadequate in many countries of operation, we had for only 2.2% of our wider water footprint while sugar accounts for 82%. to construct 44 on-site treatment plants. 22 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report “T he Effluent Treatment Plant was built for the Ilorin Plant in 2011. It is easy to operate, very energy efficient and reduces BOD and COD to 11mg/l and 30mg/l respectively. Our new wastewater treatment plants in FYROM A fish pond is used to verify that the treated waste and Armenia were the first such systems in the water can support aquatic life before discharge to ” the natural environment. country. To promote wastewater management, we demonstrate the technology to local businesses, government and others. The COD load of our wastewater is now 76% lower than in 2003. Wastewater volume has also fallen by 12% as volume production grew by 75%. As a result, our water footprint has shrunk by 58% since 2004 (see opposite). Reducing indirect water use Water use in our operations is only a fraction of our Obi Emmanuel total water footprint. Sugar represents the single WWTP Technician, Ilorin Plant, Nigeria greatest part (82%). In 2004, Coca-Cola Hellenic committed to ensure that all To better understand water use in our supply chain, its bottling operations must be connected to wastewater we support the European Water Footprint Sustaintreatment plants that meet the highest standards. In Nigeria, this meant to construct them at 13 bottling facilities. ability Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar. This The construction and installation for all NBC bottling plants group comprises suppliers, The Coca-Cola Comwas completed with the construction of the units at Ilorin, pany, Water Footprint Network and others. In 2011, Kaduna and Jos in 2011. a pilot methodology assessed the sustainability Comparing the water footprint of our beverages The average water footprint for a bottle of Coca-Cola produced by Coca-Cola Hellenic is significantly less than for other food and drink. (Source: internal data for Coca-Cola; National Geographic for other foodstuffs: http://environment.nationalgeographic.com/environment/freshwater/embedded-water/) Water stewardship | 23 Water stewardship methodology, we calculated this footprint to be 970 billion litres in 2011. Our operational water footprint is calculated to be 58% smaller than in 2004. Water footprint sustainability assessment www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/pdf/2011_ europe-water-report.pdf Promoting sustainable watersheds Our water stewardship activities extend well beyond our operations and value chain. In 26 countries, we have built long-term partnerships with NGOs, government and UN agencies to benefit local eco-systems and communities. Since 2005, we have partnered with the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR), conducting conservation, advocacy, awareness and education in 11 countries1. In 2011, we launched a new programme with ICPDR and UNDP in Bosnia to restore the Vrbas River. Our work with ICPDR to reduce plastic pollution in the Tisza River has also aided unprecedented cooperation among five countries in the river basin. In 2011, environment ministers from Ukraine, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Serbia signed a In Belarus, we worked with government agencies to plant over 40,000 memorandum on strengthening partnership in tree seedlings around the Krylovo water storage basin, the main source of fresh water for Minsk. the basin. Coca-Cola Hellenic was invited to address the conference and our partnership with ICPDR was cited as best practice. We also preof our sugar beet’s water footprint. Although the sented the partnership to governments and techmethodology and data are still imperfect, this pionical experts at the 6th GEF biennial International neering work helps to focus future efforts. We also Waters Conference. held workshops at six Nigerian bottling plants to explore how water can be used more efficiently in Our environmental partnerships local agriculture. www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/community/ waterandenvironment/envpartnerships/ At a global level, The Coca-Cola Company addresses indirect water use as part of sustainable International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River agriculture programmes with Bonsucro (formerly www.icpdr.org/ the Better Sugarcane Initiative) and the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative. Education and awareness We continue to raise awareness of water issues. Our water footprint In 2011, Danube Day celebrations included 230 The total water footprint of Coca-Cola Hellenic includes events, involving 440 schools, 750 partners and tens freshwater used in our operations and throughout of thousands of participants. Similar festivals celour supply chain. Using the Water Footprint Network ebrate the Volga, Dnieper, Sava, Tisza and Vistula. 1. Austria, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Ukraine 24 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report We encourage community involvement in waterogy Foundation, we are developing a network of shed protection, from one-off clean-up activities community-operated water health centres across to longer-term community-owned projects. the country. Water scarcity is a growing challenge in estabWater and sanitation lished markets, too. In Greece, our rainwater Although governments are responsible for ensurharvesting programme with Global Water Parting access to safe water and sanitation, one-third nership-Mediterranean now yields around 4.5 of the world’s population still lack access. Where million litres of water annually. appropriate, we provide support. In Nigeria, in partnership with The Coca-Cola Africa Foundation, Rainwater harvesting programme in Greece Diageo, TY Danjuma Foundation, Water Health Inen.coca-colahellenic.gr/Towardssustainabilit/ MajorCSRPrograms/MissionWater/ ternational and Global Environment and TechnolReaching our goal to treat 100% of wastewater Our corporate standard requires that all Company wastewater is treated to a level that supports aquatic life. Yet many of our operations are in developing and emerging countries, where municipal treatment facilities are inadequate or even non-existent. An estimated 90% of all wastewater in developing countries is discharged untreated into rivers, lakes and oceans. Following an eight-year investment programme, we now have 44 on-site wastewater treatment plants. In 2011, we commissioned facilities in our Armenia and FYROM plants, meaning that 100% of our wastewater in all 28 countries of operation is now treated. Government officials mark the opening of our new wastewater treatment plant in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The plant, which treats wastewater to levels that support aquatic life, is the first of its kind in the country. This marks the 44th wastewater treatment facility in Coca-Cola Hellenic. Water stewardship | 25 Water stewardship projects In Greece, our rainwater harvesting programme with GWP-Med yields 4.5 million litres of freshwater annually for Cyclades islands residents. Our Green Danube partnership with ICPDR spans 11 countries. Projects include Danube Day, education, conservation and policy development. In Romania, we helped win a €1 million EU grant to develop a management plan for Calimani National Park. Northern Ireland and The Republic of Ireland • Coca-Cola Clean Coast Programme and Green Coast Awards At Yelnya Bog in Belarus, groundwater levels have risen and forest fires ceased due to our restoration efforts. Czech Republic • Danube Box Our work with WWF to rehabilitate Poland’s Vistula River includes reintroducing over 1.4 million salmon fry. Austria • Green Danube partnership • Danube Challenge • Danube Box Slovenia • You are my River • Green Danube partnership As part of our Living Volga programme with UNESCO, over 3,000 participants cleared waste along 159 km of riverbanks in 2011. Italy • The Mystery of the Disappearing Water (book and touring stage play) We tackle pollution of the Tisza with ICPDR and five • Otter House environment ministries. Projects include pioneering waste collection in rural Ukraine. Nigeria • World Water Day activities • Building Water Health Centres – Safe Water for Africa • Boreholes The award-winning Our Beautiful Sava campaign includes an annual series of fairs celebrating traditional arts, crafts and cuisines across Croatia. 26 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Russia • Living Volga • Volga Day • Baikal Clean Shores • Green Teams • National Sponsor of the Stockholm Junior Water Prize Volga Estonia • Let’s do it! Beach clean-up Latvia • Juglas lake-side clean-up Lithuania • Galve Lake-bed cleaning with divers Belarus • Let’s Save Yelnya Bog Poland • Meadow of Turov clean-up Yelnya National Sponsor Stockholm Junior • Vistula Rivers for life Water Prize • Vistula Day Bog • Kropla Beskidu Fund and Partnership Vistula Ukraine • Green Danube partnership • Danube Day • Tisza River project • Green Teams Slovakia • Green Danube partnership Dniepr • World Water Day Hungary Tisza • Liberty Island conservation • Danube Day • Danube Box Danube Romania Croatia • Calimani National Park • Our Beautiful Sava Calimani • Green Danube partnership Armenia • Danube Day • Adopt a River programme • Every Drop Matters • Green Danube partnership • Water for Vatra Dornei residents • Clean-ups in Dilijan Danube • Clean-ups in Vatra Dornei • Water Education Centre Sava Bosnia • River bank clean-ups – Vrbas River restoration Serbia Bulgaria • Green Danube partnership • Green Danube partnership • Danube Day • My Green City • Danube Box • River Petrovksa clean-up • Water supplies in Kostinbrod Greece • Mission Water • Rainwater harvesting programme Cyprus • Protection of the wetlands in Crete • Emergency potable water following • Protect the coastal ecosystem in Greece. explosion at naval base Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report | 27 Energy and climate change Climate change is one of the greatest threats facing the planet; and it is already a reality. To avoid dangerous levels, global temperatures must be capped at 2°C above pre-industrial levels. This will require transformative change. 9 32% Combined Heat and relative CO2 lower Power plants emissions since commissioned from operations 2004 one 50% solar power generated more energy equivalent to bottling new coolers efficient than emissions from plant on average in 2004 With business making up 70% of greenhouse gas emissions1, effective action on climate change Our carbon footprint must involve the private sector. Through collaboration, innovation and leadership, business can • Carbon emissions from operations (scope 1 and 2, from manufacturing and fleet) help drive the transition to a low-carbon economy. amounted to 776,377 tonnes of CO2 in 2011, 7% lower than the previous year. Our approach • Indirect carbon emissions in the value chain Climate change represents significant potential (scope 3) were 4.18 million tonnes of CO2 in 2011, risks to Coca-Cola Hellenic, including increased 0.8% decrease over the previous year. Cold drink energy costs, water and stable availability of agricultural raw materials such as sugar and equipment, ingredients and packaging represent fruit. We are taking decisive action to address our greatest source of indirect emissions. the risks and opportunities presented by climate change. We aim to take a leadership role, particularly in target for absolute emissions. To achieve this, developing and emerging markets. Our strategy we must continue to decouple business growth focuses on: from an associated rise in emissions. • Increasing the energy efficiency of our operations Our next challenge is to tackle emissions • Switching to cleaner energy sources throughout our value chain. By 2020, we aim to reduce the total carbon footprint of our bever• Reducing emissions in our value chain ages, including ingredients, packaging, manu• Championing low-carbon technologies facturing and cooling by 20%. • Promoting awareness and action Our submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project provides more detail. • Adapting to climate change. By 2020, we aim to reduce relative emissions Carbon Disclosure Project submission www.cdproject.net/CDPResults/CDP-2011-Europefrom operations by 40%. Since absolute reduc300-Report.pdf tions matter most, we have set a 20% reduction 1. Carbon Disclosure Project 28 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Energy use ratio Climate change policy (MJ / lpb) www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ -21% sustainabilitypolicy/ vs 2004 Our progress on Caring for Climate 0.73 www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ 0.58 progressperformance/ 0.60 0.59 0.57 -40% 0.57 0.52 vs 2004 Reducing our emissions Over the past seven years, we have reduced relative emissions from fleet and bottling plants by 38%. In 2011, absolute emissions have decreased Our bottling plants are now 21% more energy-efficient than in 2004 due by 9% as production volume declined by 2%. to energy-savings programmes. Consequently, we are on track to achieve our 2020 reduction targets. The game-changer behind our progress is our major CHP construction programme. Total energy use (billion MJ) Quad-Generation power Production volume +3% Coca-Cola Hellenic has committed to build 20 Later acquisitions vs baseline Combined Heat and Power (CHP) units by 2015. 0.3 6.7 On completion, these will cut total CO2 emissions 0.7 6.8 7.0 6.6 6.7 no by over 250,000 tonnes each year. 5.9 increase In 2011, we constructed a further four CHP units in Nigeria, Ukraine and Poland. As a result, nine bottling plants in seven countries are powered by on-site CHP. Quad-generation technology produces electricity, heating, cooling and beverage carbonation. Plants using this innovative technolTotal energy use in our bottling plants has been broadly stable the past ogy have reduced emissions by up to two-thirds. five years, following a significant early increase linked to strong business growth and business acquisitions. When correcting for acquisitions, total Difficulties in obtaining necessary permits have 2011 energy use is only 3% above 2004. greatly contributed to delays and declining govEnergy and climate change | 29 Energy and climate change ficiency projects in 71 plants; a further 165 are CO2 emissions from operations (bottling and distribution) in progress. Projects include LED lighting, centralising control of compressors and evaporating CO2 using cooling water. In 2012, we will launch our latest energy efficiency toolbox, designed together with Siemens. Fleet and transportation Most products are delivered by road and our fleet comprises almost 19,000 vehicles. Since 2007, we have worked to reduce our transportation footprint. Electricity use 38% Heating fuels 11% Petrol 7% Natural gas & LPG 17% Carbonation 10% Coolants 2% We purchase the smallest practical engine and Diesel 15% vehicle size and set maximum fuel consumption standards for each vehicle. Drivers are trained in our Safe and Eco-Driving programme and perCO2 emissions from operations formance is monitored monthly. In addition, route management systems allow us to optimise the (tonnes CO2) routing and scheduling of deliveries. Production In 2011, fleet emissions volume -2% vs baseline fell by 41,000 tonnes. By fitting all new Company -2% 52 895 776 vs PY -20% vehicles with mobileye 872 vs 834 835 761 baseline technology we expect to further improve per740 formance. Although primarily a safety device, 634 the technology improved fuel efficiency by 5% in trials. We are also expanding backhauling arrangements, using the return journey of customer trucks to collect products. This is not yet comTotal carbon emissions from operations (bottling and fleet) have decreased mon practice in developing and emerging marfor the third year in a row, following an early increase due to strong business growth and business acquisitions. When accounting for these kets. We plan to expand existing arrangements acquisitions, 2011 CO2 emissions are 2% below 2004 levels. with Tesco and Metro in Slovakia, Czech Republic and Bulgaria. ernment feed-in tariffs are a newer challenge. In a few locations, we transport products by rail. Nevertheless, we will commission our tenth CHP Air freight is not routinely used. unit in 2012, reaching the halfway mark towards our target. Green IT Combined Heat and Power plants programme Information technology is the enabler of many www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/environment/ energy-saving programmes but IT infrastrucenergyandclimate/heat_and_power_plant/ ture itself contributes to emissions. Now in its fifth year, our Green IT programme has led to a step-change in infrastructure and mindsets. By Improving energy efficiency promoting conferencing services and levying an An internal network of energy-savings experts internal carbon tax on corporate flights, we have helps bottling plants to identify ways to reduce reduced business travel by 14%. In 2011, Green IT or recover energy. In 2011, we completed 211 efavoided 1,465 tonnes of CO2. 30 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report “B ased on extensive energy audits at the Knockmore Hill bottling plant, I have defined a strategic energy management plan in partnership with the Carbon Trust. The result is a portfolio of energy saving projects such as energy-efficient Switching energy sources lighting schemes, compressed air recycling and utilisation, heat recovery, free cooling systems and As fossil fuel reserves become constrained, our employee awareness programmes. Additionally, our energy mix must include more renewables. innovative quad-generation CHP plant delivers cleaner ” energy and has reduced CO2 emissions by 65% Six Italian bottling plants now have photovoltaic rooftop panels. In their first seven months of operation, these generated almost three million kWh of electricity, more than the electricity consumption of the country’s Monticchio plant in the same period. We aim to expand the programme to Greece. As with CHP, permitting delays and declining government support of green energy present challenges. In Hungary, our first geothermal project recovers heat energy from natural springs. Our Zalaszentgrόt bottling plant has thereby reduced its natural gas usage by 60%. In summer, we pass excess heat to a community-operated thermal spa. Paul Carson We aim to switch our CHP programme from natuEngineering Services Manager, Coca-Cola HBC Northern Ireland ral gas to biogas when sufficient, reliable sources become locally available. Although we have trialled Since the energy management plan’s conception in 2009, alternative fuels in our fleet, small, clean diesel veenergy usage at the Knockmore Hill plant has decreased by hicles remain the most eco-efficient option. 20% and overall CO2 emissions have been reduced by 70%. Paul won the ‘Best Energy Manager’ award at the 2011 Renewable energy accounted for 20% of elecSustainable Ireland Awards. tricity and 7% of energy use in 2011. During 2011, we constructed our first three CHP units in Nigeria. These on-site facilities are part of our commitment to implement the quad-generation technology at 20 bottling plants by 2015. Energy and climate change | 31 Energy and climate change CO2 reduction programmes Start of CO2 reduced in CO2 reduced in Sum of CO2 reductions programme 2011 vs 2010 2011 vs baseline cumulated each year since Programme start of programme (baseline) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Energy-savings activities in plants 2004 37,441 367,939 1,846,213 Combined Heat Power 2006 4,989 22,989 93,989 Packaging reduction 2004 6,100 167,140 760,242 Corporate flight offsetting 2006 294 1,811 12,053 Climate-friendly coolers 2008 77,411 93,315 156,062 Green IT 2007 1,465 4,805 11,833 Total 127,701 657,999 2,880,392 Reducing indirect emissions are free of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). In 2011, these coolers represented 49% of purchases. We Since cold drink equipment and beverage packaging are on track to meet our target that all new equiprepresent approximately two-thirds of indirect emisment will be HFC-free by 2015. sions, these are another important element in our climate strategy. To reduce the climate impact of our packaging, we minimise material use and include recycled To reduce the impact of our 1.5 million coolers, we content. We also invest significantly in collecare increasing the energy efficiency of new and extion, recovery and recycling. In 2011, these efforts isting equipment. New coolers are up to 63% more avoided 81,000 tonnes of embedded carbon (see energy-efficient than in 2004 due to improved insuPackaging and recycling). We have now begun to lation, LED lighting and energy management devicassess the sustainability performance of packages. We are retrofitting these energy-saving devices ing suppliers, including carbon footprinting and in existing coolers, too, fitting another 13,000 in 2011. energy management. We have also led the development of coolers that Caring for Climate www.unglobalcompact.org/issues/environment/ climate_change Promoting climate action We promote climate action, showcasing our lowcarbon technologies with customers, governments, employees and others. During EU Sustainable Energy Week, we held 32 events. Increasingly, we communicate directly with consumers about climate change. In Russia, we partnered with WWF to launch limited-edition Coca-Cola cans that draw attention to the plight of polar bears in the Arctic. In Hungary, our Zalaszentgrόt plant recovers heat energy from natural Coca-Cola Hellenic is active on the international springs, reducing the plant’s natural gas usage by 60%. stage, too. We signed the 2°C Challenge Communi32 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report qué, as well as the joint business declaration recevents, we are also creating joint disaster preommending that the EU’s 2020 emissions reduction paredness plans with the IFRC. target be raised from 20% to 30%. We are a founding Our next priority is to conduct an analysis of the signatory of the Global Compact’s Caring for Clipotential impacts of climate change on our busimate initiative. ness, communities and ecosystems, and to develop a comprehensive adaptation strategy. Supporting adaptation The Consumer Goods Forum We must adapt to the changing climate, building www.theconsumergoodsforum.com/ resilience to the likely impacts on our business and communities. Water stewardship is our main 2o Challenge Communiqué www.2degreecommunique.com/ approach to date since this represents the most immediate impact (see Water stewardship). GivEU business initiative www.theclimategroup.org/ en the increased likelihood of extreme weather Supporting EU Sustainable Energy Week Coca-Cola Hellenic supported the 2011 EU Sustainable Energy Week holding 32 events across eight countries. More than 3,000 employees, students, journalists and other stakeholders took part in open days and other activities that promoted energy efficiency. Our bottling plants demonstrated CHP technology, high-bay warehousing and photovoltaic panels. In Austria, we organised an open day at the PET-toPET recycling facility we co-own. Our CHP programme was previously named Official Partner to the Sustainable Energy Europe Campaign. Visitors to our Italian bottling plants learnt how we are improving energy efficiency during EU Sustainable Energy Week. Energy and climate change | 33 Packaging and recycling Packaging is an essential part of modern life. Our multi-packs of family-size PET bottles offer affordability at the supermarket; our cans and single-serve PET bottles provide convenient on-the-go refreshment; while the iconic glass contour bottle instantly differentiates Coca-Cola from other brands. 87% 70% of packaging waste recovered recycled or of production and recycled in 19 countries recovered waste with recovery systems 50% 57,000 tonnes of PET avoided some PET bottles recycled through lightweighting now include up to content since 2005 The fundamental role of packaging is to allow our vironmental impacts at every stage of its lifecycle. beverages to be delivered safely from production We do so by: line to consumer without spoilage or contamination. • Optimising the packaging we use By helping to reduce food waste, packaging has • Increasing recycled and renewable content a key role in helping society live more sustainability. Typically, ten times more energy and re• Promoting recycling and recovery sources go into producing food and goods than • Minimising waste in our own facilities. their packaging. Nevertheless, packaging itself incurs environmental impacts from manufacturWe close the loop by recovering and recycling ing to recycling and disposal. packaging materials. Each year, in Austria, 20,000 tonnes of PET (polyethylene terephthalate) bottles are recycled into new bottles. Our approach Given our geographic reach, progress varies sigAs our packaging evolves to meet changing connificantly. We continue to work closely with governsumer and customer needs, we also address enments, recyclers, suppliers and others to advance In Austria, the expansion of our co-owned PET-to-PET recycling plant has enabled us to increase the recycled content of Römerquelle water bottles from 25% to 45%. 34 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report technological solutions and develop economically Each of our key packages now uses significantly sustainable collection and recovery systems. less material than in 2004. We are also deepening our approach to address the • Lighter PET bottles In 2011, we piloted a new embedded carbon of packaging throughout our value two-litre PET plastic bottle that is 9% lighter chain. By 2020, we aim to reduce the carbon footprint than its predecessor and one of the lightest of the product in our consumer’s hand by 20%. in the global Coca-Cola System. This initiative will now be rolled out in other markets. During 2011, lightweighting projects eliminated 6,100 Optimising packaging tonnes of PET. Since 2004, we have worked continuously to optimise our total packaging. Optimisation does not • Short-height plastic closures We have now simply mean using the lightest possible packaging. converted over 59% of bottle closures to shortInstead, we must balance material reduction with height caps. These closures use less mateother vital considerations, such as maintaining our rial and allow bottle necks and closures to be safety and quality standards or meeting the needs shorter and lighter. During 2011, this initiative of customers and consumers. avoided over 500 tonnes of material. Packaging material used Packaging material use ratio (thousand tonnes) (g per lpb) Production +22% -6% volume vs vs 2004 baseline 36 60 700 772 64 69 68 62 65 808 724 775 91 483 The total amount of packaging material used to manufacture our products is below the past four years. As it is closely linked to production volume, in 2011, The amount of packaging material used to manufacture our products, per litre of it was 22% above 2004. produced beverage, has slightly decreased. In 2011, it was 6% below 2004. Packaging and recycling | 35 Packaging and recycling dised products that can be rolled straight onto Lightweighting of packages the shopfloor. Coca-Cola Hellenic used 700,000 tonnes of packaging PET 500ml in 2011. This includes beverage containers as well as (sparkling) the packaging used to deliver them. Year Weight 2011 20.7 g. Recycled and renewable content 2005 28 g. A further way we reduce the impact of packaging material is to include recycled or renewable content. Coca-Cola Hellenic works with suppliers to increase the recycled content of packages while The Coca-Cola Company advances plant-based packaging innovation for our business system. Glass 330ml Using recycled instead of virgin material is much less energy-intensive, 85% less for PET and 95% Year Weight for aluminium. Recycling of metal and glass is 2011 210 g. already well-established, with recycled content 2005 263 g. accounting for around half of the material in our cans and bottles. We therefore focus on the recycled content of our PET bottles. During 2011, we increased our use of recycled PET (rPET) by 10% to 7,228 tonnes. Since demand PET 500ml for PET bottles continues to grow, we must fur(still) ther expand the collection and recycling of these Year Average weight packages. By improving the availability and affordability of rPET, we can increase the amount 2011 16 g. we use. In Austria, for example, the recent ex2005 28 g. pansion of our co-owned PET-to-PET recycling plant enabled us to increase the recycled content of Röemerquelle water bottles from 25% to 45%. Plant-based PET We have significantly reduced the material content of all key Developed by The Coca-Cola Company, Plantpackages. bottle™ was the first fully recyclable PET bottle made with up to 30% plant-based material. Although we planned to introduce the package • Light-weight glass bottles In 2011, we saved during 2011, this will now happen in 2012. 6.82 tonnes of glass from projects that included a new standard water bottle across the Group, the expansion of light-weight glass in Promoting recycling Nigeria and Switzerland and lighter bottles in Coca-Cola Hellenic closely works with industry and Italy and Russia. government to increase the collection, recovery • Cans With thinner walls, ends and tabs, our and recycling of post-consumer packaging. cans avoided 232 tonnes of metal in 2011. During 2011, we set up our 20th recovery organisaWe also work with customers to reduce shrink tion. Once operational, EKOPAK will cover the Fedwrap, stretch film and other secondary packageration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Work is also ing. Innovative solutions include pre-merchanunderway to set up an organisation in Montenegro. 36 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report “F rom 2009 we developed a waste management system in the Zakarpattya region where plastic waste in rivers used to cause flooding. Coca-Cola Beverages Ukraine supported the initiative by deploying successful environmental programmes The recovery organisations we set up provide in the region. A local awareness campaign was aimed over 133 million people with access to collection at engaging residents in hands-on activities such as and recycling infrastructure. In some rural areas, cleaning riverbanks, removing waste from waterways ” and plastic recycling. this represented the first residential collection of any waste stream. In 2011, these organisations collected, recovered and recycled on average the equivalent of 70% of our beverage packaging. All legal recovery and recycling targets were met or exceeded in EU member state territories. The amount of PET bottles collected for recycling across Europe has risen by more than 6%, after latest figures. Almost half are now recycled, making PET the most widely recycled plastic. Recycling of aluminium beverage cans also rose in Europe, reaching 64.3%. Since the performance of recovery organisations varies, we conducted a governance review in 2011 with the aim to benchmark performance and close gaps. We also chair a new EU-level working group of global food and beverage companies to develop a 2020 strategy for industry-owned recovery orOlena Marushevska ganisations to ensure consistency in approach. Project manager Zakarpattya branch of All-Ukrainian Ecological League In 2011, we contributed €35.5 million in collection and recovery fees, totalling €43 million including Our Ukrainian operations provided waste containers for PET bottles for several villages and organised volunteering taxes and deposits. events which collected more than 16 tonnes of PET bottles for recycling. In 2011, the company funded the clean-up Although we have supported the set-up of reof Latorica river, which removed 60 m3 of plastic waste covery organisations in 20 of the 28 countries we for recycling. serve, some of our highest-volume emerging Packaging use Secondary packaging 23% Primary packaging 77% PE shrink films 5% PET bottles 37% Cardboard 7% Composite carton bricks 5% Wood pallets 11% Aluminium cans 7% PE & PP closures 4% Steel closures & cans 2% Plastic labels 1% Paper labels > 1% 0.2% White PE bottles > 1% 0.1% Glass bottles 21% Packaging and recycling | 37 Packaging and recycling Each year, more than 10,000 employees of our Russia operations take part in our Green Teams, which clean up seas, lakes, rivers and other water sources. markets are not yet included. In such markets as Russia, Ukraine and Nigeria, we are systematically working to establish packaging collection schemes to divert packaging from landfill. In Russia, we chair the packaging association RUSPEC which has supported development of the packaging legislation currently going through parliament. We also established the first industry-led PET collection programme in 2011. In Ukraine, we support a new pilot project which To celebrate National Recycle Week in Northern Ireland, we aims to collect and recycle 20% of the packaging donated a fully functioning greenhouse made entirely from waste to put on the market by project sponsors. PET bottles as a novel way to raise awareness of recycling. In Nigeria, we have supported collection schemes which channel used PET packages into the fibres market. We are now working to broaden the scheme by involving other industries and expanding collection channels for PET recycling. In developing and emerging markets, waste collection is typically undertaken by the informal sector. Collectors can face health and safety hazards as well as exclusion from the formal systems. In 2011, Pakomak, the new co-owned recovery organisation in FYROM, launched a scheme to ofIn Cyprus, our new recycling programme includes schools fer employment contracts to improve collectors’ resources, beach-cleaning activities, an awareness-raising campaign and joint activation with key account Alfa Mega. working conditions, incomes and status. 38 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Mobilising consumers Landfilled waste ratio The participation of consumers is critical to the re(g/lpb) cycling loop. If they do not place cans and bottles into collection systems, these packages become landfill or litter, rather than feedstock for recycling. 5.0 -75% vs 2004 We conduct education campaigns on the impor3.0 2.8 tance of recycling and how to separate waste. In -2% 2011, these activities reached 3.2 million people 1.9 1.2 vs 2011 1.5 -90% in seven countries. We also support recycling vs 2004 education in schools in five countries and have held exhibitions with customers in Cyprus, Italy and Russia. The amount of waste from plants that is sent to landfill, relative to the volume produced, is now 75% below 2004 levels. This results from reducing total Through on-pack communication, we also use our waste and increasing recycling rates. brands to encourage consumers to recycle. During 2011, we collected and recycled 94 tonnes of packaging at Company-sponsored sports, music and other events. Total landfilled waste (million kg) Production Supporting anti-littering volume If packaging waste is discarded irresponsibly, it 4.5 1.1 can result in litter waste in the wrong place – -65% 37.2 34.3 vs baseline 33.7 and can pose environmental hazards. 14.5 -80% 21.6 Since 2009, we have partnered with the ICPDR to 17.6 vs baseline address plastic pollution of the Tisza River. Together with environment ministries in the five basin countries, we cleared litter and set up mechanisms to prevent a recurrence. Total waste from bottling plants that is sent to landfill is now 65% below 2004. The source of the river – and problem – lies in Romania and Ukraine. Since rural waste collection systems were non-existent, municipal waste will recycle or recover at least 90% of production often ended up in the river. We pioneered the first waste. We are on track to meet this target, with collection schemes, educated residents on waste 39 plants already meeting this target. separation and involved them in clean-ups. During 2011, we diverted 95,000 tonnes of waste During 2011, we supported clean-up initiatives in from landfill. This means that we have reduced 16 countries, encouraging employees and comthe amount of waste we send to landfill by nearly munities to take part. In Russia alone, our Green two-thirds since 2004. Teams involved 1,500 volunteers in clean-ups across 12 cities. We also support national campaigns. In 2011, we were a key sponsor of HunPackaging and Packaging Waste policy gary’s biggest action to date. www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ sustainabilitypolicy/ PET-to-PET Recycling Plant www.pet2pet.at Minimising plant waste Green teams in Russia To ensure that we lead by example, Coca-Cola en.coca-colahellenic.ru/Towardssustainabilit/ Community/Waterandenvironmentp/ Hellenic has committed that all bottling plants Packaging and recycling | 39 Employee development The business success of Coca-Cola Hellenic depends every day on employees. Caring for these people is one of our core values and we endeavour to live this value in our day-to-day business. Learning is another Company value and we are committed to helping employees achieve their potential. core managers All Learning and caring for our people are values assessed for CSR 27% 97% fewer serious accidents of employees than 2010 are of local origin Our approach ties. Unfortunately, there were six deaths in 2011. Two employees and two contractors lost their lives Coca-Cola Hellenic aims to attract, develop and rein road traffic accidents. In Nigeria, two contractors tain the necessary talent for our business to sucdied in circumstances beyond our control: one was ceed today and in the future. We focus on: killed in election violence while another was fatally • Helping employees to develop professionally and injured in an armed robbery. Any loss of life is unpersonally acceptable. In-depth investigations are conducted, with remedial actions and lessons shared across • Protecting and promoting their health, safety and the Group. well-being • Embracing diversity in our workforce Fleet safety • Engaging with employees openly and honestly Since road traffic accidents account for most fa• Respecting human rights talities, improving fleet safety remains a key focus. • Recognising and rewarding performance. During 2011, we audited all 28 country operations A safe and healthy workplace Our workforce We aim to develop a world-class safety culture at Coca-Cola Hellenic and continue to make signifi• Coca-Cola Hellenic employed 41,302 people cant progress towards this goal. at the end of 2011 In 2011, serious accidents fell by a further 27% with • 97% of employees are of local origin; 80% no lost-time accidents in Belarus, FYROM, Latvia are from emerging and developing or our Multon operations in Russia. Fleet safety economies performance improved, with road traffic accidents down by almost one-third (32%). Our lost-time in• Almost 83% of our leadership are local cident rate is now less than half the soft drinks innationals dustry average. In addition, 70 bottling plants are now certified to OHSAS 18001. By 2012, all plants • Permanent employees account for 94% will be fully certified. of our workforce One goal that remains unmet is to eliminate fatali40 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report for compliance with our Fleet Safety Policy, taking opportunity to prevent a future accident. All team corrective action for all shortcomings identified. leaders now hold regular ‘Toolbox Talks’ about local safety issues. Managers conduct ‘Walk the In a global first for the food and beverage inTalk’ inspections, observing and discussing safety dustry, Coca-Cola Hellenic made the in-vehicle in day-to-day business. We track these proactive safety device Mobileye a requirement in all new measures, assessing overall performance using or newly leased vehicles. The move follows trials both leading and lagging indicators. which showed a marked decrease in accidents. In early 2012, we also began trials of the webWe also engage employee representatives. Joint manbased ‘AlertDriving’ defensive driver behavioural agement-worker health and safety committees repretraining programme. sent 61% of our workforce. Health and safety topics are covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Coca-Cola Hellenic signed the European Road Safety Charter in 2011. Safe Driving was also the Our comprehensive safety training curriculum was theme of our first Health and Safety Week. Durfurther expanded in 2011 with a revised Permit to ing 2011, high-profile campaigns in all 28 countries Work programme. This ensures checks and balpromoted safe driving. This builds on our ongoing ances are in place before hazardous non-routine programme to train all Company drivers in safe jobs can be undertaken. and eco-driving. Health and Safety policy, Fleet Safety policy www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ sustainabilitypolicy/ Safety – everyone’s responsibility Management commitment and involvement is pivotal as we build a world-class safety culture. At executive level, a member of our Operating Committee champions our health and safety programme and personally conducts safety reviews. Employee engagement is also critical. During 2011, we focused on near-miss incident reporting, enTo mark 2011 World Day for Health and Safety at Work, our Czech operations couraging our people to see a near-miss as an focused on hearing protection in the workplace and everyday life. Employee development | 41 Employee development Fatalities Average Incidence rate Sickness (employees and contractors) sickness days (including to/from (excluding to/from (no. of accidents with (absence days) (per full-time work accidents) work accidents) >1 day absence per equivalent) 100 employees) 2007 15 13 2.4 231,210 5.34 2008 28 25 3.8 282,309 5.75 2009 5 5 1.4 262,537 5.76 2010 9 9 1.1 233,898 5.36 2011 6 6 0.9 210,956 5.05 Health and wellbeing had been undertaken in pilot countries. The tracker will now be rolled out. Helping employees to lead healthy, active lifestyles is another important responsibility. Preventative Annual People Development Forums in each counhealth programmes include diabetes and cancer try confirm that the right people are in the right screening, as well as cholesterol and blood prespositions and that people are being developed for sure monitoring. Increasingly, active lifestyle, nutrifuture opportunities. tion, stress management and fitness are included, Such opportunities are not limited to leaders. Line too. In 2011, more than 31,000 employees in 21 Operators have clearly defined and recognised cacountries participated. reer progression, through capability development. We conduct HIV/AIDS awareness and education proOur Learning Centre of Excellence offers an exgrammes in countries with high incidence. In Nigeria, tensive curriculum of training programmes. During we provide voluntary counselling, testing and free 2011, employees received on average 19 hours of anti-retroviral medicines for employees and depentraining (16 hours in emerging countries, 29 hours dants. We continue to support the Roll Back Malaria in developing and 19 in established). In addition, campaign, distributing a further 5,000 insecticidemore than 430 managers have been trained in treated nets to employees and communities in 2011. coaching, while 28 are externally certified coaches. People development Employee engagement Coca-Cola Hellenic invests significantly in learning Under our new CEO, and development. We also encourage and emwe undertook a major power employees to take responsibility for their consultation process to career development. redefine the Company’s The foundation is our career planning framework values. In our drive to be which clearly outlines the seven core areas in which a values-led organisaaspiring leaders must excel: Business and Finantion, we have launched cial Results, Management, People Development, a campaign to cascade Leadership, Relationships, Growth and Innovation, these values throughout as well as Corporate Social Responsibility. For each our operations, bringing them to life in our dayarea, we define the performance standards and exto-day business. We will measure performance perience required at every layer of leadership. against each value, with employee feedback through our biennial engagement survey playing a Each employee from team leader upwards creates key role. and manages a development plan. During 2011, we began tracking implementation of actions in these Our most recent survey showed an overall engageplans, finding that between 76% and 97% of actions ment score of 56% in 2010, exceeding the median 42 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report “At a Workers’ Council meeting in January 2011, the country operation announced the shutdown of production in the bottling plant in Solin. It was a regrettable decision which led to 52 job cuts. score among peers. In every country, action plans After months of negotiations, the Workers’ Council and the trade union reached a restructuring agreement are underway to address survey findings, from with an acceptable outcome. It was well managed and providing greater opportunities for employee input production was ensured until the end of August 2011. to rewarding innovative ideas. Our next survey will Given the economic situation and high unemployment be in 2012. in Croatia, the company must invest efforts and find ” solutions to preserve existing jobs in the future. Equality and diversity Building a diverse workforce helps us to connect with consumers and customers across our territories. Our leadership pipeline must also be diverse so as to draw from the widest pool of talent available. In our new values, diversity is enshrined as part of ‘Caring for Our People’. It is also embedded in our talent management and people processes. We are committed to developing local leaders, and Sanda Marelic΄-Tomljanovic΄ 83% of country leadership positions are filled by President of the Workers’ Council, Coca-Cola HBC Croatia people of local origin. Almost half (48%) of expatriate managers are from emerging and developing The bottling plant that was closed is located in Solin, on the Dalmatian coast of Croatia, an area with limited local economies. During 2011, our diverse workforce economy. The trade union was particularly concerned that spanned 72 nationalities. Our Operating Committee it would be a challenge for those dismissed to find new has people of six different nationalities, as does our employment. Additional financial packages were provided as well as relocation assistance, outplacement support and Board of Directors. other legal and financial support. We still aim to create greater gender balance in our business, particularly in key positions. In 2011, women represented 22% of managers and 28% of tives and homecare issues. In Russia, a survey senior managers. of managers found that the challenges related Since women are significantly under-representmore to misconceptions among those who had ed in our Commercial function, country operabeen hired. A pilot project with targets for imtions are tackling local obstacles to improve this. provement aims to address these issues. Projects In Switzerland, initiatives include targeted job are underway in other countries, too. In Serbia, feadvertisements, extended maternity leave and male market developers have more than doubled help to resolve childcare, care for aged relasince 2009. Workforce breakdown in 2011 Managers Non-Managers Total Total 2,211 39,091 41,302 Male 72.2% 79.5% 79.1% Female 27.8% 20.5% 20.9% Nationals 82.8% 97.7% 96.9% Non-nationals 17.2% 2.3% 3.1% Under 30 4.6% 33.9% 32.3% 30-50 85.1% 57.8% 59.3% Over 50 10.3% 8.3% 8.4% Employee development | 43 Employee development In response to work-life balance concerns exPrinciples for Business and Human Rights. The pressed in our engagement survey, a growing company also participates in the Global Business number of countries offer flexible working. As our Initiative on Human Rights. Corporate Office positions become location-free, this family-friendly initiative potentially opens up development opportunities without the need for Employee relations international relocation. We respect the rights of employees to join, or not Although women are still under-represented in join, unions or works councils. Coca-Cola Hellenic, they enjoy salary parity (within Approximately half (52%) of employees are covered 1%) with men of the same job grade. Recruitment, by collective bargaining agreements and 25% bepromotion and remuneration are based on merit; long to independent trade unions. Formal commugender and other diversity indicators play no role. nications protocols with all trade unions and works In 2011, there were no breaches of our Equality councils are designed to ensure regular and open Policy or related legislation. dialogue and consultation. In five countries, representing 7% of our workforce, Equality of Opportunity policy, Human Rights policy there are neither unions nor works councils. In www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ sustainabilitypolicy/ Moldova, Armenia, Belarus, FYROM and Hungary, we communicate with employees directly and through bodies such as our employee-elected Social Committee in Hungary. Independent auA fair workplace dits and engagement surveys have not revealed Respecting the basic rights of people in our workconcerns. Our businesses in Belarus and Moldova force, supply chain and communities is fundamenwere among four country operations to gain emtal to being a good employer and a responsible ployer of choice awards in 2011. business. Our Human Rights policy and Supplier Guiding Principles uphold these rights. Responsible restructuring In practice, there can potentially be conflict in counIn the current economic climate, we have systemtries where human rights are compromised. We atically implemented wide-ranging cost-cutting keep abreast of the country contexts in which we measures to minimise job losses. Nevertheless, operate. Our zero-tolerance approach to corruption strategic restructuring initiatives led to 1,723 people is also made clear to employees and suppliers (see across 21 countries being made redundant in 2011. Integrating sustainability). We consulted with unions, works councils and, Our operations self-assess their adherence to our where appropriate, the Select Committee of the commitments and are also independently audited. European Works Council. Comprehensive severA further 17 bottling plants were audited in 2011. ance packages met and, in most cases, substanSuppliers are also subject to audits (see Supplier tially exceeded statutory requirements. We also engagement). assisted affected employees with CV preparation, Concerns can be raised through various mechatraining and outplacement advice. nisms, including our confidential whistleblower hotAgainst a backdrop of recession and austerity mealine and email system. All contacts are investigated sures, our Greek operations experienced shortand results are reported to the Audit Committee. Our lived industrial action related to redundancies and whistleblower system is independently audited each salary freezes. Working time lost due to strikes and year. We are committed to protecting employees industrial disputes was insignificant in 2011. who raise concerns in good faith from retaliation. During 2011, there were no breaches of our Human Rights policy or related legislation. Rewarding performance On behalf of our business system, The Coca-Cola We aim to reward employees fairly and comCompany formally endorsed the new UN Guiding petitively, benchmarking compensation packages 44 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report against leading companies. On average, entry-level all Key Results Areas – including CSR, people employees receive 50% more than the minimum development and innovation – in addition to fiwage where one exists. We aim to provide pennancial performance. Coca-Cola Hellenic paid sion and retirement provisions that are appro€1,184 million in salaries and benefits in 2011. priate for the long-term. Our Annual Report and Accounts detail costs and Variable compensation rewards performance in pension plans. Encouraging safe driving in all 28 countries Each year, 1.3 million people are killed and 50 million are injured on the roads, with 90% of casualties in developing countries. To coincide with launch of the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety, we held a major campaign to promote safe driving. A turnkey campaign sent to all operations included posters, videos, talks, email and SMS alerts. Using shock tactics, the campaign tackled key risk factors, from not wearing seatbelts to using a mobile phone while driving. Country operations partnered with local traffic police, road safety NGOs, driving schools, customers and others. Among employees surveyed, 93% found the campaign beneficial, while 69% had changed their driving behaviour. The Safe Driving campaign of Coca-Cola Hellenic was recognised as an international winner at the 2012 Inspiring Safety awards. Employee development | 45 Supplier engagement The social and environmental impacts of our supply chain are far greater than those of our own operations. Consequently, our business can only become sustainable once we have built a sustainable supply chain. suppliers All must follow Code of Business supplier Conduct & Supplier Guiding Principles partnerships develop 127 supplier sites assessed for compliance to date low-carbon technologies Coca-Cola Hellenic sources ingredients, packagEco-Indicator 99 methodology, more than threeing and equipment from approximately 84,000 quarters of our ecological impacts are due to agsuppliers, from small independent firms to large ricultural crops, packaging and cold drink equipinternational companies. In 2011, our supplier ment. These three areas are therefore the focus spend amounted to € 4,200 million. of significant work with suppliers. Although we do not own or control these entities, Collaboration is also pivotal. Working together we have a clear responsibility to help address the with suppliers, NGOs and others, we focus on: sustainability challenges inherent to our supply • Deepening understanding of our indirect impacts chain. We endeavour to work in partnership with suppliers, mitigating risks, improving efficiencies • Addressing the use of water in our agricultural and promoting innovation. supply chain • Tackling our greatest source of indirect emissions: coolers and packaging Our approach • Developing innovative low-carbon technologies The challenge of building a sustainable supply chain is immense. We must therefore address • Improving working conditions for those in our the highest priority issues first. Based on the supply chain Environmental impacts in our value chain Bottling plants account for only 12% of our total environmental impacts. By contrast, packaging, agricultural crops and cold drink equipment represent more than three-quarters. Coca-Cola Hellenic Cold drink equipment 43% calculates its broader ecological Raw materials 36% footprint using the eco-indicator Bottling plants 12% 99 method. Distribution 7% Post-consumer waste 2% 46 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report • Generating economic benefit for suppliers and and others piloted a new methodology to assess local communities. the sustainability of our beet sugar’s water footprint in different European contexts. This study From coolers and packaging to vehicles and IT by the European Water Footprint Sustainability equipment, our purchasing specifications include Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar is availenvironmental requirements. During 2011, we able online. tested a new scorecard which also takes supplier sustainability strategy into account, specifically In parallel, we aim to reduce the overall environenergy management, carbon footprinting and mental impacts of the sugar we use. EU sugar packaging material reduction. reform is helping us do so, as production in Europe becomes more efficient and sustainable. More than half (54%) of the sugar we use derives Agriculture and water use from local beet and we are working to increase Agriculture poses significant sustainability chalthis. One-third of our sugar comes from imported lenges. With the world’s population expected to cane while the remainder is high-fructose syrup. reach nine billion by 2050, global food production On behalf of our business system, The Coca-Cola will need to double in the next forty years. Company works with WWF and others to address Sugar and fruit juice are the main agricultural the environmental and social challenges involved raw materials sourced by Coca-Cola Hellenic. in sugarcane production. The company helped to Securing supplies is already a core business promote the development and implementation of issue; this is likely to worsen with population the Bonsucro production standard. growth and climate change unless we take mitigating action. European Water Footprint Sustainability Assessment Sounding Board for Sugar Agricultural crops account for the bulk of our www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/pdf/2011_ europe-water-report.pdf water footprint, with sugar at 82%. The pesticides and fertilisers used to grow these crops repreBonsucro Standard sent 47% of our grey water footprint. Although we www.bonsucro.com/ work with sugar refiners and juice suppliers, not directly with farmers, we have a responsibility to help tackle these impacts. Developing low-carbon technologies In 2011, our multi-stakeholder partnership with We innovate with suppliers in order to develop sugar suppliers, the Water Footprint Network technologies to tackle the greatest contributors to Supplier engagement | 47 Supplier engagement Reducing the impact of packaging We work with packaging suppliers to reduce the material content of our cans and bottles, increase their recycled content and to recover or recycle these packages after use. By introducing new lighter-weight beverage packages, we avoided 6,100 tonnes of PET material in 2011. In addition, we used 10% more recycled PET than the previous year. Packaging suppliers are also involved in the packaging waste management schemes that we help to set up. Our end-goal is to close the recycling loop. In Austria, where we co-own a PET-to-PET recycling plant, we close the recycling loop. Following the plant’s expansion programme, we increased the recycled content of local PET water bottles from 25% to 45% in 2011 (see Packaging and recycling). Quad-Generation CHP technology The other major innovation to emerge from supplier partnerships has been our quad-generation CHP technology. The first in the beverage industry, these on-site CHP units generate power, heating and cooling and provide highly purified CO2 for In a concerted programme to boost our use of local beet sugar, use in beverage carbonation. we committed in 2011 to raise the proportion from 35% of our sugar use in Russia to 60% by 2014. By using energy four-fold, our bottling plants can reduce CO2 emissions by up to 60%. Excess electricity is provided to national grids; surplus our total carbon footprint. Our most significant and CO2 can also be sold. In Ireland, we now supply ongoing projects include: our former supplier of CO2 fully meeting their lo• Reducing the material content of our beverage cal customer demand and thereby replacing CO2 packages previously imported through the UK from Norway or Holland. • Implementing quad-generation CHP technology at our bottling plants During 2011 we finalised construction of a further four CHP plants. • Introducing energy-efficient coolers that are free of hydro-fluorocarbons (HFCs). Bringing economic benefit Climate-friendly refrigeration The financial crisis has hit our suppliers hard, too. In particular, smaller suppliers found it difficult to We continue to roll out the new HFC-free coolers gain credit, leading to liquidity issues. that were developed in partnership with suppliers. In 2011, 49% of new cold drink equipment was free We have explored various solutions to help our of HFCs, keeping us on track to meet our goal that partners and are now working with suppliers all new equipment will be HFC-free by 2015. In and banks to expand supply chain finance proaddition, new coolers are equipped with energy grammes. This relatively new financing concept management devices, LED lighting and improved (also known as ‘reverse factoring’) allows supinsulation. pliers to use our credit lines with banks, obtaining 48 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report “T he long-standing partnership with Coca-Cola Hellenic, dating back to 1988 when we first supplied concentrated juice for the production of Amita, is unique in Greece. cheaper and more readily available financing. The Company’s unswerving sourcing of local ingredients during the past 24 years, even when alternatives were This can benefit us with better pricing or paycompetitively priced, has been crucial for the survival of ment terms. the Greek orange industry and its continued contribution to the economy. I consider Coca-Cola Hellenic as We also help to develop new suppliers to our ” a partner more than a customer. business, working with them to achieve our system’s quality standards. In 2011, we signed contracts with sugar suppliers in Russia as part of our commitment to increase the proportion of local beet sugar from 35% to 60% by 2014. Upholding workplace rights All suppliers to our business must comply with our Supplier Guiding Principles. These outline the workplace conditions we expect our suppliers to provide their employees. Child labour and forced labour are clearly prohibited. Michael Moros Commercial Director, Hellenic Juice Industry Aspis S.A. Independent audits assess how well our suppliers comply with the Supplier Guiding Principles. In a Coca-Cola Hellenic has been purchasing Greek concentrated orange juice for the production of Amita and Fanta from joint programme with The Coca-Cola Company, asHellenic Juice Industry Aspis since 1988. With annual sessments were conducted at a further 10 supplier production volumes of thousands of tonnes of juice sites in 2011. concentrate, represent a significant proportion of total national production. Seven of the ten sites audited were fully compliant. Non-compliance issues at two sites involved minor health and safety issues, such as incomplete The Coca-Cola Company also conducts screening first aid kits. Moderate non-compliance issues at programmes for higher-risk items, such as prothe final site included a blocked fire exit, which was motional and marketing materials, and higher risk rectified during the audit itself. markets, such as China or India. Sites with medium and high-risk findings also require Coca-Cola Hellenic Supplier Guiding Principles a follow-up audit to verify that corrective actions have www.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/ourapproach/ been implemented. During 2011, three sites were sustainabilitypolicy/ subject to follow-up audits due to previous findings TCCC Supplier Guiding Principles on health and safety and excessive overtime hours. www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/pdf/SGP_ All three sites are now fully compliant. Brochure_ENG.pdf To date, 127 supplier sites have been assessed. Towards Sustainable Sugar Sourcing in Europe These include major suppliers of sugar, primary www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/pdf/2011_ europe-water-report.pdf packaging and equipment. Nine of these were assessed and accepted through the AIM-PROGRESS Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform www.saiplatform.org/activities/projects programme of mutual recognition. In total, 94% were found to be fully compliant or with only minor AIM-Progress www.thecoca-colacompany.com/citizenship/aim.html non-compliance issues. Supplier engagement | 49 Community involvement Coca-Cola Hellenic can only be successful if our communities are healthy, thriving and sustainable. Our mission states that we will improve the quality of life in local communities. Building and maintaining community trust is one of our key business strategies. By contributing to their sustainable development, we also invest in our own future. €8 5,000 over million of investment employee volunteers more participated in or 1.5% pre-tax profit than programmes in 2011 more than reforested over 3 million in our sports and fitness programmes participants 200,000 m 2 Our approach • Encouraging volunteerism among employees and communities. Coca-Cola Hellenic’s primary contribution is through core business activities. Employee salaries, supplier payments and government taxes are Our strategy among the ways that we generate local economic benefit. Across our business, there are four areas of strategic focus to our community programmes: In addition, we help to tackle local environmental and social issues through community partnerships • Water and environmental protection and projects. Our corporate community investment • Sports and physical activity strategy focuses on: • Youth development • Addressing issues of importance to our communities and our business • Emergency relief. • Developing long-term partnerships that deliver In 2011, 71% of community investment was dimeasurable results rected to these four areas which are critical to Focus of community investment Type of contribution Community investment 72% Sports and physical activities 30.5% Youth development 17.5% Commercial initiative 22% Other 29.3% Disaster relief 0.2% Charitable gifts 6% Environment and water 22.5% 50 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report both Coca-Cola Hellenic and our communities. Programmes Partners (at country level) Protecting watersheds is part of our water stewardship strategy, for example, while supportWatershed ICPDR; UNESCO; UNDP; WWF; local ing active lifestyles is integral to our consumer protection NGOs, environment ministries health strategy. We also have a duty to support AIESEC; Junior Achievement; SIFE; young people since they represent the majority Youth SOS Kinderdorf; local NGOs and of our consumers. development children’s homes To ensure programmes are effective, we work Sports and Sports associations; education in partnership with NGOs, government agencies fitness ministries and CSR experts. Our most longstanding collaboration is with the International Commission Emergency Red Cross Red Crescent societies; for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR). relief emergency services To teach schoolchildren about water sustainability, we have provided classroom resources and extra-curricular activities in 12 countries. Community involvement | 51 Community involvement In Nigeria, we sponsor 100 young women each year to train as automobile mechanics. In 2011, Coca-Cola Hellenic contributed over €8 basins in our territories. As part of our broader million to community programmes, representing water strategy, we work with environmental min1.5% of pre-tax profits. This compares favourably istries and NGOs to protect watersheds (see Wato the average among London Benchmarking ter Stewardship). Group (LBG) members of 1.2%. We also help to raise awareness and have set up We also leverage our skills and resources to annual celebrations of key rivers, including the make our support more impactful. Our marDanube, Sava, Vistula, Dniepr and Volga. Danube keting expertise is helping to raise awareness Day alone involved 230 events with 750 partners of water sustainability while our bottled water and 440 schools. and distribution network can prove invaluable to Education about water sustainability is another imporemergency relief efforts. tant aspect. We have provided classroom resources Employee participation is another imporand extra-curricular activities in 12 countries. tant component of programmes. Volunteering strengthens ties between our Company, our people and local communities. In 2011, more than Youth development 5,000 employees in 23 countries actively particiUnemployment among young people rose dispated in our programmes. proportionately during the global economic crisis. To help improve youth employability, we support enterprise education programmes in 12 Water and the environment countries and offer internships in 15 countries. Coca-Cola Hellenic supports community water In Serbia, our partnership with a leading univerprojects in 26 countries, covering all major river sity helps 500 students a year gain employment 52 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report skills. In 2011, the project won the new Europeschools in a further five countries. Across our an Employee Volunteering Award. We partner business, we have built or refurbished almost with leading youth organisations, such as Junior 120 playgrounds and sports grounds so that Achievement, SIFE and AIESEC, in 14 countries. children have a safe place to play. Underprivileged or marginalised young people are a particular focus. We are sponsoring 100 Sports and physical activity women in Nigeria to train as car mechanics while in Hungary, we support a programme to Encouraging people to be physically active is anothdevelop leaders from the Roma community. In er strategic focus. More than three million people the Republic of Ireland, we help school-leavers took part in our sports and fitness programmes in from underprivileged areas prepare for job ap2011. Part of our Consumer Health strategy, projplications and interviews. ects range from grassroots activities to nationwide tournaments (see Consumer health). Since large numbers of children grow up in care homes in our Eastern European territories, Football has long been a focus and we hold we have built relationships with these organitournaments and training in 19 countries. In Posations in 14 countries. We especially support land alone, more than 3,800 teams took part in family-care projects, working with SOS Chilthe Coca-Cola Cup during 2011, with girls repdren’s Villages in seven countries. resenting more than one-third of teams. Our support also extends to providing physical We also support many other sports and events. infrastructure. In Nigeria, we renovated three In Hungary, Austria and Northern Ireland, our more schools in 2011 and helped to refurnish schemes offer a wide variety of activities to enOur Bike to Work project in Croatia provides bicycles free of charge to employees, encouraging them to lead more active lifestyles and reduce their environmental impacts. Community involvement | 53 Community involvement As our work with national Red Cross societies deepens, we collaborate on projects ranging from disaster preparedness and emergency relief to healthcare and blood donation. courage people of any age or ability to become Cross societies, we are preparing joint disaster more physically active. preparedness plans. In early 2012, an extreme cold wave swept across central and eastern European Schools are an important channel for health procountries, leaving more than 550 people dead. We motion. We partner with government, nutrition worked with Red Cross societies to install heatand sports experts to teach schoolchildren about ing and to distribute blankets, warm clothing and healthy diets and active lifestyles. We support the hot meals. Our country operations have previPolish Keep Fit initiative which has involved 3.8 ously supported a wide range of local Red Cross million schoolchildren and 31,000 schools since it projects, from landmine awareness campaigns to began in 2006. vaccination programmes and other preventative healthcare. Emergency relief Our relief efforts also extend to longer-term rehabilitation and recovery. Following the 2009 Heavier rainfall, fiercer storms and intensifyearthquake in Abruzzo, Italy, we helped to finance ing droughts will become more likely as climate a new earthquake-proof student centre which change takes effect. As part of our adaptation opened in 2011. In Greece, we continue to supstrategy, we provide swift relief to local communiport reforestation following the wildfires of 2007. ties in times of emergency. Safe drinking water is We have adopted five forested areas, planting an immediate need. We provide supplies, mobilisand tending over 26,000 trees. In 2011, we introing our fleet and employee volunteers to help with duced a new programme to clean up forests in distribution. seven locations and 1,630 volunteers cleared 17.6 As we deepen our relationship with national Red tonnes of waste. 54 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Creating economic benefit dreds of small distribution outlets in areas that conventional distribution cannot easily reach. We By manufacturing locally, Coca-Cola Hellenic genalso support local suppliers. erates economic benefit in our communities. We directly employ 41,302 people and our tax payIn developing and emerging markets, Coca-Cola ments amounted to €192 million in 2011. Hellenic helps to transfer technology. We train local people in management systems standards, energyNew socio-economic impact studies in four counefficient technologies and wastewater treatment. In tries show that our business system supports addition, we share our experiences with local busimany more jobs in our value chain. nesses, government, students and others. We aim to create value for our customers, a commitment that extends to small-scale businesses, Our commitment in action too. In Nigeria, we have helped to establish hunwww.coca-colahellenic.com/sustainability/community/ Volunteering in our communities More than five thousand employee volunteers supported our community projects in 2011. They worked to clear riverbanks, plant trees, visit local orphanages and renovate schools. We also promote volunteerism among local businesses and communities. To mark European Year of Volunteering in 2011, we shared our experience at major public events in Poland, Hungary and Austria, while in Estonia, we partnered with the Ministry of Internal Affairs to pilot a volunteerism programme. We received the new European Employee Volunteering Award in Serbia during 2011 and gained further awards for volunteer programmes in five other countries. Company volunteers in Hungary worked together to build a forest gym trail in the Duna-Ipoly national park. Community involvement | 55 Supporting the UN Global Compact With over 8,700 participants from over 130 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative. By joining the UNGC, Coca-Cola Hellenic committed to implement and promote core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Our approach and job creation; HIV/AIDS and malaria; disaster relief and rehabilitation. Directly or indirectly, these partnerships support the Since 2005, we have endeavoured to fulfil our commitments by: Millennium Development Goals. • Implementing the 10 Principles into Company operations and In 2011, the UN launched ‘A Decade of Action for Road Safety’ strategy to reduce global road deaths. To coincide, our first Health and • Working to make our supply chain more sustainable Safety Week focused on Safe Driving. We have now conducted • Championing development of Local Networks hard-hitting awareness programmes in all 28 countries, working with road traffic police, road safety NGOs and others. We • Supporting the Compact’s global platforms also signed the European Road Safety Charter. These efforts • Contributing to broad UN development goals complement ongoing fleet safety programmes. • Reporting transparently. The Fondation Guilé provides an annual assessment of our Anti-corruption performance and this report serves as our Communication on Progress. According to Transparency International, some countries in which we operate suffer from high levels of corruption. Coca-Cola Hellenic’s zero-tolerance approach to corruption Promoting local networks is made clear to employees, suppliers, governments and others. Increasingly, we work with Global Compact Local Local networks play an essential role in the expansion of the Networks and others to conduct anti-corruption initiatives. Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Coca-Cola Hellenic actively supports Local Networks in 15 countries. In 2011, we signed the Slovenian network’s Declaration of Fair Cooperation, which requires inclusion of anti-corruption clausIn Ukraine, for example, we serve on the Steering Committee es in business contracts and reporting of potential violations. In and the Alliance of the Global Compact, signing the Declaration Ukraine, we participated in the local network’s survey on the on Responsible Business Partnership in 2011. We are also on role of business in fighting corruption in the country. the CSR Committee working group in the Ukrainian parliament, supporting the National Concept for CSR Strategy development. We also support campaigns directed at students and young adults. In Latvia, we marked UN International Anti-Corruption Day with an innovative video contest while in Armenia, we supported a competition among university students. Supporting broad UN goals As a founding member of the CEO Water Mandate and Caring for Climate initiatives, Coca-Cola Hellenic has committed to adReporting transparently dress water conservation and CO2 emissions in our operations, According to our self-assessment, the sustainability reporting supply chain and beyond. of Coca-Cola Hellenic qualifies for GC Advanced level. This is We also engage with UN agencies, including UNDP, UNEP and the highest reporting level under the new Differentiation proUNESCO, to tackle sustainability issues. Partnerships focus on gramme and recognises companies which have adopted best such issues as: improving access to water and watershed conpractices in sustainability governance and management. Our servation; youth development and education; entrepreneurship self-assessment is available on the Global Compact website. Supporting anti-corruption efforts in Armenia In Armenia, we are part of the Global Compact Local Network Steering Committee to reduce corruption. We also work with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to support their Student Working Group to address corruption in Armenian higher education. During 2011, we helped to organise a student competition to devise an anti-corruption slogan for students. The winning entry was ‘Buying your education, you sell your future’. 56 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report How Coca-Cola Hellenic promotes the 10 Principles The 10 Principles In operations In supply chain In communities Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses • Policies: Human Rights, Equal • Supplier Guiding • Support of education and should support and respect Opportunity, Occupational Health Principles entrepreneurship the protection of internationally and Safety proclaimed human rights. • Third-party audits • Projects to improve access to • Part of management system and • Industry initiatives, safe water and sanitation in Principle 2: Make sure that training Nigeria, Hungary, Romania they are not complicit in e.g. AIM-PROGRESS human rights abuses. • Third-party audits Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses • Human Rights policy • Supplier Guiding • Support of diversity should uphold the freedom of Principles initiatives, e.g. by Roma association and the effective • Part of management system and youth development in recognition of the right to training • Third-party audits Hungary collective bargaining. • Unions and/or works councils in • Industry initiatives, Principle 4: The elimination 23 countries e.g. AIM-PROGRESS of all forms of forced and • Formal communications protocol • Improvement of working compulsory labour. in 23 countries conditions in informal packaging collection Principle 5: The effective • Third-party audits systems abolition of child labour. • Gender diversity initiatives Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of • Salary parity employment and occupation. • Pay for entry-level positions significantly above minimum wage Environment Principle 7: Businesses • 72 bottling plants are ISO • Participation in innovative • Set up 20 national recovery should support a precautionary 14001-certified partnership to address organisations approach to environmental water use in sugar challenges. • Policies on water stewardship, • Recycling and anti-litter climate change, packaging production campaigns Principle 8: Undertake • Switch to climate-friendly initiatives to promote greater • Since 2002, annual targets • Community water for water, energy and waste refrigeration programmes in 26 countries environmental responsibility. reduction • Development of • Mobilisation of volunteers Principle 9: Encourage the quad-generation CHP from workforce, communities, development and diffusion • 100% of wastewater now treated; technology with suppliers 44 on-site wastewater treatment other businesses of environmentally friendly technologies. plants • Integrating sustainability • Host visits to our wastewater performance into supplier treatment facilities • Programme to build 20 CHP scorecard plants; 9 now operational • Promotion of low-carbon technologies, e.g. at launch • Renewable energy initiatives of each CHP unit (e.g. photovoltaic panels, geothermal) • Founding signatory of CEO Water Mandate and Caring for Climate Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses • Code of Business Conduct • Suppliers subject • Support anti-corruption should work against corruption reviewed and updated mandatory to Code of Business initiatives e.g Ukraine, in all its forms, including training and certification Conduct Armenia, Lithuania, Latvia extortion and bribery. • Confidential reporting mechanisms • Supplier Guiding Principles • Whistle-blower protection • Regular risk assessment • Third-party audits by Internal Audit • Reporting to Audit Committee Supporting the UN Global Compact | 57 Environmental data table GRI Total amount Relative amount Relative amount Indicator 2011 2011 2010 Production million litres beverages Total beverage production 11,599 MATERIALS tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Materials used EN1 Sugar and fructose syrup 876,640 75.6 71.6 Concentrate 55,121 4.8 6.6 PET (bottles) 258,665 22.3 24.3 Plastic (closures) 25,106 2.2 2.3 Metal (crowns) 13,617 1.2 2.0 PE (labels and stretch / shrink film) 43,112 3.7 3.5 Glass (bottles) 147,216 12.7 9.5 Aluminium (cans) 48,094 4.1 3.2 Paper (labels) 1,698 0.1 0.1 Cardboard 47,493 4.1 3.4 Wood (pallets) 76,194 6.6 12.6 Percentage of materials from recycled sources EN2 See CSR Report p. 36 ENERGY million MJ MJ/lpb MJ/lpb Direct energy use (plants and fleet) EN3 10.841 0.93 0.96 Electricity 2,700 0.23 0.23 Light heating oil 1,079 0.09 0.10 Heavy heating oil 158 0.01 0.01 Natural gas 2,267 0.20 0.18 LPG 192 0.02 0.02 Others in plants (steam, district heating, own power) 295 0.03 0.04 Diesel 1,591 0.14 0.16 Petrol 879 0.08 0.10 Estimated diesel in 3rd-party fleet 1,680 0.14 0.14 Primary energy use EN4 Electricity 7,980 0.69 0.67 Fossil fuels 1,527 0.13 0.13 Energy use of Cold Drink Equipment Total cooling equipment electricity consumption 16,887 • Coolers 16,098 • Venders 355 • Fountains 434 Energy saved in bottling plants (vs. baseline 2004) EN5 1,776 -26.0% -27.1% Initiatives for energy efficiency and renewable energies EN6 See CSR Report pp 29-30 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption EN7 See CSR Report pp 31-32 WATER litres/lpb litres/lpb Total water received EN8 26,035 million l. 2.24 2.30 Water used 25,545 million l. 2.20 2.24 Water unused (discharged unaltered) 489 million l. 0.04 0.06 Water withdrawal by source (% from municipal sources) 31% Water habitats affected by withdrawal of water EN9 none Total recycling and reuse of water EN10 1,008 million l. 0.1 l/lpb 0.1 l/lpb BIODIVERSITY Total amount of land owned 917 ha Land owned in protected habitats EN11 none Major impacts on biodiversity EN12 none Changes to natural habitats resulting from operations EN14 none Programmes to protect habitats EN13 See CSR Report pp 22-27 Red List species with habitats affected by operations EN15 none 58 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report GRI G3 Total amount Relative amount Relative amount Indicator 2011 2011 2010 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Greenhouse gas emissions from operations CO2 from energy used in plants (scope 1) EN16 224,237 19.3 18.7 CO2 from electricity used in plants (scope 2) EN17 311,287 26.8 28.5 CO2 from fuel used in company vehicles EN16 179,837 15.5 18.6 coolant emissions from Cold Drink Equipment (CO2 eq) EN16 14,564 1.3 2.0 CO2 for product carbonation (CO2 losses) EN16 34,877 3.0 2.8 CO2 from supplied heating & cooling (scope 2) EN17 11,575 1.0 0.9 Total emissions (scope 1 and 2) 776,377 66.9 71.6 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 0 CO2 from electricity use of cold drink equipment EN17 2,042,483 176.1 175.4 CO2 embedded in packaging EN17 1,525,350 131.5 135.1 CO2 from sugar 405,207 34.9 33.0 CO2 from 3rd-party transports 124,334 10.7 10.3 CO2 from head office flights EN17 1,811 0.2 0.2 CO2 from product carbonation 82,846 7.1 6.6 Programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions EN18 See CSR Report p. 32 Ozone-depleting substance emissions EN19 CFCs and HCFCs 0.108 <0.001 <0.001 Other significant air emissions EN20 NOx 4,728 0.41 0.38 SO2 3,264 0.28 0.27 Particulate matter 516 0.04 0.04 WASTE tonnes g/lpb g/lpb Amount of solid waste EN22 Total amount 109,587 9.4 g/lpb 10.1 g/lpb Recycling and energy recovery 95,112 87% 85% Hazardous waste Hazardous waste generated EN24 1,214 0.10 g/lpb 0.14 g/lpb EFFLUENTS Discharges to water Quantity of waste water discharged EN21 12,828 million l. 1.1 l/lpb 1.2 l/lpb Total COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) produced EN21 5,036 t O2 434 mgO2/lpb 483 mgO2/lpb Total COD reaching the environment EN21 434 t O2 37 mgO2/l 88 mgO2/l Water habitats affected by water discharges EN25 0 Spills of chemicals, oils, fuels EN23 0.5 t 0.00004 g/lpb 0.014 g/lpb PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Significant environmental impacts EN26 CFCs and HCFCs Percentage reclaimable products EN27 3rd party carriers Rate of returnable packaging 11% 11% Possible rate of packaging recycling See CSR Report pp 36-37 Achieved rate of packaging recycling See CSR Report pp 36-37 COMPLIANCE Incidents and fines EN28 4 TRANSPORT ml/lpb ml/lpb Environmental impacts of transport EN29 See CSR Report pp 6-7, 30 Number of vehicles 18,723 Fuel consumption (litres) 68,948,857 l 5.9 ml/lpb 7.2 ml/lpb EXPENDITURES Total environmental expenditures EN 30 not public Note: Core GRI indicators are indicated in bold typeface. Additional GRI indicators are indicated in normal typeface Environmental data table | 59 Social and economic data table GRI TOPIC 2010 2011 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT LA1 Total workforce (no. of employees) 43,189 41,302 Full Time Equivalents (FTEs) 43,570 41,715 Permanent employees >95% >95% LA2 Employee turnover 16% 15% Training and Development LA10 Average training hours per employee 21 19 Human Rights HR4-7 No. of workplace accountability audits 2 17 HR4-7 No. of human rights violations resulting in litigation against the Company 0 0 Equality and Diversity LA13 Women in management 24% 27.8% LA14 Male-to-female salary equality 2% 2% EC7 Managers of local origin 91% 82.8% HR4 Breaches of equality legislation 0 0 Labour Rights LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining 48% 52% LA4 Employees belonging to independent trade unions 27% 25% Health and Safety LA7 Fatalities (includes contractors) 9 6 LA Accident incidence (accidents with >1 day absence per 100 employees) 1.1 0.9 LA7 Sickness absence (days absent) 233,898 210,956 LA7 Average Sickness Days per FTE 5.36 5.05 No. of plants with OHSAS 18001 certification 65 70 % of production volume covered 93% 92% CONSUMER HEALTH Percentage of still beverages (juices, waters, etc.) 36% 32% Average calorie content (per 100ml) 30 30.7 PR3 Rollout of GDA labels in EU territories 100% All sparkling beverages, most others PR5 Consumer complaints (per million containers sold) 0.28 0.26 No. of plants with ISO 9001 certification 75 plants 76 plants (99.6% of volume) (100 % of volume) No. of plants with ISO 22000 certification 60 plants 70 plants (78% of volume) (92% of volume) SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT HR2 No of independent SGP audits 61 10 EC1 Total supplier spend €4,030 million €3,955 million EC6 Spending within local territories (includes EU) 90% 90% COMMUNITY EC1 Economic benefits Total taxes €279 million €192 million Salaries & benefits €1,163 million €1,184 million Supplier spend €4,030 million €4,200 million Investment in community projects €9.5 million €8 million EC1 (1.4% pre-tax profit) (1.5% pre-tax profit) Employee volunteers 6,000 5,000 Political contributions 0 0 60 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report GRI Index The index below lists the disclosures and performance indicators covered in this report and in our Annual Report (AR). Text in italics refers to additional indicators. Disclosures on Management Approach can be found on the Coca-Cola Hellenic website, as well as further information on programmes. Indicator page Indicator page Indicator page Strategy & analysis Environmental Labour practices & decent work 1.1 1 EN1 58 LA8 42 1.2 1, 2, 6-7, 14, 17, 20, 27, 35 EN2 36, 58 LA9 41-42 EN3 29, 58 LA10 42 Organisational profile EN4 58 LA12 42 2.1 Front cover EN5 29-33, 58 LA13 43 2.2 2, 3, 16-19 EN6 32, 48, 58 LA14 44 2.3 2, 3, backcover EN7 48, 58 FP3 44-45 2.4 4 EN8 21, 58 2.5 3, 4 EN9 58 Society 2.6 3 EN10 22, 58 SO1 20-21, 50-55 2.7 4 EN11 58 SO2 12-13, 56 2.8 3, 6 EN12 58 SO3 13 2.9 1, 2 EN13 58 SO4 13 2.10 62, 63 EN14 58 SO5 9-10, 20, 24 EN15 58 SO6 None Report parameters EN16 28-30, 59 SO7 None 3.1 Front cover EN17 32, 59 SO8 12 3.2 Contents EN18 28-33, 59 FP4 16-19 3.3 Contents EN19 59 3.4 Back cover EN20 59 Product responsibility 3.5 Contents, 12, 13 EN21 22-25, 59 PR1 16-19 3.6 Contents EN22 39, 59 PR2 19 3.7 Contents EN23 59 PR3 18 3.8 Contents EN24 59 PR4 19 3.9 Contents, 15, 22 EN25 59 PR5 8-9 3.10 N/A EN26 34-39, 59 PR6 18 3.11 Contents EN27 35-36, 59 PR7 18 3.12 61 EN28 59 PR9 19 3.13 Contents EN29 59 FP5 14, 19 EN30 59 FP6 16-18 Governance, commitments, engagement FP7 18 4.1 12-15 Human rights FP8 18 4.2 AR HR1 NA1 4.3 AR HR2 46, 49 Economic 4.4 8-13 HR4 None EC1 58 4.5 14, 45 HR5 None EC2 28 4.6 AR HR6 None EC3 44 4.7 AR HR7 None EC4 €0.4 million 4.8 12-15 HR8 N/A EC5 45 4.9 10-11, 12-13 HR9 N/A EC6 6 4.10 14-15 EC7 43 4.11 28, 57 Labour practices & decent work EC8 50-55 4.12 15 LA1 43 EC9 49 4.13 9 LA2 43 4.14 8-11 LA4 44 4.15 8-13 LA5 8.5 weeks 4.16 8-11 LA6 41-42 4.17 11-13 LA7 42 1. The Company has made no significant investment agreement in 2011. Social and economic data table & GRI Index | 61 Awards and recognition Overall Environment • Austria Green Brand Austria 2011/2012 Römerquelle • Croatia PR News CSR Award & PR News Platinum PR • Belarus Best Entrepreneur, Council of Ministers, Belarus Award, PR News • Belarus Commendation Diploma, Ministry of Natural Re• Croatia CBTour Award, Sigma Inventors’ Society and Croasources & Environmental Protection; Commendation Ditian Chamber of Economy – European Enterprise Network ploma, State Ecological University Croatia • Bulgaria Greenest Business in Bulgaria, Ministry of Envi• Ireland & Northern Ireland Silver Pride Award for Best ronment and Waters Community Relations and Best Corporate Responsibility, • Bulgaria Overall CSR Policy, Forbes magazine Chartered Instituted of Public Relations • Bulgaria Investor in Environment, CSR Awards, Bulgarian • Ireland & Northern Ireland Best Energy Manager, 2011 Business Leaders Forum Sustainable Ireland Awards, Sustainable Ireland • Croatia CSR Index, Croatian Business Council for Sustain• Bulgaria Best CSR project: My Green City, Bulgarian Asable Development and Croatian Chamber of Economy sociation of Human Resources • FYROM CSR Recognition, Ministry of Economy & National • Poland Responsible Initiative of the Month for Kropla Coordinating Body for CSR Beskidu new eco-bottle, Portal CSR.pl • Estonia CSR Index, 2nd place • Poland Retail Hit 2011 Award for Coca-Cola 2L PET bottle, • Greece Corporate Responsibility Index, GOLD distinction HANDEL • Greece Gold Award for Business Ethics, European Business Ethics Network Consumer health • Latvia Silver Award in Sustainability Index 2011 • Nigeria Most Socially Responsible Company & Most Envi• Armenia Best Healthy Lifestyle Promotion, Armenian Cenronmentally Friendly Company, SERA 2011 Awards tre of PR Development • Poland Responsible Business Leader 2011, Employers of • Belarus Commendation Diploma, Belarus Athletic Federation Poland • FYROM Best Corporate Supporter of Sport, Aces choose Aces • Serbia & Montenegro Belgrade Winner, Belgrade Cham• Russia Best Commercial Organisation for Contribution to ber of Commerce Sports, Central district of Moscow • Ukraine Leader in Environmental Protection, Ministry of • Poland Champion of the Year 2011 Patron of Youth Sports, Environmental Protection Przegląd Sportowy • Group Best Investor Relations Department, Institutional • Ukraine Excellence mark for Rich Apple Scientific ReInvestor search Centre of Independent Consumers’ Expertise TEST Poland Romania Bulgaria Nigeria Ukraine Belarus Armenia Serbia Ireland 62 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Employee development Community involvement • Belarus Best Employer 2011, Best Brand contest • Hungary Volunteering Award, KÖVET Association; Corpo• Bosnia and Herzegovina Most Desirable Employer, AIESEC rate Volunteer Programme of the Year, Volunteer Centre • Bosnia and Herzegovina Most Desirable Employer, Foundation; CSR Best Practice Award Corporate Volunwww.posao.ba teer Programme, Hungarian PR Association • Croatia Key Difference Award for Diversity Management in • Italy Aretè Prize, Confindustria Human Resources, Croatian Government Agency for Hu• Latvia Socially Responsible Partner in Entrepreneurship man Rights Education Development 2011. Junior Achievement, Young • Czech Republic Most Desirable Company, AIESEC Enterprise Latvija • Hungary Bicycle-Friendly Workplace Award, Ministry of • Latvia Award of Honour, School of Business Administration Rural Development and of National Development Turība Student Self Government • Hungary Most Desired Workplace, Aon Hewitt, AIESEC • Latvia Good Star in Riga, NGO Trepes • Ireland & Northern Ireland Gold Pride Awards for Best • Ireland & Northern Ireland Model of Excellence, Royal Internal Communications & Best Internal Magazine, CharNational Institute for the Blind tered Institute of Public Relations • Russia Corporate Volunteer of 2011, Deputies Council of • Romania Best Human Resources Projects Forming & Novosibirsk Developing People and Organisational Development, HR • Serbia and Montenegro ISKRA Award for Philanthropic Club Excellence, NGO Staze • Russia Grand Prix, Internal HR-brand, www.headhunter.ru • Serbia and Montenegro Certificate of Appreciation, SOS • Slovenia Respected Employer, www.mojedelo.com Village Kosovo, Best Business Award, American Chamber • Switzerland HR Award, HR Today of Commerce & UNDP • Serbia and Montenegro Most Desirable Employer, and • Serbia and Montenegro European Employee Volunteering Best HR project in Serbia Award More awards and recognitions can be found at our countries websites, visiting www.coca-colahellenic.com/Interactivemap/ Switzerland Czech Republic Latvia Italy Estonia Austria Lithuania Slovenia Bosnia and Herzegovina Russia Awards and recognition | 63 Validation statement Independent assurance report criteria in AA1000APS to perform a Type 2 engagement and to obtain a moderate level of assurance regarding the nature and extent of the on the 2011 CSR Report Company’s adherence to the principles of inclusivity, materiality and To the management and the stakeholders of Coca-Cola Hellenic Botresponsiveness. tling Company S.A., denkstatt GmbH has been commissioned by the Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. (hereinafter referred to as “the Company”) Methodology, approach, limitation to carry out an independent thirdparty assurance engagement in and scope of work accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard on the We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, inprinted and downloadable pdf versions of the Company’s 2011 Corformation and explanations that we considered necessary in relaporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report (hereinafter referred to tion to the above scope. Our work included the following procedures as “the Report”). We have reviewed both the contents of and data based a range of evidencegathering activities which are further exincluded in the Company’s Report for the 2011 financial year. The plained below: assurance engagement covered the nature and extent of the Company’s incorporation of the inclusivity, materiality and responsive• Inquiries and interviews with members of the Executive Mananess principles on stakeholder dialogue contained in the AA1000 gement, staff from the Sustainability Department, the Reporting Accountability Principles Standard 2008 [AA1000APS (2008)]. The Department, as well as various Group-level functional managers, application levels of the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiaregarding the Company’s adherence to the principles of inclusivtive (GRI G3 1.0), as well as Food Processing Sector Supplements ity, materiality and responsiveness. This includes Management’s were checked. Furthermore, relevant core topics of the international commitment to the principles, the existence of systems and proISO26000 guideline were considered in the audit. cedures to support adherence to the principles, and the embedding of the principles at corporate level. Furthermore interviews conducted in national headquarters in Armenia, Croatia, Italy, NiManagement responsibilities geria, the Republic of Ireland and Russia, in order to guarantee the completeness of the information required for the audit. The Company’s Management is responsible for preparing the Report and related website text, and the information and statements within • Understanding relevant documentation it. They are responsible for identifying stakeholders and material is• Site visits to nine bottling plants, with a focus on emerging markets: sues, defining commitments with respect to CSR performance, and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance manageEstablished markets: Belfast (Northern Ireland) and Marciament and internal control systems from which reported information nise (Italy) is derived. Developing markets: Zagreb (Croatia) Furthermore, Management is also charged with establishing data Emerging markets: Multon St. Petersburg and St. Petersburg collection and registration, and internal control systems to ensure CSD, Moscow CSD (all Russia), Yerevan (Armenia), Ikeja and reliable reporting, specifying acceptable reporting criteria and Enugu (both Nigeria) choosing data to be collected for intended users of the Report. Its responsibilities also extend to preparing the Report in accordance • Inquiries and spot checks aimed at obtaining evidence of implewith the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. mentation of the Company’s policies (at plant, national level and corporate level) • Inquiries and spot checks regarding selected documentation reAssurance provider’s responsibilities quired to assess the current data collection systems, and the proOn the basis of our work, our responsibility is: cedures implemented to ensure reliable and consistent reporting from the plants to the corporate level • To express a conclusion and make recommendations on the nature and extent of the Company’s adherence to the AA1000APS • Checking the GRI index in the Report to ensure consistency with the (2008) principles. requirements of GRI application level A+ The scope of the assurance covered the whole Report and focused on Company systems and • To express a conclusion on the reliability of the information in the activities during the reporting period, with the following exceptions: Report, and whether it is in accordance with the criteria of the GRI Guidelines. • Verification of financial data (p. 2-3), the sustainability milestones (p. 4-5), as well as the Awards & Recognition chapter (p.62-63) Our team of experts has extensive professional experience of assurance engagements related to non-financial information. In addition, our team is skilled and experienced in assessing non-financial Findings and conclusions information and sustainability management, making it qualified to conduct this independent assurance engagement. During 2011 we Inclusivity did not perform any tasks or services for the Company or other cli• The Company’s Management is strongly committed to inclusivity ents which would lead to a conflict of interest, nor were we responand stakeholder engagement. In addition, the Company has introsible for the preparation of any part of the Report. duced effective systems to encourage stakeholder participation in the organization’s response to sustainable development issues, particularly in the shape of the corporate-level stakeholder panel. Scope, standards and criteria used • In addition, it is important to react to changing social trends when We have fulfilled our responsibilities to obtain appropriate assurance appointing stakeholder panels and working groups. Consequently, that the information in the Report is free of material misstatements. it is recommended that topics such as consumer health and emFurthermore, we planned and performed our work based on the GRI ployees play an increasingly important role in stakeholder groups G3 guideline and in accordance with AA1000 AS (2008). We used the in the future. 64 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report • The selection criteria for stakeholders, and the need for bespoke Recommendations issue management processes at national and local (plant) level could be made clearer to ensure balanced representation and efThe following is an excerpt from the observations and recomfective long-term relationships. mendations designed to encourage continuous improvement, as reported to the Management of the Company. However, these do Materiality not affect our conclusions on the Report. • The Company has a process in place to determine material issues Inclusivity at management level. Furthermore, the Company has a number of senior management governance bodies charged with discuss• Important national stakeholders are identified. We recommend ing, evaluating and determining the materiality of sustainability further enhancing strategic communications in this area, in parissues on an ongoing basis (CSR Committee and CSR Council). ticular regarding stakeholder mapping in combination with effective issue management systems. Examples of best practice However, the criteria for assessing materiality are more informal, in stakeholder management should be shared across the group. which could lead to inconsistent assessments between operating companies. Emerging issues could also be better addressed within • The company should work with nationallevel stakeholders in the materiality assessment. relation to jointly recognized materiality issues and make effective use of mapping to enter into a long-term dialogue. ImResponsiveness portant inputs for such an approach include joint projects and • The Company was found to be especially responsive to exterprogrammers that satisfy common needs. nal stakeholder concerns and expectations. This was achieved • The plants have only a limited idea of which stakeholders through the Company’s allocation of resources to stakeholder should be identified and included. As a result, formal structures engagement, the timeliness and accessibility of reported inforor processes might help to improve stakeholder management. mation, and the types of communication mechanisms used regularly. Internal dialogue, and the detailed structure of the channels Materiality used to inform and communicate with employees are supported • There are a number of interpretations of corporate volunteering by numerous measures, and represent an improvement on the within the Company. In order to strengthen commitment to such previous Report. activities, we recommend establishing of clear guidelines for the • The Company’s group policies and guidance on management of internal implementation of the Corporate Volunteering Program. material issues are comprehensive. Although issue management • In order to permanently integrate sustainability issues at plant is very highly developed, exceptions can be found in relatively and national level, long-term goals (2020) should be identified new topics and in policies that were published quite recently. Infor each level. creased integration of topics such as climate change and equality policy statements in national-level strategy is also required. Responsiveness Performance information • In order to reflect the topical issue of obesity, we recommend increased integration of external stakeholders from the field of • The findings of the assurance engagement highlight the effectiveconsumer health in platforms such as the stakeholder panel. ness of the systems and processes used for managing and reWe also recommend strengthening the focus on internal stakeporting information on sustainability performance. Data trails are holder concerns by involving local unions and works councils identifiable and traceable, and the personnel responsible were in the stakeholder panel. able to reliably demonstrate the origins and interpretation of data. • Additional information on key issues like corruption preven• The majority of the data and information presented were found to tion and the effectiveness of anticorruption measures should be accurate. In general, the quality of reporting was high, as was be included in the Report. the compliance of environmental data. Data for community involvement and fleet management indicate that there is still room Additional recommendations for further improvement in terms of traceability, respectively reli• National CSR activities are the responsibility of crossfunctional ability. teams. A more effective approach is necessary to ensure that • The Company has excellent sustainability management processthe members of these teams are more clearly identified. es, with long-term goals for water and energy. The Company has • Long-term consumer health, employee development, supplier taken a number of steps designed to enhance water efficiency engagement and community involvement goals should be inand move towards increasingly low-carbon operations. troduced. Based on our review, we believe that the information presented in • Formal data calculation processes would ensure reliability the Report of the Company is free of material misstatements and of information across the Company, especially with regard to has been stated in accordance with the criteria outlined above. vehicle fleets and anti-corruption initiatives, and in relation to Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention which suggests community involvement and corporate volunteering. that the Company does not adhere to the AA1000APS (2008) principles or the requirements of the GRI G3 guidelines applicaVienna, 2 May, 2012 tion level A+. denkstatt GmbH Willibald Kaltenbrunner Lead Auditor, Managing Director denkstat Validation statement | 65 Stakeholder review statement For the second year, a panel of external stakeholders was commissioned by Coca-Cola Hellenic to review its sustainability reporting. The statement below represents the panel’s assessment of the company’s 2011 Social Responsibility Report. We express our collective view as individuals, not on behalf of our organisations. in corporate responsibility, Coca-Cola Hellenic is expected to continue viewing indirect impacts as its direct responsibilities. In understanding the structure of these impacts, however, it would be useful to set out the global Coca-Cola System, including Coca-Cola Hellenic’s position therein. It would also be necessary to distinguish clearly between upstream impacts (supply chain and production) and downstream impacts (distribution and sales). The value chain could be illustrated by displaying both social and environmental issues representing the company’s negative externalities along the value chain. The stakeholders deemed to benefit from the new shared value approach could similarly be mapped. Breaking down information in this manner would increase transparency and allow for better evaluation of Coca-Cola Hellenic’s progress. We shall observe with interest how Coca-Cola Hellenic will continue to improve the management and monitoring of these issues. Identification of material topics Upcoming challenges Coca-Cola Hellenic’s report is complete. It balances the three As suggested by the previous stakeholder review, Coca-Cola pillars of corporate responsibility and reflects the company’s Hellenic addresses two upcoming challenges that will be of responsiveness to its stakeholders. By implementing a recever increasing relevance to the company: consumer health ommendation of the previous stakeholder review, Coca-Cola and demographic change. We welcome the fact that conHellenic introduced a materiality matrix that plots stakeholdsumer health has moved to the top of Coca-Cola Hellenic’s er concerns in relation to business relevance. Compared to agenda, as indicated by the new order of topics in this report. previous reports, the identification of relevant issues is now However, fewer targets and concrete actions to promote and more systematic and explicitly includes stakeholder permonitor consumer health are presented than for in any of spectives. It would, however, be valuable if the process by the environmental issues. We recommend formalising rewhich this is done were described. We recommend listing the porting on this issue. We would also encourage the company stakeholders involved as well as introducing the members of to collaborate with key stakeholders in defining its strategy relevant internal committees. The way in which Coca-Cola to confront obesity and diabetes. Similarly, demographic Hellenic works with this materiality matrix and the priorities change has been recognised by the company as an upcomderived could also be explained in more detail. How the maing challenge. Whether the company has analysed the issue teriality matrix evolves over time would also be interesting and developed a strategy is not apparent in the report. We for Coca-Cola Hellenic and its stakeholders as an indication recommend that this issue is addressed in future reports. of upcoming trends. Quantity and quality of data Responsibilities within the company’s The amount of data presented in the report is impressive and sphere of influence the reliability of the entire set of non-financial performance We appreciate the increasing focus on Coca-Cola Hellenic’s data is independently assured (a moderate level of asextensive value chain as a means of better evaluating the disurance). While the quality of reporting is well advanced, we rect and indirect impact of its activities. As an industry leader recommend seeking high-level assurance for at least some 66 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report data in future reports. As the quality of data is firmly estabe.g. the water footprint comparison. Lastly, a more scientific lished, another question arises: will the amount of data help analysis of the data could be presented for specialised readthe readers understand Coca-Cola Hellenic’s achievements ers, which would add credibility and back up the claims made and challenges? We recommend increasing reader guidance in the report. in future reports. The “bigger picture” should be explained first: relevance of issues covered, corporate responsibility Conclusion strategy and vision. Performance data should be confined to subsequent chapters. With regard to highly complex data, calCoca-Cola Hellenic’s 2011 Social Responsibility Report culation and estimation methods should be better explained. demonstrates that the company takes its corporate responInformation boxes explaining environmental impact assesssibility management and sustainability reporting very seriously. ment, water footprint methodology and carbon footprint calWe encourage Coca-Cola Hellenic to continue looking beculation could be useful for many readers. Targets should be yond legal requirements and ahead of industry. In order to presented in context for the reader to understand the level of maintain a leadership position, we recommend adopting a Coca-Cola Hellenic’s ambition. We recommend adjusting key more forward looking approach in future reports. While we performance indicators according to key sustainability chalappreciate that many long term goals have been set for the lenges (e.g. more ambitious reduction of water use in water environmental sector, we would like to see indicators for stress areas) in order to make sure the company improves change for the medium and long term covering all the key in the most relevant fields. To clearly demonstrate achieveissues included in this report. By tackling the most controments, performance increasingly needs to be compared to versial issues, Coca-Cola Hellenic will truly influence the relevant benchmarks, which is so far only selectively done, entire industry for the better. Participants and process In October 2011, the Stakeholder Panel met to discuss Coca-Cola Hellenic’s sustainability programmes in advance of the 2011 report’s development. In May 2012, the panelists individually assessed the draft 2011 Social Responsibility Report. During a telephone conference they discussed the draft Stakeholder Review Statement, which was prepared by the chair based on input from all panelists. This Stakeholder Review Statement was endorsed by each panelist. The members of the Stakeholder Panel have no financial interests relevant to the business of Coca-Cola Hellenic. An honorarium was offered to all panelists for their contribution to the review statement. The Stakeholder Panel included the following individuals: • Marcio Amazonas, Plastic Technologies, Inc. • Alain Beaumont, AGEP Association Management • Prof. Geoffrey Boulton, University of Edinburgh • Salvatore Gabola, The Coca-Cola Company • Dr. Aileen Ionescu-Somers, IMD’s Center for Corporate Sustainability Management • Andrea Kammerer-Schünke, Fondation Guilé (Chair) • Stuart Orr, WWF International • Stephan Savic, AGRANA Beteiligungs-AG • Philip Weller, International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River (ICPDR) Stakeholder review statement | 67 Glossary of terms AIESEC: the world’s largest student-run organisation that foLandfilled waste: Waste from bottling operations which is not cuses on providing a platform for youth leadership development. recycled, re-used or incinerated with heat recovery, but which is Bottlers: Business entities that sell, manufacture, and distribute sent to landfill for disposal beverages of The Coca-Cola Company under a franchise agreement LBG (London Benchmarking Group) Model: This tool is used Bottling plant: A beverage production facility, including associby leading businesses to measure corporate community inated warehouses, workshops, and other on-site buildings and volvement installations Lightweighting: Reducing the amount of raw materials used to Caring for climate: This framework allows UNGC participants produce lighter packaging to advance practical solutions to climate change and help shape Litres of produced beverages (lpb): Unit of reference for envipublic policy and public attitudes ronmental indicators CEO Water Mandate: Launched by the UNGC, this is a call to acOperations: Manufacturing activities (bottling plants) and distrition and a strategic framework for companies to address water bution activities (vehicles) under our operational control sustainability in their operations and supply chains PET (Polyethylene Terephthalate): A form of polyester used to Coca-Cola Hellenic: Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. and, as the context may require, its subsidiaries and joint venmake lightweight, shatter-resistant bottles for beverages, food tures. Also referred to as “the Company” or “the Group” and non-food. PET can be recycled into new containers, clothing, carpeting, automotive parts and industrial materials Coca-Cola System: The business system comprising The Coca-Cola Company and its bottling partners PET-to-PET or Bottle-to-Bottle: A recycling system for postconsumer PET bottles. Used bottles are collected, sorted, Cold Drink Equipment (CDE): Coolers, vending machines and cleaned, ground and transformed into new material for manufountains in the marketplace that cool beverages for immediate facture in PET bottle preforms consumption Combined Heat and Power (CHP): A power generation system Plant: Also referred to as bottling plant, a beverage production that can produce power, heat, cooling and in some cases CO2 in facility, including associated warehouses, workshops, and other a combined process on-site buildings and installations Consumer: Person who drinks Coca-Cola Hellenic’s beverages Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs): Coca-Cola Hellenic’s social and environmental requirements for suppliers Customer: Retail outlet, restaurant or any other business that sells or serves Coca-Cola Hellenic products to consumers Supply chain: Relates to our suppliers and upstream impacts CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility SIFE: An international non-profit organisation that works with Distribution: Getting the product from bottling plant to marketbusiness and higher education to help students become socially place; includes sales, delivery, merchandising and local account responsible business leaders management The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC): The world’s leading producer Energy use ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meaof non-alcoholic concentrates and syrups used to produce nearsure energy consumption in the bottling plants, expressed in ly 400 beverage types under licence agreements megajoules of energy consumed per litre of produced beverage UNESDA: The Union of European Beverages Associations is (MJ/lpb) the European trade association representing the non-alcoholic EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Health: beverages industry A multi-stakeholder initiative to combat overweight and promote UN Global Compact (UNGC): The world’s largest corporate citiphysical activity zenship initiative provides a framework for businesses to align GDA: Guideline Daily Amount strategies with its ten principles promoting labour rights, human Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): The GRI sustainability reportrights, environmental protection and anti-corruption ing guidelines are the most widely used framework for reporting Value chain: Relates to both our suppliers and customers, the CSR performance upstream and downstream impacts of our business Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol: This widely used internationWaste ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to measure al accounting tool allows organisations to quantify and manage waste generation in the bottling plant, expressed in grammes of greenhouse gas emissions waste generated per litre of produced beverage (g/lpb) Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC): Chemical compound used in cooling Waste recycling: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meaequipment, which contributes to global warming sure the percentage of production waste at bottling plants that is ICPDR: The International Commission for the Protection of the recycled or recovered Danube River is our partner in the Green Danube programme Water use ratio: The KPI used by Coca-Cola Hellenic to meaISO: International Standards Organisation sure water use in the bottling plant, expressed in litres of water KPI: Key Performance Indicator used per litre of produced beverage (l/lpb) 68 | Coca-Cola Hellenic 2011 CSR Report Design and production: Peak advertising. Photography: Mark Fallander. Consultant: Katie Meech. Printing: Baxas S.A. Paper: Greencoat Plus Velvet contains 60% recycled fibre and 40% fibre from FSC forests. Emerging markets Armenia Montenegro Belarus Nigeria Bosnia and Romania Herzegovina Russia Bulgaria Serbia FYROM Ukraine Moldova Developing markets Croatia Lithuania Czech Republic Poland Estonia Slovakia Hungary Slovenia Latvia Established markets Austria Northern Ireland Cyprus Republic of Ireland Greece Switzerland Italy Published by Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S.A. 9, Fragoklissias Str., 151 25 Maroussi, Athens, Greece, tel.: +30 210 618 3100, fax: +30 210 619 5514 www.coca-colahellenic.com sustainability@cchellenic.com
