General Peri od covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: To: Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Pl ea se provide a s tatement of your company's chief executive expressing continued s upport for the Global Compa ct a nd renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the i nitiative a nd its principles (Please i ncl ude na me a nd ti tle of the chi ef executive a t the bottom of the statement). Sample Statement of continued support [ Da te ] To our s takeholders: I a m pleased to confirm that [ Company Name ] reaffirms its support of the Ten Pri nciples of the United Nations Gl obal Compact in the a reas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In thi s annual Communication on Progress, we describe our a ctions to continually i mprove the i ntegration of the Gl obal Compact and its principles into our business s trategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share thi s information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Si ncerely yours, [ Ful l name ] [ Ti tl e ] Human Rights Principles Pri nci ple 1: Businesses s hould support a nd respect the protection of internati ona l l y procl a i med huma n rights; a nd Pri nci pl e 2: ma ke s ure tha t they a re not compl i ci t i n huma n ri ghts a bus es Assessment, Policy and Goals Des cription of the relevance of human ri ghts for the company (i .e. human ri ghts ri s k‐a s s es s ment). Description of pol i ci es , publ i c commi tments a nd compa ny goa l s on Huma n Rights. Examples • Reference to (s tatement of s upport for) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other i nternational s ta ndards • Wri tten company policy on respecting Human Rights a nd preventing potential a buses (e.g. i n code of conduct) • Pol i cy requiring business partners a nd s uppliers to a dhere to the principles on Human Rights • As s essment of Human Rights related ri sks a nd impact i n i ndustry s ector a nd country(i es) of operation (see Ri s k Assessment Report a t www.humanrights business.org) • Speci fic goals i n the a rea of Human Rights for the upcoming year Implementation Des cription of concrete a ctions to i mplement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights ri sks a nd respond to Huma n Rights violations. Examples • Suggestion box, ca ll center or gri evance mechanism • Awa reness ra ising or tra ining of employees on Human Rights • Cons ultation wi th stakeholders a nd a ffected parties • Al l ocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within your company • Huma n resource policies and procedures s upporting Human Rights Measurement of outcomes Des cription of how the company monitors and eva luates performance. Examples • Speci fic progress made in the a rea of Human Rights i n the past reporting period • Information about how your company deals wi th incidents of Human Rights violations • Inves tigations, l egal ca ses, rul ings, fi nes a nd other releva nt events related to Human Rights • Peri odic review of results by s enior management • Externa l a udits of Human Rights performance Labour Principles Pri nci ple 3: Businesses s hould uphold the freedom of a ssociation a nd the effective recognition of the right to col l ective bargaining; Pri nci ple 4: the elimination of a ll forms of forced a nd compulsory l a bour; Pri nci ple 5: the effective a bolition of child l abour; and Pri nci ple 6: the elimination of discrimination i n respect of employment a nd occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Des cription of the relevance of l abour ri ghts for the company (i .e. l abour ri ghts‐related risks and opportunities). Des cription of wri tten policies, public commitments a nd company goals on l abour rights. Examples • Reference to ILO Core Conventions or other i nternational instruments • Wri tten company policies to uphold the freedom of a ssociation a nd collective bargaining and the el i mination of forced l abour, child labour a nd employment discrimination • Wri tten policies that cl early s tate employee ri ghts a nd responsibilities a nd their compensation and benefits • Pol i cy requiring business partners a nd s uppliers to a dhere to the La bour principles • As s essment of l abour‐related risks in the i ndustry s ector a nd country(ies) of operations • Speci fic goals i n the a rea of La bour Ri ghts for the upcoming year Implementation Des cription of concrete a ctions ta ken by your compa ny to i mplement labour policies, reduce l abour risks a nd res pond to l abour violations. Examples • Suggestion box, ca ll center or gri evance mechanisms • Awa reness ra ising or tra ining for employees on labour ri ghts a nd policies • Des cribe how the health a nd s afety of a ll employees is ensured • Des cribe how your company prevents discrimination of a ll ki nds a nd ensures comparable pay for compa rable work • Cons ultation wi th employees a nd other stakeholders • Al l ocation of responsibilities for the protection of labour ri ghts wi thin your organization • Huma n Resource policies a nd procedures s upporting the La bour principles • Pa rti ci pation i n i nternational fra mework a greements a nd other a greements wi th labour unions Measurement of outcomes Des cription of how the company monitors and eva luates performance. Examples • Demographics of management and employees by di versity fa ctors (e.g. gender, ethnicity, a ge, etc.) • Des cribe how your company deals wi th incidents of vi olations of the Global Compact Labour principles • Inves tigations, l egal ca ses, rul ings, fi nes a nd other releva nt events related to Labour • Peri odic review of results by s enior management • Speci fic progress made in the a rea of La bour during the l ast reporting period • Externa l a udits (e.g. SA 8000) Environmental Principles Pri nci ple 7: Businesses s hould s upport a precautionary a pproach to environmental cha l lenges; Pri nci ple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental res ponsibility; and Pri nci ple 9: encourage the development a nd diffusion of environmentally fri endly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Des cription of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i .e. environmental ri sks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments a nd company goals on environmental protection. Examples • As s essment of the environmental footprint a nd i mpact of your company • Wri tten company policy on environmental i ssues, including prevention a nd management of envi ronmental risks • Pol i cy requiring business partners a nd s uppliers to a dhere to the envi ronmental principles • Des cribe specific goals in the a rea of the environment for the upcoming year Implementation Des cription of concrete a ctions to i mplement environmental policies, reduce envi ronmental ri sks a nd respond to envi ronmental incidents. Examples • Awa reness ra ising or tra ining of employees on environmental protection • Ini tiatives a nd programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) a nd consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuel s , wa ter, el ectri ci ty, pa per, packaging, etc.) • Acti vi ti es aimed a t i mproving the energy efficiency of products, servi ces and processes • Devel opment and diffusion of environmentally fri endly technologies • Ra i se a wareness a mong s uppliers by a s king for the environmental footpri nt of products or services • Envi ronmental ma nagement sys tem to i dentify, monitor a nd control the company’s envi ronmental performance • Al l ocation of responsibilities for environmental protection wi thin your company Measurement of outcomes Des cription of how the company monitors and eva luates environmental performance. Examples • Information about how your company deals wi th incidents • Inves tigations, l egal ca ses, rul ings, fi nes a nd other releva nt events related to envi ronmental principles • Speci fic progress made in the a rea of the environmental protection during the l ast reporting period • Peri odic review of results by s enior management • Externa l a udits of environmental performance Anti‐Corruption Principles Pri nci ple 10: Bus inesses s hould work against corruption i n a ll its forms, i ncluding extortion and bri bery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Des cription of the relevance of a nti‐corruption for the company (i .e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Des cription of pol icies, public commitments a nd company goa ls on anti‐corruption. Examples • As s essment of ri sk of corruption a nd bribery i n the company’s i ndustry a nd country(ies) of operation • Wri tten company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery a nd extortion • Reference to (or s tatement of s upport for) the UN Convention Against Corruption a nd other i nternational i ns truments • Protocol to gui de s taff i n situations where they a re confronted with extortion or bribery • Pol i cy requiring business partners a nd s uppliers to a dhere to the a nti‐corruption principles • Speci fic goals i n the a rea of a nti‐corruption for the upcoming year Implementation Des cription of concrete a ctions to i mplement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption ri sks a nd respond to i nci dents. Examples • Suggestion box, ca ll center or gri evance mechanisms • Awa reness ra ising or tra ining of employees a bout company's policies regarding anti‐corruption a nd extorti on (e.g. mailings, internet, i nternal communication, etc.) • Al l ocation of responsibilities for a nti‐corruption wi thin the company • Pa rti ci pation i n i ndustry i nitiative or other collective a ction on anti‐corruption Measurement of outcomes Des cription of how the company monitors and eva luates a nti‐corruption performance. Examples • Information about how your company deals wi th incidents of corruption • Internal audits to ensure consistency wi th anti‐corruption commitment, i ncluding periodic review by s enior management • Inves tigations, l egal ca ses, rul ings, fi nes a nd other releva nt events related to corruption a nd bribery • Speci fic progress made in the a rea of a nti‐corruption during the l ast reporting period • Externa l a udits of a nti‐corruption programmes
