Secop GmbH Communication on Progress th d Period covered: October 5 2012 – October 1st 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) I am pleased to confirm that Secop GmbH reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Secop GmbH Mogens Søholm President & CEO Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals At Secop we continue to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensure that all employees abide to the same principles. It is written in our Ethics Handbook which incorporates the internationally recognized principles including Human rights and is committed to ensuring a healthy and safe work environment, the right to privacy and equal treatment. Secop will not tolerate discrimination or harassment. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to these principles and to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the Secop Code of Conduct that suppliers are required to sign and encouraged to implement. Implementation Concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations are described in Secop’s Ethics Handbook, which incorporates ethical guidelines for employees throughout the Group. We actively encourage employees to use any communication channel to report potential claims, such as Management, HR Department, employee representatives, or through an anonymous report system (Whistle-Support) to an external Compliance Officer. Proper procedure is taken for proven violations against regulations as stated in our Ethics Handbook, both relevant internally for employees as externally for partners, business associates and contractors. -2Measurement of outcomes Secop monitors whether the guidelines stated in the Ethics Handbook on Human Rights are being followed. An internal audit procedure has been implemented during 2013; the audit procedure for suppliers is still in progress and is scheduled for the coming year. The audit results were still outstanding upon completion of the COP report, but no incidents of Human Rights violation were reported during 2013. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals At Secop we continue to support the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization who uses forced or child labour. In our Ethics Handbook Secop incorporated the internationally recognized principles including Labour standards and is committed to ensuring the freedom of association and avoiding discrimination in the workplace. Secop does not tolerate forced labour and ensures that all employees have employment contracts or are subject to agreements which determine employment conditions, including pay rates and overtime pay arrangements, and terms of termination. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to these principles and to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the Secop Code of Conduct that suppliers are required to sign and encouraged to implement. Implementation Concrete actions to implement Labour policies, address Labour risks and respond to Labour violations are described in Secop’s Ethics Handbook The local Human Resources Departments are accountable for executing the company policy regarding labour. We actively encourage employees to use any communication channel to report potential claims, such as Management, HR Department, employee representatives, or through an anonymous report system (Whistle-Support) to an external Compliance Officer. Proven violations against regulations can lead to a termination of the employee’s contract. Measurement of outcomes Secop monitors whether the guidelines stated in the Ethics Handbook on Labour standards are being followed. An internal audit procedure has been implemented during 2013; the audit procedure for suppliers is still in progress and is scheduled for the coming year. The audit results were still outstanding upon completion of the COP report, but no incidents of Human Rights violation were reported during 2013. -3Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals The protection of internationally recognized principles including Environment is explicitly part of Secop’s Ethics Handbook. Secop continuously ensures sustainability in the management of all its activities and is committed to minimize its impact on the environment. Secop takes initiatives to promote environmental responsibility by incorporating the ‘triple bottom line’ of sustainable development – economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity, into the company’s policies and strategies and by working with suppliers to improve environmental performance up the product chain and down the supply chain. Secop aims to support the development of environmentally-friendly technologies that should protect the environment, are less polluting, use all resources in a more sustainable manner, recycle more of their wastes and products and handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than the technologies for which they were substitutes. Implementation Secop carries out internal audits on a regular basis, ensuring that our working methods are compatible with how we aspire to work. The parts of the company which are certified according to the environmental and work environment management standards are audited by external auditors. The corporate management requires all factories to create and maintain an environmental management system in accordance with the requirements of the international standard of environmental management, ISO 14001, and for the system to be certified. All managers must ensure that Secop’s products are produced under proper social and environmental conditions and that business is done in accordance with applicable law and Secop’s values and guidelines. Measurement of outcomes Secop has not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year. Anti‐‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals At Secop we continue to support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Our company upholds a zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in all operations as stated in the Ethics Handbook, which contains ethical guidelines to all employees in the Group. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to these principles and to the principles of the UN Global Compact, which are also part of the Secop Code of Conduct that suppliers are required to sign and encouraged to implement. -4Implementation Concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents are described in Secop’s Ethics Handbook Any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities must be reported to the manager. Employees also have the possibility to report an abuse to an external Compliance Officer through an anonymous report system (Whistle-Support). Any fraudulent situation detected that involves employees, business partners or suppliers must be investigated and may lead to contract termination. Measurement of outcomes Secop monitors whether the guidelines stated in the Ethics Handbook on Anti-Corruption are being followed. An audit procedure has been implemented during 2013. Secop has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
