A Drop is Everything 2 012 s u s ta i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t A Drop is Everything 2 0 12 s u s t a i n a b i l i t y r e p o r t About Xylem At Xylem, we believe in the ripple effect. Whether it’s a single person or a large, multi-national company, we can all have Xylem Inc. is a leading global water an impact. Our decisions and actions are like stones dropped in a pond where they create ripples that travel technology provider, enabling customers to transport, treat, test and efficiently use outward and impact others. What we do at Xylem can change the world and change it for the better. Our company is water in public utility, residential and focused on sustainability. commercial building services, industrial and agricultural settings. The company The title of this Report, A Drop is Everything, speaks to this belief. The sustainability “drops” highlighted in this Report – does business in more than 150 countries both big and small – will continue to expand and become part of a shared sustainability culture at Xylem. through a number of market-leading The title also reflects the vital place of water in the world and Xylem’s central role in finding better ways to transport, treat, product brands, and our people bring broad applications expertise with a test – and “solve” – this essential resource. It shows our belief that big changes start with small actions. Xylem’s first full year as a strong focus on finding local solutions to standalone company was 2012. Although we are a new company, we have broad experience and a focus on sustainability the world’s most challenging water and that is front and center because of the kind of work we do. We have even bigger ambitions of becoming a more sustainable wastewater problems. company as time passes. Xylem is headquartered in White Plains, This Report completes what we began in our debut Sustainability Report, published in September 2012 near the one-year New York, with 2012 revenues of $3.8 billion and more than 12,700 employees anniversary of our company and, where appropriate, incorporates sustainability progress made in early 2013. With the worldwide. In 2012, Xylem was named benefit of more time, we are providing more complete metrics. Over time, we will be able to report on long-term trends. This to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Report offers a baseline snapshot of our new company in Year One. We’ve gotten a strong start on our sustainability journey. and North America Indexes for advancing sustainable business practices and solutions worldwide. The name Xylem is derived from classical Business Segments Greek and is the tissue that transports water in plants, highlighting the engineering S 64% Water Infrastructure efficiency in our water-centric business by S 36% Applied Water linking it with the best water transportation of all – that which occurs in nature. Market Balance For more information, please visit us at S 43% Industrial www.xyleminc.com. S 35% Public Utilities S 11% Commercial S 8% Residential S 3% Agriculture Global Balance S 37% United States S 35% Europe S 16% Rest of World S 12% Asia Pacific All percentages based on 2012 revenues. Our Focus on Water Makes Sustainability a Way of Life at Xylem A message from Gretchen McClain At Xylem, sustainability isn’t an abstract This balance is evident everywhere. That’s a big part of what motivates me concept. We have a living, dynamic In our board room, company directors and why I love coming to work each day. and clear blue example right in front of provide guidance to improve our financial Today, I might see a demonstration of us every day: water. and sustainability performance. In our a new pump that will save energy and human resources offices, interviewers are water resources while boosting our sales. Access to clean water is one of the world’s looking for people who want to bring Tomorrow, I might hear from one of our most important and pressing sustainability their talents and social conscience to bear business or site leaders who is making her issues. Too many people face economically on the big issues that Xylem addresses. numbers while also making a difference. limiting, environmentally harmful and, And in our production facilities, Xylem My schedule could include a meeting with in some cases, life-threatening wateremployees are coming up with new ways our Sustainability Steering Committee related problems caused by wasteful and of operating safely and efficiently. to discuss how we’re reducing our water careless practices – both past and present. For example, we developed new packaging usage or a speech at a water industry event Following our company’s call to action, we that lets us fit more pumps on a truck so where I can encourage Xylem’s peers to are working to “solve water” responsibly we can meet customers’ delivery demands work together to raise awareness about the and sustainably, so that there’s enough faster while also reducing transportationworld’s challenges. clean, safe water for everyone who needs related CO2 emissions. it — today and in the future. We’re doing a lot, and we’re building We’re still at the beginning of our momentum behind our sustainability Sed As ut perspiciatis a leader unde omnis in water, sustainability helps iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, sustainability journey. With each day, one efforts. Still we realize there’s much more drive the core of our business. And totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto because we see the benefits of balancing success inspires another. Employees like we need tobeatae vitae gives you a do. This Report working on projects that produce equal picture of the progress we are making on dicta and shortsunt explicabo. long-term Nemo thinking enim ipsam with water voluptatem amounts quia of profit and voluptas pride. They like sit aspernatur Thisodit all fronts.aut aut Report fugit, gives you sed a picture issues, it’s natural to bring the same quia consequuntur magni mindset to all areas of our business. dolores eos qui being ratione part of a voluptatem business that is sequi growing nesciunt. and of theNeque progress porro we are quisquam making on all contributing positively to society. fronts, including our formal commitment est, We are qui dolorem committed ipsum quia to keeping dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sedtoquia sustainability nonthe meeting numquam U.N. Global Compact eius modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim in the forefront of everything we do. Our principles. It captures ad in time, a moment products help our customers achieve their and its last words are the most important: minima veniam, sustainability quis goals, and ournostrum exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, sustainability nisi ut aliquid ex ea To be continued. program is being driven to all levels of the commodi consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse organization. quam nihil molestiae consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur This Report highlights the ways we are advancing business sustainability and ensuring that we consider the needs of our shareowners on equal footing with the Gretchen McClain needs of society and the environment. President and Chief Executive Officer Xylem Inc. 1 1 Materiality and Transparency In creating this Report, we used a framework based on materiality and transparency. Our goal is to provide information that tells our sustainability story in a complete and honest way to meet the needs of our readers and the criteria laid out by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for corporate sustainability reports. This Report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) as required by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). MATERIALITY TRANSPARENCY Materiality means we address topics that matter most from a sustainability perspective. When it comes to transparency, simply publishing this Report is a first step, but it’s not Not every sustainability issue is as relevant to Xylem and our stakeholders as others. the end of the process. True transparency requires reporting on our sustainability performance in full, including all relevant facts, figures and trends, even those that show For the purposes of this Report, we focused on the issues that both impact our company that we have room for improvement. and are important to our stakeholders – shareowners, customers, employees, local community members and society as a whole. This determination of material topics While we don’t divulge internal information that will put us at a competitive disadvantage was developed with input from the Xylem Sustainability Steering Committee and or sensitive material that could put us at risk of cyber-attacks or other damage, this Report selected company leaders, who looked at each subject from a Xylem and stakeholder is an honest assessment of the current state of sustainability at Xylem, highlighting our best vantage point. practices and successes and addressing the ways we will strengthen ourselves in areas where we know we can improve. Currently we are working with PricewaterhouseCoopers to develop a “sustainability scorecard” that provides a comprehensive framework for Xylem to assess our sustainability performance. In March 2013, we introduced the first scorecard, outlining our strengths and opportunities for improvement on material sustainability issues for our company. The scorecard framework is included in this section of the Report, For additional information about our sustainability progress and going forward, we will use this framework to set and publicize our corporate in 2012 and our overall, ongoing efforts in this area, sustainability goals. visit the Xylem Sustainability Web site, which includes our interim 2012 Sustainability Report published in September 2012, at www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability 2 Reporting Progress Against Our Scorecard CEO Message: p. 1 ORGANIZATIONAL COMMITMENT AND ALIGNMENT Leadership Commitment Xylem Sustainability Scorecard Solving Water: p. 4 -5 Based on PricewaterhouseCoopers sustainability scorecard Sustainability Strategy Employees Organizational Structure and Governance and Workplace: p. 6 -7 CORE Organizational Alignment SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Internal Culture and Employee Engagement Environmental Initiatives Leadership and Governance: p. 8 -9 Health & Safety Labor and Human Rights Eco-Efficiency: p.10 -11 Human Capital Supply Chain Responsibility Products, Systems STAKEHOLDER and Services: p. 12 -13 COMMUNICATION AND ENGAGEMENT Products, Systems and Services Community and Social Initiatives Innovation Supply Chain: p. 14 -15 Strategic Partnerships Political Advocacy and Lobbying Global Citizenship: p. 16 -17 Customer and Distribution Partner Engagement External Reporting Reporting, Recognition and Partnerships: p. 18 -21 3 Solving Water: The Xylem Business Model At Xylem, our goal is to find sustainable solutions to the world’s water problems. Let’s Solve Water is our call to action. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments The Long -Term Viability of Our Core Business Xylem’s core business is water, which is essential to life and the one resource that is Our Value of Water survey raised connected to all other vital resources, including energy, labor, capital and food. understanding about the need for investments in America’s Water is the great enabler of human water infrastructure. development, but the availability of clean, usable water is a growing concern. Trillions of gallons of water are lost each day due to aging infrastructure. Energy Labor Water quality is degraded by urbanization, intensive agricultural use and industrial waste. The world’s growing middle class wants products that use more water in the $ manufacturing process, and the global population rises by roughly 80 million Food Capital people per year, which increases demand for freshwater by 64 billion cubic meters a year, according to the U.N. We have solutions to help customers recover from the increasing number and severity of weather-related Visit our Web report at: water emergencies. After Hurricane www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability Sandy, our Godwin-brand dewatering for more ways we are making progress pumps were employed in Belmar, where it matters. New Jersey and other flooded areas in the northeast United States. 4 Q&A As demand increases and sources of this precious resource suffer from overuse, Xylem’s What makes Xylem’s Sustainable focus on solving water becomes increasingly vital. In 2012, our long-term viability was Water Infrastructure the right model for visible in a number of ways: the new reality? Colin Sabol SWI is our own innovative industry model 66 Water infrastructure investments. We conducted and broadcast the results of our that delivers solutions that meet the need for Chief Strategy & second Value of Water Survey. With this survey, we aim to raise understanding resource accountability. With SWI, we’re Growth Officer about the crumbling state of water infrastructure in the U.S. and make the case for connecting the practical expertise behind our investments now – before water problems become a bigger, daily reality in SWI: A New Business leading brands into a collaborative network of America. Please visit xyleminc.com/valueofwater to link to the survey overview and Model for Xylem expertise needed to “solve water.” That means results. To reinforce the survey and the need for infrastructure investments, we sent we’re turning the nearly 13,000 men and The water industry consists of many women of Xylem into a connected network of a letter to every U.S. Congress member on World Water Day 2013 urging them to companies that are highly expertise. It is a highly collaborative approach make water infrastructure investment a priority. compartmentalized into componentthat breaks down the compartmentalized 66 Water and energy accountability. We helped customers take greater accountability level expertise – pipes, pumps, nature of our industry. for their vital water resources by introducing advanced services – such as TotalCare treatment technology and services – with a narrow focus on innovations that Can you provide an example of how SWI is – and integrated systems innovations like our new Biological Treatment Advanced improve reliability in their specific area. solving broader water issues for customers? Process Control. This intelligent system combines our treatment and analytics But this model is outdated, and On the way to pick up cargo or passengers, technologies, enabling wastewater treatment plants to limit their energy use without ocean-going ships take on ballast water in 2012, Xylem introduced a new way compromising the quality of water they are returning to nature or back into their to maintain their stability and then discharge it forward with Sustainable Water town’s water systems. when they have a full load. This untreated Infrastructure (SWI). 66 Focus on emerging markets and growing water markets. We continued to expand discharge can wreak havoc on ecosystems, Why is the current water industry and global regulations are being enacted our presence in emerging markets – including China, Panama, Vietnam, Russia model outdated? to address the issue. When we saw the new and the Middle East – where demand for water is escalating due to fast-expanding The myth of water as an infinite resource regulations coming, we formed a team populations and a growing middle class. has ended. The world expects greater of experts from all of our businesses to create 66 Climate change readiness. A growing body of evidence shows that climate accountability for use of this vital resource. a ballast water solution that utilizes our change is impacting our planet’s weather patterns and leading to an increase in The time has come to enter a new era ultraviolet and ozone technologies, controls the number and severity of natural disasters. Xylem provides products that of greater resource intelligence where and analytic instruments and offers aid customers in flooding events – for example, our Godwin-brand dewatering companies, governments and individuals customers solutions that address the pending pumps were instrumental in helping the northeastern United States recover can better value and account for the regulations and improve energy efficiency. water they use. after Hurricane Sandy in late 2012. Sustainability Focus Water issues are complex, urgent and interrelated. To ensure our business model is aligned with the current and future state of water in the world, we are sharpening our focus on sustainability. In 2012, we: 66 Began work on a Xylem-specific sustainability strategy framework with associated S2011 long-term goals that will be finalized in 2013. KEY “SOLVING WATER” METRICS S2012 66 Introduced four new growth and success pillars for Xylem, including one that keeps us focused on “Improving Business Sustainability.” One of our businesses also Revenues S $3.8bn S $3.8bn introduced a sustainability competition in 2012 that recognizes our best-performing sites in terms of sustainable performance. 66 Advanced a number of projects put forth by the Xylem Sustainability Steering Committee, representatives from all geographies, businesses and Percentage of Xylem sales functions who meet regularly to guide our sustainability efforts and from emerging markets 19% 20% ensure we maintain momentum. Recent projects include introducing revised sustainability-related metrics – such as waste sent to landfills and volatile organic compound emissions – to measure Xylem’s sustainability performance; ensuring that sustainability issues are considered during mergers and Revised metrics to measure S na S 3 acquisitions; and strengthening assurance of our data through the use of sustainability performance external auditors. 5 Employees and Workplace For our global employees, we strive to provide meaningful development opportunities and safe, healthy operations, which allow them to feel engaged, inspired and aligned with Xylem’s vision and goals. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Employee Safety, Health and Wellness Xylem reduced Injury Frequency In 2012, Xylem achieved meaningful reductions in both injury frequency (IF) and injury and Injury Severity in 2012, severity (IS). While we didn’t attain our aggressive goals of 1.0 for IF and 12.0 for IS, and we are introducing action plans we saw a 4.5 percent reduction in IF and a 28 percent reduction in IS (see metrics chart in to reduce them further by targeting this section) and implemented a number of practices in 2012 that will continue our common safety issues, including journey toward world-class results. lacerations, slips and falls. 66 Targeting the top safety issues. Xylem created action plans to address the most common safety issues at Xylem sites, including lacerations and slips, trips and falls. ESH site managers around the globe now have a guide for how to minimize these incidents. 66 Expanding our safety metrics. To better gauge our workplace safety, we began including contractor injuries to our IS and IF metrics. 66 A global wellness policy. Xylem sites have developed local wellness programs that fit their sites’ populations and personalities. These range from sponsored sports clubs to discounts on Weight Watchers at Work® programs and a global team competition that encourages exercise through walking. Diversity and Equal Opportunity The Xylem Code of Conduct makes clear our company’s commitment to inclusion and diversity and our disallowance of employmentrelated decisions based on age, color, gender or any other legally protected personal basis. Visit our Web report at: www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability for more ways we are making progress where it matters. 6 Q&A Why is this good news for employees? They can see exactly how to become more valuable to Xylem, and how to succeed in Robyn Mingle building Xylem’s business. Instead of broad More than 7,500 employees participated Senior Vice President job competencies, employees will have in our first-ever Xylem Global Employee & Chief Human a very clear, meaningful and defined set of Survey, which measured our performance as criteria to help create their future. As an Resources Officer employers, as sellers and as stewards of example, if an engineer is interested in moving the planet and communities where Boosting our Transformation into a sales and marketing role, he or she Training and Development we reside. Efforts with Better Career can see what competencies and experiences In our goal to strengthen and sustain a high-performing culture, Xylem provides a wide “Roadmaps” are required and then perform the selfrange of training and development programs for employees. In 2012, we expanded assessments and 360-degree assessments, and introduced a number of new programs: To help strengthen our high-performance along with identifying the suggested training culture, Xylem is building Career and development work needed to get there. 66 One of our businesses is building a “functional academies” program. Currently Frameworks for all functions and job roles in pilot stage in three European countries, the three-year program offers classes throughout the organization. The to sales employees who want to enhance their job-related skills. Going forward, project, which began in 2012, is set to be the goal is to offer similar academies in engineering, manufacturing, finance and completed by early 2014. other functional areas, and to expand this program to other Xylem businesses. How do Career Frameworks differ from 66 Through our Partnership for Performance (PfP) system, we offer employees traditional job competency models? an annual performance assessment with their direct supervisor to guide their The frameworks define the skills, behaviors and experiences needed at various career development at Xylem. In 2012, we completed PfP assessments for 96 percent stages to help employees succeed in of all employees. In addition, we added performance descriptors to measure delivering Xylem’s business strategy. As would the impact of an employee’s performance and conducted focus groups with be expected, these elements can vary quite dozens of company leaders and 35 employee teams in 14 countries to evaluate dramatically by function as well as by level, and the overall PfP process and gather feedback that will help us better identify and this model takes all of it into consideration. differentiate top performance at Xylem. Ultimately, the Career Frameworks provide employees with a clear roadmap of how to Recruitment and Retention grow their careers while growing our business. In an effort to find, hire and keep top talent who will help Xylem “solve water” in the years ahead, we introduced a number of innovative programs in the past year: 66 In February 2013, we launched our first-ever Xylem Global Employee Survey using a methodology called “Good Company Assessment” that measures our performance as employers, as sellers and as stewards of the planet and S2011 communities where we operate. This inaugural survey was distributed to more KEY EMPLOYEES AND WORKPLACE METRICS S2012 than 9,500 employees and achieved a 78 percent response rate, including valuable feedback on sustainability statements such as Xylem is taking Employee Retention Metrics will be available with launch of active steps to reduce its environmental impact and Xylem makes significant Xylem Human Resources Information contributions to the communities in which we work. Xylem leaders are System (HRIS). currently analyzing the survey results and will develop and communicate action plans for improvement. Going forward, we will continue to gather employee Women in Management Metrics will be available with launch of feedback using employee surveys, focus groups, town hall gatherings, skip level Xylem HRIS system. meetings and more. Injury Frequency* S1.55 66 In November 2012, we conducted a Virtual Career Fair as part of company’s first S1.48 free virtual trade show. This innovative approach enabled us to meet and “chat” with more than 300 potential candidates from across the globe. Participants took Injury Severity** S17.8 S12.8 part in online dialogues with Xylem subject matter experts about innovation, the Xylem culture and our diversity and inclusion programs. Two current college students were awarded job shadowing opportunities at Xylem. * Medical + lost workday cases x 200,000 / number of hours worked ** Lost workday x 200,000 / number of hours worked 7 Leadership and Governance At Xylem, we have created a business structure and put controls in place that promote corporate fairness, transparency and accountability. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Board structure and independence Xylem has a system of processes and controls designed to help us operate according to the highest governance principles. It starts at the top with our board of directors. We look to our board for oversight and decision making. Nine of 11 board members are independent, including our board Chairman Markos Tambakeras and our newest members, Robert Friel, who joined our board in December 2012, and Jerome Peribere and James Rogers, who joined the Xylem board in May 2013. This independence helps ensure their oversight and judgments are objective and made in the best interests of all Xylem stakeholders. In 2012, eight of 10 Xylem board of Shareowner Engagement directors were independent. The current In early 2013, Xylem held our first Investor and Analyst Day event since our launch as an board includes nine of 11 independent independent company. In the audio and video presentation, shareowners, analysts directors, including board Chairman and the general public heard from company leaders about our strategies to achieve Markos Tambakeras. sustainable, long-term growth. Policies, standards and codes of conduct At Xylem, we require our global sites and workforce to adhere to Xylem-wide standards in In 2012, we updated both our Code of Conduct the areas of ethics, trade compliance, anti-corruption and other governance matters. and Anti-Corruption Manual, and 100 percent of employees participated in Code 66 In 2012, we updated our Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption Manual, corporate of Conduct Training. policies and training programs to reflect the Xylem culture. Our Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and some relevant policies – including Anti-Corruption and International Facilitating Payments policies – have been translated into multiple languages for our global employee population. 8 66 During 2012, we provided Code of Conduct training to 100 percent of Xylem employees, and we are currently updating communications, including Q&A What is the Legal Department’s role in enhancing Xylem’s sustainability efforts? The Legal Department includes our worksite posters, to raise awareness about the Code and site-specific avenues for ethics reporting. Where it makes sense from a job responsibility Christian Na Ethics & Compliance team, which is standpoint, we also provide training on numerous regulatory and legal issues, Senior Vice President, responsible for maintaining a robust ethics including government compliance with international trade laws, the Foreign General Counsel and and compliance program and an effective Corporate Secretary internal reporting process to address any Corrupt Practices Act, environment, safety and health regulations and anticompliance issues. The Legal Department discrimination and accounting policies. The “Guardians” of Corporate also includes our Environment, Safety & Governance Health organization, which plays a critical Risk management role in driving best-in-class business We conduct robust risk assessments to gauge possible risk factors facing our In December 2012, Christian Na joined continuity and sustainability programs. company from issues such as supply chain disruptions, damages or disturbances Xylem as the leader of our Legal function, which includes Corporate Responsibility. Under the Corporate Secretary function, we to our information technology network and adverse economic conditions. Our The Legal team plays a vital role in serve as a focal point for communication company’s risks are described in our 2012 annual report. By identifying these corporate governance at Xylem. between the Board of Directors, our senior potential risks, we are providing transparency to our stakeholders and increasing our management and our shareowners. preparedness in the face of unique challenges. What is the role of Xylem’s Legal Department when it comes to corporate What’s one important way the Legal In addition, nearly every Xylem site has a business continuity plan in place to enable governance? Department advanced Xylem’s them to react and recover quickly in the event of an unexpected emergency. We play a critical role as guardians of sustainability efforts in 2012? When Hurricane Sandy hit the northeastern United States in October 2012, the region corporate governance. As in-house counsels To remain an economically viable company was in desperate need of dewatering pumps, but our East Brunswick, New for a public company, our ultimate client and to retain our valued reputation in Jersey Dewatering Solutions branch was without essential utilities. The team there is the corporation and this means that our the marketplace, we have to ensure we quickly implemented business continuity plans to redirect generators, fuel, responsibility is not only to partner with are complying with the laws and regulations cellular phones, laptops and personnel to the site. Once it was operational, the team our business teams to enhance shareowner across the globe that apply to our value but also protect the corporation from operations. This is an ongoing effort as laws began providing products to customers in the area who were in serious need legal liability and reputational harm. and regulations continue to change of dewatering support. and evolve and our businesses continue to expand into new jurisdictions. One example is providing guidance to our business teams on complying with the conflict mineral rules under the new Dodd-Frank Act. During Hurricane Sandy, we used S2011 our business continuity plans to KEY LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE METRICS S2012 get our Dewatering Solutions branch Board Independence S7 of 9 members in New Jersey back into operation S8 of 10 members quickly so we could help customers with their flooding issues. Code of Conduct Training S98% of employees S100% of employees Ethics and Compliance S45 concerns Reporting S74 concerns Concerns raised through Xylem’s complaint-handling and resolution process; a wellfunctioning process facilitates additional reporting Ethics and Compliance of all reported cases Visit our Web report at: www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability Investigations & Resolution Reported cases investigated and 100% 100% for more ways we are making progress substantiated cases resolved through policy changes, training, where it matters. reprimands and/or terminations 9 Eco – Efficiency At Xylem, our goal is to minimize our impact on the Earth’s ecosystems and adopt “beyond compliance” environmental standards at all of our sites. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Our largest plant in Emmaboda, Sweden, will soon start reusing “waste” heat — Climate Change and GHG Emissions now being stored and charged in 140 At Xylem, we adhere to the U.N. Global Compact’s “precautionary approach” to boreholes drilled into the ground — to lower environmental challenges. This means we won’t take an action that could cause harm to its energy usage by 50 percent. the environment, even if there is not yet scientific consensus that it will. For example, we aren’t waiting for conclusive scientific or political agreement that greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions contribute to global climate change, and are taking a number of precautionary actions in this area: 66 We are in the process of finalizing a more formal sustainability strategy that includes our operations as a key sustainability focus area. Our next step is to establish the appropriate goals to support the strategy. We plan to include a multi-year goal for the minimization of GHG emissions at our facilities. To ensure that we meet our goal, the Xylem ESH Leadership Team has developed a tool that will be implemented at our sites to provide best practices in energy reduction, as well as water use reduction and waste minimization. Throughout 2013, we are providing training to our ESH Coordinators around the globe on use of the tool. 66 In early 2013, we introduced new metrics to track volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions into the air. We currently track GHG emissions from buildings, equipment and company vehicles, but by breaking them down even further to include VOC emissions, we can identify sites that need to change their practices to improve indoor and outdoor air quality impacted by VOCs. 66 When Xylem purchases or leases a new site, one of our key decision-making criteria is energy efficiency. Our newest Xylem India office in Vadodara opened in 2012 and is LEED certified. Our future, permanent European “hub” headquarters in Schaffhausen, Switzerland – set to open later in 2013 – is being designed to meet the appropriate energy efficiency standards in Switzerland. And we are designing our new corporate headquarters in Rye Brook, New York – scheduled for completion in late 2013 – to meet U.S. Green Building standards for sustainability and plan to obtain LEED certification. 10 Q&A Waste Management areas – from our 42 largest sites to all 350 Following the process used in our site safety program, we have begun the development global sites. We also completed the Carbon of an “Easy Tool” that will provide our sites with guidance, best practices and simple Disclosure Project’s Water Disclosure survey actions for minimizing the generation of hazardous and non-hazardous waste – as well as that measures water usage and waterBennett Leff greenhouse gas emissions and water usage. related risks. Director of Environment, Safety and Health What are some tangible ways you are In early 2013, we also began tracking the amount of waste we send to landfills. Our working to reduce water use at Xylem company has always measured the amount of hazardous and non-hazardous waste we Serving as an Example operations? generate and dispose of, but this new metric will tell us how well we are meeting our of Solving Water In 2013, we are rolling out formal tools “recycle and reuse” goals and reducing reliance on landfills, which have been shown at that give our sites more guidance and best times to affect groundwater sources adversely. As a water technology company, practices for reducing water consumption. Xylem can and should serve as a leader We’ve never had anything like this before. in efficient and responsible water use. Our sites are also coming up with creative Currently, we track our company’s impact in solutions on their own. For example, our water-stressed areas of the world, and all of new pump manufacturing plant in Vadodara, our sites measure water usage with an eye India, has installed a system consisting of on reducing their water withdrawals. But Xylem products that recycles wastewater for Through a 2012 contest, Paul Shute, Variable water-related projects are now becoming a reuse as drinking water. Speed Drive Specialist at Applied Water much higher priority. Systems, U.K., and many other employees Besides changes to your operations, How are you elevating your efforts are there other ways you can help shared examples of how they are solving to walk the talk and “solve water” conserve water? water at work or at home. at Xylem operations? In 2012, we ran a contest asking employees It starts with measurement. Until a yearhow they “solve water” at home or in their and-half ago, we were part of a larger daily lives, and shared the entries with the multi-industrial company where water entire organization as a way to encourage consumption was just one of many metrics smart personal water use. We’re also we tracked. Now, as a company united considering ways to engage suppliers in around water, we have a stronger business water-reduction efforts and developing reason to set an example for our customers processes to ensure that our product and other companies. To assess where we designers look at ways to make our offerings stand, we are expanding use of the even more sustainable, which should Global Water Tool to ensure we aren’t include reducing water usage throughout taxing water resources in water-stressed our products’ life cycles. Our new Xylem India office met LEED criteria for energy efficiency and its S2011 adjoining plant installed Xylem products to KEY ECO – EFFICIENCY METRICS S2012 enable wastewater to be reused as drinking water. Pictured here, Sam Yamdagni, Energy Consumption S207,020 MWh S195,265 MWh President and Managing Director of Xylem India. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) S97,236 metric tons Emissions by weight S71,717 metric tons Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) SNot collected Emissions to air SData to be collected in 2013 Water Use S439 megaliters S399 megaliters Visit our Web report at: Waste Disposal S9,589 tons www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability S6,519 tons for more ways we are making progress Waste to Landfills SNot collected where it matters. SData to be collected in 2013 Non-Compliance Fines SUS $718 SNone 11 Products, Systems and Services We take responsibility for the safety and sustainability of our products from their initial design to their end of life. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Eco-Efficiency In considering Xylem’s environmental impact on the world, the largest impact comes from the use of our products and systems. For that reason, we are focused heavily on finding ways to design and sell products and systems that reduce water and energy consumption and improve water quality. We are making progress in a number of areas: 66 Eco-efficient products. In 2012, we continued to introduce products that help customers increase their water and energy conservation, including a new and more A test at a wastewater plant in Sweden power-efficient EXO sonde used for collecting important water quality data and our showed our Sanitaire diffusers, new high-efficiency e-SV™ pumps that move water efficiently through buildings. blowers and control systems reduced In September 2012, we completed a test at a wastewater plant in Sternö, Sweden energy consumption by 65 percent. that showed our Sanitaire diffusers, blowers and control systems increased aeration efficiency by 300 percent and reduced energy consumption by 65 percent. 66 Increased investments. In early 2013, Xylem signed a financing agreement with the European Investment Bank to fund innovative and aspirational research and development projects across Europe. The fund will finance the development of new innovative and sustainable products and services for biological water Our e-SV hot water circulator pumps are treatment, desalination, filtration and disinfection, as well as improvements to the most energy-efficient pumps in their class. energy-efficient controls for these processes. Visit our Web report at: www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability for more ways we are making progress where it matters. 12 Q&A Quality and Safety and by engaging with relevant policymakers Many of our products, such as the e-SV, eco-Circ and Experior pumps, and the and customers to understand the needs IQ SensorNet monitoring system, address the sustainability needs of customers around LCAs and EPDs. Now we will look at a in the areas of energy and water efficiency. Now our goal is to integrate other Johan Grön controlled way of implementing the approach sustainability factors more deeply into our product development process. Actions Chief Technology Officer across our organization. begun in 2012 include: To remain competitive and ensure that Life Cycle Assessments our products live up to the sustainability 66 Formation of a product safety review board for Xylem and each Xylem business. and Environmental expectations of our customers, it’s These review boards will assure new products are designed and launched Product Declarations crucial for us to stay ahead in energy efficiency in compliance with the latest safety and environmental considerations, and that A life-cycle assessment (or LCA) measures and lifetime expectations for our products. legacy products are not only compliant to regional standards but also the environmental impacts associated with We also have to ensure that the materials used continuously improved. all the stages of a product’s life from cradlein our products and wearing parts comply with to-grave. Based on these assessments, a regulatory requirements – as well as our 66 Integration of more robust sustainability standards into the product development company can produce an Environmental even more restrictive internal guidelines – process. We train R&D personnel on the key sustainability value drivers we need dealing with the use of hazardous substances. Product Declaration (EPD) that provides to consider at the outset of our product design process. Training will also include customers with standardized, comparable What are the key challenges in personnel involved in our product development “stage-gate” process, so they can data to make choices supporting their include sustainability as a factor in their “go/no go” decisions. implementing this? own sustainability achievements. We are determined to implement the What percentage of Xylem products approach, but we need to ensure that the time Product Pricing and Target Markets currently offer customers LCAs and EPDs? and resources spent are well planned. The Water is essential to life and commerce. It’s not a luxury, but at the same time it does cost regulatory guidelines and sustainability We have developed a reliable process for money to develop products that transport, treat, test and analyze water. That means we requirements are still being developed. Right LCA and EPD within a part of our organization. must figure out the best way to deliver water solutions to everyone from the tip of the Right now, we support our customers with now, life cycle assessments are becoming economic pyramid to the base, while also remaining a profitable and growing business LCAs and EPDs for products and solutions more important to our customers, but there is enterprise. Here are some ways we are doing this: that make up about 25 percent of our total still some education needed about the portfolio, based on revenues. connection between the environmental and 66 Emerging markets. To reach customers in emerging markets, we’re building infinancial advantages of sustainability. country manufacturing, engineering and sales sites that allow us to customize How are you working to increase that Our goal is to provide LCAs and EPDs that products and streamline delivery to meet the water needs and economic realities in percentage? provide a full, long-term picture of product these regions. In 2012, we established our first-ever sales offices in Russia, Panama We developed our current approach by ownership and show the economic advantages and Vietnam, expanded in the Middle East region, and added new expertise to adhering to best practices in our industry of using our products. our engineering Centers of Excellence in India and China. In March 2013, we launched our first S2011 Essence of Life product, a human-powered KEY PRODUCTS, SYSTEMS AND SERVICES METRICS S2012 “stepper” irrigation pump for customers Product life cycle assessments (LCAs) and Currently in place for key products at our Water in emerging markets and economically environmental product declarations (EPDs) Solutions business; goal is LCAs and EPDs for challenged regions. 100 percent of key products across all of Xylem Environmental Product Innovations As a percentage of total product innovations Customer Satisfaction 70% 79% Average Efficiency of Sold Products 58.9% 59.4% Measuring more than 220,000 products from our largest manufacturing facility 13 Supply Chain Our suppliers are not just business partners, they are sustainability partners. We engage them to ensure their products, practices, materials and services advance our sustainability efforts. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Conflict Minerals At Xylem, we are working to address our use of “conflict minerals” – tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold – and to ensure that when we use any of these materials that they didn’t come from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries. It has been shown that these countries mine the minerals to help MANAGEMENT fuel war and human rights violations. Our commitment includes compliance with the new conflict minerals requirements included in the Dodd-Frank Act approved by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Event SOURCING PROCESSES Commission in August 2012. Under the Act, after January 31, 2013, publicly traded Supplier Transition companies are required to perform due diligence as to the source and chain of Product & custody of conflict minerals in their supply chains. We have initiated an internal review Requirement Source Quotation & Negotiate PG1 Identification PG2 Supplier Selection PG3 & Contract PG4 Process PG5 Definition Product Verification of our supply chain and intend to adopt due diligence procedures consistent with Development the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidelines. Procurement ONGOING ONGOING Contact Xylem is taking steps to ensure we don’t work Administration with suppliers selling conflict minerals. Supplier Supplier Purchase Supplier Daily Order Feedback Development Performance Execution Commodity (scorecard) Strategic Planning 14 Q&A Raw Material Demand We have developed a set of possible Through our ongoing Lean Six Sigma efforts, Xylem plants pursue projects supplier criteria and are running a to eliminate waste. By streamlining our production processes, these projects often pilot program in Sweden where we analyze result in the reduction of raw material usage at our local sites. Bo Nilsson the suppliers to our largest manufacturing Manager, Strategic Sourcing plant against these new criteria. The Supply Chain Standards and Selection and Processes, Water Solutions findings of this pilot will help us develop Xylem has thousands of components, materials and service suppliers worldwide. sustainability-related questions and Through our Global Strategic Sourcing program, we continue to consolidate Qualifying Suppliers Based on checklists for all our supplier audits, selfthis supplier base. In reducing the number of suppliers, we’re increasing our ability assessments, supplier agreements and Sustainability Criteria to provide oversight and quality control in the form of supplier site audits and evaluation forms. control batch testing and enhancing our sustainability efforts. Xylem is committed to improving our As part of this effort, we’re also suggesting process for assessing and developing As part of our Sustainability Program, Xylem suppliers are expected to share our changes to the Xylem Code of Conduct suppliers with the goal of choosing to ensure our requirements for suppliers are adherence to the Code of Conduct, national laws and sustainability practices. We are suppliers who minimize our risk of supply stated as clearly as possible, and that the currently consolidating multiple supplier agreement forms into a single agreement disruption and who share our commitment document explains that we expect that requires our Tier One suppliers to adhere to our Code of Conduct and our policies to ethics, human rights and environmental Xylem suppliers to adhere to the U.N. Global in the areas of human rights, conflict minerals, and environment, safety and health. responsibility. As part of this work, we are Compact principles. developing a set of criteria we can Supply Chain Engagement use to assess our suppliers’ commitment What if it comes down to a low-cost Xylem provides Lean Six Sigma training programs for our Tier One suppliers. to sustainability. supplier versus a higher-cost but The training ensures they are following the same proven methodologies sustainable supplier? Why is it important that Xylem work with as our company in pursuing waste elimination, quality control, efficiencies and We’ll take everything into consideration sustainable supply partners? cost reductions. when selecting the right suppliers. Our suppliers are an extension of the But the low-cost supplier could end up Xylem family and a reflection of our costing us money because they cause more company’s commitment to sustainability. problems or issues in the long run. So We need supply partners who enhance our sustainability will not take a backseat to cost. sustainability efforts. This reduces our risks We believe this evaluation process will and helps us strengthen our reputation as a help convince all potential and existing company that cares about the right things. suppliers to step up their sustainability Can you describe how the new efforts to win or keep our business. supplier sustainability assessment criteria will work? We already use formal assessments that rate suppliers against business and We provide Lean Six Sigma training performance criteria, such as total cost, to our Tier One suppliers. on-time delivery record, pricing, and quality and service levels. Going forward, we will include sustainability criteria in our supplier selection. S2011 KEY SUPPLY CHAIN METRICS S2012 Supplier Sustainability Criteria 90% 90% Visit our Web report at: S Tier One suppliers for our S Tier One suppliers for our www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability largest business measured largest business measured against key criteria against key criteria,with for more ways we are making progress plans to add sustainability where it matters. criteria to measurements 15 photo credit: Global Citizenship Cassandra Nelson / Mercy Corps Our call to action – Let’s Solve Water – extends naturally to our global citizenship efforts. The centerpiece is Xylem Watermark, which provides and protects safe water resources for communities in need. MAKING PROGRESS WHERE IT MATTERS 2012 Accomplishments, Projects and Commitments Community Impact and Engagement In its first five years, Xylem Watermark has provided water solutions to more than 2 million In 2012, Xylem Watermark volunteers worked people in more than 20 countries, raising more than $1.1 million for communities around with with Water For People’s World Water the world. In 2012, the program supported more than 100 new sustainable water projects: Corps to collect data on water, sanitation 66 In 2012, we expanded our network of Xylem Watermark nonprofit partners from and hygiene conditions in schools and three to five. One new partner, Planet Water Foundation, is focused on the installation communities in West Bengal, India (seen here) of community-based water filtration systems and water, sanitation and hygiene and the Cajamarca Region of Peru. education programs. This partnership enables Xylem to make an even greater impact in China, India, the Philippines and Cambodia. The other new partner, Fundación Avina, aims to improve and increase access to water in Latin America, and our partnership expands Xylem Watermark’s presence into Brazil. 66 As part of Xylem Watermark’s partnership with the China Women’s Development Foundation, 14 Xylem employees constructed sustainable water solutions for 12 classrooms in Nanjing, China. They also delivered hygiene training and water education lessons to students and teachers. Similar projects took place in Guizhou, Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia, Yunnan and Jiangsu provinces. 66 Xylem employees in our São Paulo, Brazil offices are currently working with one of our new nonprofit partners, Fundación Avina, and other local nonprofits to provide safe water and hygiene education in the semiarid region of Brazil. The partners are building water cisterns at community schools that will provide clean water for students and their families. 66 On World Water Day – March 22, 2013 – Xylem employees took part in activities to improve water quality in their local communities, including a visit to the Udaan Ghar shelter home for girls in Mumbai, India to bring clean water, sanitation and hygiene education. At Xylem headquarters, nonprofit partners Mercy Corps and Planet Water Foundation hosted a discussion on our joint efforts to tackle the global water crisis. In addition, we launched a new interactive “impact map” on our Xylem Watermark website to show how we’re implementing local water solutions in cooperation with our nonprofit partners. 16 Q&A 66 We are engaging young people around the world in the search for water solutions How will the program continue to through our ongoing global sponsorship of the Stockholm Junior Water Prize, which improve and expand? encourages high school students to find ways to improve the world’s water quality. We will continue to look for new nonprofit Angela Buonocore partners who can help us expand our Community Contributions Senior Vice President and impact around the world, and for ways Chief Communications Officer to increase the support and participation 66 In 2013, Xylem Watermark will complete our three year, $10.5 million commitment of employees and other interested to fund water, sanitation and hygiene education and sustainable water systems Another Way to Solve Water stakeholders. As technology evolves, we will for vulnerable schools and water-related disaster relief efforts and plans to continue work to drive innovation to create shared Five years ago, Xylem’s Chief supporting the program in 2014 and beyond. Communications Officer was the driving value for our business and the communities force behind the development and launch in which we operate. And while we are 66 In 2011 and 2012, contributions from Xylem Watermark’s Disaster Risk Reduction of Xylem Watermark. To date, the program strategic in choosing and tracking the Initiative Water enabled Mercy Corps to embark on six disaster prevention, projects we fund, moving forward we will do has provided water solutions to more than training and readiness projects in Indonesia, Ethiopia, Tajikistan, China, Nepal and more to measure the business benefits of 2 million people, but she believes that’s just Colombia – improving the lives of more than 900,000 people. the beginning of its impact. these projects and our overall program. What makes Xylem Watermark such a Was there a “moment” in 2012 that powerful corporate citizenship program? defined the long-term promise of Xylem Xylem Watermark is a corporate citizenship Watermark? and social investment program with a Our legacy of achievement was solidified direct and strategic tie to our global water in my mind upon learning that we have Young students at a school in flood-prone business strategy. Through this broad impacted the lives of more than 2 million western Nepal learn how to stay safe people around the world since the initiative, we bring clean water, sanitation in the event of disaster. The training was launch of the program. When we unveiled and hygiene education solutions to provided by Mercy Corps with aid communities in need around the world. We Watermark in 2008, we had high from Xylem Watermark funds. also provide swift response in the aftermath hopes for the change we could make, and of emergency situations around the globe, these hopes are now a reality. Looking as well as disaster risk reduction to disaster ahead, the expansion of our program and prone regions around the globe to help our partnerships is opening doors for reduce the impacts of crises. us as we continue to build the social value we are creating around the world We’re a company united around water, and through the collective efforts of our this program provides an avenue for us to employees and nonprofit partners. unite around a common cause – a signature citizenship effort. S2011 KEY GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP METRICS S2012 Community Investments S$3.7 million1 Total nonprofit partner S$2.5 million investments and matching funds 1 Reflects one-time investment in to employee contributions For World Water Day 2013, Xylem Disaster Risk Reduction Initiative employees took part in activities to improve Community Impact the water quality in their local communities. Water Access and WASH S43 projects benefitting In Shenyang, China, employees and their Education Projects 37,500 people2 S119 projects benefitting families visited a wastewater plant to learn 50,800 people3 more about how it operates. Response to S3 disasters assisting Water-Related Disasters 235,800 people 4 S4 disasters assisting 273,000 people5 Disaster Risk SNA Reduction Projects S6 projects benefitting Visit our Web report at: 959,000 people 6 www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability Xylem Watermark S3 for more ways we are making progress Nonprofit Partners S5 where it matters. 2 India, Peru and China 3 India, Peru, China and Cambodia 4 Japan, Kenya and Pakistan 5 Japan, Colombia and Yemen 6 Indonesia, Colombia, Nepal, Ethiopia, China and Tajikistan 17 Reporting, Recognition and Partnerships We will accelerate and enhance our sustainability efforts by sharing our progress and teaming with other committed organizations. Two-way communications and partnerships will lift our company’s sustainability performance to even greater heights. REPORTING At Xylem, we are committed to reporting on our sustainability strategies and performance. The “C” rating means we met all of GRI’s Profile Disclosure requirements, including a CEO statement, information about our company and markets, reporting parameters and In 2012, we launched a sustainability microsite on the home page of our corporate Web governance mechanisms. We also reported on a minimum of 10 Performance Indicators, site. The microsite provides an overview of our sustainability focus areas, along with including at least one from the Economic, Social and Environmental categories. information about the various programs and projects now in place at our company. We also published our first sustainability Report in September 2012 to capture our In addition, in August 2012, Xylem formally committed to support the 10 principles progress since the launch of Xylem as an independent company in October 2011. of the U.N. Global Compact. This Report, released in June 2013, supplements the information found on our microsite As part of this commitment, we will publish an annual Communication on Progress (COP) and in our 20112012 Report. It captures full-year sustainability results and progress for on our progress against the 10 principles. The following index shows where 2012 and includes some case examples from early 2013. we are reporting the information requested by the Global Reporting Initiative and The Global Compact. Information for this Report was collected through interviews with Xylem’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Sustainability Champion and members of the Xylem Sustainability For more information about the content included in this report, contact Steering Committee, along with review of company documents and reports, including Bennett Leff at bennett.leff@xyleminc.com or 914-323-5989. Xylem’s Form 10K for 2012 and Xylem policies, which are located on the company intranet site. The information in this Report captures data from all of Xylem’s owned and leased facilities. Our operation does not include any joint ventures, subsidiaries or outsourced operations. For this Report, we use the reporting criteria set out in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. GRI identifies specific sets of indicators for reporting and establishes progressively higher levels for companies to use as overall benchmarks To view our full GRI index and selffor the reporting depth and quality of reporting. This year, Xylem is reporting at a declaration, visit the Reporting, GRI self-declared level C. Recognition and Partnerships section of our online 2012 Sustainability Report at: www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability 18 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE AND U.N. GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Profile UNGC Disclosure Description Reported Report Section COP Element ECONOMIC EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully Xylem 2012 Annual Report, Form 10-K No specific COP EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Fully Solving Water; Xylem 2012 Annual Report, requirement activities due to climate change Form 10-K ENV I RON MEN T EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Partially Eco-Efficiency EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Partially Eco-Efficiency EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Partially Eco-Efficiency EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight Fully Eco-Efficiency EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Partially Eco-Efficiency Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially Eco-Efficiency EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Fully Eco-Efficiency EN24 Weight of waste, type of disposal and percentage transported under Partially Eco-Efficiency terms of Basel Convention EN28 Monetary fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Fully Eco-Efficiency SOCI A L: LABOR PRACTI CES AN D D E CENT WOR K LA7 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days and absenteeism, and number Partially Employees and Workplace of work-related fatalities by region and by gender LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Partially Employees and Workplace Principles 1 – 6 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Partially Global Citizenship; Reporting, Recognition No specific COP impact assessments and development programs and Partnerships requirement SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Partially Leadership and Governance and procedures Principle 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Fully Leadership and Governance and lobbying PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Partially Products and Services assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Partially Products and Services Principle 9 customer satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to Partially Products and Services marketing, communications HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Partially Products and Services Principle 1 have undergone human rights screenings, and actions taken Principle 2 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Partially Products and Services Principle 1 have undergone human rights screenings, and actions taken Principle 2 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Partially Products and Services Principle 1 have undergone human rights screenings, and actions taken Principle 2 19 RECOGNITION For Citizenship… External recognition provides useful In June 2012, Xylem Watermark was honored progress markers on our journey to with the prestigious Excellence Award become a best-in-class, sustainabilityfrom the Committee Encouraging Corporate minded business. In 2012, Xylem received Philanthropy. The CECP – a forum of recognition for our sustainability business CEOs and chairpersons focused performance in a number of areas: exclusively on corporate philanthropy – recognized Xylem Watermark for its strong CEO leadership, commitment to innovation, For Sustainability... dedication to measurement and In September 2012, Xylem earned a place on cultivation of strategic partnerships. the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, in both the World and North America Indexes. The index measures the sustainability performance of the biggest companies in the world and For Workplace Safety… selects the top 10 percent based on the In the past year, six Xylem sites in the U.S. combined scores for economic, environmental were awarded Safety Leadership Awards by and social performance – the “triple bottom the National Safety Council for achieving line” that define a sustainable company. Our five consecutive years without an occupational selection validates the work we are doing to injury or illness resulting in lost employee advance sustainable business practices and work days or death. The sites, which employ a aligns us with a class of global investors who combined 60 employees, are located will only put their money in companies that in Savannah, Georgia; Corpus Christi, Texas; meet this standard. Dallas, Texas; Los Angeles, California; Portland, Oregon; and Rochester, New York. For Product Eco-Efficiency... In November 2012, our Bell & Gossett® For Water Thought Leadership... eco-Circ “smart” heating circulator pump, In 2012, Chris McIntire, President of our which uses 70 percent less energy than Analytics business and Xylem’s standard circulator pumps, was named a Top Sustainability Champion, was selected to New Product at the CIPHEX West tradeshow. be part of the Massachusetts Water A panel of industry experts presented the Mission to Israel. The goals of this project are award based on specific criteria such as to develop partnerships that will benefit sustainability, energy-efficient design and use both Massachusetts and Israeli businesses, of materials in an innovative manner. to learn lessons from Israel’s leading water experts and to encourage Israeli water companies to set up shop in Massachusetts. McIntire was part of a 40-person group of water-focused researchers, executives, investors and government leaders who traveled to Israel for four days in 2012. Together, the group aims to bring abundant, clean water to the world through local innovation, global export Visit our Web report at: and a connected community of business, www.xyleminc.com/en-us/sustainability academia and government. for more examples of 2012 recognition. 20 PARTNERS Enterprise-wide partnerships Xylem Watermark partnerships Xylem has aligned itself with a number 66 International Water Association: 66 China Women’s Development of associations, civic organizations, global network dedicated to helping Foundation: nationwide nonprofit social customers and non-governmental water professionals create innovative, welfare organization dedicated to organzations. By partnering with these pragmatic and sustainable solutions to improving women’s overall quality of life stakeholder groups, we can further challenging global needs through education, training, poverty our sustainability efforts, and they can 66 NAEM: nonprofit, non-partisan alleviation and disaster rescue benefit from our expertise and educational association dedicated to 66 Fundación Avina: nonprofit foundation involvement as well. advancing the knowledge and that seeks to advance sustainable practice of Environment, Safety and development in Latin America by Health management encouraging links and partnerships 66 Stockholm International Water Institute: between social and business leaders policy institute that seeks sustainable 66 Mercy Corps: international nonprofit solutions to the world’s escalating organization focused on disaster water crisis response, sustainable economic 66 European Investment Bank: development, health services and bank owned by and representing emergency and natural disaster relief the interests of the European 66 Planet Water Foundation: nonprofit Union Member States, which provides international organization focused on finance and expertise for sound bringing clean water to the world’s most and sustainable investment projects disadvantaged communities through 66 Water Environment Federation: community-based water filtration systems nonprofit association that provides and hygiene education technical education and training 66 Water For People: international nonprofit for water quality professionals humanitarian organization focused who clean water and return it safely on sustainable, safe drinking water to the environment resources and improved sanitation 66 Singapore Public Utilities Board (PUB): systems in developing countries Singapore’s public water utility (Xylem has a Memorandum Business-level partnerships of Understanding with PUB to conduct 66 Ceres: U.S.based network of investors, joint development and testing of environmental organizations and public innovative, energy-efficient water interest groups working with companies treatment and transport technologies.) to address sustainability challenges 66 Xylem Water Advisory Board: 66 Global Compact Nordic Network: high-profile individuals from diverse network of businesses and associations areas of the water space who from Denmark, Finland, Iceland, provide our company with insight on Norway and Sweden dedicated to global water issues and help guide promoting the U.N. Global Compact our outreach initiatives 66 MAPI Sustainability Council: MAPI serves Council members by providing unique opportunities to exchange ideas and knowledge with peers through meetings, interchanges and targeted research. 21 To be continued... Xylem Inc. 1133 Westchester Avenue White Plains, NY 10604 T: +1-914-323-5700 www.xyleminc.com
