UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT KOHBERG BAKERY GROUP A/S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Statement from our Chief Executive Officer Support of United Nations Global Compact During 2012 we at Kohberg Bakery Group have sustained our high focus on CSR and as part of this the principles in the UN Global Compact and especially the environmental area. As a member of the UN Global Compact since July 2009, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles from the UN Global Compact, e.g. through our Code of Conduct. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorse the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the UN Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. In our annual report, we have summarised the progress we have made against each of these principles and we will continue to follow up on them in future reports. We are in this report happy to announce some positive developments, especially concerning the environmental focus areas. Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Morten Hellesen CEO Page | 1 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility Kohberg Bakery Group is a manufacturer and supplier of bread and bakery products from rye bread to wheat bread and from Danish pastries to biscuits. Started in 1969 by Alfred Kohberg, the Fogtmann family took over the company in 1989 and has since expanded the company into its present size with revenue of approximately 1.000 million DKK. With headquarters located in the small town of Bolderslev in the southern part of Jutland, Denmark, Kohberg produces its products in a 37,000 m2 large, roofed production bakery. Two other production locations exist today in two other Danish towns, Taastrup and Haderslev. Together, these three bakeries produce over 122 million bags of bread, when only counting the sales for retailer shops. Besides servicing retailer shops, Kohberg also delivers to private companies and events. Being the biggest, Danish-owned bakery, Kohberg on average had approximate 580 employees during 2012. At Kohberg we have built our corporate social responsibility (CSR) model on three focus areas, all in accordance with the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact: 1) People, 2) Health, and 3) Environment and Climate. To understand causal relationships between our actions taken and the performance outcomes, facilitate learning and promote action as well as ensuring continuous improvements in regard to our CSR model, it was deemed necessary to define and commit to the people, health as well as environment and climate targets as specified in Table 1. To reduce the environmental impact from our distribution we should sustain our goal of having minimum 50 percent one truck stops at customer sites for all fresh bread in Denmark (co-distribution) through 2013. Also, 100 percent of flour used in our bakeries must be from grain grown without glyphosate and straw-shortening. Page | 2 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Table 1: Overview of focus areas, targets and achievements. Outcomes Target 2009 2010 2011 2012 People and health: 2.3 percent 2.5 percent 22.4 16.8 People & We will use at least 1 percent b percent c percent of our EBT a health result per year on people and health projects. Sourcing: 100 100 100 100 100 percent of our flour percent percent percent percent must be from grain Target Target Target Target grown without achieved sustained sustained sustained glyphosate and strawshortening Environment and Climate Production: Target set Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduce our total (reference of 3.81 of 16.19 of 16.97 emissions of CO2e by 20 year) percent. percent percent d percent per kilogram finished product produced before 2020 compared to 2009 as reference year. Distribution: 32 percent 70 percent 75 percent 100 Ensure one truck stop for percent Target Target 50 percent of all our achieved sustained Target fresh bread products in sustained Denmark through codistribution. a EBT = Earnings Before Tax. b The high percentage is due to a lower EBT in 2011 compared to previous years. c Estimated based on the expected financial result for 2012 until the final financial report is approved. d Emission factors from year 2011 are applied until emission factors from year 2012 are published. Page | 3 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S To ensure a high performance in relation to the people and health focus areas, Kohberg have decided to support people and health projects with at least 1 percent of our EBT result per year. Our main environmental target is to decrease emission of greenhouse gasses by 20 percent per kilogram finished product produced before 2020 compared to 2009 as the year of reference. The emissions of greenhouse gasses will be measured as the total annually emission of CO2-equivalents (CO2e) from consumption of fuels (scope 1) and electricity from the national grid (Scope 2) for our three bakeries in Bolderslev, Haderslev and Taastrup respectively as well as our cold store in Haderslev and depot in Soeften. The Scopes included have been defined based on the GHG Protocol (2004) as can be seen in Figure 1. By selecting CO2e as measure we correct for the warming potential of other greenhouse gasses on a 100 year time horizon as provided in the fourth assessment report by IPCC (2007) such as methane (CH4) and Nitrous oxide (N2O) with a global warming potential of 25 and 298 CO2e on a 100-year time horizon respectively. Figure 1: Total emissions of CO2e relative to kilogram finished product. Adopted from http://www.klimakompasset.dk/beregner/ Page | 4 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Self-Assessment according to the ten principles Prioritization of efforts In continuation of the process of working towards sustainability targets, a potential and relevance assessment was performed in the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013 according to the Global Compact Self-Assessment Tool from 2010 developed by the secretariat of the UN Global Compact in collaboration with The Danish Ministry of Economic and Business Affairs, The Confederation of Danish Industry, The Danish Institute for Human Rights – Human Rights and Business Project, and The Danish Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries and available from the UN Global Compact website1. The assessment consisted of answering specific related questions for each area covered by the United Nations Global Compact thereby providing a picture of potential for increasing performance in regard to our Corporate Social Responsibility and relevance in relation to the principles. The results of the potential and relevance assessment are illustrated in Table 2. In Table 2, green indicate a current high performance with limited potential for further improvement, yellow indicate principles where practices can be enhanced and red indicate the principles where focus should be emphasize for improving our performance. In the potential and relevance assessment, all subareas within ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour’ and ‘Anti-corruption’ were assessed as ‘good performance’ based on the fact, that they are covered by both our ‘Code of Conduct’ as well as the legislation in low risk countries. Firstly to ensure that Kohberg, as a company and as an actor in a market, works towards sustainability targets, a ‘Code of Conduct’ have been developed to cover all the ten principles in the UN Global Compact. Kohberg recognize the importance of ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour rights’ and ‘Anti-corruption’ and will take the necessary precautions to sustain the high performance regarding these principles. Based on this, no further targets have defined for the 7 principles in these categories except the ‘People and Health’ target from our main CSR-model as described in Table 1. 1 http://www.globalcompactselfassessment.org/ Page | 5 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Table 2: Business potential and relevance assessment TOPIC STATUS COMMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS Health and safety Hours, wages and leave Fair Treatment Covered by legislation and our Community Impacts Code of Conduct Product stewardship Country risk Suppliers LABOUR Trade Unions Forced labour Covered by legislation and our Child labour Code of Conduct Non-discrimination Suppliers ENVIRONMENT Compliance and Management Focus through our Code of Precaution Conduct, purchase practice, Responsibility and Performance F/A energy efficiency in production Technology and co-distribution target ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption environment Policy and procedures Covered by legislation and our Third Parties Code of Conduct Joint Actions Page | 6 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Although we have committed us to and are actively working with reducing our environmental impact, and as a result consider our performance as primarily ‘green’ in this area, we still recognize our environmental responsibility and believe this should continue to be our main focus area in the future. As a result, our main business focus in 2013 has been on the ‘Environment’ subareas as it has been considered the most relevant and important focus area given the potential for improvements. Consequently, the Communication on Progress (COP) accounting for 2012 will primarily account for our environmental targets, actions taken and outcomes from these activities, including achievements of the specified targets as seen above in the Table 1. It is important to note that the self assessment tool and the information provided in it is only intended as a general guide to the issues covered2 and as a result is based on a qualitative assessment with answers from individual persons responsible for the respective areas at Kohberg and thus only provide an indication of the performance. In practice this means that yellow or even red can still indicates a good performance compared to other companies. 2 http://www.globalcompactselfassessment.org/aboutthistool/termsofuse Page | 7 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption We work actively with sustaining and improving our performance in relation to the seven principles for human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page | 8 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Progress We have assessed our performance in accordance with the three main areas specified in the self-assessment tool provided by the UN Global Compact Initiative from 2010, including 1) Human rights, 2) Labour (rights) and 3) Anti-corruption. Although all subareas within ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour’ and ‘Anti-corruption’ were assessed as ‘good performance’, as explained previously, the self assessment have indicated a need for working more actively with suppliers to ensure the commitment in relation to the ten principles further upstream our supply chain by considering our suppliers and business partners. For example, to ensure suppliers show responsibility and for intent to become action, we have developed a set of guidelines, a ‘Code of Conduct’3, which all suppliers must accept and comply with. An acceptance of our Code of Conduct is an integrated part of a commercial agreement with Kohberg. However, Kohberg do not perform audits to confirm that suppliers are actively living up to these standards, although it is required. The main reason for this is that the majority of the ingredients used in our production are bought from suppliers located in Europe with the largest supplier located in Denmark. Less than 5 % of our purchases of raw materials are coming from outside northern Europe. 3 http://www.kohberg.dk/Det-brænder-vi-for/Kohbergs-holdning-til.aspx Page | 9 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Kohberg have almost no suppliers located in high risk countries and as a result, human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption are covered by local laws and regulations. This also applies for our bakeries and the transport providers used. In any case we ensure that our company always, as a minimum, fulfil the Danish legislation concerning human and labour rights. We are furthermore against all form of corruption and do not accept the use of it. Ensuring the commitment in relation to the ten principles further upstream our supply chain is especially important and relevant for high risk ingredients used in our production which includes palm-oil as have been debated recently in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility. We consider this the case even though we utilize these ingredients in relatively small amounts. For this reason Kohberg Bakery Group A/S became an ordinary member of the ‘Rountable on Sustainable Palm Oil’ initiative the 4th of December 20124. The guidelines in our Code of Conduct are not least about human rights. We oppose the violation of internationally proclaimed human rights and we will oblige both ourselves and our suppliers, to comply with local laws and standards. Furthermore the guidelines include numerous requirements for worker rights. Our Code of Conduct must also ensure that both we and our suppliers act responsibly in relation to the environment. This also applies for the work environment. Finally the guidelines commit the suppliers to discourage all forms of corruption. 4 http://www.rspo.org/en/member/2460 Page | 10 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Further actions In the following we will account for the actions taken in 2012 to archive and sustain our people and health target as specified earlier in the CSR section in Table 1. The main target is to support people and health projects with minimum 1 percent of our EBT result per year to ensure an even higher responsibility than ensured by our Code of Conduct as well as national legislation in low risk countries as specified in Table 2. The main support in 2012 was given to the annual sponsorship of the campaign ‘the fight against breast cancer’ by the Danish Cancer Society5 and happens through a sponsorship of the campaign in where Kohberg have participated each year since 2008. By participating in the campaign Kohberg supports the research in breast cancer. The financial support was collected by giving 1 DKK (≈ 0,135 €) to the Danish Cancer Society for each of three dedicated wholemeal bread packages that was put in customers’ shopping carts in October 2012. In fact, the campaign in 2012 was considered a huge success by exceeding all previous campaigns and resulted in a financial support of ~ 85.000 €6. Besides the actual economic support, Kohberg support the campaign by using special packaging design, a sales campaign in television, advertisement on trucks and our homepage as well as encouraging our employees to include a logo of support in e-mail correspondence as means for promoting and creating attention for the fight against breast cancer. 5 http://www.cancer.dk/om+os/The+Danish+Cancer+Society.htm 6 http://www.kohberg.com/Default.aspx?ID=743&Action=1&NewsId=65&PID=1452 Page | 11 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S In addition, we have continued our support to Cirkus Summarum (circus event) where we have activated children around knowledge of grain during the summer period. Here have given ≈ 26.900 € to Muskelsvindfonden which is a foundation helping people with muscular dystrophy. We have sustained our employee benefits such as free fruit and the possibility to get massage for a low fee given financial support of the arrangement by Kohberg to reduce physical health problems among employees. Besides the national health insurance, Kohberg are financing a private health insurance for our employees which cover further types of illness such as free visits to a psychologist. Page | 12 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Environment We work actively with improving our environmental performance in relation to the three principles in the UN Global Compact: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page | 13 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Progress We have assessed our performance in accordance with the four areas specified in the self-assessment tool provided by the UN Global Compact Initiative from 2010, including 1) compliance and management, 2) precaution, 3) responsibility and Performance as well as 4) technology as can be seen in Table 2. From the first self assessment performed in 2009 to the self assessment completed in the beginning of 2013, our focus on the environmental areas have improved in accordance with our targets set as can be seen in Table 1. The self assessment, however, indicated a need for working more actively to integrate the use of a life cycle assessments (LCA), design for sustainability or a cradle-to-cradle approach when developing new bakery products. It also highlighted the possibility to expand the environmental targets to include targets for water consumption and waste water as well as targets for reducing solid waste. Targets that are not currently part of our commitment to United Nations Global Compact and Communication of Progress. Kohberg do, however, actively work with improving the environmental performance in these areas by minimizing our generation of waste water and waste of all forms and reports these figures to the public authorities as part of our mandatory environmental accounting (in Danish ‘Grønt Regnskab’). Page | 14 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Environmental initiatives and activities have primarily been internally focused, due to the relatively high energy consumption that is required for bread-making. Our supplier are, however, taken into account by including environmental criteria as part of our Code of Conduct where all our suppliers are required to comply with and have agreed on the terms within, including environmental criteria. The environmental criteria included in our Code of Conduct will be highlighted in the following: 1) The supplier is obliged to comply with local laws and standards related to environmental issues. 2) The supplier is committed to proactively take necessary precautions and take necessary initiatives to minimize adverse environmental impacts of its activities. Actions In the following we will account for the actions taken in 2012 to archive and sustain our environmental targets as specified earlier in the CSR section in Table 1. To ensure consistency between our environmental targets and actions taken, the following actions will be clarified in accordance to the structure of figure 1. The purpose of figure 1 is to illustrate the three main areas in our supply chain where actions are taken to improve our environmental performance. Figure 1: Supply chain focus areas for actions. Page | 15 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Procurement All our flour is certificated and free from glyphosate and straw shortening remedy and is not grown on fields utilizing sludge from cities. According to the Danish environmental authorities and food authorities, it makes no risk to the environment or human health to use glyphosate on fields. Still we have chosen to require of our suppliers that rye and wheat are not sprayed with herbicides containing glyphosate. Furthermore, we don’t want to expose our customers to the risk of having bread baked with flour from grain grown with the use of straw shortening, although straw shortening has been used for a couple of decades and although authorities permit the use of it. We believe that the policy benefits the environment and ensures a healthy product for our customers and consumers. In any case the products will comply with Danish and European legislation. As part of our purchasing practice, we aim at collecting our purchases in large quantities. This allows for full shipments as much as possible and generally increases the fill rate of trucks thereby saving emissions from transportation. Regarding the purchase of rye we have sustained during 2011 and 2012 the achievement to use 100 percent Danish produced rye which reduces the requirement for transportation to a minimum from an environmental (CO2) perspective. During 2012 we have continued our project focusing on estimating the total greenhouse gas emissions emitted through all phases of a specific rye bread products’ life cycle along the supply chain from cradle-to-grave. This method is increasingly referred to as a ‘product carbon footprint’. The main purpose of the project is to increase the understanding of the environmental performance in our supply chain and identify hotspots for increasing environmental performance. Kohberg is still developing the collaboration with one of the strongest organic brands in Scandinavian and are continuously introducing more new healthy products. In addition, we are still having more and more products being labelled with the whole grain label. In practice this means that the majority of our product range is now labelled with the whole Page | 16 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S grain label. We are also working actively with increasing the number of products labelled with the ‘keyhole symbol’7 which is a label that identifies healthier food products within a product group. Also, the majority of new products being launched will in the future be labelled with the whole grain label. 7 http://www.noeglehullet.dk/services/English/forside.htm Page | 17 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Production Kohberg is still in a continuous improvement process focusing on minimizing waste and overproduction at our bakeries. By participating in a waste reduction project completed in 2012, Kohberg have demonstrated that energy savings can be achieved by utilizing specific enzymes and reducing the level of organic waste arising from the bakery. Kohberg also demonstrated that waste levels have been reduced significantly from the levels in 2009 and 2010, to the levels in 2011 and especially 2012. Besides the expected environmental savings, the project also contributes highly to the societal problem of food waste which is gaining increasing attention in media and public authorities. In addition, Kohberg have actively been working on projecting a second generation biogas system at our local bakery site in Bolderslev. The work in 2012 resulted in an updated investment report for decision-making which is awaiting approval. However, from the assessment of a second generation biogas system it was learned that the business-case is highly dependent upon the framework conditions for biogas in Denmark which have just recently (in March 2012) been determined until 2020 as well as fluctuating prices for energy and in particular biomass. These are conditions for which it is a challenge to predict future values given the volatility in prices. Thus, this uncertainty combined with the high initial capital investment required for establishing a second generation biogas system have been considered problematic from an investment point of view and have delayed the process considerably. To promote the biogas project, we participated in FDB’s Green Innovation price8 in 2012 (in Danish ‘Grønne Innovationspris) with the idea of utilizing bread waste from retailers currently going to incineration to production of biogas and consequently greening the bread manufacturing process. 8 http://groenpris.fdb.dk/innovationsprisen Page | 18 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S As part of our target of reducing our total emissions of CO2e by 20 percent per kilogram finished product produced before 2020 compared to 2009, Kohberg have focused on decreasing the energy used in the making of the bread. This has resulted in various different actions.  We have undertaken a fuel shift at one of our bakeries to a more environmental friendly fuel in terms of emissions of greenhouse gasses.  Increased the energy efficiency of one of our baking processes by capturing and reutilizing excess heat (heat recovery). The initiative has been considered a success and as a result, it will be investigated to what degree the solution can be expanded to other bakery processes.  The principle for settling of accounts for our co-generation unit has been changed in order to increase the possible hours of operation and thus the operational capacity of the unit. By producing electricity and heat with a higher efficiency than heat from boilers alone an environmental benefit can be achieved. The benefit, however, is expected to decrease in the future as the electricity from the grid becomes greener.  Implemented further changes in our cleaning practices.  We have been hosts for a green diploma event at our main facility for companies in the Southern Denmark Region. By being hosts for this event Kohberg aim to fulfil the UN Global Compact principles of promoting greater environmental responsibility and encourage the use of environmental friendly technologies.  Finally, we are still participating in a 3-year PhD-project with the aim of creating knowledge about development of green food supply chains. By participating in the project we are supporting scientific research on environmental issues relevant in our context as a food producer. Page | 19 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Distribution Co-distribution has now been achieved from a wide range of customers, where some are handled by Kohberg and others are handled by the customers own distribution depots. This result in a higher performance since 2010 than specified in the goal originally set for 2013. Based on this, we are currently in a process of considering future relevant targets for our distribution. Kohberg is still participating in the national effort to utilize modular transport (road trains) for companies with high requirement for transportation. During 2010 modular transport was tested with success from both an economic and environmental perspective. As a result the usage of modular transport was utilized during 2011 as well as 2012 and is still developing. We have, however, experienced many barriers for implementation of modular transportation, including difficulties to obtain permission to utilize the modular transport directly between our bakeries and depots. In addition to this, Kohberg are working actively to gain the required permissions. The alternative is to use regular trucks from a bakery to an approved repackaging area from where the products can be shipped using modular transport. This does, however, require a higher degree of handling of the products and thus hinders the expansion of the solution. Page | 20 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S Outcomes In the following we will discuss and follow-up on the outcomes of the actions taken in 2012 to achieve and sustain our environmental targets as specified earlier in the CSR section in Table 1. Based on Table 1 it should be clear that Kohberg have overall managed to fulfil the targets towards sustainability. For an overview of the development towards our target of reducing our total emissions of CO2e by 20 percent see Figure 2. Figure 2: Total emissions of CO2e relative to kilogram finished product. 20,00% 17,50% 15,00% 12,50% 10,00% Realised Target 7,50% 5,00% 2,50% 0,00% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The first target, which require purchased ingredients to be without glyphosate and strawshortening, have been sustained during 2012. In fact the goal was already achieved in 2009 thereby pointing towards a faster development. Furthermore the third target, which covers the degree of co-distribution, has already been achieved in 2010 and sustained during Page | 21 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S 2011 and 2012, thereby 3 years before planned. Even though the targets have been achieved years before originally planned, the target set have not been seen as unambitious by Kohberg. Instead we consider it as an outcome of a committed work in relation to achieving the targets set. Finally, Kohberg have managed in 2012 to reduce the total emissions of CO2e by approximately 17 percent for all of our three bakeries, cold store and depot collectively compared to 2009. Much effort have been put into identifying feasible actions and actions taken as described in the above sections and the actions have given results directly measureable on the performance as demonstrated in Figure 2. The current development towards sustainability targets is as a result considered as ‘on target’, given that the average needed annual reduction in total CO2e is approximately 1.82 percent points. With the initiatives and forward-looking focus on the environment, Kohberg will continue to pursue a sustainable development. This will be undertaken by a continuous identification of additional opportunities in our purchasing, production and distribution and our entire supply chain. We look forward to elaborating on our progress in our next COP accounting for our actions taken during 2013 to implement the ten principles in the United Nations Global Compact. Page | 22 Kohberg Bakery Group A/S References Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 2007. Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 (AR4) – The Physical Science Basis, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), 2004. A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Conches-Geneva and World Resource Institute (WRI), Washington. Page | 23
