Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 To Be an Innovation and Service Leader for Information Life Address：No.21 Financial Street, Xicheng District, Beijing Postal code：100033 Fax：010-66258674 URL：www.chinaunicom.com Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Report instruction 1 1. Grow with employees 40 From the Chairman 2 2. Develop with partners 46 3. Build social harmony 47 Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top 1. Corporate profile 6 2. Scientific management 9 3. Responsibility management 14 Consolidate efforts to fulfill our responsibility and build high-quality networks Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China 1. Green management 56 1. Basic network construction 18 2. Green network 56 2. Emergency communication enablement 20 3. Green office 59 3. Communication security assurance 22 4. Green public welfare 59 4. Scientific and technological innovation promotion 22 2013 Outlook 61 Appendix 1. Key performance 62 2. Awards 64 3. Indicators index 65 4. Report assessment 69 Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public 5. Feedback 70 1. IT application in people’s life 26 2. IT application in agriculture, rural areas and farmers’ life 27 3. IT application in urban areas 29 4. IT application in industries 31 5. Service quality enhancement 32 1 Report instruction Report instruction Time frame: From January 1st to December 31st of 2012, except for some parts. Release cycle: The Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China United Network Communications Group Co.,Ltd is an annual report. Coverage: The headquarter and subsidiaries of China United Network Communications Group Co.,Ltd, hereinafter referred to as “China Unicom”, “the Group”, “the Company” and “we” respectively for convenience of expression. Reference: ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); ● Program to the State-owned Enterprises Directly under the Central Government on Implementing the Harmonious Development Strategies during the Twelfth Five-Year Plan Period by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC) of the People’s Republic of China; ● Compilation Guide to the Report on Corporate Social Responsibility by the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE); ● Compilation Guide to the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 2.0) by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). Language and availability: Chinese and English, available both in print and online at the website of China Unicom: www.chinaunicom.com Contact us: Add: No. 21 Financial Street, Xicheng District, Beijing 100033, P.R.China Attn: Corporate Development Department of China Unicom Fax: 86-10-66258674 Email: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 From the Chairman Facing the great challenge of a downward macro economy and the intensified market competition in 2012, China Unicom has still fulfilled its social responsibility and made active explorations in management improvement, network construction, product and service innovation, public interest and environmental protection, etc. At the same time, China Unicom, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), has honored its commitment of abiding by and promoting the ten principles of UNGC in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and effectively integrating the social responsibility into its daily operation. 3 From the Chairman Improve corporate governance and Put people first and foster social make the company into the top. harmony. In 2012, by availing ourselves of the We have done a good job in “recruiting, activities to enhance our management level, using, training and retaining” employees to we have improved our basic management and bring their motivation and creativity into full standardized operation in an all-round way, play. Bearing the principle of operation integrity and attached great importance to CSR through and competition fairness in mind, we have its effective integration into our operation. As a made responsible procurement and promoted result, the Company has maintained a leading enterprises across the industrial chain to fulfill revenue growth rate and made its business their social responsibility for win-win result and profit doubled, progressing stably towards the common prosperity and development. Moreover, realization of a top-class telecommunications charity and public undertakings of general interest company in the world. are another kind of major focus of us with our employees participating in voluntary activities to Consolidate efforts to fulfill our build a harmonious society. responsibility and build high-quality Create ecological civilization and networks. build beautiful China. By treating smooth network connection enablement as our own duty and taking the Our environment management has been quality enhancement of the mobile network strengthened by promulgating the following and the universalization and speeding up of two documents, the 2012 Energy Consumption the broadband as an important lever, we have Budget and the Methods for Incentives and constantly improved the quality and capacity Assessment of Energy Conservation and of our network. The “Every Village Project” has Emission Reduction, promoting the application been strongly promoted to eliminate digital divide, of green technology, conducting environmentalour emergency response capacity has been friendly retrofitting, boosting the common tremendously enhanced to ensure the smooth development and sharing of base stations, connection between natural disasters and social and setting up green networks. As for office activities, the online environment reshaping has areas, the concept of green office, which been launched to better manage the information includes the conservation of electricity, water security, and the research on the next generation and paper resources, has also been promoted communications network has been conducted to and our environmental protection activities for make the basic network top and reliable. public interest have helped us to build a green operational environment. In the new year, we will join with our Bring universal benefit of stakeholders in promoting the in-depth integration information technology to the public. between informatization and industrialization, We have strengthened our customer upgrading the traditional industries and relationship management (CRM), improved developing information services for people’s the price system for products and services, wellbeing to become the innovative service encouraged the development of healthy culture, leaders for the lifestyle in the information age. explored new business types and innovated our means of services to let the public enjoy a new lifestyle brought up by the information Chairman of the China United Network industry and serve our customers to their entire Communications Group Co.,Ltd satisfaction. In addition, information technology has also been applied in agriculture, rural areas and farmers’ life, and the planning and construction of smart city have been promoted to pursue the information-based government, health care, education, tourism and other industries related to people’s livelihood. Chang Xiaobing March, 2013 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Corporate profile China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. ( China Unicom ) was officially established on January 6, 2009 on the basis of the merger of former China Netcom and former China Unicom. It has subsidiaries in 31 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities) across China and many countries and regions around the world. It is the only Chinese telecom operator listed on the stock exchanges in New York, Hong Kong and Shanghai. It has also been ranked among the world’s Top 500 Companies for many consecutive years. With the second largest fixed and mobile telephone networks and the Internet in the world, China Unicom mainly operates fixed and mobile communications service, domestic and international communications facilities, satellite IPLC service, data communications service, network access service, value-added telecom services and system integration service related to information and communications businesses. By the end of 2012, China Unicom had 400 million subscribers in total. China Unicom has a modern communications network characterized by its nationwide coverage and global reach, and its new-generation mobile communications network WCDMA is also the largest in the whole world. Aiming at providing comprehensive and high-quality information communications services for customers, China Unicom has been promoting broadband-based fixed and mobile networks, expanding the international coverage and improving the layout of sales outlets. By the end of 2012, the number of 3G and 2G base stations reached 331,000 and 411,000 respectively, 106.46 million broadband access interfaces were put in place, and the international roaming business covered 567 operators in 247 countries and regions. Directors & senior management Lu Yimin President, Tong Jilu Chang Xiaobing Vice Chairman Director of the Board, Chairman and and Deputy Secretary Vice President and Secretary of Party of Party Leadership Member of Party Leardership Group Group Leadership Group Li jianguo Li Fushen Member of Party Director of the Board, Leadership Group Vice President, Li Gang and Head of Disciplinary Chief Accountant and Vice President and Inspection Team of Party Member of Party Member of Party Leadership Group Leadership Group Leadership Group Zhang Jun’an Jiang Zhengxin Shao Guanglu Vice President and Vice President and Vice President and Member of Party Member of Party Member of Party Leadership Group Leadership Group Leadership Group 7 I. Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top Corporate governance ◇ Institutional improvement China Unicom strictly abides by the laws and regulations of mainland China, Hong Kong and the United States, learns the advanced experience of corporate governance at home and abroad, and constantly improves its corporate governance structure and level while considering the conditions of the Company. China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd. Two other promoters Public shareholders 1/12& 48/92& 73/29& China United Network Communications Limited 211& 28/:1& 93/21& China Unicom Group China Unicom (BVI) Telefonica Intemacional, Other public Corporation (BVI) Limited Limited S.A.U. shareholders 45/41& 52/38& 6/12& 2:/53& China Unicom (Hong Kong) Limited Shareholding structure The convening, holding, voting and other procedures of the general meeting of shareholders are strictly under the provisions of related laws and regulations as well as the internal rules of the company to ensure fair treatment towards all shareholders, especially minority shareholders, and the enjoyment and enforcement of their own corresponding rights based on the shares they hold. The Board of Directors takes the best interests of the company and the shareholders as its principle. Listed companies, through the organization of the extensive Board of Directors and the establishment of the Audit Committee and other affiliated committees to the Board, effectively regulate the internal control system related to financial statements and bring the specialties of board directors into full play to enhance the duty-performing capability of the Board. In the interest of shareholders, the Board of Directors regulates major events and finance of the company as well as the compliance and legality of its senior management. ◇ Communication enhancement Under fully compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements for information disclosure at the location where listed companies are regulated, China Unicom amply fulfills its information disclosure obligations in a truthful, accurate and timely manner and ensures all shareholders the equal access to information. At the same time, the legal rights and interests of stakeholders are also respected and safeguarded. The Department of Investor Relations of China Unicom provides necessary materials and services to investors, keeps contact with them and fund managers through investor consultation and reception, and arranges meetings and face-to-face communications between the management of the Company and investors from time to time to update them on the latest businesses and management progress more accurately. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 General Affairs Department Network Finance Department Service Platform Maintenance Center Company Operations and Maintenance Department Response Center for Corporate Customers Network Construction Department Network Management Center System Integration Department Disciplinary Inspection/Supervision Office Labor Union Party & Staff Affairs Department Legacy Assets Management Department Technology Department Legal and Risk Management Department Regulatory Department Audit Department China Procurement and Inventory Management Department United Human Resources Department Network Headquarters Finance Department Communications Departments Planning and Management Department Group Strategic Investment Department Co., Ltd. Corporate Development Department General Affairs Department/ Office of the Board ICT Application Business Unit Product Innovation Department/Information Security Department E-Commerce Center Marketing Operation Monitoring Center Customer Care Department Global Business Department Corporate Customer Department Marketing & Sales Department Henan Branch Xinjiang Branch Shandong Branch Ningxia Branch Jiangxi Branch Qinghai Branch Fujian Branch Gansu Branch Anhui Branch Shaanxi Branch Zhejiang Branch Tibet Branch Jiangsu Branch Yunnan Branch Provincial-level Shanghai Branch Guizhou Branch branch Jilin Branch Chongqing Branch Heilongjiang Branch Sichuan Branch Liaoning Branch Hainan Branch Inner Mongolia Branch Guangxi Branch Shanxi Branch Guangdong Branch Hebei Branch Hubei Branch Tianjin Branch Hunan Branch Beijing Branch Overseas operators (5) China Unicom Communications Construction Co., Ltd. China Unicom Payment Co., Ltd. Beijing Xinyuan Hotel China Unicom New Horizon Limited Directly China Unicom Import and Export Co., Ltd. Affiliated UNISK Information Technology Co., Ltd. Organizations Unicom V-SENS Communications Technology Co., Ltd. and Unicom Xingye Science and Technology Trade Co., Ltd. subsidiaries China Information Technology Designing & Consulting Institute Co., Ltd. China Unicom System Integration Co., Ltd. China Telephone Directory Corporation China Unicom Info Navi Co., Ltd. China Unicom Broadband Online Co., Ltd. Unicom Research Institute/National Engineering Laboratory Unicom University 9 I. Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top Organizational structure Aiming for integrated marketing management and operation, China Unicom integrated the former Market Department and the Sales Department into the Marketing Department and set up the Marketing Monitoring Center for a completely vertical operation monitoring system. It also developed the management and operation systems which were adapted to the development of e-commerce and established the E-Commerce Department on the basis of the former E-Channel Department. Brand profile As a full-service brand of China Unicom, “WO” provides individuals, households, companies and teenagers with five major services covering all innovative information businesses: WO 3G, WO Family, WO Business, WO Pai, and WO Service. In 2012, based on its existing brands and the concept of “The Best in WO” and by focusing on its target customers and accurate media portfolio, China Unicom developed sub-brands including “WO: the World of Fiber Optic Broadband” (broadband), “WO with the World-Class Quality” (3G advantages), “WO: the First Choice of 3G” (3G businesses), “WO: the Future of Smart City” (business services), and “Universal High-Speed 3G Network” (3G traffic packet) etc. to expand and deepen the concept of WO with enhanced brand image. Scientific management Strategic management After comprehensively analyzing the development of the telecommunications industry at home and abroad as well as the competitive environment of the market, China Unicom has developed its vision of forging itself into an “innovation and service leader for information life” while considering its own special features and making solid progress with definite and clear way of thinking to deal with different issues and major contradictions in different ages and phases. Innovation & serviceleader for information life ! /// y olog tegy t e chn n stra 3G vatio Target broadly, ding nno Lea rated i look confidently, work proactively and teg an d in New breakthroughs develop quickly Reorganization in operation, new progress in services, , new level in Grasp opportunities, maintain growth, managementand initiate restructuring new vitality in Achieve new 3G and enhance personnel development and advantages through performance integration 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Corporate vision: an innovation and service leader for information life Innovation & Service Leader for Information Life Information life Innovation Information life is the core of corporate operation, Innovation is the source for the long-term and including all of people’s information service healthy development of the company and it is also requirements for their social life, work, businesses, necessitated for differentiated competitiveness. social networking, and entertainment, etc. Core conception: provision of high-quality Core conception: possession of leading innovative information services for the society, i.e. the most capacity, i.e. building differentiated core convenient network access service with high competitiveness with sound innovation mechanism quality; the most secure and effective and ranking among the world-top application innovation service; and the telecommunication operators with most satisfied content integration Information Innovation excellent innovations. service to the requirements of customers. life To be a leader is always the goal of Service is the foundation for the company Leader Service as an information service provider and it the company. is also the only way to growth. Core conception: building world-class information service brands and becoming an Core conception: pursuit of excellent user influential leader in core businesses, i.e. achieving experience, i.e. reaching world-class level of customer “highest user penetration rate” in core businesses services and becoming a reliable and satisfied partner and the greatest customer satisfaction; leading in for their information life by taking “excellent user both the domestic and the international 3G experience” as the goal. industry; and guiding the development of the broadband market. Leader Service Vision positioning: serving information life. At present, the information and communications technology (ICT) can be found in every corner of people’s life, the economy and the society. Instead of focusing on its own development and providing consumers with simple ways of communication, China Unicom has carried out the transformation into customer-oriented strategy and the comprehensive provision of information services for people’s living, study and work, etc. to satisfy their various demands for “information life”. This kind of positioning symbolizes the change of the development mode and the operational scope of China Unicom which will play a more important role in social progress and make contribution to people’s well-being, domestic demand, development of all walks of life and our national economy. Core conception: leading innovation while providing excellent services. Innovation remains to be the main theme for China Unicom after all kinds of changes and provides basic assurance for realizing a series of restructuring and continuous growth under new environment and situation with challenges coming from the traditional market saturation, etc.; while service serves as the foundation for China Unicom and links the Company with its clients whose needs have been integrated into the whole process from product research and development (R&D) to production organization and from channel sales to post-sale services for the purpose of enhancing the service level before, in the middle of and after sales. 11 I. Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top Means: leading 3G technology and integration. 3G technology is the driving force to enhance the corporate identity, make market breakthroughs and accelerate development; therefore, China Unicom has proposed to implement the “leading 3G technology and integrated innovation strategy” from 2010 to 2014 by focusing on “major businesses” and “key competencies” to achieve its strategic goal of “promoting growth and efficiency”. An Innovation & Service Leader for Information Life Strategic goal: promoting growth and efficiency Leading 3G technology and Enhanced Leading Improved Excellent Increased industrial core opreational user innovative status businesses efficiency experience capacity Strategic measures integrated innovation strategy Major Achieve leading 3G technology, consolidate broadband dominance, businesses innovate contents and applications and develop ICT services. Key Conduct integrated operational management from integration to competencies convergence for enhanced operational efficiency. Compliance management ◇ Combating corruption for public integrity While combating corruption for public integrity and seeking corporate reform and development, China Unicom has fulfilled its functions of disciplinary inspection, supervision and monitoring, promoted the system construction of punishment and prevention, implemented the responsibility system of improving the Party conduct and building a clean and honest administration, and strengthened various works including anti-corruption education, supervision and inspection, correspondence and visitation, and organizational construction etc. to facilitate and guarantee the reform, innovation and development leapfrogging of the Company. Promoted the system construction of punishment and prevention and implemented the responsibility system of improving the Party conduct and building a clean honest administration. The inspection and examination methods for the responsibility system implementation were formulated to evaluate such implementation and conduct selfinspection of the promotion of the punishment and prevention system construction. Provided anti-corruption education in the whole company including managerial staff at all levels and all employees, and compiled the Selected Papers on Combating Corruption for Public Integrity of China Unicom to integrate such education into the training for the management and personnel in key positions. Strengthened the supervision and administration of the management, improved their integrity record and tightened the management of on-job consumption to promote the clean conduct of them. Conducted management efficiency supervision of channel expansion fees for mobile businesses, improved daily supervision for bid invitation, procurement, recruitment and competition for posts etc. and regulate decision-making process for major events. Kept the correspondence, visitation and reporting channels unblocked, coped well with various kinds of such issues, punished the personnel who had acted against the discipline, laws and regulations, and constantly improved related processes and systems. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Risk control To the extent of the whole company, the internal control and risk management systems of China Unicom are composed of the Board of Directors, the Internal Control and Risk Management Committee, the General Affairs Department and all related function-specific management departments for the purpose of conducting in-depth risk assessment, continuously optimizing internal control standards and constantly enhancing risk management level. Set up an integrated monitoring mechanism both vertically and horizontally for all corporate business operations and performed risk alarm, risk examination and risk tracking via operational monitoring work orders. Made annual and semiannual risk assessment and improved the regular “examination” mechanism for risk reporting, risk alarming and the management and control of it. Compiled and distributed the Special Issue of Laws and Risk Management and carried out internal control risk management training, risk assessment and self-test of internal control to develop a sound risk management culture. ◇ Audit supervision With the improvement of audit supervision and audit system construction, China Unicom has conducted a series of auditing work on internal control, special projects, economic responsibility and engineering to regulate corporate operation and management, close management loopholes in a timely manner, prevent operational risks and enhance refined management level. Carried out mid-term and annual internal control evaluation to regulate corporate operation, strengthen internal control enforcement and increase management efficiency. Performed auditing for special projects including terminal management, social channel fees and value-added service management to improve the management efficiency of specialized lines. Undertook specialized auditing work on engineering to promote its transformation, avert investment risks and raise related management level. Create a multi-dimensional early warning indicator system with theme-specific models to conduct audit information system construction and improve the audit efficiency. ◇ Rule of law China Unicom has constantly enhanced its corporate governance level through rule of law, improved its working systems of legal risk prevention, general legal consultation and legal management, specified basic management systems and procedures including legal argumentation for major decisions, legal review for rules and regulations and legal scrutiny and approval for contract, set up a group-wide unified management system for legal disputes, standardized the administration of registered trademarks, patent licensing and computer software copyright, and increased its legal risk prevention capacity. Various activities of legal publicity and education have been organized to foster corporate compliance culture, such as the “4/26 World Intellectual Property Day”, the “12/4 National Legal Publicity Day”, special legal publicity activities about the socialist concept of rule of law, and the presentation about the “All-Round Promotion of Rule of Law – Legal Interpretation on the Spirit of the 18th National People’s Congress (NPC)”. In addition, some other forms of activities including exhibitions, knowledge competitions, online lectures, legal consultations, printed materials and special issues have also been stimulated to spread legal knowledge and raise the legal awareness for officials and employees. 13 I. Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top Information-based management Under related development and application, the cloud computing technology has been fully introduced into the customer service and internal management of China Unicom whose service level and operational efficiency have both been enhanced. Moreover, the Company has also set up a centralized and integrated structure with information technology as the supporting basis to improve production and operational management and decision-making level, promoted the standardized management for billing and accounting to reduce billing time and increase the payment timeliness and accuracy, and taken a user-oriented approach to improve the whole-business e-commerce supporting system and quickly respond to business demands. Business performance In 2012, China Unicom continuously maintained a good momentum of development with its performance greatly improved, core competitiveness rapidly increased and sustainability further enhanced. Indicators Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total assets RMB 100 million 5126.8 5237.5 5750.8 Business revenue RMB 100 million 1768.1 2162.8 2581.6 Mobile users Ten thousand 16742.6 19966.0 23931.2 Local telephone users Ten thousand 9663.5 9285.1 9195.7 Broadband users Ten thousand 4722.4 5565.1 6386.9 3G base stations Ten thousand 16 23.9 33.1 2G base stations Ten thousand 31.8 37.5 41.1 Broadband access interfaces for fixed lines Ten thousand 6583 8592.3 10646 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Responsibility management Promotion of responsibility strategy ◇ Concept of social responsibility Under the commitment of becoming “an innovation and service leader for information life”, China Unicom has deepened the implementation of the “leading 3G technology and integrated innovation strategy” and integrated the harmonious development requirements and social responsibility into corporate vision and strategy to boost the harmonious development among the company, the society and the environment with strategic understanding and arrangement. By taking sustainability as the core, it has also integrated the fulfillment requirements of “integrity, greenness, security, vitality and responsibility” into its whole operational processes under the guidance of “responsible core businesses, enhanced user experience and common social responsibility”, and combined its own development with the broader social responsibility to achieve the harmony and unification between corporate interests and social objectives. ◇ Management of social responsibility China Unicom has established a Social Responsibility Steering Committee led by its executive members, classified the Corporate Development Department as the main administration of social responsibility with contacts in all related institutions, and set up the collecting system of social responsibility practices. The Company also compiles and publishes its social responsibility report based on the requirements of SASAC, the responsibility standards and regulations of the international community as well as the request from SSE. ◇ Planning of social responsibility In the “Twelfth Five-Year” Plan, China Unicom has incorporated the fulfillment of social responsibility as one of its major tasks during this period. It is dedicated to combining its own development with the broader social responsibility, improving the corporate management mechanism with social responsibility as the core, better communicating with stakeholders, pursuing green and harmonious development of the Company, building the information-based rural areas, purifying the online environment and participating in public undertakings of general interest to promote the corporate and social harmony. ◇ Improvement of social responsibility management China Unicom has realized that the enhancement of the social responsibility management level was an important instrument to achieve international competitiveness and reach the development goal of “being strong and excellent”. The experience from enterprises advanced in social responsibility management has also been learned and used to find, improve and make up for its own shortcomings so as to promote further integration between social responsibility management and daily operation and enhance such management level. Enhancement of capacity with responsibility China Unicom has proactively promoted the effective integration between social responsibility and corporate development by focusing on the most strategic and relevant topics whose performances have yielded good result. At the 2012 Global Compact China Best Practices Award organized by the Global Compact Network China, the Establishment of Employee Mental Health Guarantee Mechanism for the Harmonious and Healthy Corporate Development has been entered into the candidate list. The company has also taken part in the CSR contextual training held by SASAC, the “CSR Management with Resources and Environmental Limitations” by China Enterprise Confederation and other related trainings to deepen its CSR understanding and consolidate the CSR management foundation. In addition, it has joined the compilation and discussion of the Guidelines to the Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China (CASS-CSR 3.0) to promote Chinese enterprises to implement it. Social responsibility indicators have been sorted out to set up an evaluation system with 103 indicators in 15 aspects and 5 items at 3 levels. 15 I. Improve corporate governance and make the company into the top Intensification of responsibility communication Ways of Expectations for China Stakeholders communication Unicom Response from China Unicom ● Disclose operational performance based on information ◆ Asset value maintained and disclosure requirements and ensure equal access to ★ Information disclosure increased information for all shareholders. ★ Material provision Investors ◆ Standardized corporate ● Constantly standardize the governance structure and ★ Face-to-face governance improve related decision-making procedures and systems. communication ◆ Operational risk prevention ● Establish internal control and risk management systems and assess risks vertically. ● Expand mobile and broadband network construction and ◆ conduct constant network optimization. High-quality networks ★ Workshops ● Simplify packages, standardize transparent fees and ◆ High-quality information ★ Customer activities launch information-based applications more rapidly. Customers services at affordable prices ★ Satisfaction surveys ● Carry out operation and hotline service enhancement ◆ Convenient services ★ Club ◆ project and fulfill the mobile and broadband service Healthy online environment commitment. ● Take comprehensive treatment of SMS spam. ● Promote democratic management with employees ★ Surveys ◆ Participation in participated. ★ Discussions with the management ◆ ● Wage distribution in favor of frontline employees. Employees management Steady increase of wage ● Expand the career path for professional employees. ★ Workers Congress ◆ Career planning ● Improve working conditions, carry out recreational activities ★ Training ◆ Care for employees’ needs and provide assistance for employees in difficulty. ◆ Abide by laws and Government ★ Meetings ● Conduct corporate governance under the rule of law and regulations and regulatory ★ Work report strengthen internal audit supervision. ◆ Promote information-based authorities ★ Exchanges and visits ● Strongly promote the social informatization. social development ● Stick to the concept of “openness, innovation, cooperation ◆ Equality, cooperation and and win-win result”. ★ Discussions and win-win result ● Constantly expand cooperative areas and create more Cooperative exchanges ◆ Broad cooperative areas synergistic value. partners ★ Professional training ◆ Stimulation for the industrial ● Unblock the relationship between the upstream and the ★ Satisfaction surveys chain development downstream and jointly create value with cooperative partners. ◆ Sharing of advanced ● Exchange experience of many professions at various ★ Forums and meetings experience levels. Counterparts ★ Visits and ◆ Fair competition ● Achieve good interconnection. communications ◆ Cooperation ● Realize joint construction and sharing. ● Conduct energy conservation and emission reduction and ◆ ensure green construction and operation. Green operation ◆ ● Invite the media to interview in the company and publish Knowledge about company ★ Community their reports on the Internet, micro-blog and monthly information communications ◆ publications. Digital gap elimination Communities ★ Media communications ● Continuously promote the “Every Village Project” to expand ◆ Emergency communication ★ Public undertakings of the communication network coverage in rural areas. enablement general interest ◆ ● Ensure the unblocked communication in natural disasters Development assistance for and major events. underdeveloped regions ● Actively participate in charity and public undertakings of general interest. The management of China Unicom has actively conducted communications and exchanges on corporate social responsibility (CSR), such as the face-to-face discussions between executive members and headquarter employees, the thematic training of CSR enhancement by SASAC and exchanges of good CSR practices. By focusing on key responsibilities and good practices of related parties, the executive members of the company have shared the responsibility experience of China Unicom with them to jointly build a harmonious China Unicom. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Basic network construction By taking the quality enhancement of the mobile network and the universalization and speeding up of the broadband as an important lever, China Unicom has constantly improved the quality and service capacity of our network. The “Every Village Project” has also been continuously promoted to eliminate digital divide and achieve seamless coverage. Mobile network optimization In 2012, China Unicom made continuous efforts to strengthen the 3G network construction by focusing on those uncovered urban and rural areas and optimizing special projects in various fields including main roads, in-depth coverage and the antenna feed system. The number of 3G base stations reached 331,000, 92,000 of which were newly-built WCDMA base stations; the 3G coverage in rural areas increased from 33% in 2011 to 75% with that in the eastern part at 100%; about 88% express railways had access to 3G network and as for the airport express ways and other express ones, the 3G coverage were 96% and 73% respectively. The number of 2G base stations reached 411,000, 36,000 of which were newly built, and the 2G network coverage was greatly enhanced. At the same time, 20,000 public WiFi hotspots were established in airports, stations and hotels etc. with the total number reached 60,000, further improving the wireless data service level. Mobile network construction Unit: ten thousand Existed in 2011 Newly added in 2012 WCDMA base stations 23.9 9.2 2G base stations 37.5 3.6 Wifi hotspots 4 2 While expanding 3G coverage both in depth and in extent, China Unicom has formulated and gradually implemented the network quality enhancement plan to better support mobile data businesses by various technical means. The 3G network has been completely upgraded to support HSPA technology to meet customers’ need for high-speed network; the 2G network has adopted the EDGE technology to provide data services for 2G and 3G users; and the piloting program of 900MHz WCDMA network has also been promoted in Gansu and Hebei provinces, which has already scored great achievements. Notes: HSPA stands for High-Speed Packet Access which includes two parts: HSDPA and HSUPA. HSDPA (High Speed Downlink Packet Access) HSUPA (High Speed Uplink Packet Access) EDGE stands for Enhanced Data Rate for GSM Evolution which is a transitional technology from GSM to WCDMA. 19 II. Consolidate efforts to fulfill our responsibility and build high-quality networks Broadband network upgrading In 2012, China Unicom greatly promoted the network construction of fiber-optic broadband and constantly increased the broadband coverage and the access speed in urban and rural areas. The newly-built business buildings adopted the FTTO technology, residential buildings adopted the FTTH or FTTB technology, and those residences with fiber-optic access was capable of providing 20M access bandwidth. In urban areas, the retrofitting program of “replacing copper cables with optical fibers” was gradually completed and the universal access capacity was 10M to 20M with some areas and users at 100M. In the same year, there were 20.54 million broadband access interfaces being newly added and the total number reached 106.46 million, among which 23.04 million were FTTH interfaces with an 11.03 million increase. We also accelerated the rural broadband network construction in ten provinces of the northern part of China, promoted the retrofitting of fiber-optic broadband access in administrative villages and the broadband access capacity in rural areas was greatly enhanced. At the end of 2012, there were 237,900 administrative villages in those ten provinces having access to broadband services, accounting for 94% of the total. Number of the interfaces that were built through The broadband universalization and speeding up project Urban areas rural areas unit: piece Above 20M: Below 20M: Above 4M: Below 4M: 53% 47% 65% 35% 43.30 million 17.43 million Notes: FTTO stands for Fiber To The Office. FTTH stands for Fiber To Home. FTTB stands for Fiber to The Building. Global network improvement China Unicom has conducted close cooperation with major telecommunication operators and service providers in the world to jointly promote the in-depth development of both the mobile and the fixed network. By the end of 2012, our international roaming businesses covered 567 operators in 247 countries and regions, and that of the high-speed 3G data covered 317 operators in 124 countries and regions. The total bandwidth of international submarine cables reached 2,536Gbps, directly linked to major countries and regions along the coast of the Pacific Ocean, the Atlantic Ocean and the Indian Ocean. The total capacity of our international terrestrial cables reached 3,268G and there were 82 overseas Points of Presence (POP) in 69 cities of 53 countries and regions. Number of countries Number of operators 711 678 611 511 428 411 358 311 235 211 1 International roaming International roaming businesses of businesses high-speed data 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Digital divide elimination In 2012, while implementing the “construction of a new socialist countryside”, China Unicom continued the “Every Village Project” to promote rural communication development and reduce digital divide. The company invested RMB 1.22 billion in the whole year and completed 4,552 every-village tasks in 11 provinces and cities including Heilongjiang, Jilin, Inner Mongolia, Sichuan, Chongqing, Shanxi, Hebei, Hubei, Hunan, Xinjiang and Qinghai, among which 305 were telephone related tasks for natural villages and 4,247 were broadband ones for administrative villages, laying a solid foundation for the informatization of those poor areas. Emergency communication enablement Sudden natural disasters In 2012, some parts of our country have experienced major natural disasters, such as flood, debris flow and typhoon, causing 29 provincial-level branches of China Unicom suffered great loss of RMB 840 million. Facing such severe situation, our employees have ensured the communication safety and security with their great social responsibility and quick response. During the flooding period of 2012, China Unicom made a total investment of RMB 275.54 million for disaster relief, deployed 164,457 personnel and 59,008 vehicles, and provided 7,712 emergency equipment and 47,947 oil engines. Repair workers of China Unicom Guangxi Branch were Senior members and employees of China Unicom working in rain to clear branches and garbage under Lianyungang Branch were working at the front the pole to avoid damage. line of the flood relief and repairing the disasterstricken base stations for goods safety. In September 2012, the Yiliang County in Zhaotong City of Yunan Province was hit by a 5.7-degree earthquake as well as debris flow and landslide. While ensuring communication, China Unicom Yunnan Branch also set up temporary business sites and service stations in resettling areas to provide people in affected regions with free services including calls and phone charging. At the same time, it also offered financial support to those areas for disaster front-line relief. 21 II. Consolidate efforts to fulfill our responsibility and build high-quality networks Major social events ◎ Communication enablement for the docking mission between “Shenzhou-9” spacecraft and “Tiangong-1” lab module. China Unicom has successfully accomplished the communication enablement task for launching the Shenzhou-9 manned spacecraft, including more than 20 launch-related lines for Xi’an Satellite Monitoring Center, one department of the People’s Liberation Army, and the Ministry of Transport, among which more than ten lines were in Beijing, as well as more than 100 media lines, 4 of which were for China Central Television (CCTV). As a result, all business-related lines have been operated safely with no failure. ◎ Communication enablement for the “18th NPC” of the Communist Party of China In order to successfully accomplish the communication enablement task for the “18th NPC”, China Unicom strengthened the network optimization to enhance communication service capacity, conducted inspection of 58 local networks and 573 maintenance sites as well as self-inspection of 3,015 network units in 12 professions for both the fixed and the mobile networks, and tightened the 24-hour duty-shift system for 7 days a week with key posts double-guarded by two people. During the NPC period, there were 228,000 maintenance workers, 57,000 emergency vehicles and 51,000 oil engines being deployed in total to ensure the unblocked communication in an all-round way. China Unicom Xinjiang Branch was making great efforts to provide high-speed seamless communication services for the China-Eurasia Expo. China Unicom Beijing Branch installed 435 fixed-line telephones and 13 specialized “Digitalized Farmers Game” supported by China Unicom lines for NPC working groups, delegations Henan Branch with high standards and news agencies, provided 6,768 key protection lines and 11,558 3G card numbers for Xinhua News Agency, the Ministry of Public Security, CCTV, Bank of China and other 48 clients, ensured the fixed, mobile, long-distance and local communication security for the customer service of 704 major groups in the fields of finance, electricity, civil aviation, railway, transportation and securities etc., key roads and areas, as well as for 7.09 million public users, and invested RMB 15.6 million in communication enablement. Deputy mayor Ren Xuefeng of Tianjing Municipal Government was meeting with the maintenance staff of China Unicom Tianjin Branch for their successful work at the 2012 Tianjin Summer Davos Forum in key protection sites. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Communication security assurance China Unicom has attached great importance to the communication security, conducted security defense, improved online environment and enhanced communication quality among different networks to ensure the safety and stability of communication networks for customers. We carried out compliance and risk assessment and other self-inspections of 3,015 network units in 12 professions for fixed, mobile and transmission networks. We also organized 12 special activities to deal with Trojan horses and zombies and handled 15 phishing websites in coordination with overseas Internet companies. To prevent damages to customers’ property through phone fraud, technicians in China Unicom Tianjin Branch analyzed the phone fraud features and established an identification system to immediately identify and respond by people. Since the launch of such mechanism, the number of fraud phone calls decreased dramatically from 150,000 to 50,000 on a daily basis. On-site test and adjustment Opening ceremony for the anti-fraud system Scientific and technological innovation promotion China Unicom has constantly improved its independent innovation capacity and assumed 18 national key scientific and technological programs including the “special projects related to core electronic devices, high-end general chips and fundamental software” of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), the “special project of new-generation mobile broadband communication network”, the “863 project – national high-tech research and development project” of the Ministry of Science and Technology, and the “China Next Generation Internet Project (CNGI)” of the National Development and Reform Commission, etc. In addition, we have also conducted research on new technologies, such as new-generation mobile broadband communication, next-generation Internet, cloud computing, and the Internet of Things (IoT), which has not only enhanced our technological competitiveness, but also provided guidance for the industrial development of related key technologies. Our independent innovation capacity and research and development (R&D) power have also been greatly improved through the experience accumulation of production, learning and research and the cultivation of a bunch of technical talents. The introduction of “WO Phone” and the first Chinese operating system for smart terminals with independent intellectual property right are significant breakthroughs achieved by our country in such system R&D and control. The findings of the research on the “development and demonstrative application of mobile broadband access system in complicated environment and with flexible functions” can be used for scientific observation, city planning, traffic detection and other fields, which are especially important for the national defense construction. We have conducted research on network organization, technological assessment and new technology test for the evolution of mobile network to 4G technology. 23 II. Consolidate efforts to fulfill our responsibility and build high-quality networks Standardization result from 2010 to 2012 (piece) 2010 2011 2012 800 600 600 495 400 211 208 200 132 116 8 18 18 0 International standard Industrial standards Participation in papers the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 10 8 8 8 6 6 5 5 5 4 2 0 China Communications Standards China Institute of Communications (CIC) Association (CCSA) Award Award for Science and Technology for Science and Technology Patents and technological innovation awards from 2010 to 2012 (piece) 2010 2011 2012 400 380 366 350 300 252 240 250 200 150 132 124 100 77 68 53 47 64 58 50 0 Total Patents of invention Total Patents of invention Patents Authorized patents 6 5 5 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 First prize Second prize Third prize First prize Second prize Third prize CIC Award for CCSA Award for Science and Technology Science and Technology 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Guided by customers’ needs and aiming at better user experience, China Unicom has made great efforts to provide our customers with diversified, convenient, practical and customized information products and applications as well as timely and considerate services. IT application in people’s life ◇ Development of 3G innovative products In 2012, by focusing on 3G businesses, consolidating product system integration and developing major products including mobile music, mobile reading and application store etc., China Unicom launched many innovative products such as UM, WO+Pass and WO Cloud and optimized the product layout. The WO Store had 16.2 million registered users and 74,000 online applications, and there were 60.448 million subscribers to WO Read. China Unicom Tianjin Branch launched the 3G Players Club and the Mobile Class for experiential marketing and organized activities on various themes such as “business trips”, “education”, “photography” and “music” to provide 3G users with professional knowledge, enhance their interest for 3G applications and achieve the closest contact with them. 3G Players Club of China Unicom Tianjin Branch ◇ Universalization of the RMB 1000 smart phones We have set up a product system with terminals at all price levels, introduced in various popular types and promoted the universalization of the smart phones to lower the consumption threshold. Those dual-core RMB 1000 ones with 4.0 and 4.5 inches screen size have continued to lead the development of the same kind. There were totally 164 customized types of terminals in the whole year and 724 were W-type ones; therefore, the development of W-type terminals precedes others. ◇ Enrichment of the 116114-based information services With the support of the 116114 calling center, we have made nationwide promotion of information services for appointment-centered medication, online informative education, broadbandand 3G-enabled agriculture and financial functions such as mobile payment to bring convenience and benefit for consumers. ◇ Broadband speeding-up marketing to optical fibers Efforts have been made to gradually achieve the universal accessibility of high-speed broadband services in cities, universities and rural areas etc., enhance access speed and reduce broadband fees through preferable measures, and promote integrated products such as “WO Family” by adding applications, correlated products and other service products to increase price value. Moreover, we have also provided high-quality broadband applications with high code stream, focused our attention to entertainment, security defense, services and other popular needs, and promoted IPTV, high-definition videos, video monitoring, extended services and other key applications which require larger bandwidth to satisfy people’s broadband service demand for low fee, high speed and multiple applications. 27 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public IT application in agriculture, rural areas and farmers’ life Sticking to the principle of “government-corporate interconnection, long-term vision, common development and win-win result”, China Unicom has worked with agricultural authorities at all levels to implement the projects of fiber to village and information to home, and promoted cooperation in fields of 3G technology application, 12316 hot line, agricultural IoT and cloud computing etc. in rural areas. ౫ᄽरຍጧკ թ،࡞‫ݞ‬ዎ Ⴟథ๶ᅅ‫ޜ‬ခ ౫ጨཨ໕ ౫ጨॏ߭ጧკ ݆ୱᇲዺ čč čč 23427ೝ໼ ౫ጨጆॆ Ⴟథጆॆ ଄ᤷ ߛ࠼ ሞ၍඄ྰጆॆ ๶ᅅጆॆ Ǆࢬঢዐ႐ǅ ๷֓ጆॆ ྦྷਖ਼ഽ ‫ۅܔۅ‬ఇ๕ ࠽խఇ๕ ྦྷბࡔ ‫ࣆۉ‬Ӳ ๮ऐӲ ‫ۉ‬సӲ ‫ۉ‬๫Ӳ ཮ກӲ ཚࡗࠦࣆई๮ऐ ཚࡗ‫܌‬႑Ăాዃ֓‫ڇ‬Ă 23427ྪበǗҾጎ ཚࡗĐ੻‫ྪټ‬ஏ,ऐ‫࢈ۥ‬,‫ۉ‬๫ Պፉۨ೺ጆ਽ሗ ծ‫ٶ‬ǈၛᆶ૴ཚ ֒႑ĂXBQ‫ݛڪ‬๕ླྀໃ ੻‫ټ‬ǈॺ૬አު ऐ,႑တాඹđ‫ڦ‬ఇ๕ǈӻዺ౫ ኾࠃ౫௷֖੊ ༬ᆶ‫ڦ‬ጹࢇ‫ޜ‬ခ ࣳ౫႑တ PBӸࠅྪ ௷ᅜ೵तࣅ‫ۉڦ‬๫থ๭‫ޜ‬ခ China Unicom has cooperated with the Information Center of the Ministry of Agriculture to jointly work on the construction of the national calling center of the “12316” general information service platform for agriculture, rural areas and farmers to provide one-to-one or group consultative services about agricultural policies and regulations, farming technologies and the supply and demand of agricultural products as well as the reporting and complaint services about product quality and safety, agricultural emergencies and production fraud by means of voice services of the unified number 12316, SMS by mobile phones, long-distance video diagnosis, broadcasting and TV production and online websites, enable agricultural departments to be aware of the issues and difficulties that were commonly interested by farmers, and make such service platform more direct, efficient and convenient. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Bureau of Pasturage and Veterinary and Joint construction of the comprehensive milking stations conducted by China Unicom platform for new media operation of Hebei Branch. information-based agriculture by China Unicom Jiangsu Branch and the Department of Agriculture and Forestry of Jiangsu Province. The client manager was explaining the Agricultural Card project launched by China China Unicom Shanghai Branch was carrying Unicom Heilongjiang Branch to his clients. out the maintenance project for the mobile commanding platform of marine fishery enforcement. Remote control project for agricultural machinery launched by China Unicom Henan Remote control project for agricultural machinery launched by China Unicom Hubei Branch. Branch. Grass-root promotion project for agricultural 3G terminal project for information-based 3G technology jointly launched by China agriculture jointly launched by China Unicom Unicom Beijing Branch and the Agricultural Liaoning Branch and the Information Center Information Institute of Chinese Academy of of the Agricultural Economics Committee. Agricultural Sciences (CAAS). China Unicom is dedicated to provide convenient services for farmer and our own business outlets cover a large area in both urban and rural China with the number of the rural ones increased from 11,000 in 2010 to 13,000 in 2012, accounting for 70% of the total. 29 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public IT application in urban areas The concept of smart city, including smart management, information-based economy and convenient life, is an in-depth integration of informatization, industrialization and urban construction and China Unicom has always attached great importance and been devoted to the development of it. For example, we have signed cooperative agreements on smart city with more than 120 cities in 26 provinces in the year of 2012 to jointly promote the smart-city planning, construction, operation, service provision and innovative development. ◇ Smart city strategy In September 2012, China Unicom officially unveiled its smart city development strategy about setting up a “common, integrated and open” development mode and becoming a good “smart city” service provider by taking urban fiber-optic, WCDMA and WLAN networks as the foundation, nine data bases as the reliance and the cloud-computingbased unified smart city platform as the carrier. We have also cooperated with the government to establish a win-win business mode and a sustained operational mode and achieve intelligent management for people’s wellbeing and the future of the city through industrial resources integration and intelligent application convergence. ◇ Unified cloud platforms for smart city In 2012, China Unicom finished planning the construction of cloud nodes in 56 provincial capitals and cities specifically designated in the state plan and of unified cloud platforms for smart city. According to this program, the cloud platforms will perform the functions of incubating, loading, operating and storing various smart applications in all walks of life nationwide. ◇ Local smart-city construction By “going locally for the construction of information-based smart city services”, China Unicom has successively demonstrated its latest results of smart city in Shenyang, Harbin, Wuhan, Guangzhou, Chengdu and Xining etc. to promote the in-depth development of smart city. China Unic om Fujian Br an c h a n d Fujian Women’s Federation have jointly developed an information service platform for aged care at home which, by taking modern communication, intelligent calling, the Internet and e-commerce as technological support and “emergency rescuing, nursing, household services, mental care and value-added services” as the content, can provide assistance to the seniors by the simple button pressing, just like a “rest home without fence”. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 The system of “mobile digital guide” developed by China Unicom Guangxi Branch can help users have direct understanding of all tourist information through the multimedia function and GPS navigation of smart phones instead of the tradition tourist guide and provide them with brand-new interactive experiences to make tourism easier and more convenient. The “smart healthcare” business launched by China Unicom Shaanxi Branch can provide various information-based products for the healthcare industry, such as calling center systems, appointment systems, SMS platforms and digital health care services on mobile phones. In May 2012, the “3G appointment healthcare” system was started to operate under the cooperation between China Unicom Shaanxi Branch and Xijing Hospital of the Fourth Military Medical University. China Unicom Chuzhou Branch in Anhui Province and the Tianchang Municipal School Bus Preparatory Office have jointly established a safe school bus system to achieve real-time collection and uploading of vehicle location and in-car video through the built-in GPS/Beidou Navigation System and 3G video monitoring equipment so that the educational authorities, traffic police and the safety supervision department can take effective regulation and parents can search and receive real-time safety information of their children and the vehicle, ensuring them a safe journey. In 2012, there were 249 school buses completed the system installation in Tianchang, Fengyang, Dingyuan and Mingguang. China Unicom Shanxi Branch has promoted the information-based management for community service by bring 3G advantages into full play. With the development of the mobile reporting platform for community grid inspector, the public information reporting platform on mobile phones and the search platform for general information, social grid inspectors can log in through their mobile phones to immediately reflect problems found in grass-root services, receive orders from the commanding center at any time, conduct on-site inspection and give feedback. The public can also express their opinions via 3G phones. This project has been positively appraised by government agencies at all levels and those grass-root grid inspectors, and it is also very popular among the public. 31 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public IT application in industries By particularly focusing on and taking full advantages of the opportunities brought by IT application in industries, China Unicom has formed an information-based industrial application system based on “8 industries and 3 major fields” and produced dozens of such applications for mobile police affairs, digital urban management, electric industry and commerce, online invoice, land enforcement, mobile customs inspection, monitoring of tourist buses, third-type passenger vehicles and special vehicles carrying dangerous materials, and direct demographic reporting etc. By the end of 2012, there were 22.99 million users using these information-based industrial applications. 3 major fields: mobile Internet, IoT and e-commerce 8 industries: government, finance, logistics, aviation, automobile, energy, health care and public utilities ◇ Information-based governance We have cooperated with the State Administration of Taxation to develop online invoice applications. Based on the data base platform of the Administration, the issuer can use the 3G camera Monitoring terminal Internet to issue invoice in a real-time manner to ensure the validity of the invoice; the taxpayer can check such validity; and the taxation authorities Platform can search clues for invoice fraud. Online invoice can reduce the cost of taxation and lays the foundation for the transformation from “invoice“super 3G monitoring system” of Mobile monitoring based taxation” to “information-based China Unicom Ningxia Branch taxation”. ◇ Information-based regulation As for the secret discharge of some enterprises during the night which is hard to regulate on a daily basis, the 3G real-time monitoring system can provide real-time video for related inspectors to conduct analysis through data uploading and then understand the situation. ◇ Information-based enterprises We have cooperated with grid enterprises to promote the remote metering application which can send electricity usage data through mobile network to their data processing centers instead of the door-to-door service. This way can not only improve efficiency, but also obtain accurate electricity consumption figures of enterprises to make decisions for scientific peak load shaving. There have already been more than 1 million online metering devices deployed in terms of this application. ◇ Information-based finance The 3G mobile credit-card processing application launched with the cooperation of the banking industry has changed the previous complicated and time-consuming processing model, enabling the issuers to input customers’ information, scan their ID card and take photos through a smart tablet and then upload those information via the 3G network to the card center in a real-time manner for review and issuance. As a result, the processing time has reduced from the previous 4-5 weeks to 2 weeks or less. In addition, this application can also save a lot of printing, transportation and labor cost and it has already been adopted by the Bank of Communications, China Everbright Bank and China Citic Bank, etc. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Service quality enhancement China Unicom has constantly improved and fulfilled two service commitments on mobile broadband through in-depth identification and quick respond to customers’ needs, as a result of which the user experience has greatly improved. Mobile service commitment: strengthen electric work order management and improve work-order receiving, responding and processing efficiency to reduce network complaint rate; enhance failure management and complaint response to improve user experience. Broadband service commitment: fulfill our commitment of providing services including “72-hour installation and transfer, 24-hour maintenance in urban areas and 36-hour maintenance in rural areas” for 107 cities and regions in 10 provinces in the North and 25 local networks in the South to achieve the all-round broadband installation and maintenance goal with “everything being responded and handled”. Customer relationship management ◇ Customer service of China Unicom via micro blog The customer service of China Unicom via micro blog can make real-time report of the micro-blog customers’ complaint at different level to related branches and departments, which forms a national first-level closed-loop mechanism and procedure from customer complaint to company’s internal response, communication, treatment and feedback at the very first time. We monitored and handled about 50,000 customer complaints and received praise from all our customers for 13,000 times. This micro-blog-based customer service can also post original information about service guidance, related businesses and customer right safeguarding. There were totally 2,488 original Customer service of China posts having been made and then being followed and commented Unicom via micro blog for 150,000 times with 108 million times of exposure. ◇ Active response to customers’ complaints We have improved the customer-oriented early warning and responding mechanism for complaints at different levels to identify the problems in time and reach rapid resolution. By the end of 2012, the customer complaint rate decreased by 23.8% year on year, and the rate of problem solving at the first call and the customers’ satisfaction rate of our treatment were both up by 0.8% and 2.48% respectively than the beginning of this year. 33 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public China Unicom Qinghai Branch has set up a whole-process monitoring system for work orders, optimized and improved the compliant handling procedure, divided responsibilities and labors in a reasonable way, enhanced internal efficiency and established a complaint early warning mechanism. It has especially developed an indicator for “effective rate of problem solving within the work order term of validity” based on the KPI indicator of the Group, which requires the effective resolution of customers’ complaints within the time specified. Since the implementation of the measures mentioned above, the complaint resolving rate with limited time has been greatly improved. Complaint resolving rate with limited time Unit:% Time January February March April May June July August September 2011 89.8 90.8 90 90 90 89.7 90 90 90 2012 92.7 98.6 99.8 99.6 100 100 100 100 100 Comparison of the complaint resolving rate 100% 95% 90% 3123 85% 80% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep ◇ Customer reward activities The points reward program of China Unicom for public customers has been implemented with more than 20 billion points rewarded in the whole year, and the Ping Pong competition “Ping Pong in WO” has also been held consecutively with the number of participants surpassed 70,000 in 2012, increased by 34% year on year. This “Ping Pong in WO” activity has effectively combined customer relations, reward services and mass sports together to expand social influence and improve customer satisfaction. Anti-trust investigation On November 9, 2011, the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) conducted the anti-trust investigation of broad access to China Telecom and China Unicom. As a fundamental telecommunications operator, China Unicom realized the importance of this issue and taken a series of rectifying measures. In 2012, China Unicom submitted the rectifying report to NDRC, and committed to enhance fixed broadband access speed, expand the coverage of public wifi hotspot and WLAN, and reduce broadband fees in 2012 at the kickoff meeting of the “universalization and speeding up project” held by MIIT. By the end of 2012, the 20M above interfaces in urban areas accounted for 53% of the total, and the 4M above interfaces in rural areas was 65%. We have accomplished the broadband access construction for 40 schools in poor areas of Yunnan province and 15 special schools in both Shanxi and Inner Mongolia respectively. With measures of “preferential enhancement of speed” and “integrated business”, etc., the price value of broadband services has been constantly improved and the broadband fees have been further reduced. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Better price management ◇ Billing management In order to improve billing accuracy and improve user experience, China Unicom has constantly deepened the standardized management of billing and accounting and enhanced automatic billing technology to reduce billing time and increase payment timeliness. In addition, special programs including “3G Action Plan” and “Industrial Malpractices Governance” have been conducted to promote self-inspection and governance of billing and payment. Efforts have also been made to increase billing accuracy, provide all-round support for business alert and cope with users’ complaints about system failure and insufficient processing capacity. The year of 2012 has witnessed the constant decrease of the customer complaints about billing supporting services in the entire network. China Unicom Chongqing Branch has developed the “intercept system for mobile malicious software billing” to resolve mobile built-in service issues, prevent the uplink of abnormal ordering through uplink MO message filtering technology and avoid false payment. This system, since its usage, has intercepted 285 illegal products and 24.14 million illegal uplinks in total, and 49 cooperative partners were in the blacklist because of their illegal behavior. As a result, these illegal actions were effectively prohibited and the proportion of complaints about China Unicom has decreased from 27% in 2011 to 10.8%. ◇ Pricing With constant innovation on the original 3G pricing structure, China Unicom has developed the WO Pai package for teenagers, RMB 20 pre-paid package with minimum consumption for any content, and 3G traffic accumulative packages for customers who have a lot of data businesses, which all have greatly reduced the pricing standards. We have also provided the automatic upgrading services for mobile Internet packages to save money for our customers and the SMS alert service about traffic every time after our customers use our data businesses to let them have a clear understanding of their consumption. Moreover, our international long-distance and roaming fees have also been reduced and our subscription agreement has been improved to safeguard users’ knowing right of our services and price. ◇ Special charges China Unicom Liaoning Branch has promulgated a series of preferential policies for the disabled: reducing half of the broadband fees, prolonging service term or deducting calling rate for one-year subscription, as well as more than ten preferential services including “super monitoring system”, “intelligent facsimile”, “caring card packages”, “mass SMS for the dumb and deaf” and the “legal assistance platform for the disabled”. These preferential measures have been greatly appraised by both the provincial and municipal disabled persons’ federation and the disabled people after its promulgation and there were 20,000 disabled people enjoying the benefits of such services in the whole province. ◇ Transparency China Unicom Jiangsu Branch has implemented a “sunshine project for satisfied consumption” to conduct special governance by taking value-added services as the starting point. With measures of value-added service alert and detailed consumption inquiry optimization, business change without any obstruction, automatic sending of bills and value-added service source inquiry, etc., it has achieved its goal of “sunshine bills” to provide customers with clear and detailed consumption information. Since the launching of this activity, the number of complaints has greatly reduced, value-added services can be acquired and resigned by one button pressing and be sourced easily and those illegal service channels cannot be bound unknowingly. 35 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public China Unicom Chongqing Branch has promulgated a series of regulations including the Regulation on SMS Alert Service for Mobile Businesses, the Release and Review Procedure for Consumption Alert SMS, and the Feedback Collecting Mechanism after SMS Alert etc. At the same time, a “consumption alert monitoring mechanism” has also been established to optimize monitoring targets, improve SMS alert rules and provide better contents. In 2012, there were 117 3G business consumption alerts having been reached and 64 for 2G businesses. Healthy network construction ◇ Malicious information prevention China Unicom has strengthened efforts to fight against SMS spam: set up a control system and general control groups at all levels to ensure responsibility fulfillment; study and analyze the current situation about SMS spam and adopt control measures in key links; deploy the intercept system for SMS spam and tighten the manual examination and verification to achieve better SMS spam inspection and governance among different networks by means of effective management and technological methods; and unblock the reporting channels to take timely and effective treatment to information security problems. In 2012, we received 723 customer reports in total, verified and disposed 78 items and blocked 7,103 malicious websites to enhance information security management level in an all-round way and build a healthy, secure and orderly online environment. China Unicom Hainan Branch has also strengthened its SMS spam governance. By focusing on price management, number sales management, industrial interface management, selfowned mass message platform management, intercept means construction and customer complaint, it has combined managerial, technological and legal ways together to conduct governance with unblocking and blocking treated equally. As a result, the number of customer complaint has greatly reduced and the SMS spam has also been effectively contained. ◇ Healthy culture cultivation Since 2010, China Unicom has organized the SMS relay activity for three consecutive years to promote such way of communication and expand the influence of this activity through innovative businesses such as “super ring tone”, “ring-tone micro blog”, “SMS signature” and “SMS with facial expressions” etc. Since May 2012 when this “self-discipline” themed activity was launched, it has been commonly recognized by the whole society with 112,000 SMS produced, 58.3 million followed and 1.26 billion ring tones transmitted. Through the customer service via micro blog, China Unicom has organized nationwide user activities for 25 times with its posts been followed for more than 870,000 times and more than a million people participated, among which the most influential one is the thematic activity about Screen capture from China Unicom’s first micro its first micro movie which has 230,000 people involved. movie “Struggling for Love” (Wei Ai Da Pin) The Youth League Group of Tanggu Subsidiary of China Unicom Tianjin Branch, together with the Tanggu Youth League Committee, has organized the thematic activity of “Joint Construction of a Harmonious Network” and the 2012 online civilization promotion by young volunteers. 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Service innovation With the rapid development of Internet services, the traditional service mode cannot satisfy customers’ needs for doing businesses and enjoying services anywhere at any time. The dramatic increase of customers and constant emergence of new businesses also impose more pressure on the processing capacity of business outlets; hence the complaint of customers. In order to improve user experience, speeding up service provision and providing more convenience for customers, China Unicom has constantly innovated its services, expanded electric serving channels and implemented transformation for business outlets. A series of electric services have been launched and the “service improvement project” has also been developed to reduce customers’ waiting time, increase service efficiency and better satisfying customers’ needs. ◇ Enhancement of the service capacity for various e-channels With advanced processing of broadband businesses, arranging special seats for customers of other networks and providing intelligent customer service, the 10010 hot line service has further improved the capacity of online business processing and problem solving. The online store has been changed into The mini-store is providing supporting e-commerce website and the process of services for more than 120,000 terminal using for customers has also been simplified. outlets, whose functions have been further improved and the business coverage of which has also been expanded to remote areas. Flagship store on Taobao.com Online business store on QQ More than 10,000 The mobile business business outlets are application has been equipped with ATM, upgraded rapidly, performing functions covering all mainstream of invoice printing, mobile operating credit card payment systems and more and balance display. than 100 types of cell phones. The reciprocating capacity of the SMS business application has been greatly enhanced with the number of its daily users surpassed 10 million. Constant cooperation has been conducted with POS terminals and ATM to achieve the ubiquitous and convenient self-service. 37 III. Bring universal benefit of information technology to the public Electronic Service Hall User (Unit: ten thousand) 20000 18000 18000 16000 14000 12000 10000 10000 8000 5744 6000 4000 2000 0 2010 2011 2012 ◇ Continuous transformation of the marketing model for business outlets China Unicom not only takes business outlets as the window for service, but also makes them to be 3G-technology-supported whole-business experience and selling channels to provide users with brand-new visual experiences, diversified products and warm services by transforming the traditional counter service. In 2012, China Unicom has fully launched its “service improvement project” to optimize the IT system supporting, service procedures and on-site operation and management. As a result, the waiting and processing time for customers decreased by about 50% compared to the beginning of this year, and about 89% customers were satisfied with our self-owned business outlets. China Unicom Tianjin Branch has taken effective measures to reduce processing and waiting time at the business outlets by providing longdistance inquiry service, optimizing billing rules and operational procedures, balancing the customer flow distribution, enabling automatic input of ID information, developing the application of “WO Manager” and Long-distance inquiry and Interface of the WO appointment services Manager application promoting e-channel services. China Unicom Huzhou Branch in Zhejiang province has enabled the usage of the “register card of preferential communication services for the disabled”, provided green passage for them to have priority over general communication services, and organized regular activities about assistance provision. At the same time, it has also adopted the information technology to provide mobile positioning services for the disabled and their relatives in the entire city and accelerated the equalization process of public information service accessibility to create a disability-friendly environment from them to participate in the social life in an equal way. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 39 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Grow with employees China Unicom sticks to the principle of “people first” as the core tenet of its corporation governance. Employees’ enthusiasm has been remarkably stimulated by safeguarding employees’ rights, encouraging employees’ development, adhering to democratic management and caring about employees’ lives, and the enterprise vitality has also been aroused. A. Safeguard employees ’rights By the end of 2012, China Unicom has 295,000 employees, of which 58.7% are males and 41.3% are females, and 6.5% are from minority groups.Among senior executives under the intensive management of the Group, 11.8% are females. 6.5% male 41.3% female 93.5% 58.7% minority nationality Han nationality By the end of 2012, China Unicom has 295,000 employees, of which 58.7% are males and 41.3% are females, and 6.5% are from minority groups. Among senior executives under the intensive management of the Group, 11.8% are females. ◇ Lawful and equal employment China Unicom has strengthened standardized labor management, optimized labor management system and eradicated forced labor as well as the employment of minors. The Company respects labor equality. The Group and 31 provincial branches have established collective contract mechanism and pushed forward a unified payment system to guarantee equal payment for equal work. Employees’ lawful rights are safeguarded, and all contracted employees have joined in the Employee Congress and been covered by social insurance. ◇ Streamline managerial staffing China Unicom commits itself to democracy and openness, and selects and promotes talents through fair competition on the basis of merits. The managerial team has been streamlined. Job rotation is highly promoted in a bid to improve leadership structure and train managerial staff for multiple posts. More than one sixth of Level-II managers and deputy managers in the Company have taken the rotated posts. ◇ Salaries and benefits In 2012, China Telecom increasingly enhanced corporative resources allocation efficiency, persisted in distribution according to work, and attached more importance to performance with more consideration given to employees with great contribution and high values; upgraded the matching pattern of linking salaries with work performance and examination results, and the positive incentive effects of performance-based salaries were given into full play. The internal distribution relations were further optimized, with the per capita salary growth for front-line employees and non-managerial staff both higher than non-front line employees and managerial staff. Ningxia Unicom conducted personnel system reform and set up a modern enterprise salary system. Posts and post levels were comprehensively overhauled and all employees were engaged in competition for posts; “doublecrack” channel was set up for posts and post levels on market line and technology line; scientific performance appraisal system was Mobilization meeting Interview for department managers established and those who work more would for post competition be paid more. All these measures trigged employees’ vitality as well as their enthusiasm and initiative. 41 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society ◇ ESH(Environment, Security and Health)management China Unicom has been fully committed to labor protection, constantly pushed ahead the construction of occupational health management system and improved employee labor protection management. Various measures have been taken to guarantee employees’ occupational health, including carrying out work in the areas of gas defense, radiation protection, noise prevention, winter protection, frostbite protection and heatstroke prevention, stressing the provision and management of protection facilities, tools and equipment in accident-prone sites such as special operation sites, operation sites with hash environment and so forth. Employees are encouraged to take paid vacation, and the vacation system is very flexible. The annual health examination has become a routine and employees are entitled to physical examination every year. In 2012, China Unicom introduced Employee Assistance Programs (EPA) to carry out physical and mental health education for employees, which is a move to gives more care to employees. An “EPA experts” team was forged and the first phase training has been finished. A video forum focusing on the building of happiness and occupational mental health was broadcasted to all staff of the Group. The “staff aid plan” has been implemented and attracted wide participation within the Group. It has helped employees deal with various confusion or problems related to their personal lives and career in a better manner and enhance the psychological capital of the entire staff. Beijing Unicom established a mental health care system for its employees, and an employee confiding platform was also set up. The company periodically invites psychological experts to give lectures on mental health, send mental health information via MMS to its staff every month, set up a column on Beijing Communications dedicated to mental health, and open a hotline—4006156116 answered by famous psychologists on site. Since the establishment of this platform, over 10,000 employees have attended lectures on mental health at various levels, and 470,000 messages have been sent. This program was elected among “2012 Global Compact China Best Practices”. Persist in democratic governance China Unicom innovatively advances employees’ participation in the corporate democratic governance and earnestly guarantees employees’ democratic rights of participation in the corporate management and supervision. The “General Managers On Line” plan has been launched, emphasizing making good use of the enterprise’s own network advantages and adopting the most direct and easiest method of two-way communications to enhance the mutual understanding between management and employees, making the full expression of employees’ diverse values, needs and willingness of seeking self-value become possible. Hebei Unicom Customer Service Call Centre established a website called “Home of Customer Service”, making it a communication platform for employees where employees could contribute their advice and suggestions conveniently. Meanwhile, activities and measures such as “Go to the front line to make friends”, “General manager’s mail box”, “Rationalized proposals” and other campaigns were carried out to strengthen communications and exchanges between management and employees. 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Devote to employees’ development ◇ Employee training Concentrating on corporate strategy and focuses of work, China Unicom consistently conducts allround employee training at multiple levels and elevates employees’ capacities. Implement key leadership training programs. Push forward online study through Online With “leading digital era 2020” as the theme, China University. China Unicom constantly improves Unicom and Telefónica worked together to organize functions of its Online University, proceeds with the third joint senior executives training class.17 the development of online courses, and actively senior executives from China Unicom and 36 senior carries out online study by means of organizing executives from Telefónica participated in the training. online training classes, setting up special training Several other training classes of key leadership such as zone for professional departments in HQ and operation and management capacities and professional so on. With 460 new courses been added, qualities for managerial personnel at various levels accumulatively 1,300 courses have been made were organized. In 2012, altogether 23 training class available on line throughout the year. More than (16 sessions) were organized, and 1,429 executives at 850,000 students have engaged in the online No. of executives trained : various levels were trained. study, and the number of registered students 1,429 reached 610,000. Online study in 2010-2012 Online study in 2010-2012 No. of examinees total study duration (study hours) No. of online study participants: No.of learners 900000 850000 850,000 800000 700000 670000 600000 500000 410000 400000 300000 300000 210000 Implement professional quality training for 200000 130000 120000 170000 100000 64000 employees. 288 group-level business skill training 0 2010 2011 2012 classes have been organized throughout the year, and nearly 20,000 employees were trained, involving all professional lines: sales and service, products and Unit: persons market, construction, operation and maintenance, telecom marketing staff internal support and so on. China Unicom works with 5258 Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications telecom business hall working staff and other key universities in communications area 7741 to run joint programs, and encourages employees engaged in key business development and in great 2010 demand for to further their studies while holding their telecom marketing staff posts. More than 30,000 employees participated in the 97:: training programs set up for urgently needed personnel in the areas of broadband mobile communications and telecom business hall working staff Internet technology, with the total duration of training 14534 close to 8,000 days. customer service staff 7853 line mechanic 2011 8993 telecom marketing staff 17437 telecom business hall working staff 6082 customer service staff 14874 2012 43 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Set up innovation workshops for employees. In 2012, 98 innovation workshops with multiple types were set up, providing platforms for employees to work out solutions for difficulties based on their work, make contributions and display their talents. Guangxi Unicom set up an employee training and cultivation system which suits the post management system, in a bid to guide the career development of employee. It conducted surveys of employees ’demands for training, established a teaching team consisting of full-time and part-time teachers, enhanced the relevance and effectiveness of training, and promoted the standardized operation of training programs. Employees’ study was facilitated by incentives and examinations. In 2012, its employees won two innovation prizes above provincial level, seven accomplishment prizes and five skill competition prizes. More than 70 articles won prizes above provincial level. ሞኰᇵ߾ǖ6Bಢჟ༹ဣ ጆॆཚ‫ڢ‬ ጆᄽཚ‫ڢ‬ Ǒඪ ǝኰ ీ ૰ ಢ ჟ Picture 3ǖ Division of functions for training Ǆcarried out from two aspectsǅ Ǒଶ ǝ‫ ڞ‬૰ ಢ ჟ ࠶૙ཚ‫ڢ‬ 25.26 25.26 ࠽ဇ૴ཚბᇾ ጆᄽևோ 24.25 6B 6B 22.23 22.24 ࠅິኪ๎ 5B ཚᆩरీ 5B ᄽခኪ๎ 9.21 9.21 ᆐၨरీ ጆᄽरీ ࠶૙रీ 4B 4B ଶ‫ڞ‬૰ 6.8 3B 3B ኰ࿋‫ڪ‬पǖ 2.5 2B ႎᇵ߾ Ǆ4Qಢჟ༹ဣǖ෇ኰᆅ‫ڞ‬Ă୾ߖბသĂߖമरీಢჟǅ ຌ‫ں‬၍ǖӀᇵ߾࠶૙඄၌ǈຣ‫ڦ‬ටᇵຣಢჟ ጆᄽ၍ǖӀᄽခ࠶૙ᄲ൱ǈຣ‫ڦ‬ᄽခຣಢჟ Picture 1: Employee career development channel and training system ◇ Career plan and development channel China Unicom pays attention to its employees’ career development, and developed a doublecrack post system featuring the parallel channels of technology line and management line. China Unicom Management Regulations for Managerial Personnel (Trial), China Unicom Management Regulations for Professional Technology Qualification Assessment, as well as qualification management regulations for professional posts in regional sales, operation maintenance and other fields were issued in 2012. Regarding career development, the Guide on Proceeding with Matching Posts with Personnel and Contributing to the Career Development of Employees was issued to promote provincial branches to stipulate career development strategies for employees and encourage the synchronous development of individuals and China Unicom. Take care of employees’ lives China Unicom vigorously carries out the campaign of “ Serve grassroots employees in a face-to-face and earnest manner” by going to the frontline branches, business halls and employees’ living and recreational places to get to know employees’ opinions and work situation, so as to truly understand employees’ demands and earnestly satisfy their needs. 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Improve work environment The construction of “Five small facilities (small canteen, small study room, small recreation room, small lounge and small shower room)” has been carried out, making grassroots employees’ lives more convenient. 2,916 such facilities were planned to build in 2012. “iRead” is promoted, which combines network technology and the construction of Employees’ Home together, enabling more employees to enjoy the pleasure of reading, In 2012, China Unicom invested 11.85 million Yuan in the construction of Employees’ Home and small facilities mentioned above. ◇ Balance work and live In 2012, Hubei Unicom Customer Service Call Centre proposed and implemented the campaign of “ Doing ten practical things for employees”, including doing solid work, solving problems and doing good things for its staff, which consistently increased employees’ satisfaction and happiness. Nearly 10,000 Yuan was invested in additional ventilation equipment for employees in the call room. Employees’ meal allowance and quality were both increased. Regular physical examination and various recreational activities were organized for employees. A psychological consulting room was set up. Employees with difficulties were taken care of. All these measures fulfilled Hubei Unicom’s commitment to care about its employees. Youth League Committee organized Employee singing contest Hebei Unicom Customer Service Call Centre carried out “Employee Care” Program in many aspects, including taking special care of employees with difficulties or suffering illness, employees on birthdays, excellent employees and new employees. Difficult employees 15 employees were visited, among whom 6 families were visited by leaders themselves Sick employees 95 employees in hospital were visited Scrolling text of birthday information is shown on the LED display, Birthday employees organize birthday DIY regularly Excellent employees Organized a “ Honor tour” for 32 excellent employees 2011 New employees “Newcomer Care Plan” 45 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society ◇ Help employees with difficulties In 2012, China Unicom implemented Guide on Setting up Special No. of consolation recipients : 27,172 Funds for Assisting Employees with Difficulties, and proceeded with improving the long-term mechanism of helping and supporting employees, 11.4201 million Yuan were invested accumulatively in 2012, and altogether 17 provincial branches have set up funds in various forms for helping and supporting employees. Organizations at all levels under China Unicom extensively carried out heartConsolation money offered : warming activities. During 2011-2012, 27,172 employees were visited accumulatively and 56.22 million Yuan allowances were offered. 56.22 million Yuan Hunan Unicom Customer Service Call Centre cared about employees suffering severe illness. An employee named Li Qin was diagnosed pituitary adenoma on February 2011, and an operation of opening cranium was needed. Facing the extremely high medical costs, her family that originally was in strait of money suddenly got into scrapes. Knowing this, director of the Call Centre took the lead to donate 1,000 Yuan to her, and advocated all employees to offer her some help. Li and her family moved to tears when receiving 20,000 Yuan contributions. Although it was just an utterly inadequate amount, what Li received was hope and confidence to overcome the difficulty. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Develop with partners Forge responsible supply chains ◇ Responsible procurement China Unicom has proactively advocated green procurement and improved green procurement system. Energy consumption standards for equipment and energy saving requirements are clearly stipulated in equipment procurement technical specifications, which assess the energy consumption, energy saving product certification, radiation indicators as important procurement indicators with extra weights. Procurement priority would be given to energy saving products subject to satisfying technology, service and other indicators. ◇ Responsible value-added cooperation China Unicom consistently improves the mechanism of value-added service cooperation, making sure to provide healthy and safe value-added services for users. A product could only get accessed after going through the procedure of access assessment, selection, public review, and bidding; during the operation, the portalbased service ranking mechanism, default management mechanism, credit point mechanism and classification mechanism are implemented; when a product is withdrawn, the differentiated appraisal and withdrawal management would be adopted according to the product’s type of cooperation. The punishment mechanism has been set up and heavier punishment would be given to six types of nonstandard customization problems that are severely complained by customers, including mandatory fees for value-added services, induced charge and so on. Meanwhile, China Unicom respects its partners very much. On the base of fair cooperation, a partner satisfaction survey will be conducted quarterly, in a bid to solicit reasonable advice from partners and make improvements, with the aim to achieve mutual benefits. ◇ Responsible channel cooperation In 2012, China Unicom signed strategic cooperation agreements with D.Phone and Zhongyu Telecom respectively, signaling that China Unicom has built cooperation with all mainstream national-level chain store channels. China Unicom has promoted the launch of intensive management system for channels, making the intensive management of channel data possible, and 3G commission calculation and effectiveness evaluation thus become more timely and accurate, while the commission payment becomes more standardized and transparent. Carry out strategic cooperation China Unicom commits itself to cooperation and mutual benefits with its strategic partners, and actively set up strategic cooperation platforms with governments, banks, airlines, Internet-based companies, the press and overseas partners, which has received good coordination development effects. Strategic cooperation in 2012 Partners Strategic cooperation contents Provincial governments of Shanghai, Hainan, Jilin, Signing of strategic cooperation frame agreements Ningxia, Guangdong, Guizhou, Shanxi, Qianghai and Hubei 31 industrial leaders, including State Food and Drug Administration, National Administration of Surveying, Mapping and Geoinformation, Xixian Establishment of strategic partnership New Area of Shanxi Province, Maotai Group,Vanke Group, China Guangdong Nuclear Power Holding Co., Ltd. and Sichuan Changhong Electric Co.,Ltd 47 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Strategic cooperation in 2012 Partners Strategic cooperation contents China Merchants Bank and China Eastern Airlines Signing of cross-industry alliance cooperation agreements About 120 cities in 26 provinces (municipalities and Signing of Smart City cooperation agreements autonomous regions) 26 Internet-based industry partners Capacity open and social apps integration cooperation Xinhua Net Co.Ltd China Unicom became a shareholder in the capacity of a strategic investor Deepened and expanded cooperation in many areas Telefónica including service, market, purchase, technology, operation and maintenance and executive training. Broad and deep cooperation in cross-border network, data PCCW Group service, system integration and other service areas. Build social harmony ◇ Help the poor and aid the needy Public welfare donations : 4.09 China Unicom has never stopped contributing the community in line with the donation principle of acting according to ability, well-defined rights and responsibilities and honesty. In 2012, China Unicom’s donations aggregated to 19.68 million Yuan, of which 4.09 million were public welfare donations and 15.59 million were relief donations. million Yuan Aid Tibet Non-public welfare donations : In 2012, China Unicom’s donation funds for Ngari, Shigatse and other Tibetan areas aggregated to 11.52 million Yuan, which would be used for strengthening infrastructure and benefiting people’s livelihood. It accumulatively invested 8.5 million Yuan to the renovation and expansion project of a village primary school in Gê'gyai County, and guaranteed the timely 15.34 million Yuan availability of project funds. This project has significantly improved teaching condition of the school, and contributed to the development of local education. Moreover, China Unicom also donated 750,000 Yuan to the post-earthquake reconstruction of this county, regional stability maintenance as well as the construction of security system, helping the improvement of people’s livelihood of this poverty-stricken area. Fixed-point poverty alleviation China Unicom is carrying out fixedpoint poverty alleviation work in Kangbao County and Guyuan County in Hebei Province. Two poverty alleviation commissioners from China Unicom have worked in Kangbao and Guyuan respectively as vice secretaries of CPC county committees, and China Unicom also allocated 2.2 million Yuan poverty alleviation funds to support the industrial poverty alleviation technology training and implementation of poverty alleviation projects like greenhouse cultivation of edible fungi, introduction of breeding cows and poverty alleviation mutual aid funds. The Company also actively promoted the regional economic and social development, achieving good economic and social benefits. Gansu Unicom positively responded to the campaign of “contacting villages and villagers and helping people get rich” initiated by the CPC provincial committee and provincial government. As a partner supporter, it offered helps to 128 extremely poor household in three villages in Hanji Town, Linxia County by sending fertilizer and smart phones to them, covering their monthly charges, purchasing satellite TV receiving equipment and proceeding with the infrastructure construction like hardening roads and setting up village office. It also provided broadband Internet access for two CPC village committees and two primary schools, equipping them with six computers and four private Internet lines. Since the beginning of this campaign, Gansu Unicom has invested 275,000 Yuan support funds. 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Social development Chen cen, an employee of Jiangsu Unicom, set up an online group called “Mums hold babies” to help those children abandoned by their own parents due to their illness. At present, there are 900 mums joining this group and they have funded 16 abandoned children. This organization has been named as one of the ten characters that “Touched by Jiangsu People”, and has also been shortlisted as “Ten Characters Touched by Chinese 2012” by CCTV. Guangdong Unicom paid more attention to the construction of “WO Employment, Novitiate and Internship Base”, where 608 college graduates were employed or interned. More than 500 university students were enrolled to participate in the cooperative entrepreneurship programs, and 21,800 social service cards for employment were sent out, providing employment information service for college graduates. A 3G network-based “Easy Employment” comprehensive service information platform was fostered. “WO Employment, Novitiate and Internship Base” has been selected among the first demonstrative internship bases of Guangdong Province and internship and entrepreneurship bases for young people of Central Committee of the Communist Young League. Shandong Unicom cooperated with Shandong Provincial Committee of Communist Young League and offered 30 million Yuan to set up an entrepreneurship fund for university students, and launched the construction of “Youth Entrepreneur Society”, covering 112 colleges and universities across Shandong Province and 1.6 million students in 2012. Altogether 134,000 students received employment and entrepreneurship training, and 14,000 social practice opportunities were provided, attracting and cultivating dozens of entrepreneurship programs that are of great market development potential. Guizhou Unicom fully supported “Project Hope Funds for Guzhou Mountainous Areas—Happy Campus Plan” by building canteens for a middle school and a primary school in Changshou County, which is a national-level poverty-stricken county lying in the deep mountain, so 700-odds students in these two schools could have meals in school. Furthermore, the company also raised 168,000 Yuan to support the school teaching. 49 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Kashgar Unicom launched the “Bonus Points Redemption for Love-giving Charitable Funds” campaign, encouraging its customers to donate their bonus points. A “Love-giving donation package” was added to the bonus point system, and customers could voluntarily redeem their bonus points for donation. On the other hand, before Mid-autumn festival and the National Day of 2012, Kashgar Unicom donated 20,000 Yuan to local welfare center for children. Guangdong Unicom jointed hands with Guangdong Provincial Committee of Communist Youth League, the Department of Human Resources and Social Security of Guangdong Province and Nanfang Media Group to launch a series of public welfare cultural activities under the theme of “WO Concerns Migrant Workers 2012” aimed at providing convenience to the new generation of industrial workers, and using cultural lives to build a bridge helping newcomers integrate into the cities they now live in. This campaign took the form of allstart commonweal concerts, and gave touring performances in four cities, namely Foshan, Dongguan, Shenzhen and Guangzhou. These performances were very well-received among newcomers, with as high as 5 million migrant workers benefiting from them and 100,000 people watching these shows on site. ◇ Voluntary services In March 2012, Jilin Unicom established a volunteer society, namely “Jilin Unicom Guo Mingyi Voluntary Service Group”. Throughout the year, 10 volunteer branches across the province organized more than 30 voluntary services, including fiber cable protection, voluntary promotion of communication facility security maintenance, promotion of the “Building of an Advanced Clean City” campaign, participation of local cultural and art festivals, pairing support, co-building of communities and so on. With the development of corporation business as the centre, Jilin Unicom carried out more than 50 voluntary service activities under the theme of “WO changes Lives”. 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 During International Exposition Yeosu Korea 2012, Beijing Unicom organized 10 volunteers to provide Chinese consulting service in Korea. During the EXPO, when calling 02114 in Korea and saying “Hello (Nihao)” in Chinese, one could enjoy Chinese consulting services provided by Beijing Unicom’s volunteers. Except for obtaining EXPO tourism information for free, customers could also get access to Korean translation, local dictionary, emergency support, face-lifting and medical examination consultation as well as other consulting services. In 2012, Jiangxi Unicom launched “WO Services for College Entrance Examination”, and the services included exam site service and picking-up service. During the exams, business halls of Jiangxi Unicom set up “exam service station” to provide services for students and their parents. The authoritative program “ Go To Universities” was available on line provided by Jiangxi Unicom exclusively using WO 3G technology, and students and parents could watch it for free all day long. It also worked with Jiangxi Education TV to run a live hotline 0791-82080186 and a special session was dedicated to China Unicom customers. In 2012, Beijing Unicom’s voluntary service program-caring about migrant workers’ children was awarded “Golden Youth Voluntary Service Program of Central Enterprises” by Central Enterprise Work Committee of Communist Youth League. In this program, members of Communist Youth League as volunteers adopted the latest communication technology like 3G to provide a channel for migrant workers in Beijing to make calls with their children in hometowns. Meanwhile, they paid regular visits to migrant workers to provide them with affordable communication products and collect communication fees, offering convenience for their communication. This program has been implemented for two years, and voluntary services have been provided for 11 times. As many as 120 members of Communist Youth League have participated in this program and provided communication consultation services to more than 1,000 migrant workers. 51 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Jiangxi Unicom carried out the “WO•Love—Azalea Caring House” program, and altered a classroom in a school that mainly enrolls children of migrant workers to provide voluntary caring services. They brought equipment and items that help children’s study and created sense of belongings for those children to make up for the vacancy of their after-school lives. In 2012, two “WO•Love—Azalea Caring Houses” were set up in Nanchang and Ji’an respectively. Since 2009 when Shanghai Unicom sponsored a volunteer program named “Shanghai Unicom•Childhood in Tibetan Regions”, Shanghai Unicom has continued carrying out this voluntary teaching program. Nearly 100 students and teachers have been benefited from the scholarship provided by this program, and the DV film about this program won the second prize and best theme award in “Shenhua Cup” Central Enterprises Young Volunteer DV Film Competition” organized by Central Enterprise Work Committee of Communist Youth League. I am a student of Diexi Primary School, and I come from an extremely poor family with two elder brothers ahead of me. It is the financial aid from “Shanghai Unicom • Childhood in Tibetan Regions” Program that relieved my financial burden and enabled me to continue my study. I sincerely thank them for helping me. ——Wen Anfeng, a student of Diexi Primary School 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 “Warmth from WO”—Youth League Committee of Shandong Unicom “WO Concerns for Stay-at-home Guangdong Unicom organized a voluntary activity od Children” activity donating clothes. Anhui Unicom cared about stay-at-home children and donated to poor families 53 Stick to “people first” and co-build a harmonious society Nantong Customer Call Centre of Jiangsu Unicom organized members of Youth League to visit local welfare centre for children Young volunteers from Tangshan branch of Hebei Unicom provided service in local paraplegia nursing home Youth League Committee of Qujing branch of Yunnan Unicom organized young employees to visit local welfare centre for children 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 55 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 China Unicom eyes on making itself become a “resources-conservative enterprise” and “environmentfriendly enterprise”, and fully tap its potential of energy conservation and emission reduction to cut costs and increase efficiency. It promotes the application of green technology, carries out green marketing, serves the informatization of society, pushes forward the implementation of energy conservation and emission reduction, and proactively creates a green environment for “informative life”. Green management China Unicom vigorously advocates energy conservation and emission reduction by setting Comprehensive energy consumption up an energy conservation and emission of unit beckbone netowork information flow Unit: kg ce/TB reduction management committee, under 80 75.58 which there are an administration office and 70 65 nine professional working groups. It has issued 60 Energy Consumption Budget Goal for 2012 50 45.44 and Assessment Methods of Special Incentive 40 for Energy Conservation and Emission 30 Reduction, highlighting the key points of work 20 in this regard, allocating special funds, and 10 carrying this work out in each section including 0 network planning, network construction, 2010 2011 2012 equipment procurement, operation and maintenance, production and so on. Green network Greening of network construction China Unicom persists in green procurement with clear requirements regarding energy conservation, and makes energy consumption a key assessment indicator in equipment procurement. It conducted a “Research on Comprehensive Energy Conservation Technology for Mobile Communication Network Base Station”, and creates as many as 220 types of application scenarios in details according to natural environment, work modes, WiFi coverage, power consumption of equipment and other factors, and detailed energy conservation plans are designed accordingly with quantified energy saving indicators. It also conducted a “Research on New Type Battery Technology and Application for Communication Power System”, and tested many new types of batteries, including lithium iron battery, fuel battery, pure lead battery and high-temperature battery, accumulating a large amount of data for the future application and promotion, while giving advice on modification for traditional lead-acid battery under different scenarios based on economic assessment. Regarding network construction, the Company pays attention to the harmonious coexistence of human and nature. When conducting communication routing survey in natural environment, mineral areas, forests, grasslands, wild animal preservation areas, natural heritages, human remains, nature reserves and scenic spots are dodged; when laying fiber cables, cutting-edge technology is used to lay them under the obstacles direct to avoid changing the surrounding environment. 57 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China Yili Unicom built a wind energy and solar energy complementary energy conservative base station. The Company’s Zangyinggou Base Station lies at the mountain of Guozigou and is powered by solar energy. Due to the impact of alpine climate, power supply is often cut off. The company contacted a factory and designed a wind power generator to equip this base station with two kinds of power generators complementing with each other. Since the installation of this power station, power supply has never been cut off, and this set of equipment saves 40,000 Yuan for the company every year. Greening of network operation In 2012, based on the practical situation of the Company, China Unicom adopted 24 kinds of energy conservation technology, issued technology standards and specifications for nine types of equipment, invested No. of energy-saving renovation 1.045 billion Yuan in energy conservation and emission reduction programs, and launched 306 technical projects: 306 innovation programs for energy saving. The fund for energy saving and emission cut was guaranteed to be used for its specified purposes only, in order to make sure that the energy economizing benefits could be obtained with high efficiency. Differentiated energy conservation measures were taken in different regions according to regional features: provincial branches in the North focused on controlling the use increase of electricity and coal, while provincial branches in the South paid more attention to control the consumption Special investment in energy growth of electricity only, and as a result, the consumption of oil, gas and heat saw the negative increase or conservation and emission slow increase. 38.44% of base stations, 42.9% of communication machine rooms and 17.53% of access reduction: 1.045 network machine rooms have been under energy saving modification, and the coverage rate of software energy consumption of GSM network has reached 100%. The energy consumption of single carrier of mobile network reduced by 7.5%, and 100% of machine rooms has been covered by environment temperature management. billion Yuan In 2012, Shaanxi Unicom carried out an inspection on the power supply system for core network and cut off the power supply for idle equipment. Machine rooms/base stations environment temperature management was fully advanced, and the operation and temperature setting of air conditioners were under scientific control. Daily energy saving and maintenance was strengthened to contribute to the implementation of work in this regard. Meanwhile, everyday inspection on energy-saving equipment was also strengthened to make sure that the equipment could function properly and reduce network energy consumption. Yili Unicom took various measures to build a green enterprise. These measures included increasing the temperature of air conditioners in base stations, adoption of ventilation and energy-saving equipment, power transformation of base stations, paying more attention to the maintenance of storage batteries in base stations and air conditioners, and reinforcing the management of electricity consumption in offices. Yili Unicom won the honorable title of “2012 Communication Industry Energy Conservation Management Innovation Advanced Company” granted during “The 3rd Communication Industry Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Conference” hosted by China Association of Communications Enterprises. 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Co-building and sharing of resources China Unicom actively promotes co-building and sharing of resources, and has established a management mechanism consisting of the Group-branches-production and management units. It has also improved relevant mechanism and procedures, ameliorated statistical analysis, and improved a series of working mechanism including dispute coordination, supervision and inspection, examination and assessment and so forth, with the aim to set up a working system of co-building and sharing, Telecom Infrastructure Co-building Rates and Sharing Rates Infrastructure 2010 2011 2012 Co-building rate 72% 73.76% 70.10% Tower Sharing rate 88% 85.68% 88.57% Co-building rate 60% 60.92% 64.53% Base station Sharing rate 89% 86.03% 88.30% Indoor Distribution Co-building rate — 43.16% 53.81% System Sharing rate — 90.79% 95.76% Co-building rate 57% 50.51% 50.55% Pole line Sharing rate 89% 90.55% 95.50% Co-building rate 54% 49.38% 57.95% Transmission line Sharing rate 84% 90.42% 94.64% Co-building rate — 75.12% 82.63% Channel Sharing rate — 88.94% 84.34% Estimation showed that, by co-building and sharing, units at all levels saved current investment worth up to 4 billion Yuan, over 4.1 billion Yuan and 3.6 Yuan for China Unicom respectively in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Shanghai Unicom set up the Co-building and Sharing Office and Work Committee to actively coordinate with government authorities and three telecom operators, and major sites of the whole city, including important transportation hubs, large gymnasiums and big industrial parks have been overall planned. The intensive construction of Beijing-Shanghai and Shanghai-Nanjing high-speed railways, new harbor cities, EXPO Park, Shanghai Oriental Sports Centre and Hongqiao Traffic Hub have been completed. Sichuan Unicom has stipulated Telecom Infrastructure Co-building and Sharing Work Supervision and Management Methods and Telecom Infrastructure Co-building and Sharing Assessment Methods, and assessment requirements for co-building and sharing have been included in the feasibility study and project designs since the planning stage of GPS and WCDMA engineering project. By the end of 2012, Sichuan Unicom has saved about 750 million Yuan by co-building and sharing. 59 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China Green office China Unicom makes efforts to increase the effects of cycle logistics, conducts full-circle management, standardizes reverse logistics management and clarifies the recovery-processing-reuse procedure, and firststage achievement has been made in the centralized management of excess stock of engineering materials, depreciated materials and scrap materials by specific departments. See the table below: Unit: 100 million Yuan Project/Year 2010 2011 2012 Inventory amount 43.3 28.8 25.2 Recovery amount 3.3 5.3 6.5 Reuse amount 1.3 0.9 1.0 Scrap recovery amount 0.6 3.4 3.8 Based on cycle logistics, with the overhaul of depreciated ADSL terminals as channels, the management benefits of the above-mentioned three types of materials are tapped. Every year, the reuse of overhauled ADSL terminals could save more than 10 million procurement funds. The range of overhaul and reuse has been expanded to cables, fare registers for call rooms and fiber optical transceiver terminals to make benefits from more depreciated materials. China Unicom initiated the management of scrap materials collectors and worked out the China Unicom Scrap Materials Collectors Management Methods in line with national laws and regulations, so as to unify the access standards and tighten the access requirements. It also established collector qualification review and record mechanism, on-site inspection and spot check mechanism and elimination mechanism of unqualified collectors to strictly manage loopholes and risks and prevent loss of assets. China Unicom advocates employees to save the use of electricity and water in daily work, promotes paperless office, controls temperature of air conditioners, requires windows to be closed when using air conditioners, and saves cooling and heating. Green public welfare ◇ Voluntary tree-planting Yueyang Unicom regularly organizes treeXilingol League Unicom in Inner Mongolia planting activity and protecting Xiangjiang organized young volunteers to plant trees. River from pollution activity, and encourages its employees to devote to public welfare activities and protect the environment. 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Recycling of scrap electronic device Guangxi Unicom carried out an old-for-new public welfare activity themed “Environmental protection contributes to Project Hope”. Customers could trade their old mobile phones for new ones, and with each old phone collected, Guangxi Unicom would donate one Yuan to Project Hope. For customers participated in this activity, they could get a fashion gift bag worth 500 Yuan, or get 200 Yuan deduction when buying a new handset. Meanwhile, “Electric waste recycling box” were put in all branches to advocate this consumption idea. This campaign received positive responds and supports from customers and people from all walks of society. By the end of 2012, as many as 35,000 customers had participated in this campaign, and as a first-stage achievement, Guangxi Unicom donated 35,000 Yuan to Project Hope. 61 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China 2013 Outlook In this new year of development, China Unicom will take the management enhancement activity as a catalyst to comprehensively improve management, consolidate the foundation of responsibility fulfillment, and make contribution to the sustainable development of the enterprise, industry and society. China Unicom will continue to increase its social responsibility capacity and management level, work out a three-year plan regarding social responsibility, set up a social responsibility management system, improve social responsibility indicator system, strengthen communication of responsibility, and conduct social responsibility training. China Unicom will enhance network capacity building based on customer needs, expand network coverage in small towns and villages, enhance the capacity to guarantee emergency communications, and prevent the spread of malicious information over the Internet. More efforts will be given to deepen Internet-based services, and customer services will also be elevated. More services will be developed with 3G and broadband services as the focuses, and the development of industrial apps required by “Smart City” will be speeded up. Employees’ rights and benefits will be safeguarded, and the salary distribution would give more consideration to employees with great contribution and frontline employees. The employee career development system construction would be proceeded with, and channels for employees’ to participate in the corporate governance will be expanded. The “Employee Mental Health Aid and Support Plan” will be fully implemented. Energy conservation and emission reduction work will be reinforced, and the use of new energy-saving technology will be promoted. More attention would also be paid to care about the disadvantageous groups by organizing volunteer programs and supporting public welfare undertakings. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 Appendix ◇ I Key performance Type Indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 Operation Total assets 100 million Yuan 5126.8 5237.5 5750.8 and Business revenue 100 million Yuan 1768.1 2162.8 2581.6 development No. of mobile users reached 10,000 households 16742.6 19966.0 23931.2 No. of 3G users reached 10,000 households 1406.0 4001.9 7645.6 No. of local telephone users 10,000 households 9663.5 9285.1 9195.7 No. of broadband access users 10,000 households 4722.4 5565.1 6386.9 labor productivity 10,000 Yuan/person.year 52.5 63.1 72.9 Network No. of 3G base stations built 10,000 unit 16 23.9 33.1 capacity 3G network coverage rate of towns and villages % 30 33 75 No. of 2G base stations built 10,000 unit 31.8 37.5 41.1 Broadband access interfaces Ten thousand 6583 8592.3 10646 for fixed lines Broadband coverage rate of administrative villages in ten Northern provinces mainly % 92 93 94 managed by China Unicom WCDMA connection rate % 98.0 98.6 98.12 Switched telecom network % 98.53 98.61 98.66 connection rate 2G mobile network call drop rate % 0.32 0.25 0.27 3G mobile network call drop rate % 0.43 0.26 0.17 Indigenous Investment in science and 100 million Yuan innovation technology 16.4 17.1 28.1 No. of technology staff Person 3157 3169 3224 International standard essays Article 132 495 600 Industrial standards Item 116 211 208 Patents Item 132 252 380 Authorized patents Item 53 77 68 Customer Satisfaction rate of fixed line service point 80.2 80 80.1 service Satisfaction rate of broadband service % 67.9 69.0 68.8 Satisfaction rate of mobile service % 77.9 77.8 78.0 Complaint rate Complaint/one million users 5.83 5.76 6.48 No. of E-business hall users 100 million households 0.6 1.0 1.8 People-first Proportion of male and female employees Male vs. Female 1.35:1 1.39:1 1.42:1 practice Proportion of minority employees % 5.86 6.37 6.49 Proportion of women in senior management % 12.5 12.9 11.8 Employee training investment 10,000 Yuan 19193 23497 26400 63 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China Type Indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 Online University visitors 10,000 persons 30 67 85 Total duration of online study 10,000 credit hours 13 21 41 Investment to help difficulty 10,000 Yuan 714.86 817.73 1142.01 employees Consolation money provided 10,000 Yuan 1428.4 2388.44 1121.92 Green Comprehensive energy operation consumption of backbone 1 kg standard coal/TB 75.6 65.0 45.4 network information flow Current investment saved by 100 million Yuan 40 41 36 co-building and sharing Special investment to energy 10,000 Yuan 5.6 7.8 conservation and emission reduction Gasoline consumption 10,000 tons 7.52 7.37 7.34 Diesel fuel consumption 10,000 tons 2.1 2.44 2.38 Natural gas consumption 10,000 cubic meters 1036.55 1031.6 1167.9 Electricity consumption 100 million KWH 99.17 107.35 117.2 Water consumption 10,000 tons 2520 2639 2474 Material repayment 100 million Yuan 3.3 5.3 6.5 Amount of recycled materials 100 million Yuan 1.3 0.9 1.0 Amount of scraps proceed 100 million Yuan 0.6 3.4 3.8 Community Credit ratings Level AAA AAA AAA responsibility Total tax payments 100 million Yuan 73.0 100.9 118.0 Employment attracted during the reporting period Person 18456 16637 20780 Total donations 10,000 Yuan 1497.9 2491.3 1967.6 Note: 2012 financial data is Monthly report 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Awards China Unicom’s “Employee Mental Health Safeguard Mechanism” was awarded “2012 Global Compact China Best Practices”. China Unicom was awarded the honorable title of “Excellent Organization Award” in the “civilized texting” campaign co-hosted by Civilization Office of CPC Central Committee, State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) and MIIT. China Unicom was among the first winners of “Beijing-based Central Enterprise Intellectual Property Leading awards”. WO Store won the “Most Influential Carrier Channel Awards 2012” . China Unicom won five awards in Youth Voluntary Program, Volunteers and Organizers granted by Central Communist Youth League and Youth Federation of Central Enterprises. China Unicom was awarded as Central Enterprise Management Enhancement Campaign Excellent Organizer by SASAC. China Unicom was among one of the 40 “Advanced Units of Performance Appraisal for Central Enterprise” granted by SASAC. China Unicom’s management informatization practice was chosen by SASAC as one of the typical example of central enterprise management informatization. 16 organizations of China Unicom won the honorable title of the 3rd “National Civilized Units” and 15 organizations remained their honorable titles after annual review. 65 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China ◇ Indicators index CASS-CSR2.0 index Contents Second-level directory Guide on Preparation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Page Report for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR2.O) From the Chairman ! ā! Q3/2-Q3/3! Q34 Improve corporate ! Corporate profile ! Q5/2-Q5/7ǗN2/2! Q7: governance and make the company! Scientific management ! Q5/6-T2/2-T2/3-T2/4ǈN2/3-N2/4! Q:24 into the top ! Responsibility management ! H2/2-H2/3-H3/2-3/3-H4/2-4/3-H6/2-6/3-Q4/2-H2/3ǈH4/2ǈH5/2-H2/4-H7/2! Q2526 Consolidate ! efforts Basic network construction ! DTN3/26-DTN3/28-DTN3/27-DTN3/2:! Q2931 to fulfill our responsibility and ! Emergency enablement communication ! ĊĊ! Q3132 build high-quality networks Communication ! assurance security! DTN3/25! Q33 ! Scientific and technological innovation promotion ! N3/3-N3/35-N3/37-! Q3334 Bring ! universal IT application in people’s ! life DTN3/24-N3/3-DTN3/2:-DTN3/31 Q37 benefit of information ! IT application in agriculture, ! DTN3/2:-DTN3/33! Q3839 technology to the rural areas and farmers’ life public IT application in urban ! ĊĊ! Q3:41 ! areas ! IT application in industries ! ĊĊ! Q42 ! Service quality enhancement! DTN3/4-N3/7.N3/:-DTN3/23.DTN3/25-DTN3/27-DTN3/34-N3/3 Q4348 Stick to “people ! Grow with employees ! T3/4ǈT3/5ǈT3/6ǈT3/23-!T3/24-T3/26ǈ T3/28.T3/29-T3/31.T3/3:! Q5156 first” and co-build a harmonious ! Develop with partners ! N4/3ǈN4/5-N4/7! Q5758 society ! Build social harmony ! T4/3-!T4/8.T4/23! Q5864 Jointly ! build Green management ! F2/2-F2/3! Q67 ecological ! civilization and Green network ! F2/5! Q6769 work towards an eco-friendly China ! Green office ! F2/7ǈF3/2.F3/8-DTF3/22-F4/4-F4/6! Q6: ! Green public welfare ! F2/6! Q71 2013 Outlook ! ! B2! Q72 ! Key performance ! Q6/3! Q7374 Appendix ! Awards ! Q6/4! Q75 ! DBTTDTS3/1! B4! ! Q76 Indicators index ! HSJ!H4! B4! Q7779 Report standards ! ! Q2/2Q2/6ǈQ2/8-2/9! Q2 Report grade ! ! B3! Q7: Feedback ! ! B5! Q81 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 GRI index No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page Strategy and analysis 1.1 ● P2-3 1.2 ● P2-3 Corporation situation 2.1 ● P6 2.6 ● P6 2.2 ● P6,P8 2.7 ● P6 2.3 ● P8-9 2.8 ● P6 2.4 ● P1,P69 2.9 ● P6,P8-9 2.5 ● P6,P19 2.10 ● P23,P64 Report Parameter 3.1 ● P1 3.8 ○ 3.2 ● P1 3.9 ● P1 3.3 ● P1 3.10 ○ 3.4 ● P1,P69 3.11 ○ 3.5 ● P1 3.12 ● P1,P65-68 3.6 ● P1 3.13 ● P64 3.7 ● P1 Corporation governance 4.1 ● P6-7 4.10 ● P6-7 4.2 ● P6 4.11 ● P12 4.3 ● P6 4.12 ● P1 4.4 ● P41 4.13 ● P1 4.5 ● P40 4.14 ● P15 P15,P26,P32-37 4.6 ● P6-7 4.15 ● P41,P46-53 P7,P15,P32-37, 4.7 ○ 4.16 ● P41,P46-53 P2-3,P9-11,P14-15,P26 4.8 ● 4.17 ● P15,P32-37,P42-53 P40,P46,P47,P56 4.9 ● P6-7 Economic efficiency indicators EC1 ● P13,P62-63 EC6 ● P46 EC2 ● P3,P12 EC7 ● P40 EC3 ● P40-41,P42-45 EC8 ● P19-20,P47-53 EC4 ○ EC9 ● P26-31 EC5 ○ 67 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page Social efficiency indicators LA1 ● P40 LA8 ● P44-45 LA2 ○ LA9 ● P40-41 LA3 ○ LA10 ● P42 LA4 ● P40 LA11 ● P42-43 LA5 ○ LA12 ● P40 LA6 ● P40-41 LA13 ● P40 LA7 ○ LA14 ● P40 Human rights HR1 ○ HR6 ● P40 HR2 ○ HR7 ● P40 HR3 ○ HR8 ○ HR4 ● P40 HR9 ○ HR5 Anti-corruption S01 ● P11-12 S05 ● P11-12 S02 ● P11 S06 ○ S03 ● P11 S07 ○ S04 ● P11 S08 ○ Product responsibilities PR1 ○ PR6 ● P12 PR2 ○ PR7 ○ PR3 ● P6,P8 PR8 ○ PR4 ○ PR9 ○ PR5 ● P8,P32-37 Environmental protection efficiency EN1 ● P63 EN16 ○ EN2 ● P59 EN17 ○ EN3 ● P63 EN18 ○ EN4 ● P63 EN19 ○ EN5 ● P56-59 EN20 ○ EN6 ● P59,P60 EN21 ○ EN7 ● P58-59 EN22 ○ EN8 ● P63 EN23 ○ EN9 ○ EN24 ○ EN10 ○ EN25 ○ EN11 ○ EN26 ○ EN12 ○ EN27 ○ 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page EN13 ● P56 EN25 ○ EN14 ○ EN26 ○ EN15 ○ EN27 ● Note: “●” means inclusion in this report or full release, “○” means no explanation in details due to weak relevance caused by the features of telecom operator, or data unavailability due to statistic reasons, or data have been released in the annual report of the listed company. ◇ Supplemental indicators of telecommunications sector No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page No. Inclusion in the report or not Release page Internal operation IO1 ● P18-20,P57 IO5 ● P46 IO2 ● P20,P27-28,P34 IO6 ○ IO3 ● P41 IO7 ● P18-20,P56 IO4 ● P46 IO8 ● P18,P58 Provision of communication channel PA1 ● P18-20 PA7 ● P20,P27-28,P34 PA2 ● P26-31,P32,P34,P36 PA8 ● P46 PA3 ● P18-19,P20-21,P22-23 PA9 ○ PA4 ● P6,P13 PA10 ● P34 PA5 ● P27-28,P34 PA11 ● P8,P26,P32-33 PA6 ● P20-21 Use of technology TA1 ● P58-59 TA4 ● P26-31,P58-59 TA2 ● P26-31 TA5 ○ P22-23 TA3 ● P22-23,P57 Note: “●”means inclusion in this report or full release, “○” means data unavailability caused by statistic reasons 69 Jointly build ecological civilization and work towards an eco-friendly China ◇ Report assessment Rating report on China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd Social Responsibility Report 2012 Upon the request of China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd, CSR Research Center of Economics Division of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (hereinafter “Center”) invited experts from Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating to form “China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd Social Responsibility Report 2012 Rating Team”. The rating team rated China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd Social Responsibility Report 2012 (hereinafter “The Report”) as follows: 1. Rating Criteria Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 2.0) published jointly by the aforesaid Center, China Enterprise Confederation, China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Association, China Light Industry Federation, the Sino-German Corporate Social Responsibility Project, China WTO Tribune and China Committee of Corporate Citizenship. 2. Rating results: Completeness（★★★★☆） The Report discloses key information on “Corporation Management”, “High Quality Network”, “Well Information Services”, “Harmonious Social Building”, “Ecological Civilization” etc. With 83.6% of core indicators being disclosed on Communication Service Industry, the report has a well completeness. Materiality（★★★★★） The Report discloses key performance issues for Communication Service Industry such as “Quality of Communication”, “Customer Complaint Replying”, “Emergency Communication Ensuring”, “Reducing the Gap of Figure”, “Base Station Co-construction and Sharing” etc. The report has excellent materiality. Balance（★★★★） This report discloses negative information on “Customer Complaint” and “Anti-monopoly Investigation” and methods the company used. The report has a generally balance. Comparability（★★★★★） This Report discloses data on 49 key performance indicators of three consecutive years which give a clear feature of company development. The report has an excellent comparability. Readability（★★★★☆） This report has a clearly structure and logic and a concise and fluency language, with cases description with datasheets and flow charts, well explaining the technical terms. All of which makes this report very excellent readable. Creativity（★★★★☆） In this report, following the idea of “Being the Innovative Service Leader of the Information Life” and the corporation development strategy, it describes topic discussions that focused by social and corporations; meanwhile, every section is distinguished by the different color that give a well image. The report gets a high standard of creativity. Overall rating（★★★★☆） Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China United Network Communications Group Co., Ltd Social Responsibility Report 2012 as a leading report by giving a four-star and half rating to it. 3. Suggested improvements (1) Disclosing more core social responsible indicators on the industry to improve the completeness of the report. (2) Adding more hot contents focused by customers to improve the balance of the report. Rating team Team leader: Wei Zichuan, Vice CEO of XinhuaNet Team member: Chen Yuanqiao, Research Fellow of China National Institute of Standardization, Secretary General of ISO26000 CSR Special Working Group Wei Xiuli, Associate Professor of Economics and Management School in North China University of Technology Head of the rating team Team leader of the expert rating team Vice president of executive council of the Center Vice CEO of XinhuaNet 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report China Unicom 2012 ◇ Feedback Dear reader: This is China Unicom’s sixed Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We are looking forward to hearing from you in order to improve our Report. Please help us by answering the questions in the feedback form and send back to us at: E-mail: yangwei3@chinaunicom.cn Fax: 86-10-66258674 Address: Corporate Development Department, China United Network Communications Co. Ltd. No.21 Financial Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100033 Your information Name： Place of work： Title： Telephone number： Fax： E-mail： Choice questions ( please tick at the appropriate places ) 选 项很好 较好 一 Choice Very good Good So-so Bad Very bad 1. Does this report reflect China Unicom’s great impact on economy, society and environment in a comprehensive and accurate manner? 2. Does this report answer questions and release information concerned by shareholders? 3. Are the information, indicators and data released in this report clear, accurate and complete? 4. In this report with high readability in terms of logic line, content design, language and format design? Open questions 1. What do you think is the most satisfactory part of this report? 2. What information you want to know but does not included in this report? 3. What is your advice on our future social responsible report?
