EVERY CONNECTION COUNTS 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Every Connection Counts Our communities, our customers, our suppliers, our employees and our business are all connected. That connection to us is a promise— a promise we make to be responsible stewards of the environment. A promise we make to be innovative as much in our business practices as we are in our products. As a global technology leader, TE Connectivity is leading the way and committed to helping our communities worldwide become stronger, more sustainable and more connected. That’s corporate responsibility. 1 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TE Connectivity 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Letter From About TE About This Our CEO Connectivity Report 3 5 14 Governance, Environmental Responsibility in Compliance & Responsibility Our Products Ethics in Our Operations 15 29 41 Supplier Social Workplace & Responsibility in Responsibility Responsibility Our Communities to Our Employees 50 62 70 2 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LETTER FROM OUR CEO Letter from Our CEO Every Connection Counts isn’t just a tagline to us here at TE Connectivity. It’s who we are and our guidepost for doing business. Whether it is connecting our employees to their communities or installing high-speed connections in developing areas, we know that our efforts can make the world a better place for everyone to live in—it’s a huge responsibility that we gladly take on. Since 2007, we have grown to become the largest connectivity company in the world, and we are not stopping here. While it is important for us to lead the electronics component market, we also focus on building our products responsibly throughout the supply chain and helping our customers meet global sustainability challenges while growing their businesses. Last September, we were proud to become listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America. This global recognition reflects the incredible efforts of our employees around the world. We are also proud to be a signatory of the UN Global Compact for the second year in a row. 3 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LETTER FROM OUR CEO Letter from Our CEO Corporate responsibility goes by many other names— We also made great progress toward our goal of eliminating sustainability, corporate citizenship, social responsibility workplace injuries and illnesses. Our total recordable and more. To us at TE, it simply means doing the right incident rate across all TE manufacturing plants was 0.34 thing by serving our communities, employees, customers, incidents per 100 employees, a 28 percent improvement shareholders, and stakeholders in the most ethical and over our 2011 rate of 0.47. Additionally, we continue to responsible way possible. We are proud to have some of work closely with our customers to ensure the highest the most sustainable and responsible companies as our standards in labor, ethics, and environmental, health, and customers who value our commitment in these areas. safety. It’s rewarding to see how our initiatives are becoming Operating an ethical and responsible company is truly how accomplishments. we make sure that every connection counts. As we look forward, we will continue to focus on reducing We have been pleased with the results of our corporate energy used by our facilities to help mitigate climate change responsibility efforts over the last few years. Entering our risks, improving our safety record, maintaining supplier third year of corporate responsibility reporting, we have social responsibility, and facilitating philanthropic efforts. seen significant progress in our sustainability efforts, I’m proud of how far TE has come and I’m inspired by how including a 13 percent reduction in energy consumption and much further we can go. I encourage you to read more greenhouse gas emissions, and a 12 percent reduction in about our corporate responsibility and sustainability efforts water usage versus our 2010 baseline year. and see how we’re making a positive difference. “Corporate responsibility... Tom Lynch to us, it simply Chief Executive Officer means doing the right thing.” 4 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY About TE Connectivity TE Connectivity is a $13 billion world leader in connectivity. We design and manufacture products at the heart TEL NYSE Stock Ticker of electronic connections for the 88,000 world’s leading industries including Automotive, Energy, Industrial Equipment, Communications, Consumer Devices, Healthcare, and Aerospace and Defense. Employees 50 Our long-standing commitment to innovation and engineering excellence helps our customers solve the need for enhanced energy efficiency, always-on communications, and ever-increasing productivity. With nearly 90,000 employees in over 50 countries, TE Connectivity makes connections the world relies on to work flawlessly every day. During FY2012, we divested our Touch Solutions and Professional Services businesses. We acquired Deutsch, Countries an industry leader in connectivity for harsh environments serving many industries including aerospace, defense, and $13B industrial transportation. Deutsch’s portfolio of circular connector products enables TE to provide a complete range of connectivity solutions. Net Sales in FY2012 5 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY 6 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY We must demand of ourselves and of each other the highest standards of Our Values individual and corporate integrity. We safeguard company assets. We comply with all laws and company policies. We are Integrity dedicated to diversity, fair treatment, mutual respect and trust. Accountability We honor the commitments Teamwork Innovation we make and take personal responsibility for all actions and results. We create an operating discipline of We foster an environment continuous improvement that encourages innovation, that is an integral part of creativity, excellence and our culture. results through teamwork. We recognize that innovation is We practice leadership the foundation of our business. that teaches, inspires and We challenge ourselves to promotes full participation develop new and improved ideas and career development. for all that we do. We encourage, We encourage open and expect and value creativity, effective communication openness to change and fresh and interaction. approaches. 7 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Our Markets Transportation Networks Industrial Consumer TE’s connectivity and As the leader in broadband From aircraft enduring Today’s powerful, faster sensor products enable connectivity, we make stress at 35,000 feet to and thinner devices are critical electronic functions it possible for massive devices used by surgeons driving the need for more from power management volumes of data to move to save lives, TE’s focus advanced technology. TE systems and smart engine efficiently and reliably, so a on innovation, design and engineers are delivering on controls that increase whole world of information quality makes connectivity this need with innovative fuel efficiency, to active can move seamlessly from possible in environments ultra-compact antennas, and passive systems origination to destination— where failure is not an connectors and cables that improve safety, and from the data center to the option. that enable connectivity navigation systems for desktop, the chip and right in today’s hottest-selling smarter vehicles. to the device in the palm devices. of your hand—and back. 8 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Corporate Responsibility at TE Connectivity What we do today can have lasting results in our communities. That’s why we’re dedicated to growing our corporate responsibility program. As a global company, we have an important responsibility to ensure our company is compliant, sustainable, and innovative. TE Connectivity has a long-standing reputation of guidelines that our customers hold us to. Also, we work delivering high-quality products that help our customers with our customers to provide innovative solutions that will bring technology to the world. We know that serving our enable them to solve world problems, such as mitigating employees, shareholders, community members, and others the effects of climate change and connecting the is not only good for our business, but it is the right thing to developing world. do to keep the world’s future bright. In a world of rapid social and technological change, we must So far, we have focused much of our efforts on improving stay relevant and nimble in our marketplace. Our challenges working conditions at our facilities and on supply chain include: responding quickly to environmental disasters that activities. We have important opportunities to improve affect our facilities, building the communities we operate in, our impact on the planet and society through our 32,000 and reducing environmental impact from our operations. direct and indirect suppliers. This is why we have created a For more information on our Corporate Responsibility rigorous supplier social responsibility program to ensure our Program, visit www.te.com/responsibility or email us at suppliers are meeting the same social and environmental TERA@te.com. 9 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Corporate Responsibility Program Priorities at TE Each year, we discuss and prioritize corporate responsibility issues that are relevant to both our business and society. As a global company, we stay aware of the relevant issues important to tackle for each TE location and set priorities accordingly. Our corporate responsibility department sits within our Additional Priorities legal department. We also involve senior executives from ¡¡ Localization—Streamlining the transportation of raw across business units and other stakeholders to help materials to our production facilities. develop plans of action. ¡¡ Injury-Free & Healthy Workplace—Providing a safe and Top Priorities healthy work environment for everyone. This year, we identified many priorities to pursue. Our ¡¡ Fair Labor Practices—Consistently applying our standards highest-ranked goals involved issues around: of decent and humane working conditions. ¡¡ Supply Chain Sustainability—Expecting our suppliers Fair labor practice is an issue that is highly scrutinized in to have excellent standards in environmental, health, and our industry, especially in countries like China and Mexico. safety, labor, ethics management, etc. We have initiatives to maintain our facilities with safe and humane working conditions. We are continuously improving ¡¡ Conflict Minerals—Working with our suppliers of these efforts involving management from the facility to the products containing conflict minerals to source them from C-suite level. conflict-free regions. ¡¡ Continuing Legal Compliance—Complying with all the local, regional, national, and international laws and regulations will continue to be a top priority. 10 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Examples of How We Engage with Key Stakeholder Groups Communities Corporate Responsibility Customers ¡¡ Social investment programs through Thought Leaders ¡¡ Annual customer satisfaction survey corporate giving and through the TE ¡¡ Annual review of our Corporate ¡¡ Customer audits Foundation Responsibility program ¡¡ TE.com website ¡¡ Partnerships with nonprofits, governments, and report ¡¡ Field teams and Non-governmental organizations ¡¡ Channel partners ¡¡ Employee volunteering and participation ¡¡ Customer service in civic councils in their local communities Distribution Partners Employees Governments and Regulators ¡¡ Annual partner satisfaction survey ¡¡ Regular informal engagement through ¡¡ Contributing to policy development through ¡¡ Annual in-person meetings with our team meetings our Global Government Affairs team key distributors. ¡¡ Internal communications ¡¡ Working with government officials and ¡¡ Quarterly town hall meetings within regulators to ensure proper oversight of business units and functions issues of importance ¡¡ Annual leadership and sales meetings ¡¡ Employee pulse survey ¡¡ Annual ethics training and certification to Code of Business Conduct Investors and Analysts Nonprofits Suppliers ¡¡ Regular meetings with investors ¡¡ Working with partners to deliver community ¡¡ Close collaboration to incorporate ¡¡ Annual Meeting of Shareholders and corporate responsibility programs corporate responsibility into all aspects ¡¡ Annual Report ¡¡ Providing technology skills and expertise of the supply chain ¡¡ Proxy Statement through employee volunteering ¡¡ Supplier Guide to Social Responsibility ¡¡ Our Corporate Responsibility Report ¡¡ Driving Non-governmental organizations ¡¡ Regular audits to ensure our suppliers are efficiency and effectiveness through adhering to the Supplier Guide to Social ¡¡ Sustainability investment indices technology grants Responsibility ¡¡ Investor Relations website 11 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Corporate Responsibility Snapshot FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Financial Net Sales (in US millions) $11,681 $13,778 $13,282 Governance Percentage of employees certifying compliance with the 94% 99% 97% TE Guide to Ethical Conduct Total number of ethics and compliance training sessions completed 100,818 144,537 125,155 Total number of matters reported to the Ombudsman Office 588 685 769 Total number of matters closed by the Ombudsman Office 515 669 735 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions (metric tons CO2 equivalent) (see notes 1 & 2) 820,705 759,323 710,557 Greenhouse gas intensity (metric tons of CO2 /net sales in millions) 68 53 53 Energy consumption (electricity, heat, steam, cooling in Mwh) 1,767,317 1,676,666 1,537,071 Energy usage intensity (Mwh/net sales in millions) 146 117 116 Water Usage (millions of gallons) 1,318 1,283 1,155 Hazardous waste generated (metric tons) 7,009 4,809 3,694 Materials recycled/reused (metric tons) 74,741 70,204 63,348 Other waste disposed (metric tons) 15,124 14,272 16,700 Products Number of Engineers 7,000 7,400 7,400 R,D, & E Dollars Spent (in US millions) $563 $701 $688 12 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY Corporate Responsibility Snapshot FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Supply Chain Total direct & indirect suppliers 34,242 31,900 31,983 Total direct material suppliers 10,946 9,485 9,642 Total indirect suppliers 23,296 21,953 22,340 Supplier Assurance Efforts 9 145 243 Workplace Employees at fiscal year end 89,000 94,000 88,000 Employees Active on the Learning Management System 11,180 16,323 21,462 Employee safety: Total recordable incident rate (per 100 employees) 0.54 0.47 0.34 Employee safety: Lost time recordable incident rate (per 100 employees) 0.26 0.24 0.14 Women in the U.S. workforce See note 3 3,804 3,697 Women in leadership positions worldwide See note 3 64 100 Community & Philanthropy Corporate charitable giving (in USD) $1,427,332 $2,200,045 $2,572,837 Employee donations (in USD) $942,179 $986,007 $1,010,138 Employee donations to the United Way Foundation (in USD) $305,862 $484,329 $289,234 Total amount of grants made by the TE Foundation (in USD) $604,534 $529,046 $513,695 Notes 1. The environmental performance indicators 2010 have been re-stated in comparison with our 2010 report. This has been done to incorporate revisions made by individual TE sites to improve data accuracy. Impacts arising from our recently acquired ADC operations will be included in our environmental performance data from FY2012 onwards. 2. We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3. This data was not collected in 2010. 13 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT About This Report Our Corporate Responsibility Report and website communicate the progress we’ve made in maintaining our promise to the U.N. Global Compact. This is our third annual report, and it covers the impact of all our global operations and subsidiaries for our fiscal year, which runs from October 1, 2011 to September 28, 2012, unless stated otherwise. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines—the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s Reporting Principles of materiality, sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, and completeness helped us select and prioritize the content for the report at a GRI Application Level B+. This report was also reviewed by an external group of stakeholders including: customers, suppliers, and corporate responsibility executives from other industries to provide insight on our key opportunities to utilize sustainability in support of growth. More details about our corporate responsibility policies, activities, and performance are available www.te.com/ responsibility. 14 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 01 Governance, Compliance & Ethics GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Governance, Compliance & Ethics We create a positive work environment by encouraging high-integrity standards that foster business growth to meet the needs of our stakeholders including employees and shareholders. We highlight the importance of these standards through proper training, providing multiple channels of communication, and rigorous compliance. Increased scrutiny and emphasis on standards in compliance in the world we live in today has emphasized the need for ever-growing standards in compliance and ethics. At TE, we have a full-time Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer devoted to promoting and further strengthening these efforts, and a team to support our expanding initiatives. 16 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Board of Directors Good governance starts at the very Our Board provides management with strategic guidance, and ensures that management adopts and top, and the Board of Directors at TE is implements procedures designed to promote legal responsible for setting the tone for our compliance and the highest standards of integrity and entire company. Our strong commitment ethics throughout the organization. to high personal and professional integrity The Board meets at least four times each year, and its committees meet more frequently. The Chairman and Lead leads us to recruit and retain directors and Independent Director arrange for senior managers to attend officers who also share the same values. Board and Committee meetings and meet informally with TE’s Board of Directors is responsible for directing the Directors before and after the meetings. management of our business units in the best interests of To conduct its oversight function, the Board maintains shareholders and in a manner that is consistent with good three standing committees: corporate citizenship. TE Board members ¡¡ Audit ¡¡ Select and monitor our top management ¡¡ Management Development and Compensation ¡¡ Provide oversight for financial reporting and legal ¡¡ Nominating, Governance and Compliance compliance These committees are composed of independent directors. ¡¡ Determine the company’s governance principles ¡¡ Implement governance policies The Board, together with senior management, is also responsible for establishing our operating values and code of conduct and for setting strategic direction and priorities. 17 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Board Composition and Independence Our Board is constituted to be strong in its collective knowledge and diversity of experience in accounting and finance, management and leadership, vision and strategy, business operations, business judgment, crisis management, risk assessment, industry knowledge, corporate governance, and global markets. The Board is led by a Chairman and a Lead Independent Director. A non-executive director served as Chairman through January 2013. Ten of our eleven Directors are independent. All Directors are annually elected by a majority of votes cast at the annual general meeting, and they serve for one-year terms. Members of the Nominating, Governance and Compliance Committee are responsible for the review of all Directors and Committees; and they base this review exclusively on overall performance. Our Directors meet a strict set of performance criteria, including demonstrating the highest ethical standards and integrity, a history of achievement that reflects superior standards for themselves and others, and an ability to take tough positions while at the same time working as a team player. They possess individual backgrounds that exemplify a wide range of experience and knowledge. A number of procedures exist so that conflicts of interest for Directors are avoided. For example, Directors undergo an annual performance and regulatory assessment to consider employment or business associations affecting their qualification as an Independent TE director. 18 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Executive Compensation Philosophy Our executive compensation philosophy discretion to recognize superior business unit or individual performance. calls for competitive total compensation ¡¡ Long-term incentive awards—These equity-based that will reward executives for achieving awards are designed to reward our executive officers individual and corporate performance for creating long-term shareholder value. Through fiscal objectives. Our goal is to attract, motivate 2012, long-term incentive awards made to executive officers were granted primarily in the form of stock and retain leaders who will drive the options. Beginning with fiscal 2013, we are also awarding creation of shareholder value. performance stock units. The Management Development and Compensation ¡¡ Appropriate risk—Our executive compensation programs Committee (MDCC) reviews and administers the are designed to encourage executive officers to take compensation and benefit programs for executive officers appropriate risks in managing their businesses to achieve and performs an annual assessment of the company’s optimal performance. executive compensation policy. In determining total ¡¡ Competitive with external talent markets—Our executive compensation, the MDCC considers the objectives and compensation programs are designed to be competitive attributes described below. within the relevant markets. In particular, we consider ¡¡ Shareholder alignment—Our executive compensation compensation for comparable executives within both a programs are designed to create shareholder value. general peer group of companies that compete with us Long-term incentive awards, which make up a significant for executive talent and a peer group of companies in the percentage of our executives’ total compensation, closely electronics industry. align the interests of executives with the long-term ¡¡ Focus on executive stock ownership—The TE interests of our shareholders. Connectivity Ltd. Share Ownership and Retention ¡¡ Performance based—Many components of our executive Requirement Plan, together with long-term equity awards, compensation package are linked to performance. drives executive stock ownership. For example, annual cash incentive awards are tied to ¡¡ Simple and transparent—Our executive compensation overall corporate, segment or business unit measures programs are designed to be readily understood by our that distinguish our highest from our lowest performing executives and transparent to our investors. business units. Our program also permits limited 19 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Our Board of Directors Profile 1 10 Frederic M. Poses Yong Nam (2012 Chairman and 2013 Former Chief Executive Lead Independent Director Officer, LG Electronics, Inc. of TE Connectivity Board) Chief Executive Officer Daniel J. Phelan & Partner, Ascend Consultant, GlaxoSmithKline Performance Materials plc (GSK) Thomas J. Lynch Lawrence S. Smith (2013 Chairman of TE Retired Executive Vice Woman on the Total number of Connectivity Board) President & Co-Chief board independent directors Chief Executive Officer, Financial Officer, Comcast TE Connectivity Corporation 10 6 Dr. Pierre R. Brondeau Paula A. Sneed President, Chief Executive Chair and Chief Executive Officer & Chairman, FMC Officer, Phelps Prescott Corporation Group, LLC Dr. Juergen W. Gromer David P. Steiner Retired President, Tyco Chief Executive Officer Electronics and President, Waste Management, Inc. Dr. William A. Jeffrey Average board meeting Number of board Chief Executive Officer John C. Van Scoter attendance meetings held in & President, HRL Chief Executive Officer and FY2012 Laboratories, LLC President, eSolar, Inc. 20 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Governance of Corporate Responsibility at TE Our corporate responsibility initiatives are reviewed by the Board. While we do not have a separate sustainability committee, the Board and its three standing committees oversee our efforts that fall under TE Corporate Responsibility. Here is how the Board and its Committees receive reports and oversee these efforts: Board level (meets 4 or more times a year) ¡¡ Enterprise Risk Management (annually) ¡¡ Product Innovation (4 times per year) ¡¡ Talent & Succession Review (annually) Management Audit Nominating, Governance & Development & Committee Compliance Compensation ¡¡ Ombudsman (4 ¡¡ Enterprise Risk Management (annually) ¡¡ Executive times per year) ¡¡ Environment, Health & Safety (annually) Compensation ¡¡ Compliance ¡¡ Compliance and Ethics (twice annually) (4 or more and Ethics times per year) (annually) ¡¡ Philanthropy (annually) 21 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Our Guide to Ethical Conduct Our Guide to Ethical Conduct is the cornerstone of our compliance program. As a multinational company, our employees have different backgrounds, life experiences, training, and perspectives. Our guide promotes a common understanding among all employees of TE’s values and how our core values relate to their jobs and the success of our company. The guide is available in 17 languages. TE’s policies, newsletters, training and other ethics and compliance educational materials are also available in multiple languages. All employees and onsite contractors are trained annually on the guide and are asked to certify on an annual basis their compliance with our policies and principles. This year, 97% of employees and contractors and 100% of senior management certified their compliance with the guide. Our Guide to Ethical Conduct uses real-life examples to educate our employees on TE policies including: ¡¡ Anti-corruption ¡¡ Fair treatment and mutual respect 97% certification ¡¡ Protection of confidentiality of information rate in FY2012 ¡¡ Fair competition ¡¡ Anti-money-laundering ¡¡ Import and export compliance laws ¡¡ Environment, health, and safety ¡¡ Resources for questions and reporting misconduct 22 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS FY2012 Compliance Communications To achieve more engagement in and awareness of ethics and compliance, we launched a company-wide communications campaign around our efforts, including posters at TE locations, articles on our intranet (myTE), and newsletters. Guide to Ethical Anti-Corruption Conduct ¡¡ New Policy ¡¡ Tom Lynch Video ¡¡ Online Training Ethical ¡¡ New Training for all ¡¡ Live Training Workplace Employees Fair Treatment Materials ¡¡ Values ¡¡ MyTE Article ¡¡ Newsletter ¡¡ Newsletter Posters ¡¡ Annual Certification ¡¡ Case Studies Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Conflicts of Interest Business Partner Fair Ombudsman ¡¡ Gift Awareness Communications Competition/ ¡¡ ConcernLINE Posters ¡¡ Anti-Corruption Anti-Trust Posters ¡¡ Newsletter Certifications ¡¡ Case Studies ¡¡ Live Training Materials ¡¡ Live Training ¡¡ Live Training Materials Materials 23 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Empowering Employees to Address Non-Compliance Employees are the safe keepers of our Reporting directly to the Board of Director’s Audit Committee, the Ombudsman ensures that all reported values, so we want them to ask questions issues are thoroughly and confidentially addressed and about compliance issues, especially when resolved by using internal and/or external resources an answer may not be clear. Employees are as appropriate. The Ombudsman and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer regularly meet with the Compliance strongly encouraged to report potential Committee, which includes members from TE’s Senior non-compliance issues in a timely manner Management team, to discuss compliance issues and to their supervisor, to the human resources program response. or law department, or to the Office of We encourage concerned people or groups to contact the the Ombudsman. Office of the Ombudsman by telephone, via the toll-free global ConcernLine, or through the ConcernNet website. Reports can also be made anonymously where permitted Office of The Ombudsman by applicable law. We also encourage our managers, All reports of possible violations are taken seriously and supervisors, HR team, and other internal groups to inform appropriately addressed with the oversight of the Office the Ombudsman of any possible misconduct so that any of the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman is an appointed issues can be investigated and appropriately addressed. TE employee who acts as an independent, impartial, and In FY2012, the Office of the Ombudsman received 769 confidential resource. Employees, suppliers, investors, reports, the majority of which dealt with company policies, customers, and other third parties can ask questions or conflicts of interest, and general employment questions. address concerns with the Ombudsman about potential In about half of the cases that were resolved during violations of the Guide to Ethical Conduct, our policies, laws, the year, TE took corrective actions or otherwise made regulations, safety, or ethics. improvements to the benefit of our company and our employees. Even when cases are unsubstantiated, the reporting process provides us with valuable insights and opportunities to be proactive and institute better preventive measures. 24 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS 25 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Global Government Affairs Global corporations have the responsibility to leverage their economic power and reach and their unique assets to impact the world in a positive way. We believe that corporations should exist not only to make a profit, but to make a difference. TE’s Global Government Affairs (GGA) team works to make a difference for the company and the communities in which we are located. By engaging with local business, community and government partners, we can advance common goals, build positive community programs and enact responsible, fair and progressive public policy that serves not only the company, its shareholders and its employees, but also the larger good. The GGA team works strategically with government officials around the world to shape public policies and political decisions that affect TE’s business objectives and the global marketplace. By increasing TE’s leadership on public policies that have a direct impact on innovation, competitiveness, market access, and business growth, GGA enhances the company’s opportunity to “do well by doing good.” Around the world, TE is actively involved in policies that maximize the ability of TE and its employees to innovate in order to create jobs, strengthen the global economy and support competitiveness. Key issues to TE are examined on the following page. 26 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Innovation/Competitiveness rather than government mandates, to develop policies for improved security of critical infrastructure without ¡¡ Tax—As a global company TE can be significantly imposing prescriptive regulatory requirements that stifle impacted by the tax and economic development policies innovation and can impede global market access. of the countries in which its facilities are located. TE supports tax policies that promote global innovation, competitiveness and job creation. Trade/Market Access The products that TE manufactures rely on complex global ¡¡ Education—Skilled workers add value to the labor force supply chains and markets that require the free flow of by increasing productivity and developing innovative goods. TE advocates for policies that open markets by products. TE actively promotes education and training lowering tariff and non-tariff barriers, strengthen trade policies that ensure a skilled, robust workforce that is able facilitation programs, support a rules-based international to meet the demands of the 21st century. trading system, and do not limit global procurement. ¡¡ Workforce—By attracting, developing and retaining a world-class global workforce that reflects TE’s core values Business Growth and respects the local culture, HR laws and policies—such ¡¡ Telecommunications—TE believes that market-based as immigration, overtime, benefits, and workplace safety— of the regions in which we do business, the company is solutions—not burdensome regulations—should be the able to enrich the communities where our employees live option of choice to satisfy consumer demand for wired and work. TE supports policies that enable companies to and wireless broadband solutions. recruit, hire, relocate and retain the talent necessary to ¡¡ Automotive—TE supports initiatives that encourage meet its business needs in a global economy. development of mobility solutions and the systems ¡¡ Privacy—TE recognizes the importance of protection of that make these technologies more safe and efficient, information, including personally identifiable information, including safety and navigation systems; battery and and is committed to complying with the laws where it charging systems; and power management systems. operates. The company supports data privacy regulations ¡¡ Energy—TE is confident that funding for ongoing research that protect personal data without placing undue and development of alternative energy solutions is reporting and regulatory requirements on industry. integral to the development of more efficient smart grid, ¡¡ Cybersecurity—TE supports a cybersecurity policy that solar, wind and transmissions technologies. increases information sharing between the public and private sector without increasing a company’s liability. The policy should draw on industry-driven best practices, 27 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & ETHICS Managing Risks At TE, risk mitigation has always been an Business Continuity essential aspect of our commitment to Our customers depend on us to get our products to them on a timely manner even when unforeseen circumstances providing a safe and secure workplace, arise. That’s why we’ve built our business continuity working as a premier partner to our practices on international standards and take a risk-based customers, and protecting the company approach to implementing mitigation actions. These and its shareholders. practices position us to quickly recover from a disruption. Currently, we are enhancing our business continuity plans In FY2012, we strengthened our position in this area by to ensure that our manufacturing facilities and operations creating a specific function within the legal department can quickly adapt to natural and man-made disasters. Also, to manage our enterprise risk, crisis management, and our approximately 100 production locations throughout the business continuity programs. In addition, we have made world help us diversify and mitigate our risks allowing us to significant staffing and strategic program enhancements to deliver consistently to our customers. improve our overall posture. Our approach to risk management is based on a rigorous assessment and analytical process which evaluates the upside and downside of strategic, technical, and tactical risks. This comprehensive approach enables us to make better decisions when considering the impacts on our company, stakeholders, customers, and communities. While some risks, such as political instability, are not within our control, we establish contingency plans to help us stay agile and proactively address external risks. 28 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 02 Environmental Responsibility in Our Operations ined Global RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS ENVIRONMENTAL TE Connectivity unity Giving* Corporate Giving Foundation 22% 22% 35 35 We are committed to reducing the 11 environmental % % M 1.25M $ 11 % % impact of our operations, both32locally—at our % 32 % $ .5M operating locations—and globally, by reducing our carbon ing Gift Program USA footprint. ■ Education & Empowerment ■ Education & Empowerment l Grants ■ Human Services ■ Environment & Other undation ■ Environment & Other ■ Human Services ■ Health & Wellness ■ Health & Wellness Ethnic Diversity ▼ 13% ▼ 13% 12% ▼ 13% ▼ ▼8% ate in the United States dia By Reporting Category Workforce Total Management Total 1% 6% Greenhouse Wastewater 10% 7% 2 % 8% Gases Energy 6% 7% 2010 Water Waste 70 2012 % 83 % ■ Caucasian ■ Caucasian ■ Other ■ Other ■ Asian ■ Asian ■ African American ■ African American 8% 5% 7% 6% ■ Hispanic ■ Hispanic 21% ENERGY WATER EWATER 30 NHOUSE TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GASES ASTE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Management Our main focus is where we have the most significant environmental impact— reducing energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions that result from our operations. We are also seeking to minimize our water usage and generation of waste. Using 2010 as our baseline, our goal is a 10% reduction in energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions by FY2015. To meet this goal, we will: ¡¡ Measure and report our progress as part of our regular review of operational performance ¡¡ Use operational improvement tools and programs to reduce the amount of resources we use and the amount of waste we generate ¡¡ Identify and apply best practices for reducing environmental impacts in common processes at TE 31 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Management Systems More than half of TE’s sites have their environmental management systems (EMS) certified to ISO 14001 by third parties. To achieve certification, a facility must demonstrate that it has an EMS in place that identifies significant environmental impacts, sets goals and targets, and has a robust system for evaluating performance, taking corrective actions where needed, checking statuses on an ongoing basis, and continually improving performance. ORIGINAL DATE OF DATE OF CERTIFICATION LATEST EXPIRATION Location DATE CERTIFICATION 29-31 Chartwell Drive, Wigston, Leicester, Leicestershire, UK 1998 2010 2013 719 Pegg Road, Greensboro, NC, US 2003 2011 2014 Ang Mo Kio Industrial Park 2 Singapore 2010 2010 2013 Barcelona, Montcada Spain 1998 2010 2013 Bensheim (Matrix Certificate) Germany 2002 2012 2013 Berkeley Vale (Energy) Australia 2009 2011 2014 Berkeley Vale, New South Wales Australia 2010 2011 2014 Braganca Brazil 1998 2010 2013 Brno Czech Republic 2007 2010 2013 Bydgoszcz Poland 2004 2010 2013 Chubbs Road, Barton Tors, Bideford, Devon UK 1996 2011 2013 Collegno Italy 2001 2010 2013 Dongguan Ltd. China 2010 2010 2013 Esztergom (Support Site) Hungary 2002 2010 2013 Falkenberg Germany 1997 2012 2015 Gevrey-Chambertin France 2011 2011 2014 Guangdong Province, Zhuhai City China 2007 2010 2013 Gyeongsangbuk-do, 712-831 Korea 2001 2010 2013 32 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Management Systems ORIGINAL DATE OF DATE OF CERTIFICATION LATEST EXPIRATION DATE CERTIFICATION Menlo Park, 308 Constitution Drive CA, US 2001 2010 2013 Middlemore, Lane West, Aldridge UK 2002 2011 2015 Oostkamp Belgium 2002 2011 2014 Ottobrunn Germany 1997 2012 2015 San Salvo Italy 2001 2010 2013 Seoul (Support Site) Korea 2001 2010 2013 Shanghai 307 Qinjang Road Caohejing Hi-Tech Development Park China 2003 2009 2012 Shenzhen China 2000 2009 2012 Steinach (Support Site) Switzerland 2002 2010 2013 Swindon, Dorcan, Site A (Support Site) UK 2010 2010 2013 Swindon, Dorcan, Site H UK 2010 2010 2013 Tal Khanadala, Village Shirwal India 2009 2009 2014 Waidhofen Austria 1996 2010 2013 Whitefield Road Bangalore India 2006 2012 2015 Witham UK 2007 2010 2013 Wohlen Switzerland 2002 2011 2014 The remainder of our sites do not have third party certification, but have EMS that include most of the key elements of the ISO 14001 standard. These elements include aspects analysis, measurement and management review, checking and corrective actions, and self-assessments. 33 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Global Gender Diversity By Reporting Category ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Workforce Total Management Total 16% Greenhouse Gas Emissions 41% 59 % Climate Strategy ¡¡ Establishing a company-wide, cross-functional steering committee working on different ways we can reduce 84% TE is committed to addressing the global energy use challenge of climate change by reducing ¡¡ Setting up a TE energy website for all our sites with ideas greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The vast ■ Male and resources for employees ■ Male ■ Female ■ Female majority of TE’s GHG emissions result from ¡¡ Adding an energy focus to teams responsible for each of energy consumption in our operations. our major processes (plating, electron beams, molding, stamping, and assembly) Our goal for FY2010 to FY2012 was to reduce energy usage and GHG emissions by 10% from our FY2010 baseline. As of the end of FY2012, we had reduced both energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 13% on an Greenhouse Gas Energy absolute basis, by 24% on a sales-adjusted basis, and by 6% Emissions Consu on a production-adjusted basis. In Thousands of Metric Electricity We achieved these reductions by: tons CO2 equivalent cooling in ¡¡ Comprehensively measuring our energy usage and GHG emissions at over 100 significant locations 821 1.77 around the world 711 ¡¡ Conducting audits of energy usage at our sites 2010 2012 2010 Water Usage Waste 34 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Millions of gallons In Thousa 1,318 22 Global Gender Diversity Global Turnover Rate By Reporting Category Average including China, India ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS and Mexico Workforce Total Management Total 16% At the end of FY2012, we looked at what we had achieved Carbon Disclosure Project We report our progress through the Carbon Disclosure 36 and what additional steps we could take. On that basis, 41 % % we set our current goal of an additional 10% reduction 59 by % Project (CDP), the most widely used and recognized global FY2015 from our FY2012 baseline database for corporate GHG84% reporting. By joining more To support continued improvement and progress toward than 4,000 organizations in 60 countries that measure and our FY2015 goal, we will continue the actions noted and, in disclose their GHG emissions strategies and performance addition, we will: through CDP, we can better set our own reduction ■ Male ■ Male ¡¡ Utilize a newly-created database for tracking and targets, make performance improvements, and encourage ■ Female Female companies at a global level. View comparability■between evaluation of audit findings and site-initiated energy projects our report at www.te.com/CDP. ¡¡ Focus energy audits at our highest-using sites ¡¡ Publicize and promote energy management best practices ¡¡ Establish minimum energy standards for site equipment and systems Greenhouse Gas Energy ¡¡ Establish energy teams at all sites with more thanEmissions Consumption Incident R 50 employees In Thousands of Metric Electricity, heat, steam, Per 100 employe tons CO2 equivalent cooling in Millions of Mwh With all of these efforts, we expect to be able to continue our progress in reducing energy and GHG emissions. 821 1.77 .54 711 1.54 .4 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2 Water Usage Waste generated 35 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Millions of gallons In Thousands of Metric tons 1,318 22 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS 36 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Greenhouse Gas Energy Emissions Consu Water and Wastewater In Thousands of Metric Electricity tons CO2 equivalent cooling in Protecting and conserving water is crucial Water Policy for the world’s future. By reducing our We recognize that water821 is becoming a scarce commodity 1.77 in many nations. TE is not a water use 711intensive company, water usage and the amount of wastewater but we do closely monitor our water use and reduce and waste generated from our operations, where we can. Only a small number of our 100+ operating we can help the environment, simplify our locations around the globe are located in areas defined by processes and cut material usage and costs. the UN as “water stressed”. TE uses water for our manufacturing processes and sanitation. We have wastewater discharge associated with both types of usage. Our operations used approximately 1.2 billion gallons of water and discharged 0.95 billion 2010 2012 2010 gallons of wastewater in FY2012. This is a 12% decrease for water usage and a 13% decrease in wastewater discharge compared with FY2010. On a productionadjusted basis, Water Usage Waste this represents a 5% decrease in water use and a 6% Millions of gallons In Thousa decrease in wastewater discharge. About one quarter of our 26 plating facilities incorporate 1,318 22 a zero wastewater technology, and in those that do not, 1,155 we use wastewater treatment systems. All wastewater is treated to meet applicable discharge limits, and we often go beyond regulatory requirements. In particular, we have modified plating equipment to significantly reduce wastewater volume, chemical usage, and hazardous waste generation. Our plants around the world regularly find innovative ways to use less water and create less waste. 2010 2012 2010 37 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Greenhouse Gas Energy Emissions Consumption Incident R Waste In Thousands of Metric Electricity, heat, steam, Per 100 employe tons CO2 equivalent cooling in Millions of Mwh Zero waste is our long-term goal, so we .54 are constantly seeking to re-engineer 821 our 1.77 711 1.54 .4 products and production processes to become waste-free. In FY2012, compared with our baseline year of FY2010, we reduced the absolute amount of waste generated by 8%, or 4% on a production-adjusted basis. We reduced the amount of hazardous waste we generated by 47% on an absolute basis and by 44% on a production-adjusted basis. 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2 Water Usage Waste generated Millions of gallons In Thousands of Metric tons 1,318 22 1,155 20 2010 2012 2010 2012 38 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Spotlight | Green Design in India TE’s commitment to corporate responsibility Water Conservation Design inspired the construction of a state-ofConserving one of the planet’s most precious resources is at the heart of the Bangalore facility design. The building the-art ‘green’ facility in Bangalore, India. incorporates extensive water recycling of both potable The eco-friendly worksite will incorporate and non-potable water, conservation features like efficient recycled materials, solar power, water bathroom fixtures and low water requirement landscaping, recycling and rainwater harvesting. as well as rainwater harvesting from the facility’s roof, grounds, and paved areas. Maximizing Energy Efficiency Designed for energy conservation, our Bangalore facility features solar power, ample use of natural Fire Detection light, and a state-of-the-art integrated building AC System and Control management system (IBMS). This digitally controlled System system maximizes energy efficiency throughout the Ventilation Public facility, by seamlessly integrating operational systems and Exhaust Address such as environmental controls, lighting, and energy Air System System management. The IBMS also monitors and manages IBMS energy usage, ensuring all systems function at peak Lighting Access Control Control performance at all times. System System Water CCTV and pump Security management System Electrical, DG and UPS System Elevator System Other Third Energy monitoring Party Systems Floor wise 39 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR OPERATIONS Spotlight | Lickdale, Pennsylvania, USA Our Lickdale facility produces millions In addition to improving the air supply system, the facility was able to implement numerous improvements to reduce of terminals and connectors every day for the demand for compressed air. These included periodic use in the appliance industry. Lickdale is air leak audits and repairs of leaks in the compressed air a fairly typical TE manufacturing facility, piping that runs throughout the plant. The facility also installed specially engineered nozzles for air blow-off producing these parts with 60 stamping applications that use less air, and installed solenoid valves presses, 11 plating lines, 24 injection mold to automatically shut off the compressed air when a machines, and 165 assembly work centers. machine stops. To run all of this equipment, the facility Supply improvements uses a lot of electricity. A significant portion of the electricity usage was for Annual energy reduction 1,566,827 KWh supplying the compressed air used throughout the plant. To support TE’s company-wide goal of reducing energy Annual CO2 reduction 947,681 Kg usage and greenhouse gas emissions, the facility partnered Annual Savings $ 117,512 with strategic supplier Ingersoll Rand and analyzed the compressed air supply system and usage, and identified and implemented improvements yielding significant energy Demand reductions and cost savings. The facility was able to significantly drop system air Annual energy reduction 2,761,701 KWh pressure by providing for pressure and flow control and storage capacity to meet peak demand. Instead of Annual CO2 reduction 1,670,389 Kg operating eight individual air compressors independently, Annual Savings $ 256,512 they installed a controller so they would only operate specific compressors needed at a particular time, rather than running all of the compressors all of the time. These changes resulted in a more stable air supply, requiring less compressed air, and consequently less use of energy. 40 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 03 Responsibility in Our Products RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS Protecting the Environment Protecting the environment starts early in our design process. We know the choices we make for each product have a lasting impact beyond the life of their use. This year we focused even more attention on how we choose our materials—being more particular about volume ordered and more conscious about the effect on the environment. The results not only helped protect the Earth, but they were good for business too. 42 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS Product Stewardship Working to Set Global Standards Nearly all of our global product lines are compliant to the TE actively participates in industry associations and 2011/65/ EU Directive on the Restriction of the Use of standards organizations around the world, such as iNEMI, Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic TechAmerica, and China RoHS Standard Working Groups, Equipment (commonly referred to as RoHS 2). The to provide input to the development of standards and remainder of products are in industry segments, such as regulations that address management and control of military and aerospace, where RoHS compliant products are hazardous substances. We also support initiatives to currently neither required nor, in most cases, accepted. develop an industry standard data-exchange format and We also focused on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, platform for product environmental compliance information. and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) with dedicated We believe that by adopting standards the industry can programs and resources to deal with the increasing significantly improve the quality of data gathered as well legislative requirements as well as business continuity as lower the administrative burden of the multiple data concerns. Currently, less than 1 percent of our products exchanges needed throughout the supply chain. contain any of REACH’s 138 Substances of Very High Concern published through December 2012. We continue to Understanding the Lifecycle work with our customers to develop substitutions to ensure We have integrated our worldwide processes and activities that those substances will be removed from TE products to reduce environmental impacts through the lifecycle well before their respective sunset dates. of our products in a Product Environmental Compliance In addition to the regulatory requirements mentioned above, Management System (PEC-MS). The management system TE is also participating in industry initiatives to reduce the is based on the IEC QC080000 industrial standard and use of certain non-regulated substances such a halogens integrated with key TE business processes. This system (including PVC) and phthalates. is a supplement to the TE Global Quality Management System framework, and it supports the TE Global Product Environmental Compliance Policy. 43 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS $688M Research & Development TE Connectivity’s commitment to ongoing research and development goes far beyond Spent on R, D, & E in FY2012 a strong financial investment. We maintain 7,400 advanced development across all business units, pushing next-gen technologies. Our global team of engineers and innovation leaders collaborate and discuss how connectivity solutions from one industry can solve challenges in another. This broad Engineers 19 exposure and expertise is what makes TE the worldwide leader in connectivity. Global Design Centers 20,000+ Patents 44 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS 45 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS 50–100 Design Engineers Engineering Locations 100+ Design Engineers Den Bosch, Netherlands Swindon, UK Kessel-Lo, Belgium Shakopee, US Bensheim, Germany Harrisburg, US Pontoise, France Kawasaki, Japan Eatontown, US Kyungsangbuk-Do, S. Korea Menlo Park, US Shanghai, China Winston Salem, US Greensboro, US Dongguan, China 46 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS Enabling the Electric Vehicle (EV) Age Electric mobility is changing the way engineers think about automobiles. TE Connectivity is leading the way—helping to enable electric mobility systems and innovating new ways to design safer, smarter, greener cars. 47 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS Enabling the Electric Vehicle (EV) Age Turning Connecting and Mobility The Mobile Grid Electrons into Protecting the Simplified— Starts Here Independence Battery from the One Charge We’ve been connecting Inside Out at a Time. and protecting the flow TE combines more than 50 years of experience of high-voltage electricity As the heart of the electric You supply the shell, we’ll in automotive connectivity for more than 50 years. vehicle, the battery is supply everything else systems and high-voltage Now we’re using that simultaneously the biggest to make your charging electricity distribution experience to help bring challenge and the greatest solution a reality. Including to help OEMs safely, electric mobility to the opportunity. We’re teaming all-in-one, smart charging efficiently and reliably masses. with manufacturers to solutions. make electric mobility increase performance— a reality. and reduce costs. 48 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY IN OUR PRODUCTS Enabling the Electric Vehicle (EV) Age Safer, smarter, and greener cars require more electronics and TE Connectivity provides innovative solutions for virtually every vehicle on the road today. Electrified vehicles depend on TE high-current contactors Electric vehicle charging to reliably switch battery inlet can incorporate a packs and power distribution Safe, tool-free solution light ring for ease of use systems on and off during for disconnecting an High-voltage cable in the dark. vehicle operation. electric vehicle’s highassemblies provide reliability and robustness voltage battery pack also required for safely provides short-circuit delivering power in protection. electric vehicles. Robust high-voltage/ TE high-voltage/highContactless sensor high-current connector current connector for assembly instantly solutions for powertrain, electrified vehicle AC/ measures the angular battery and power DC converter and energy position of electric motor distribution in electric storage systems. shafts to make more vehicles. efficient use of battery power. 49 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 04 Supplier Social Responsibility SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TE’s Supplier Social Responsibility Embedded in TE’s overarching corporate responsibility initiative is our firm commitment to operate with a socially responsible supply chain. The cornerstone of this effort is our TE Guideline for Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR). These guidelines are strongly aligned with TE values, customer expectations, and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 51 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility (SSR) Our Guide to Supplier Social Responsibility sets expectations for TE suppliers. While built upon industry standards such as the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC) code of conduct, our expectations are higher in areas such as allowing for collective bargaining practices and the prohibiting of any form of involuntary labor. TE’s SSR objectives are to reject corruption and unfair business practices; promote environmental sustainability and a healthy work environment; improve working conditions by prohibiting forced, harsh, or inhumane treatment and discrimination of supplier employees; and to encourage diversity through programs that enable socially and economically disadvantaged groups to become part of our supply chain. Our Supplier Social Responsibility Guide embraces expected standards for: ¡¡ Air Emissions ¡¡ Hazardous Substances ¡¡ Physically Demanding ¡¡ Supplier Commitment to ¡¡ Child Labor ¡¡ Humane Treatment Work Corporate Responsibility ¡¡ Conflict-free Metals ¡¡ Industrial Hygiene ¡¡ Pollution Prevention and ¡¡ Use of Company ¡¡ Dormitory and Canteen ¡¡ Machine Safeguarding Resource Reduction Property ¡¡ Emergency ¡¡ Management Systems of ¡¡ Product Content ¡¡ Wages and Benefits Preparedness Continual Improvement Restrictions ¡¡ Waste Disposal ¡¡ Environmental Permits ¡¡ Non-discrimination ¡¡ Proprietary and ¡¡ Wastewater and Solid and Reporting Confidential Information Waste ¡¡ Occupational Injury and ¡¡ Export/Import Controls Illness Reporting and ¡¡ Recordkeeping and ¡¡ Working Hours Investigation Financial Controls ¡¡ Freedom of Association ¡¡ Occupational Safety ¡¡ Risk Assessment ¡¡ Freely Chosen Employment ¡¡ Substance-Free Workplace 52 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Aligning Suppliers with TE’s Social Responsibility Guidelines In 2010, TE began alignment by communicating SSR expectations to our supply base. We deepened our reach in 2011 by requiring both new and existing suppliers to formally acknowledge their agreement to comply with our SSR guidelines. New Suppliers Alignment Results As part of our supplier selection process, suppliers are To date, 56% of TE’s global spend is provided by suppliers systematically informed of TE’s Supplier Social Responsibility who acknowledge full compliance to TE’s guidelines. Guidelines (TEC-1015). New suppliers must agree to comply Another 8% of spend comes from suppliers who have either with SSR guidelines to be considered for TE business. flagged a question or concern or comes from suppliers who have responded with their own SSR guideline. We Existing Suppliers are in the process of addressing questions and evaluating Since 2011, we have been systematically reaching out to alternative supplier guidelines to make sure they mirror our select groups of our legacy suppliers to seek compliance requirements. We will continue to expand our alignment acknowledgement to our SSR guidelines. We began with process deeper into our supply base in 2013. direct material suppliers in 2011 and expanded inclusion to indirect material and service suppliers in 2012. We conduct this process via an online survey. 53 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Aligning Suppliers with TE’s Social Responsibility Guidelines Future Development We have also begun to incorporate general SSR outreach and education into our formal supplier forums. This effort started in October, 2012 in Kukuoka, Japan where TE Procurement personnel hosted a SSR booth at the entrance of our supplier technology trade show. This event was attended by over 500 of TE’s Engineering and Operations leaders and nearly 100 strategic supplier leaders. TE was able to communicate the SSR importance, clarify SSR questions and identify TE resources to partner with suppliers to help them in their SSR efforts. We intend to explore more outreach opportunities with the goal of expanding awareness and maturity in our industry. 54 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Assuring Alignment of Suppliers to TE’s Social Responsibility Guidelines TE’s is committed to advancing the highest social responsibility practices throughout our supply chain. In support of this, we validate our supplier’s alignment to our sustainability guidelines through internal Supplier Screenings and thorough independent corporate responsibility audits. Supplier Screening­—an intimate discussion with Corporate Responsibility Auditing— our suppliers on sustainability a rigorous, independent audit of our supplier’s TE personnel perform supplier screenings to reinforce sustainability practices the importance of sustainability with our suppliers and to TE conducts full onsite corporate social responsibility identify sustainability improvement opportunities within the audits of selected suppliers through an independent service supplier’s worksite. Supplier screenings include a supplier provider with expertise in sustainability auditing. self-assessment combined with a TE onsite screening of Our audit program aligns with our corporate responsibility sustainability indicators. program, as well as, internationally recognized industry In 2012, TE professionals personally advanced the message standards. The main categories for our audits include an of sustainability with 200 suppliers; a 61 percent increase assessment in these areas of interest: over 2011 efforts. Since 2011, we have completed a total of ¡¡ Management Systems 324 screenings in over 30 countries. ¡¡ Health and Safety Validation Efforts 2011 2012 ¡¡ Wages and Hours ¡¡ Labor 3rd Party Initial Audit 21 31 ¡¡ Environmental 3rd Party Repeat Audits 0 12 In, 2012, TE conducted 31 initial audits and 12 re-audits. Since 2011, we have completed a total of 52 total initial Supplier Screenings 124 200 audits and 12 re-audits. Total 145 243 55 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Continuous Improvement in Supplier Social Responsibility TE’s supply chain sustainability processes Of the 52 audits TE has performed since 2011, our suppliers showed solid performance against our service provider’s are maturing, so it is critical we take an global benchmark in their environmental and labor approach that defines and incentivizes practices and are trending toward the global benchmark continuous improvement. We believe in management systems and health and safety. Wages and it is important to work in partnership hours is an opportunity area for select suppliers. with our suppliers to find solutions; Continuous Improvement in Sustainability including remediation of instances of Every audit and re-audit includes a debrief of results with non-compliance as well as investment in the supplier’s management team. The debrief includes an suppliers’ management capabilities. overview of both the supplier’s sustainability strengths and opportunity areas. Where applicable, suppliers receive Remediation can include, among other activities: recommendations on opportunities for improvement and a ¡¡ TE and suppliers working together to create a corrective suggested improvement plan timeline. action plan TE’s focus on continuous improvement translated into a 23 ¡¡ Monitoring progress toward an implementation plan percent re-audit rate of our suppliers initially audited in 2011 and scheduled follow-ups in FY13 on the recommended ¡¡ Termination of relationship when serious compliance improvement opportunities for selected suppliers. issues are not remedied 56 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FY2012 Supplier Social Responsibility Audit Results AVERAGE OF AVERAGE OF AVERAGE OF AVERAGE OF AVERAGE OF AVERAGE OF FACILITY ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT HEALTH & WAGES & LABOR SCORE SYSTEMS SAFETY HOURS Japan 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Mexico 92% 100% 100% 68% 100% 100% Czech Republic 89% 100% 68% 76% 100% 100% Slovakia 86% 100% 83% 56% 100% 100% India 71% 100% 75% 52% 56% 90% South Korea 68% 100% 60% 85% 25% 87% China 68% 79% 59% 68% 44% 91% Taiwan 67% 87% 30% 71% 50% 94% Malaysia 64% 100% 34% 69% 45% 80% Grand Total 69% 82% 60% 69% 48% 91% Global Benchmark 78% 77% 72% 79% 68% 93% (6,857 facilities) 57 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Localization By buying materials close to the facilities These efforts proved to be effective. In 2012, we met our goal to localize over 85% of our global spend. In fact, we where they will be used, we can have a localized 86.4% of our nearly $5 billion of global material positive impact on the environment and spend which means TE contributed over $4.3 billion dollars local communities in which we do business. to the regional economies where we produce our products. Localization shortens transportation distances, which in turn reduces fuel consumption, transportation costs and lead times for our customers. It also bolsters the economic development in the local community. 86.4 % We took several actions in 2012 to improve our localization. ¡¡ Increased communications to align cross-functional efforts ¡¡ Refined our tracking mechanism to better monitor our progress ¡¡ Added resources in regions where more supplier development was needed Localized Material Spend ¡¡ Partnered with strategic suppliers to localize more of their production ¡¡ Built selection of localized suppliers into our new product development process 58 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Conflict Minerals Preventing conflict minerals—like gold, TE strives to have a conflict-free supply chain, and is committed to sourcing products and materials from nontantalum, tungsten and tin, sourced from conflict sources. We expect suppliers to have processes in armed conflict areas—from reaching our place to trace Conflict Minerals through their supply chain, supply chain is a key part of our SSR and provide TE with assurance that these minerals do not originate from mines within the Democratic Republic efforts. Working together with our suppliers, of Congo and the surrounding region responsible for the we are establishing practices to assure human rights abuses targeted by legislation. our end customers that our products and To help further the intended benefits of Section 1502 of materials are responsibly sourced. The Dodd-Frank Act and promote its intended purpose, TE will work with suppliers with underdeveloped processes, providing information and guidance in an attempt to increase transparency. 60 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUPPLIER SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TE as a Supplier and Our Customer Corporate Responsibility Requests Many of our customers are interested These audits come in a variety of ways, sometimes as a two-day onsite audit focused purely on corporate in their supplier social responsibility responsibility or part of a more comprehensive customer activities too. As a supplier, we respond to audit. Regardless of the format, we take these audits sustainability and corporate responsibility seriously at TE. In FY2012, no major findings were reported in our corporate responsibility audits. We credit this to our questionnaires from customers and employees and their increasing awareness in compliance; industry groups. These questionnaires ethics; labor management; environment, health, and safety; are used by our customers to determine and community involvement. We are aiming to have the whether a third-party supplier social same rate of success in FY2013 and continually improve our management systems in these areas at all our facilities. responsibility audit is needed. 61 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 05 Workplace & Responsibility to Our Employees WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES Developing, Protecting, and Honoring Our Most Valuable Resource Providing a workplace environment that promotes safety, respect and opportunity for all is central to TE’s commitment to corporate responsibility. Our 88,000 employees come from far and wide across the globe, and are the heart of our organization. Every day, we strive to engage, protect, and listen to them, and to provide opportunities for personal and professional growth. At TE, we believe employee engagement is critical to In 2012, we measured our employee engagement through our long-term business success. We strive to engage our a company-wide survey. We were pleased to learn that employees by: worldwide worksite safety topped our satisfaction ratings, ¡¡ Developing strong leaders at all levels followed closely by recognition of opportunities and resources for career advancement. We learned attrition rates ¡¡ Supporting professional and career development across the company remain low, and we’ve been successful in ¡¡ Communicating effectively with people at all levels filling more managerial roles with internal talent. in the company The 2012 engagement survey also helped us generate new ¡¡ Creating an environment that is safe and inclusive ideas to support employee career growth. In 2013, we plan to expand reward programs and apply more focused mentoring for career advancement, including additional support for recently promoted employees and new hires. 63 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Global Gender Diversity Global Turnover Rate in the United St By Reporting Category Average including China, India By Reporting Category WORKPLACEWorkforce AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR Management EMPLOYEES Total and Mexico Total Workforce Total 10% 16% 7 % A Safe and Healthy Workplace 6% 41% 36% 59 % 7% At TE Connectivity, we are committed 84% 70% to providing a safe and healthy work environment for everyone. Our employees are helping by creating a culture of safety ■ Male ■ Male ■ Caucasian where people actively ■ Female care about ■their Femaleown ■ Other safety and the safety of others. ■ Asian ■ African American We demonstrate our ongoing commitment by: ■ Hispanic ¡¡ Accepting responsibility for our leadership role in safety at all levels of management ¡¡ Engaging employees around the world in TE safety Greenhouse Gas Energy programs Emissions Consumption Incident Rate ¡¡ Continually auditing worksites against TE safety standards Per 100 employees In Thousands of Metric Electricity, heat, steam, and regulatory tonsrequirements CO2 equivalent cooling in Millions of Mwh ¡¡ Challenging our manufacturing plant teams to achieve safety excellence821through our safety management system 1.77 .54 ¡¡ Measuring and reporting safety 711 outcomes as a key 1.54 .47 performance indicator valued throughout the organization .34 In FY 2012, we made great progress toward our goal of eliminating workplace injuries and illnesses. Our total recordable incident rate (TRIR) across all TE manufacturing Wh plants was 0.34 incidents per 100 employees, a 28% Comp improvement over our 2011 rate of 0.47. 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 2011 2012 Water Usage Waste generated 64 Millions of gallons TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In Thousands of Metric tons 1,318 22 WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES Health and Wellness We are committed to helping our employees Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and their families have the tools they need EAP is a global resource that provides professional, confidential assistance for all employees and their family to stay healthy—physically, mentally, and members. The program helps employees address mental financially. That’s why we offer a wide health issues, family and parenting concerns, and variety of wellness and assistance programs financial needs. everywhere we operate. Global Wellness Campaign The diversity of TE’s workforce means that our employees can have very different health and wellness needs. Networks of peer volunteer Wellness Champions help us examine and understand employee needs at a local level. This way, we are able to offer more focused programs that inspire and empower our employees to lead healthier lives. Educational Support Education reimbursement is a benefit we offer TE employees around the world. In 2012, we spent millions of dollars to support employees who are achieving educational degrees or certifications. 65 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES Developing Talent Over the past five years, we have expanded Innovation for Results our talent development and training Alumni of TE’s creative problem-solving program, Innovation for Results, have identified and solved programs beyond basic on-the-job skill engineering challenges worldwide. A British production training, and we have included careerteam shortened prototype cycle time, while a U.S. group building programs in the areas of streamlined employee software to engage team members operations, engineering, and leadership. more strategically. Mexican and U.S. teams used creative thinking tools collaboratively to help optimize production. We are also expanding our internal development opportunities, such as Homegrown Training rotational and short-term assignments. Cross-functional collaboration within TE resulted in the development of a successful training portal for TE Leadership Development distributors called the TE Learning Connection. This tool simplifies distributor training, drives business growth, and TE provides leadership training programs and tools that showcases what our employees can achieve when tackling challenge individuals to grow both professionally and problems creatively as a team. personally. Leaders (and would-be leaders) are empowered to lead, engage and motivate their teams. Robust programs Talent Mobility like “TE Leadership Way” and “TE Operating Advantage” help employees, teams, and facilities reach and exceed We encourage employees to take new positions in organizational performance targets. other departments across the company to share expertise across functions, roles, and geographies. In 2012, 143 employees relocated within the US, while close to 200 employees were assigned to 35 short-term and 155 long-term positions overseas. 66 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES 67 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES Workforce FY2012 was a significant year for us as we completed the acquisition of Deutsch and successfully integrated 3,400 Deutsch employees into TE, primarily in France and the U.S. In addition, we added thousands of jobs to better meet industry demand. In all countries of operation, excluding China, India and Mexico, our hiring rate was just over 8%, while our turnover rate was 15% (voluntary turnover was 7%). In China, India and Mexico, the combined turnover rate was 50 percent, due to the competitive labor market in China and the high-turnover nature of manufacturing jobs. The company’s global average for turnover, including China, India and Mexico, is 36 percent. 68 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT By Type, FY2012 WORKPLACE AND RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR EMPLOYEES 11% 22% 53% 48% Inclusion and Diversity 36 % 13% As a global company, we have a rich Global Diversity 11% As a multinational company, we continue to 6 % diversity of cultures, experiences, and maintain multicultural leadership globally. 44%■of our top managers perspectives at TE, which we highly ■ Americas Counseling are from■countries outside Asia Pacific the United States, which is a 4% ■ Action Plans value. We continue to create an inclusive increase over the previous fiscal year. ■ Europe, Middle East, Africa ■ Termination environment and recruit a diverse ■ Disciplinary Warnings workforce, because we are committed to helping all of our employees reach their fullest potential. Gender Our global workforce is 41% female, with 16% of leadership positions filled by women (vs. 11% in FY2011). In 2012, Global Gender Diversity Glob women accounted for just over half of TE’s new hires. By Reporting Category Averag and Me Our TE Women’s Network supports the development, Workforce Total Management Total retention, and recruitment of women to help maintain our gender diversity. This network is a place where women can collaborate, encourage each other toward professional 16% growth, and exchange best practices so they will be more successful in the workplace. 41% 59% 84% ■ Male ■ Male ■ Female ■ Female 69 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 06 Responsiblity in Our Communities PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Global Giving Strong communities benefit every person and business located within them. We support our communities through our global giving program and employee volunteerism. In 2012, more than $4.3 million was donated by TE, TE employees, and the TE Connectivity Foundation* to more than 1,500 organizations worldwide. This year, our philanthropy program was restructured to The key factors we considered when refocusing our strategy better meet the needs of our communities and to support included the global reach of our company, our interest the passions of our employees. TE’s community involvement in improving employee engagement, and our desire for strategy focuses on leveraging employee volunteerism as achieving a positive impact in the communities where TE a major determinant of how we spend TE’s philanthropy Connectivity does business. budget. Beginning in 2012, we launched the refocused guidelines and governance structure to support employee volunteerism on a global basis. * The TE Connectivity Foundation was formerly known as the Tyco Electronics Foundation. 71 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Global Giving Our goal this year was to leverage community involvement programs is critical in raising awareness and increasing participation. Starting in FY2013, the $4 million budget to support our we will issue guidelines that clearly explain the key employees who make a positive impact components of these programs and continue to raise the in our communities. We make the direct awareness of the positive impact employees are making around the world in our communities. grants to charitable organizations in communities around the world. In the U.S, we offer matching gifts, workplace giving, and Dollars for Doers programs to foster deeper Ombudscommunity Reports engagement Individual Actions Combined Global at a local level. By Region, FY2012 Taken Community Giving* Corporate Throughout FY2013, we plan to take these programs By Type, to FY2012 other countries where we have a strong employee presence. We have built Regional Community 11% Councils in 13 countries to facilitate local grant making and volunteerism.22 In %addition to local leaders, a community board comprised of company 35% leaders governs TE’s community 53 % efforts around the world. 48% $ 1.32M $ 1.25M 36% 13% The three newest elements of TE’s community program that we are currently developing are Dollars for Doers and matching gifts programs in certain countries11 % in which 32 6% $ .5M TE has a strong employee presence as well as a global community recognition award. Improving internal ■ Americas and ■ Counseling external communications around ■ Asia Pacific philanthropy and ■ Action Plans ■ Matching Gift Program USA ■ Education & ■ Europe, Middle East, Africa ■ Termination ■ Global Grants ■ Human Servi ■ Disciplinary Warnings ■ TE Foundation ■ Environment ■ Health & Wel * Does not include donations made by employees. 72 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Ethnic Diversity PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Corporate Giving Corporate giving is primarily focused in locations with the largest number of TE employees, as well as where our financial support can have the greatest impact. Our corporate giving is based on our Global Philanthropy Guidelines, which align with our core values: ¡¡ Disaster Relief & Human Services—Driving the highest uds Reports of INTEGRITYActions standardsIndividual through investments supporting Combined Global TE human services & disaster relief ion, FY2012 Taken Community Giving* Corporate Giving Fou ¡¡ Environment—Increasing By Type, FY2012 ACCOUNTABILITY through investments in energy and the environment 11% ¡¡ Health & Wellness—Creating a sense of TEAMWORK through investments 22% in community development 22% ¡¡ Education & Technology—Fostering INNOVATION 35% 35 through investments in48 % education, emphasizing science/ $ 1.32M $ 1.25M 36% technology/engineering/math 13% (STEM) 11% 11% 32% 6% $ .5M ricas ■ Counseling ■ Ed Pacific ■ Action Plans ■ Matching Gift Program USA ■ Education & Empowerment Em pe, Middle East, Africa ■ Termination ■ Global Grants ■ Human Services ■ En ■ Disciplinary Note: Total giving was $3,086,532 USD. This includes■ TE Foundation Warnings by TE in FY2012 ■ Environment & Other ■ Hu Dollars for Doers, Team Volunteer Projects, Matching Gifts, Disaster Relief, ■ Health & Wellness ■ He Regional Council grants, and Foundation grants. 73 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Ethnic Diversity PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Matched Employee Giving For U.S. employees, TE matches dollar for dollar what an employee gives to approved 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations— up to $10,000 per employee each calendar year. We also partner with local United Way organizations to conduct workplace giving campaigns. We match the amount that employees donate dollar for dollar up to an additional $10,000 per employee each year. In FY2012, $1.3 million went to matching thousands of employees’ gifts to nonprofit organizations. Our employees contribute to a wide range of organizations, including: ¡¡ The American Heart Association (AHA)—a nonprofit organization in the United States that fosters appropriate cardiac care in an effort to reduce disability and deaths caused by cardiovascular disease and stroke. ¡¡ St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital—a U.S.-based organization internationally recognized for its pioneering ¡¡ United Way—improves lives by mobilizing the caring work in finding cures and saving children with pediatric power of communities around the world to advance cancer and other catastrophic diseases. the common good. Each year TE holds a nation-wide campaign to encourage employees to participate in the ¡¡ World Vision International—an organization dedicated to workplace giving program for the United Way. improving the lives of children living in poverty. 74 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT TE Connectivity Foundation The TE Foundation provides grants to U.S. Dollars For Doers organizations that qualify as nonprofit The Dollars for Doers program was created to help support our communities and to recognize employee volunteers. under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Under the program, funds are distributed to the eligible Revenue Code. The grants are awarded in nonprofit organization where a TE employee volunteers in geographic areas of the U.S. where TE has a his/her spare time. significant employee population. We make Team Volunteer Projects grants to organizations that are consistent Team Volunteer Projects are grants of up to $5,000 to with our global philanthropic guidelines and 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations to support special we support employee volunteerism in the projects involving a group of three or more TE employees. community through Dollars for Doers and Team Volunteer Projects. Grant Type Amount Direct Grant $467,656 Team Project $30,289 Dollars for Doers $15,750 Total $513,695 75 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Direct Grants ¡¡ The Tech Museum of Innovation in San Jose, CA. The Tech Challenge, one of The Museum’s signature programs, The Foundation provides charitable grants to U.S. nonprofit is a team challenge designed to get at the heart of organizations. In FY2012, the Foundation funded over innovation, where young people can develop creative $450,000 in grants to more than 70 organizations. solutions to real-world challenges in familiar settings. Highlights include: ¡¡ The National Science & Technology Education ¡¡ National Engineers Week Foundation to support Future Partnership’s (NSTEP) mission is to harness the power, City, Introduce a Girl to Engineering, and Engineers Week interest, and good will of the electronics industry for the programs. The National Engineers Week Foundation is a advancement of science and technology education in formal coalition of more than 100 professional societies, America’s classrooms. The TE Connectivity Foundation major corporations and government agencies. It is supports the NSTEP Study Buddy program—an online dedicated to ensuring a diverse and well-educated future peer-to-peer tutoring program to promote and improve engineering workforce by increasing understanding student success in math, science, and technology for U.S. of and interest in engineering and technology careers students. among young students and by promoting pre-college literacy in math and science. ¡¡ Lehigh University, in Bethlehem, PA, to support the Manufacturing Expo with Broughal Middle School. The Expo culminates after a semester of collaboration between eighth-grade science students at Broughal and Lehigh’s mechanical engineering majors in Lehigh’s juniorlevel manufacturing class. ¡¡ The Works is a hands-on, minds-on museum in Bloomington, MN, where kids discover how things work. The TE Connectivity Foundation is a proud sponsor of the TECH Fest and Family Engineering Night. 76 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Signature Program | United States TE Connectivity Makes Strides for the American Heart Association and Breaks into the Top 10 National Fundraisers TE Connectivity employees, families, and suppliers across the United States joined together to raise money for the American Heart Association (AHA) and bring awareness to their communities about heart disease and stroke prevention. As a result of their efforts, TE and its employees brought in a total of $514,848 in donations for the AHA in 2012, a more than 38% increase from 2011. In fact, TE ranked number 8 in the AHA’s corporate top ten National Heart Walk Teams in 2012. To reach that level, TE employees got creative with their fundraising, including hosting a golf scramble, a cell phone recycling program, and the fun-filled TE Summer Splash event in Harrisburg, PA, which featured an executive dunk tank. Menlo Park, CA employees held a TE farmer’s market, featuring a dozen booths of locally-grown food and homemade items for sale. In addition, the executives from Menlo Park took it in the face for charity during the “Pie “We partnered with the AHA to help Toss Your Boss” fundraiser. raise awareness about heart disease Employees in Shakopee, MN created the first TE superhero, and to motivate our employees to nicknamed “Captain Connectivity” to participate in the Twin make healthy choices.” Cities Heart Walk Mascot Race. Capt. Connectivity sprinted 77 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT alongside Goldie the Gopher (U of Minnesota), Prowl (The Lynx), Hearty (American Heart Association), and Subman (Subway) along the track of Minneapolis’ Target Field during the Heart Walk opening ceremonies. “At TE, we are committed to helping our employees and their families evaluate, maintain and improve their physical and mental health through a wide variety of wellness programs at TE sites around the world,” said Matt Hardt, vice president, Finance and AHA executive sponsor. “Our goal is to educate employees on how to lead healthy lives, so they can avoid more serious health problems.” As an extension of our wellness programs, we partnered with the AHA to help raise awareness about heart disease Photo courtesy of Flint Images and to motivate our employees to make healthy choices. Our goal this year was to have TE employees engage in healthy behaviors and support the AHA by registering a walking team, tracking their steps, raising money for the AHA, and walking in a local Heart Walk. 78 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Signature Program | China TE China Helps Connect Disabled & Elderly People to Their Communities See Shanghai from One Meter High is the signature Once a month, TE volunteers take out a group of at least community program for TE Connectivity China. For 15 people, in wheelchairs donated by TE, to see various two years, TE China has donated funds and volunteer landmarks in Shanghai. Visits have included Riverside time to help connect the disabled and elderly with their Avenue in Xuhui District and Shanghai Ocean Aquarium. communities in Shanghai, China. If it were not for this program, the elderly and disabled would have limited opportunity to get out in their communities. “We are very proud to have “We are very proud created such a meaningful program for the disabled. to have created Since its inception, the such a meaningful program has received program for the attention from local media disabled.” and the government. We are now extending this effort to other multinational corporations to benefit a larger community,” said Jenny Wang, senior vice president of TE Connectivity China. “By inviting other companies to participate in the events, we hope that the disabled can better connect with society. It is also a true reflection of a set of values we live by.” 79 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Volunteer Profile | Cindy J. Geib TE Employee Recognized for Putting the Needs of First Responders First TE’s Cindy J. Geib, a “I wanted to find events included volunteer paralegal in TE’s Middletown, firefighters, police officers, Pennsylvania office received a way to support state troopers, emergency the Wills for Heroes 2012 the dedicated first medical personnel, and Outstanding Dedication responders who put hazmat first responders. Award for driving TE’s legal their lives on the The Wills for Heroes program department’s participation in started shortly after the volunteer events throughout line to help others.” September 11, 2001, terrorist the Northeast region. attacks when it became Wills for Heroes Foundation, apparent that many first responders needed estate planning a national 501(c)(3) nonprofit services. Since 2001, Wills for Heroes programs have organization provides free occurred in more than 35 U.S. states and have provided over wills and other estate planning documents for first 30,000 free estate planning documents to first responders. responders and their significant others. The Outstanding “I wanted to find a way to support the dedicated first Dedication Award is an annual award given by Wills for responders who put their lives on the line to help others,” Heroes to an attorney who is dedicated to “protecting said Geib. “As a member of the legal department at TE, those who protect us.” Recognizing Geib’s outstanding John Langan and I knew TE could make a unique difference community service and commitment toward those who in peoples’ lives with Wills for Heroes.” serve us, Wills for Heroes decided to change their rules and present their award to a non-attorney. Geib and Senior Legal Counsel, John Langan, recently coordinated three Wills for Heroes events for the first responders in the local area of TE’s Middletown, Berwyn and Wilmington offices. Over 100 individuals were served by the TE attorney and paralegal volunteers. Participants at these 80 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | Americas TE Connectivity Volunteers Connect with their Local Community with the Help of the United Way of the Capital Region Despite late summer hot temperatures and high humidity, TE Connectivity not only over 120 TE employees volunteered as part of the regional gave their employees United Way’s Day of Caring to help three worthy community the day off with pay, but organizations located in the Greater Harrisburg area. also made a monetary Three separate teams from TE joined together with more donation through the United than 1,750 local volunteers, the largest number ever, to help Way to further assist the kick off the United Way of the Capital Region’s 20th annual organizations that the Day of Caring. employees had supported. Between this and the match Tom Lynch, TE CEO, of the annual nationwide “We already have thanked each volunteer who United Way workplace participated, “I appreciate plans to participate giving campaign, TE and TE very much your personal employees donated well over $500,000 to the United again next year.” commitment to volunteering Way in FY2012. and the effort you put forth to be a part of improving the community in which “This was the first year we participated in the United Way TE operates. This effort exemplifies the spirit within TE of Day of Caring in Harrisburg,” said Dave Rupnik, engineering energized and engaged employees who care. I am sure you vice president and United Way executive champion. “It felt a sense of personal satisfaction by volunteering and we was a great turnout by the employees in Harrisburg and want to back up your efforts by supporting the causes that exceeded United Way expectations. Based on this success, are important to you.” we already have plans to participate again next year and we are reaching out to TE employees in Mexico and other regions in the U.S. to participate as well.” 81 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | Americas TE Connectivity Sparks its Partnership with FIRST Robotics Competition For over four years, TE Connectivity has partnered use. These are all things with FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science that an engineer deals with and Technology) to inspire young people’s interest and day-to-day and it is an participation in science and invaluable real-life learning technology. Each year, TE experience for students. donates tens of thousands “It is really great to FRC helped inspire my of dollars of electronic see companies like son to pursue degrees in products to the FIRST TE Connectivity electronic engineering and Robotics Competition (FRC) support young nanofabrication technology.” kit of parts. Some teams FIRST was founded in use this initial starter kit engineers.” 1989 to design accessible, of parts to help construct motivational programs their robots, which are built from the ground up as the combining teamwork, competition, and fun for students competitions are different each year. The robotics kits ages 6 to 18 around the globe. Their annual program are designed to get the students started towards their culminates with the FIRST Robotics Competition, an event interactive engineering experience. Teams design and build that has fundamentally changed the way kids see and a robot per FRC rules, learn what works and what doesn’t experience science and technology. and then redesign and rebuild as necessary. In 2012, 300,000 youth and more than 100,000 mentors, “It is really great to see companies like TE Connectivity coaches, and volunteers from 60+ countries participated support young engineers,” said Christine Kroah, commercial in robotics competitions through FIRST. Their mission is to paralegal at TE and parent volunteer for FRC Team 2559. inspire young people to be science and technology leaders, “It gives aspiring engineers real-life experience. My son by engaging them in exciting mentor-based programs that has been participating in these competitions since 2009 build science, engineering and technology skills; that inspire and, initially, he struggled to find the right parts, test them, innovation; and that foster well-rounded life capabilities make sure they were in stock and put them to practical including self-confidence, communication, and leadership. 82 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | EMEA TE Partners with Czech Republic School to Help Disabled Children TE Connectivity’s Trutnov, Czech Republic facility partnered TE expects to continue its cooperation with the school with local primary school Comenius to offer support for to help the development of these students. And, their their disabled students. Of the 700 students attending the contribution is not limited to the financial gift. TE’s Trutnov school, approximately 80 employees also give their time and donate small gifts have a disability. directly to the students. “Thanks to TE’s “We reached out to the donation, my Comenius school in 2010 students have because we heard about the bloomed under the powerful impact they make care the student on the lives of young children with disabilities,” said Zuzana assistants provide.” Kondělková, TE human resources manager. To help these students with special needs, TE made a donation to provide training for five student assistants. Prior to this donation, many of these children were not able to attend school at all. Now, with the hiring of the assistants, these students are able to attend and participate more fully in the classes. “It is a critical time in our students’ development—right now they need to learn the skills that will help them through life,” said Luděk Švadlena, Student Assistant. “Thanks to TE’s donation, my students have bloomed under the care the student assistants provide.” 83 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | EMEA TE Connectivity India Lights up the Lives of Children For the second consecutive year, TE has supported Light This year, the team visited two schools in the interior region for Education (LFE) to bring safe lighting to children in of Davangeri. The first school was Ramana Gowdra Hallama rural Karnataka. LFE was launched by SELCO Solar Light in Chananna Gowdra High 1995, a Bangalore social enterprise that specializes in solar School in Bhagah Taluk. lighting solutions. TE partnered with Menda Foundation and “After the visits to these “We saw how Alumni of IIT Kharagapur. schools we saw how important it is to important it is to give these give these smart, smart, dedicated students dedicated students the tools to be successful,” said Kaviraj, TE India system the tools to be engineering manager. successful.” “Charging the lights at school encourages the children to attend classes each day and gives them access to clean, safe lighting when they are at home.” Since the region has an erratic electricity supply, knowledge in terms of how to make efficient use of resources was imparted by the team. “This is such a great program and you can see the impact it is having on the communities we visited,” said Yashu Kumar, area sales manager. “We decided that we could Students are given an LED powered study light from the make an even bigger impact by letting people know about school. The light includes a small detachable battery, which it. We donated an additional 25 lamps thanks to the funds can be recharged at the solar charging center at school. donated by friends, families, and TE colleagues.” 84 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | APAC TE Automotive Helps Needy Kids in Thailand TE Automotive management members from China, Korea, me and didn’t want to let go. I could clearly feel that they Japan, ASEAN and ANZ spent an unforgettable day with needed care and attention.” over 30 children from Father Ray Children’s Village in Thailand. “We will contribute more of our time and give more help Grouped together in the to these children,” said Carl Smiley, senior vice president shade of tall palms, in a for TE Automotive Asia Pacific. “After this day, we all felt secluded compound far “We all felt that that we gained more than we gave. We hope that we from the busy heart of are not only bringing school bags, but our visit, together Pattaya, the houses of the we gained with the care from others, will bring sunshine into the lives Father Ray Children’s Village offer a safe haven and the more than we of these children.” experience of secure family life to a growing number of gave.” very special children. To help create a clean and safe place for the children, the team of TE executives divided into four groups to help rake leaves, set fallen trees straight, and fix tree stumps in the playground. At the end of the day, executives donated sixty backpacks filled with hats, toothbrushes, toothpaste, soaps, jump ropes and badminton shuttlecocks. The team joined the children to play football and outdoor games. “We were all so touched by the stories of the children,” said Christine Zhou, director of human resources. “One child I met was abandoned by his parents because he was too noisy. A girl sat on my lap and circled her arms around 85 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Case Study | APAC TE Connectivity Japan Donated to Help High-School Students Orphaned by the Great Earthquake of 2011 The Michinoku Future Fund was established to provide scholarships for high-school graduates who lost a parent in the earthquake. The name Michinoku, the historical term for the northeast region of Japan which was heavily impacted by the earthquake, includes the Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima areas. The orphaned children of this disaster, truly vital to Japan’s recovery, must grow up without abandoning their dreams for the future. This fund provides the means for these children to continue their education so they continue to contribute to Japan’s recovery. In 2012, the program sent the inaugural class of 96 “We believe that TE Connectivity Japan donated funds to The Michinoku students to their new lives education is key at colleges, universities Future Fund to help provide opportunities for high-school and technical schools. to helping these students impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake An additional class of 135 heavily affected of 2011. Thanks to TE’s sponsorship, young people from hardest-hit areas are given a chance for post-high school students is expected to areas recover from education. receive scholarships in 2013. the disaster.” “We believe that education is key to helping these heavily “We received a thank-you affected areas recover from the disaster,” said Taizo letter from the Fund along Umemura, head of TE Japan Human Resources. with the video of a student-reunion. It is heartening to see them all doing well, in spite of the tragedy of the loss of a parent,” Umemura said. 86 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Letter from Our CEO 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Corporate Responsibility at TE Connectivity 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. About TE Connectivity 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Our Markets 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, See our 2012 Annual Report subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Back Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major See our 2012 Annual Report operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. See our 2012 Annual Report 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ See our 2012 Annual Report beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. See our 2012 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. See our 2012 Annual Report 2.1 Awards received in the reporting period. Letter from Our CEO 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. About this Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). http://www.te.com/ responsibility 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report 87 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 3.5 Process for defining report content. Corporate Responsibility Program Priorities at TE 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, About this Report suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle About this Report for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and About this Report other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and GRI Index techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.1 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 17 reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 17 methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 17 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. DNV Assurance Statement 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Board of Directors body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Board Composition and Independence 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of Board Composition and the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Independence 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the ConcernLine highest governance body. 88 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, Governance of Corporate and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including Responsibility at TE social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Board Composition and Independence 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the Board of Directors highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Our Values; Our Guide to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Ethical Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and Governance of Corporate management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and Responsibility at TE opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.1 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with Governance of Corporate respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Responsibility at TE 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Managing Risks organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Letter from our CEO to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international BSR, UNGC, and CCRC advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Examples of How We Engage with Key Stakeholder Groups 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Examples of How We Engage with Key Stakeholder Groups 89 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Examples of How stakeholder group. We Engage with Key Stakeholder Groups 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Corporate Responsibility organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Program Priorities at TE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee See our 2012 Annual Report compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to CDP Report climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. See our 2012 Annual Report EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. See our 2012 Annual Report MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Localization operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community Inclusion and Diversity at significant locations of operation. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Responsibility in Our benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Communities EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Responsibility in Our impacts. Communities 90 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy Consumption EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy Consumption EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy Consumption EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Enabling the EV Age reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Lickdale, Pennsylvania WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CDP Report EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Lickdale, Pennsylvania EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. CDP Report EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Responsibility in Our mitigation. Products EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 91 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSee our 2012 Annual Report compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Inclusion and Diversity LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and Workforce region. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related A Safe and Healthy fatalities by region and by gender. Workplace LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Developing Talent members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Corporate Responsibility Snapshot LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Developing Talent employees and assist them in managing career endings. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Workforce according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include Managing Risks clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone Supplier Social human rights screening, and actions taken. Responsibility 92 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Corporate Snapshot CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Supplier Social and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Responsibility Prevention of forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Supplier Social or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Responsibility compulsory labor. REMEDIATION HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed an Office of the Ombudsman LOCAL COMMUNITIES SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Responsibility in Our and development programs. Communities CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. All business are analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Ok SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Office of the Ombudsman PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Global Government Affairs 93 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Level of reporting Full Partial None GRI Reporting Index Profile Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and See our 2012 Annual Report their outcomes. COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSee our 2012 Annual Report compliance with laws and regulations. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Guide to Ethical Conduct communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the See our 2012 Annual Report provision and use of products and services. 94 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DNV Two Tomorrows Assurance Statement Introduction ¡¡ The reliability of specified sustainability performance information, including: Two Tomorrows (North America), Inc. (‘DNV Two Tomorrows’) has been commissioned by the management -Verification of Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emission of TE Connectivity Ltd. (‘TE Connectivity’) to carry out an inventories for FY 2012 assurance engagement on the company’s fiscal year 2012 -Verification of key indicators related to the material Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report (‘the Report’) against issues of Environmental, Health and Safety; Conflict the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2011 G3.1 Sustainability Minerals; Philanthropy; and Human Resources Reporting Guidelines and 2008 AccountAbility 1000 Information presented in the Report, with the exception Assurance Standard (AA1000AS). of financial information related to TE Connectivity’s 10-K TE Connectivity is responsible for the collection, analysis, filing and Proxy Statement, was included in the scope of aggregation and presentation of information within the our assurance statement. The scope of work included the Report. The assurance engagement is based on the following activities: assumption that the data and information are complete, ¡¡ CR management practices at executive headquarters and sufficient, and accurate. Our responsibility in performing two offices (Berwyn, PA (HQ) and Middletown, PA, and this work is to the management of TE Connectivity only Menlo Park, CA) and two production sites (Dongguan, and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with China and Menlo Park, CA) the Company. DNV Two Tomorrows disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether ¡¡ CR related policy, strategy, objectives and achievements investment or otherwise, based upon this assurance in FY 2012 as described in the Report including TE statement. Connectivity’s approach to risk management, materiality determination, and stakeholder engagement Scope of Assurance ¡¡ CR related initiatives and projects described in the Report DNV Two Tomorrows was engaged to provide Type 2 ¡¡ Processes and tools for collecting, aggregating and assurance to a moderate level which covers: reporting data (qualitative and quantitative) in the Report ¡¡ Evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS (2008) ¡¡ Process for defining the content, focus and boundaries of principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness the report (the Principles) 95 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ¡¡ Review of the report against the GRI G3.1 Reporting ¡¡ Examined and reviewed documents, data and other Guidelines information made available to DNV Two Tomorrows by TE The assurance was carried out between October 2012 Connectivity; and April 2013 by suitably qualified and experienced ¡¡ Visited the executive headquarters and offices in the USA professionals. (Berwyn, PA, Middletown, PA, and Menlo Park, CA) and 2 production sites located in Dongguan, China and Menlo Independence Park, California, USA; DNV Two Tomorrows did not provide any services to ¡¡ Interviewed senior executives and managers to TE Connectivity in FY 2012 that could conflict with the understand the top level commitment and strategy to independence of our work. DNV Two Tomorrows was corporate responsibility; not involved in the preparation of any statements or data ¡¡ Interviewed data-owners at the executive headquarters, included in the Report. DNV Two Tomorrows maintains offices and production sites; complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed ¡¡ Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for during the verification process. implementing TE Connectivity’s CR-related policies, as described in the Report, and for determining material Verification Methodology issues to be included in the Report; Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out ¡¡ Performed sample-based audits of the processes for in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and Sustainability Reports which is based on both the GRI G3.1 qualitative data included in the Report. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the AccountAbility AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). DNV Two Tomorrows The following methods were applied during the verification used a risk-based approach throughout the assurance of TE Connectivity’s GHG management processes, the GHG engagement, concentrating on the issues that we believe data that supports the company’s GHG inventories, and the are most material for both TE Connectivity and its GHG assertions presented by the company: stakeholders. ¡¡ Review of documentation, data records and sources As part of the verification, DNV Two Tomorrows has: relating to GHG data and emissions estimates during a site visit to the Menlo Park, CA and Dongguan, China ¡¡ Challenged the sustainability-related statements and facilities: claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; 96 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ¡¡ Assessment of GHG information systems and controls Inclusivity—TE has a documented process for considering -Selection and management of all relevant GHG data stakeholder inputs and has engaged a wide range of and information stakeholder groups through different mechanisms. To build on the progress made in engaging stakeholders, it will -Processes for collecting, processing consolidating, and be important for TE to continue implementing processes reporting GHG data and information and allocating appropriate resources in order to analyze -Review of communications relating to TE feedback from stakeholders and effectively balance Connectivity’s GHG emissions potentially competing stakeholder needs. In addition, TE ¡¡ Evaluation of whether the evidence and data are should continue to develop initiatives to systematically sufficient and support TE Connectivity’s GHG assertions solicit input from external stakeholders to ensure that established operational targets as well as corporate Conclusions responsibility efforts described in the Report are adequately addressing stakeholder concerns. In DNV Two Tomorrows opinion, the TE Connectivity 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report provides an accurate and In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the fair representation of the policies, strategies, management principles of Inclusivity is Acceptable. systems, initiatives, and projects carried out by the Responsiveness—TE has put in place an effective company in FY 2012. Furthermore, it meets the content and system through which it can respond to material issues. quality requirements of the GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Furthermore, the company has established a number of Guidelines (2011). tools including the Guide to Ethical Conduct and the Guide Materiality—TE’s sustainability report is a transparencyto Supplier Social Responsibility as a means of addressing oriented communications tool used to keep stakeholders stakeholder needs and communicating strategies and informed of the company’s CR initiatives and performance. objectives grounded in corporate values. Furthermore, TE Connectivity has demonstrated internal processes that the company has developed a strong understanding of its are effective in bringing out issues of significance and these corporate responsibility context and has included in the issues are adequately covered in the report. The company Report both issues that are material, as well as those that used a defined methodology and structured process to may not be as significant but still require a response. engage senior executives and subject matter experts from In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the across the business to identify key issues and this formed principle of Responsiveness is Good. the basis for defining report content. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the principles of Materiality is Good. 97 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Reliability—DNV Two Tomorrows has not found material Completeness—DNV Two Tomorrows does not believe that inaccuracies in the data verified or instances where data the Report omits relevant information that would influence is presented in a way which significantly affects the stakeholder assessments or decisions or that would reflect comparability of data. Indicators are presented in absolute significant economic, environmental and social impacts. terms and supplemented with ratios and normalized data The Report enables stakeholders to review performance where appropriate. TE demonstrates good practice in and understand strategies and targets related to corporate presenting data through narrative and informative graphs responsibility. TE has demonstrated a commitment to and charts which provide further context for trends and including emerging issues and indicators in order to outliers. promote awareness of CR topics of relevance to the The data included in the Report were found to be company and its stakeholders. identifiable and traceable and the personnel responsible In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the was able to reliably demonstrate the origin and principle of Completeness is Good. interpretation of the data. DNV Two Tomorrows has Comparability—TE Connectivity has sought to improve identified minimal errors with no major gaps in data the presentation of information in the 2012 Report to allow collection and compilation processes. However, given that readers to identify trends on a yearly basis. there are two different methods to calculate workforce data, to minimize the level of uncertainty when reporting this In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the dataset, we recommend establishing additional boundaries principle of Comparability is Good. and scope for aggregating data from HR data-management TE Connectivity and DNV Two Tomorrows confirm that systems. the sustainability content within the Report meets GRI G3.1 In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the Application Level B reporting requirements. principle of Reliability is Acceptable. TE Connectivity’s GHG assertions, presented in its CR Neutrality—DNV Two Tomorrows has concluded that the Report for FY 2012, are emissions totaled 209,972 metric information contained in the Report is generally unbiased tons of CO2e for Scope 1 and 500,585 metric tons of and presents a balanced account of the activities and CO2e for Scope 2 in FY 2012. Based on the processes and results related to the reporting year. procedures conducted, with a reasonable assurance these GHG assertions are materially correct, free from material In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to the discrepancies and a fair representation of GHG data and principle of Neutrality is Good. information. They have been prepared in accordance with the calculation methodologies contained in the WRI/ WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 98 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and DNV Two Tomorrows believes that TE Connectivity is opportunities reported back to the management of TE capable of implementing systematic mechanisms and Connectivity. However, these do not affect our conclusions procedures to continue enhancing the overall quality of on the Report, and they are indeed generally consistent future CR Reports. with the management objectives already in place. For Two Tomorrows (North America), Inc: ¡¡ The materiality assessment approach can be further developed and refined to identify measureable indicators Signed: Signed: for the each of the key CR issues identified. To assess new areas of interest for stakeholders that can result from changed markets, regulations, or trends in sustainability, TE can conduct a review process to include surveying external stakeholders periodically. Natasha D’Silva Antonio Astone Project Manager Global Sustainability Manager ¡¡ TE Connectivity has implemented a global platform for managing environmental data that demonstrates ease of use, adaptability and traceability. However, TE Oakland, CA Connectivity can consider aligning their timeline for April 23, 2012 consolidated data with other reporting cycles at TE such as financial reporting. ¡¡ TE Connectivity adopted the UN Global Compact in 2011. To demonstrate progress, TE Connectivity can establish measurable indicators and action plans. ¡¡ TE Connectivity has an established umbrella program to manage CR within the company which has received strong support from the Board and Senior Management team. In FY 2012, the company established a new function within the legal department for enterprise risk management. TE Connectivity should establish systems and procedures for ensuring that management of CR and enterprise risk, crisis management, and business continuity programs are aligned. 99 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT UN Global Compact PRINCIPLE INFORMATION IN REPORT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Supplier Social Responsibility, Conflict Minerals, proclaimed human rights. Workplace Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Conflict Minerals, Supplier Social Responsibility Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Conflict Minerals, Supplier Social Responsibility recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Supplier Social Responsibility Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Supplier Social Responsibility Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Supplier Social Responsibility, Diversity and Inclusion Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environmental Responsibility Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental Responsibility, Products Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Products Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Governance, Ethics, and Compliance & extortion and bribery. Supplier Social Responsibility 100 TE CONNECTIVITY 2012 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TE Connectivity Ltd. TE (logo) and TE Connectivity Rheinstrasse 20 are trademarks. CH-8200 Schaﬀhausen Rev. 3-12 Switzerland +41.0.52.633.66.61 www.te.com
