Responsibility Communication on progress 2012 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Contents ............ 4 Global energy ............ 5 CEO statement ............ 6 Strategy and stakeholders ............. 8 Human rights ........... 12 Labour ........... 16 Environment ........... 24 Anti-corruption ........... 26 Future focus areas 3 Global energy Our services and solutions include: • Project Management An international project engineering • Engineering and design company dedicated to the global energy • Procurement sector, Semco Maritime facilitates the design, • Construction and fabrication fabrication, service and maintenance of our • Installation and commissioning customers’ assets, providing comprehensive • Yard and workshop facilities project management across all phases of • Upgrades and refurbs energy projects. From turnkey engineering • Maintenance, modification and solutions to operation support and delivery servicing of components, systems and solutions – we • Products, components and make sure our customers and partners in the technology energy sector experience safe, cost-efficient • Operation support operations. Liable management Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, our Steen Brødbæk, President & CEO dedicated employees work offshore and Jørgen Devantier Gade, President & CFO onshore from our subsidiaries in Norway, the UK, UAE, Singapore, Vietnam, Central Third-party certified according to: America and the USA. ISO 9001 We believe in setting the bar high, challenging ISO 14001 our people to deliver solutions of the highest OHSAS 18001 quality, anywhere in the world. ISO 3834-2 Assessments: Achilles First Point Assessment PQAN Certificate 4 CEO statement employees, suppliers, and the communities and the environments in which we work. Semco Maritime’s objective is to develop We are all responsible for raising the bar and strategic, cost-effective and sustainable setting our expectations a little higher, so we models that differentiate us from our competiconstantly monitor our actions and develop tors and create value for our customers. Our new initiatives to keep pace with our changing motto, ‘Dedicated people, exceeding expectaworld. tions’ is reflected in our projects, solutions and manpower services for the global energy In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN sector. Global Compact initiative. We are committed to aligning our operations and strategies with The market in which we operate is continuthe ten universally accepted principles in the ously developing and so too is our company. areas of human rights, labour, the environAn expanding global presence means more ment and anti-corruption. Our progress stakeholders – and a greater environmental within these areas is reported and published impact – and we strive to meet each new annually. challenge in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. Semco Maritime uses the UN Global Compact as a platform for our Corporate Responsibility To help us achieve this, we have formalised (CR) activities and as an incentive for suppliers our corporate values; commitment, to support the principles of CR. The UN Global responsiveness, reliability and inspiration in Compact constitutes a good common frame our Corporate Responsibility strategy, which of reference and core values, which form the focuses on four areas: the community, the basis of the cooperation between Semco environment, people and sustainability. Our Maritime’s departments, as well as with Corporate Responsibility initiatives define suppliers and other business partners around how we should interact with our customers, the globe. Steen Brødbæk CEO 5 Strategy and stakeholders Stakeholders We wish to pursue an active dialogue with Corporate Responsibility Strategy our stakeholders in order to develop and A form of corporate self-regulation, Corporate strengthen the company. Our primary stakeResponsibility (CR) initiatives encourage holders are our customers – the foundation organisations to take responsibility for their of our business. To serve them as best as we actions. These initiatives range from protectcan, we depend on qualified employees, good ing the environment, ensuring good working partners and sustainable political decisions. conditions for employees and caring for the We value a close and healthy relationship local community. with our stakeholders and are always interThere are a number of factors that influence ested in their opinion. Our annual customer a company’s CR strategy. As production satisfaction survey, SemCustomer, provides a networks expand around the globe and valuable insight into how customers perceive information moves faster and faster and our company and we use this information to becomes more easily accessible, organisatarget our resources to specific areas. tions are becoming more transparent – and stakeholders are demanding an insight into how companies affect their social and environmental surroundings. Our CR strategy focuses on four areas: the community, the environment, people and sustainability. It is formalised in our business strategy and is in line with our motto, “Dedicated people, exceeding expectations.” To chart our progress, we have developed step-by-step plans for each area. 6 strategy and stakeholders 7 Human rights The level of involvement depends on various things such as the complexity and criticality of the supply, the agreement level with a We support and respect the protection of supplier, risk in general e.g. internationally recognised human rights. We The supplier registration categories are: observe the law and wish to instil values and Blocked, non-registered, registered, approved, attitudes that support a responsible dialogue and preferred. These different categories are, with our stakeholders (customers, owners, furthermore, used to setup guidelines for the end-users, suppliers, employees, national supplier registration process and the assessorganisations, grass-root movements and local ment required when Procurement is looking community). to approve new suppliers for supply. To strengthen the company and improve our business strategy, we wish to develop a From the supplier registration process supresponsible ethical profile. This will link our pliers are approved or blocked for supply vision with our values and attitudes and with and the decision between approving or our motto “Dedicated people – exceeding blocking a supplier is in general based on the expectations.” We must share our success suppliers’ completion of a self-assessment stories – big as well as small – so that we can questionnaire, Procurement’s assessment of motivate and learn from one another. the suppliers, and/or HSE&Q auditing of the suppliers. However, in case it is determined Code of conduct by the Procurement Manager that the supply A code of conduct is a set of ethical guidelines is considered simple or one off purchase, the that outlines responsibilities and best pracsupplier may be exempt from completing of tices in relation to human rights, labour, the self-assessment as well as supplier assessment environment and anti-corruption issues. by Procurement or supplier audit by HSE&Q. All our employees, partners and suppliers are Suppliers of the following categories: obliged to know, understand and comply with Registered, approved, and preferred, have our code of conduct, as well as the values been asked to complete a self-assessment upon which it is based. stating their work attitude and behavior related to quality, health & safety, environSupplier evaluation mental, and corporate responsibility. Upon Our supplier evaluation process forms the returning this self-assessment questionnaire basis for continuous dialogue and partnership to Semco Maritime, the suppliers are then with our suppliers. For those suppliers with evaluated and supplier registration is made whom we have a framework agreement, within our business system. Suppliers of the supplier evaluations are mandatory, as a high following categories: Approved and preferred number of transactions and a close relationare furthermore evaluated due to supplier ship make them strategically important to our assessments performed by Procurement or business. a supplier audits performed by HSE&Q in cooperation with Procurement. The corporate procurement department is Supplier self-assessment questionnaire responsible for registration, approval and Initially, suppliers are evaluated and approved classification of all suppliers used in Semco for supply based on their work attitude and Maritime. Supplier registration is a method of behavior related to Quality, Health & Safety, classifying the supplier base. The classification Environmental, and Corporate Responsibility. indicates the level of approval that a supplier The self-assessment questionnaire is therefore has been subjected to. The rational for this based on the above four focus areas which classification is differentiation of the supplier are aligned with and considered significant to base reflecting Procurements involvement Semco Maritime’s everyday business. with the suppliers. 8 respect and responsibility 9 Human rights workshop for the workers at the project as part of our social responsibilities and health Charity and safety go hand in hand program. The children’s ward at the hospital Sydvestjysk Sygehus in Esbjerg received a big donation Speakers were Dr. Peter Mazllen from the from Semco Maritime in 2012 – as a direct Seicoutoure Hospital, leader of the workshop result of high safety standards. as well as Christina Martin from the Mwanchi Hospital, who found out in 1980 that she was The donation was possible after the successinfected with HIV and who has since then ful completion of the SemCoMem project been an active speaker about in Esbjerg which was carried out with a HIV / AIDS in the community. zero-accident rate. Before the project was initiated an agreement had been made Flyers about HIV / AIDS and the use of between the customer and Semco Maritime prophylactics were delivered in Swahili to the that a zero accident project would lead to a almost 80 attendees, from our civil contractor, charity donation. The project was successful as support material. and the zero accident project resulted in a reward which was donated to the children’s ward at Sydvestjysk Sygehus I Esbjerg – this was decided by the persons working on the project. HIV / AIDS awareness workshop in Tanzania Semco Maritime is main contractor on the Nyakato power plant project in Tanzania. Recently Semco Maritime’s construction team, in cooperation with our subcontractors, arranged the first HIV / AIDS awareness Support for humanitarian projects: Fundraising for Aberdeen cancer charity & Grief support programme & Rynkeby Team Children cancer support programme & Fund-raising for charity in Africa & Hospital clowns & Relief service & Children cancer Christmas diploma & Fund-raising for the Danish cancer society 10 respect and responsibility 11 Labour education, salary, allowance, promotion, leave of absence and job content /tasks etc. We We respect the right to collective bargaining. believe that difference and diversity fosters deWe do not discriminate, or in any other way velopment and change and it is important to make decisions that are affected by employee use the resources of each individual optimally affiliations with trade unions or other associato develop the business. This policy applies to tions, nor do we interfere with which trade all employees across the organisation. unions or other associations are formed in the workplace. Competency assessment Each employee and the company have a muWe do not use force, threats or disciplinary tual obligation to develop in order to create means to force people to work, or withhold results and add value to the company and the identification papers or wages from employindividual. To strengthen competencies within ees to force them to work. All employees have the company and to ensure our strategic individual contracts, made and approved in development, competence assessment will be accordance with international, and national implemented at all levels: company, business legal requirements. In some countries, howunits and divisions. ever, where required by law, Semco Maritime Employee, education and training needs are holds both working permits and passports identified in an annual appraisal, and a plan during the period of employment. We do not of action is prepared for the coming year. We employ nor support the use of child labour. also record employee educational qualifications so that qualified resources are matched The purpose of our personnel policy is to to the right tasks. The company is initiating a create an attractive workplace where each new business strategy and it is important that employee has the opportunity to develop both employees connect their individual developpersonally and professionally, and where the ment plan to the strategy. knowledge and attitude of each employee We will initiate a competency management contributes to a creative and inspiring working and development project to identify the environment. competencies required to live up to our current strategy. The objective for 2012 was Equal opportunities to complete the competency matrix for all We support diversity and equal opportunities. business units and continue to strengthen We do not expose any person to discriminacompetencies within the company. However, tion based on gender, race, colour, religion, we have not met the goals we defined for political opinion, sexual orientation, national 2012, for which reason the process will extraction, social origin, ethnic origin, age or continue in 2013. handicap. No person is subject to discrimination in hiring, dismissal, transfer, promotion, Working across borders wage setting, and setting of working In order to harmonise our global business, conditions or competency development. All our ISO/OHSAS certificates, procedures and decisions regarding employment, promotion, handbooks will be standardised across the dismissal, wages and other working conditions majority of all divisions around the globe in are based on relevant and objective criteria. order to define a common certification by Q4 2013. This will strengthen our global cooperaOur equal opportunities policy ensures that tion significantly. All non-conformance and both female and male employees at all levels safety incidents will be registered in a global and in all departments are treated equally, system to ensure that we learn from them and and are guaranteed the same opportunities that any improvements will benefit all divisions and terms of employment with regard to globally. 12 personal freedom and development 13 Labour The past year Semco Maritime has intensified our work to strengthen our safety culture. A Working conditions safe behaviour in a safe environment is of the Our employees are our greatest assets. Our utmost importance. We need to ensure a safe work often takes us to extreme environments, workplace to protect the health and safety both on and offshore and we handle heavy of our people and our assess. This means a machinery, explosive materials and highcommon focus on safe habits and behaviour, voltage equipment on a daily basis. So to which is also an essential part of an organisaprotect our people at every phase from design tion which is both observant and is constantly to execution, we make safety a key factor of improving. “NO COMPROMISE – we care” is every project. the name of a large scale safety conference To protect the health and safety of our hosted by the HSEQ department. The conferpeople, our assets and our customers’ assets, ence is intended to be a yearly recurring event as well as the communities we operate in, and subsequently, we will launch campaigns we insist on adhering to globally approved and provide supporting focus areas and health and safety standards. Our staff receives activities. regular training in the latest health and safety In addition, all business units are working tools and procedures, and we publish our strategically with safety. This has led to health and safety performance in annual numerous new initiatives that have resulted reports. in strategic plans for safety. One initiative is a We constantly develop the processes and standard safety manual for Semco Maritime policies underlying our work. It is the responsiinternational sites. This standard safety manual bility of the management to create a working will be used as a template for larger projects environment that ensures we can achieve our on sites abroad so that all relevant information goals and that policies are observed. is included. Accidents can be prevented, so we continuThese initiatives are expected to reduce ously inform, train and educate employees work-related injuries in the future. Our aim for to ensure they know how to work safely. 2013 is to see Lost Time Accidents (LTA) fall to Likewise, employees are obliged to ‘raise zero. In the coming year, we will continue to the red flag’ if the workplace does not meet focus on reducing the number of work-related safety requirements, report all undesirable injuries. incidents and suggest improvements. Fact box: The table below illustrates the number of accidents during the past five years. Accidents 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Lost time accidents 14 13 9 16 10 Minor accidents 16 16 22 10 13 Lost time accident LTA is defined as more than 24 hours’ absence Minor accident Minor is defined as less than 24 hours’ absence 14 personal freedom and development 15 Environment remaining waste, as well as strengthen the development and use of environmentally We respect the environment and comply with friendly technologies around the world. applicable laws and regulations. However, we place higher demands on ourselves than stipuReduce paper consumption lated by the law. Semco Maritime is certified In 2012, our goal was to reduce the paper according to ISO 14001, which means that consumption by 10 percent. This goal was not we engage in targeted and systematic efforts achieved as the consumption ended up on the to continuously improve our environmental same level as previous year. performance. We understand ‘a precautionary approach’ as preventive. In order to continue our focus on reducing the paper consumption we will launch the We will strengthen employee environmental following initiatives during 2013. awareness and responsibility through education and active participation in environmental • We seek to influence our customers by work. sending project documentation electronically, instead of hard copy Our activities must not in any way harm the • Several types of documentation that are surroundings and we must maintain a positive normally printed are now scanned and track record of environmental action and saved electronically improvement. We aim to reduce our environ• Co-Sign will be implemented across the mental impact by using resources in the best entire organisation way possible, reducing energy consumption, • The ERP system will affect paper and waste and discharge levels. consumption, as numerous working procedures will be automated, which will We aim to ensure the best possible energy reduce paper consumption. efficiency of all purchased energy-intensive equipment. Through internal campaigns we will seek to reduce energy consumption. We will maintain an efficient waste separation system to ensure maximum waste recycling and the best possible separation of the Fact box: The table below illustrates paper consumption during the past five years. Consumption of materials 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Paper consumption 15.4 tons 14,8 tons 15.3 tons 14.9 tons 14,6 tons 16 sustainability and stewardship 17 Environment CO2 neutral website – climate-friendly surfing Reduction of electricity consumption We joined the CO2 neutral website initiative We continuously seek to reduce our power in order to neutralise the emissions originating consumption. During 2012, we launched from our website and our website users. various initiatives, but despite our efforts electricity consumption was maintained at the same level as 2011. However, despite a general increase in activities in 2012, our electricity consumption has maintained at the Nordic Swan marking same level as the previous year. Our stationery is manufactured from enviAn increase in staff numbers during 2012 ronmentally friendly materials. At present, all required additional office space and office stationery and almost all envelopes carry the facilities were rented to a business partner, Nordic swan-label. which has affected our total electricity consumption. In 2013 we will focus on the following initiatives: FSC® Sustainability in the forest FSC stands for The Forest Stewardship Council • Ongoing campaigns will be launched to and is an international non-profit label for save electricity in all business units wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that • In the production areas, various initiatives the paper used for your printed material will be launched in order to reduce the comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no power consumption more wood is cut that the forest can regenerate. FSC is also a guarantee that animals and plants are protected and that forest workers are guaranteed education, security and decent wages. Fact box: The table below illustrates electricity consumption during the past five years. Electrical consumption 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Electricity (kWh) 2,664,261 1,144,023 2,419,288 2,410,288 2,400,024 18 sustainability and stewardship 19 The savings are used to finance more renewable energy. Environment After entering the climate partnership, the energy consultants from DONG Energy have Waste separation entered into a close cooperation with Semco Waste is one of our most significant enviMaritime around specific challenges and possironmental impacts, particularly combustible bilities and together we have identified where waste. In general, we produce less waste, and how to implement energy savings. The recycle more and incinerate less waste than savings from the reduced energy consumption we did previously. is used to finance certified guarantees of origin from wind power, corresponding to the In 2012 our waste levels were kept at the total electricity use of Semco Maritime. In that same level as previous year and our goal to way we can contribute to more renewable recycle at least 80 percent of the total amount energy projects in Denmark. of waste was met as we recycled 83 percent. However, waste separation is dependent on The climate partnership is the long-term the local infrastructure in the countries where investment, which is based on a common we operate. climate vision, mutual confidence and a strategy for achieving the planned targets. We will focus more on waste in 2013, and Technologies for sustainable growth aim to recycle at least 80 percent of the total Know-how and experience are key factors amount of waste. in all successful energy projects. The ability to implement complex and costly energy Climate partnership agreement with solutions requires overview, good planning DONG Energy skills and a determination to deliver on time Semco Maritime has entered a climate and on budget. Over the past two decades, partnership with DONG Energy. A climate we have built a solid, global reputation in the partnership includes joint responsibility for the offshore and onshore energy markets, and future climate challenges by setting up targets gradually moved into the market for new and for Semco Maritime’s climate efforts, carry out alternative energy solutions. A natural process, energy conservation and support the producas alternative and traditional energy solution tion of renewable energy. requirements are similar. The basic idea behind this climate partnership As a turnkey contractor across a wide range is that DONG Energy assists Semco Maritime of energy projects for many years, our highly in finding areas where we can save energy. skilled employees can take charge of: project Fact box: The table below illustrates the various types of waste produced during the past four years. Type of waste 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Combustible waste 54,042 26,832 58,582 58,790 78,710 Recycling 408,772 328,704 438,725 560,683 550,763 Deposit waste 121,270 5,710 45,136 40,636 26,542 Specially treated waste 3,314 1,619 1,650 962 1,182 Total amount of waste 587,398 362,865 544,093 661,071 657,197 Recycling degree compared to total amount of waste 63% 90% 81% 85% 83% 20 development and management, engineering, most of the oil has been separated from the financing, commissioning, operation and water, the produced water still contains too maintenance and after-sales service. We are much oil to be pumped back into the ocean, moving towards environmentally sustainable and too many particles to be re-injected into energy solutions, and are focusing on new the well. Our new product, SemCoMem, projects within these areas. removes the dispersed oil and brings the produced water back down to oil concentraClimate and environmentally friendly tions below 5mg/l. Many existing installations technologies already have such a system, but the technolWe seek to improve existing products and ogy is out-dated and has limited longevity. develop and propagate climate and environOur future SemCoMem solution will be even mentally friendly technologies. An important more efficient and space-saving than the parameter in the design phase of new present system which has just been completed products is ‘environmentally sound project and shipped from our yard in Esbjerg to the planning’, which means that the materials North Sea to be tested. used, and how to dispose of them, must be This plant is the first full-scale membrane considered from an environmental point of installation for produced water offshore. We view. expect the system to start-up in autumn 2013. We are developing the following climate and We have met considerable interest in efficient environmentally friendly technologies: water treatment solutions like SemCoMem and our test system has been booked for the SemCoMem® rest of the year. It will be sent to South-east Produced water solutions – the next Asia and on yet another test to the North Sea generation. later this year. We are also trying to penetrate Together with the Danish company, Liqtech, the oil-sand market in Canada and the we have been working on an environmenmarkets in the Middle East. tally friendly solution for the treatment of As part of a long-term future strategy, produced water. A lightweight, compact we are entering into cooperation with the produced water treatment plant, SemCoMem University of Aalborg. They will assist us with uses a ceramic membrane to provide a relitheir expertise within calculation of flow and able, efficient solution – with a much smaller turbulence. carbon footprint than a traditional plant. All in all there is substantial global market potential. All offshore oil producing installations need water treatment systems. Oil fields produce up to 90 percent water during operations. When sustainability and stewardship 21 Biogas plant offshore wind. A logical step, as many of our Building an optimised power plant engineered core competencies from many years in the oil to harness energy from a local landfill is the and gas business are easily applied to offshore first of its kind in Central America for Semco wind, and we expect this market to become Maritime. Landfill gas technology represents even more important for us in future. an interesting and growing industry solution We design and engineer electrical infraand one that addresses several issues. In a structure systems for wind farms, including landfill, organic waste decomposes and emits construction of the on and offshore substaa gas that is up to 60 percent methane. If tions. We are one of the leading operation a site is not engineered to harness the gas, and maintenance suppliers to wind farms in it can be hazardous to the environment, Denmark, the UK and Germany. Our safety building up and slowly seeping into the and quality-conscious staff operate and/or atmosphere and even local groundwater. maintain substation modules, offshore accomUnchecked, landfill gas is also a volatile and modation modules, wind turbine foundations highly potent greenhouse gas. and land-based substations. Our dedicated engineering and design department handles Fortunately, it is also a reliable source of everything from specialised studies to the energy. The Semco Maritime constructed detailed design and specification of substaplant in Central America will not only help to tions, accommodation modules, seafastening control the environmental contaminants, but and installation equipment. Our teams have will also harness the natural energy that the also been involved in projects to upgrade landfill produces 24 hours a day, every day installation vessels, install wind farms, and test of the year. Semco Maritime has constructed equipment for wind turbine manufacturers. green, biogas power plant technology. In Currently undergoing rapid growth and Central America the market for power plants innovation, the renewable energy industry is is rapidly expanding, and Semco Maritime has an exciting place to work. Our engineers and been breaking new ground in this specific designers focus on the functionality of each market. element and its integration into the overall design and our work continues to break new Wind Power ground. a growing market We believe that the renewable energy market Founded to provide services for the oil and gas will continue to grow, and we are marketing industry, our business has increasingly turned Semco Maritime as a viable choice for develtoward renewable energy – in particular opers of these projects. 22 sustainability and stewardship 23 Anti-corruption 3) Risk Assessment • By evaluating as applicable the risks As a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact associated to our potential and current since 2007, Semco Maritime is committed to projects with regard to the risks inherent the highest standards of integrity, with: honesty, and fairness in all internal and (i) geography and (ii) industry sector external relationships, in accordance with all (iii) nature of transaction and (iv) applicable laws and regulations, including, but scope and nature of the necessary not limited to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption partnerships laws. • By when necessary devoting Semco Maritime A/S’ employees shall not specific resources (Legalas commercial) directly or indirectly accept, solicit or offer to identify potentially risk agreements bribes, kick-backs, facilitation payments or related to: any other unjustified advantages in order supply (from simple Purchase Order to improperly influence or to gain an unfair to full-blown EPC contract with business advantage from any governmental or Operation and Maintenance), private entity. purchasing, agents and consultants We have built our anti-bribery and corruption 4) Due Diligence: policy’s foundation “Prevent – Monitor – • By inserting an anti-bribery clause in React” on the basis of the 6 principles of the internal Contract Review Guidelines across Bribery Act 2010 (UK) as follows: Semco Maritime’s 4 divisions; • By including a specific set of questions 1) Proportionate Procedures: on the anti-bribery and corruption policy • By designing and implementing (i) an in our HSE&Q Department’s new set of “anti-bribery policy” and (ii) actual, internal auditing rules; suitable and proportionate “anti-bribery 5) Communication: procedures” to handle risk-exposures in • By bringing focus on the anti-bribery and our markets; corruption policy in introductory courses • By synergizing the necessary resources of for new employees; our CEO, CFO, the Legaland the HSEQ • By making our Code of Conduct departments ensuring the appropriate readily available on our internet site, attention to our anti-bribery and corrupalong with the updated version of our tion policy and procedures; Communication on Progress (“COP”) • E.g. by capping gifts to €350 other report and Global Business Manual promotions and hospitality gestures are including the anti-bribery and corruption regulated in each incident based upon policy and procedures; specific criteria; • By training, through our Contract Review 2) Top-level Commitment: Guidelines course, all Semco Maritime • By having our CEO and CFO and employees involved in contract nego“owning” the anti-bribery policy. tiations to make aware counterparts on • By having a Culture & Development bribery clauses; internal program and Group General 6) Monitoring and Review: Counsel proactively sponsoring the policy, • By having established either a Business when necessary; Ethics Committee or another suitable • By having our 4 Senior Vice-Presidents legal internal body to annually review and annually (via for instance the intranet and adjudicate on instances related to our similar internal communication channels) anti-bribery and corruption policy and make aware employees of the policy/ procedures; procedures; • By regularly modifying, updating and adding to the anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures during reviews and monitoring conducted by our HSE&Q Department. 24 transparancy and good business practice 25 Future focus areas Supplier evaluation Environmental consumption Continually register the number of suppliers who receive self-evaluation documents and Reduce paper consumption the number of suppliers who return the self-evaluation form and the signed code of Reduce electrical consumption conduct Focus on waste disposal and recycled waste Equal opportunities Introduce equal opportunity policy to all Initiate activities in the climate partnership employees in all departments agreement with DONG Energy Competency assessment Technologies Implement and complete a project on comFocus on developing climate and environmenpetency management and development, with tally friendly technologies the purpose of identifying the competencies required to live up to the current strategy Ethical guidelines Complete competency matrix for all business Bringing focus on the anti-bribery and units in Semco Maritime during 2013 corruption policy in introduction courses for new employees. Working conditions Continued focus on prevention of accidents, Having all Semco Maritime employees involved concentrated on three issues: behaviour, in contract negotiations participating in our safety and vigilance contract review guidelines courses to make aware counterparts on bribery clauses. Lost time accident frequency (LTA) shall be 0 Increased focus on NCR and HSE reporting to focus on on-going improvements Our strategy “First Choice 2015” -gives the direction and guidelines that we should achieve: • To be our customers’ First Choice • To be the First Choice as a workplace for employees • To be the First Choice as a benchmark baseline on execution Vision: To be the energy sector’s first choice for safe solutions that consistently exceed expectations Values: Commitment, Responsiveness, Reliability, Inspiration 26 looking ahead to a brighter future 27 Head office: Semco Maritime A/S Stenhuggervej 12-14 DK-6710 Esbjerg V Denmark Tel.: +45 7916 6666 Fax.: +45 7515 6580 Mail: semco@semcomaritime.com Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com semco Maritime Dedicated people – exceeding expectations www.semcomaritime.com April 2013
