Social Responsibility Report Name of the company: Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB Country: Lithuania Sector: Beer, cider, soft drinks and alcoholic cocktails production and trade Reporting period: 2012 1 2 5 A w or 7 d Ab fr om ou t our 8 Šv Bus yt CE ur O iness ys 11 -U Šv Ph ten yt ilo ur so os 13 ys ph alus Co -U y rp ten of UA ora os Šv B 17 te alus yt Co rp So ur ora ci UA ys al -U 23 t B ten Co e Resp Po rp So lic os ora ci al ons y alus 25 of Co te Resp ib Co il i UA rp So ons ty rp B ora ci al an ora te Resp i b d il i Rela te S So Contents ty oc ci al ons an ti ial i d ons Resp bi W h Resp li ty o rk ip ons an in t o ons ib d g So ib il i Pr E ci il i ty nv i e ty an ot ec r on ty d ti m Fi gh on en t of t Ag th ai e ns En t vi Co r rrup on m en ti on t 4 A WORD FROM OUR CEO With this report, for the fifth time Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB is giving an account of its progress and achievements at the corporate social responsibility level and the UN Global Compact. That our company is operating and growing together with Lithuanian society and nature, because most of the raw materials for our production we buy in our home country, encourages us to uphold the principles of corporate social responsibility. We seek to buy as many goods as possible from local suppliers, thus contributing maximally to the social prosperity of the population and the development of business infrastructure. The environment we operate in matters to us. Therefore, for some years now, we have carried out most of our corporate social responsibility projects by devoting attention exclusively to the cities where we have our breweries, namely Klaipėda and Utena, and the development of their communities. So we are happy that people have noticed and appreciate the social responsibility projects carried out by our company. We finance social projects and also turn them into the internal culture of the company by encouraging employees to share in them. Rolandas Viršilas, The Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB social report is developed following the CEO of Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB UN Global Compact principles covering the protection of human rights, improvement of relations with employees, respect for the environment, and the fight against corruption. 5 6 ABOUT ŠVYTURYSBusiness Philosophy of UTENOS ALUS UAB Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB The sole shareholder of Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB is Carlsberg, the Danish Mission brewing company. Carlsberg A/S acquired the majority of shares of the leading Lithuanian breweries in 1999. Carlsberg shared its long experience, To give people the opportunity to enjoy the best drinks. renewed the company, and increased production capacity, improved employees’ qualifications, and invested in improving quality. Vision Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB increased their beer market share by 0.2 percentage points up to 40%. 171.2 million litres of beer and other drinks To be a leader in the Lithuanian beverage market, with the strongest were produced and sold. This is 0.4% more than in 2011 (170.5 million litres). brands representing Lithuania in the world, making the best use of its Sales were almost the same in all categories as in 2011, with the exception of distribution network, ensuring top level management. Švyturys-Utenos carbonated soft drinks that sold 22.1% more than last year. The turnover of alus UAB is a step forward in meeting the needs of customers and Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB was LTL 428 million in 2012. consumers by using the latest technologies and introducing innovations to the market. Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB is the most coveted employer and the most trustworthy business partner. Values Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB production volumes We are: Beer and other beverages • Customer-oriented Year produced (in million litres) • Stronger together 2012 171,2 • All empowered to make a difference • Socially responsible 2011 170,5 • Driven to win 7 8 Renewed strategy E MARKET OPPORT URSU UNI VELY P TIE TI S IN C LE SU SE PP OR T E nds O CO , bration Pe F R s er ova R AS op OU FOC um inn le The Carlsberg Group, to which Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB belongs, renewed their ESS US STEST GRO SIN Co E FA n an s strategy in 2012. The Group’s strategy is still illustrated by the wheel with five ON d TH WI NG BU BE BE ER BE closely linked levers. The major change is that now the Carlsberg Group’s position ER is at the centre of the strategy wheel. The statement “Thirst for great. Great people. Great brands. Great moments” expresses the culture, values and identity of the company. The strategy of the Carlsberg Group maintains the ambition to be THIRST FOR TH Great people T PL the fastest growing global beer company. Great brands AN BE A SIGNIFICAN Great moments E C u s to m GREAT an ffecti DM Like the previous strategy wheel, the renewed version also consists of five strategic d e veness ATUR levers, but some of them have partly changed. They are the following: ffici E MARKETS ers ency • People GL AN Y N RI OB A L B E R COM P • Consumers, brands and innovations AYE E GR E OW • Customers TH K W • Effectiveness and efficiency MAR S o c i e ty a n d EE N ET T S W reputation BE • Society and reputation HE CE RE EN WE RES CH EP OOS BAL ANC E TO C There are four action points pinpointed in the strategy wheel. They outline the OMPETE categories and geography that are the focus of the Group: • Focus on beer as a core. • Be a significant player in the market where we choose to compete. • Balance presence between growth and mature markets. • Selectively pursue market opportunities in support of our beer business. Together we Our consumers and We want We are each We are engaged are stronger customers are the heart of to win empowered to with society every decision we make make a difference 9 10 ŠVYTURYS-UTENOS ALUS UAB POLICY OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Following the Carlsberg Group’s principles of responsible business, ŠvyturysUtenos alus UAB operates with responsibility towards society, employees, partners and other stakeholders, and upholds high standards of justice, decency and safety at work. This report has been developed on the basis of the ten universally accepted principles and guidelines provided by the Carlsberg Group. Ten Principals of the Global Compact: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1 principal: human rights; 2 principal: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 3 principal: of the right to collective bargaining; 4 principal: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 principal: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 6 principal: employment and occupation; 7 principal: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 principal: responsibility; Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 9 principal: friendly technologies; Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 10 principal: bribery. [http://www.unglobalcompact.org/aboutTheGC/TheTenPrinciples/index.html] 11 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and cider commercials during the broadcast of the London Olympic Games. The agreement establishing the Švyturys foundation of Klaipėda origin was signed by AND ITS RELATION TO SOCIETY Švyturys-Utenos alus CEO Rolandas Viršilas In 2012, the company, together with the and Klaipėda Mayor, Vytautas Grubliauskas. Lithuanian Brewers Association, conducted Provisions of the establishment state that the social campaign against under-age 3 cents from every Extra bottle sold are drinking, which was a continuation of the donated to Klaipėda. The purpose of the Production and its quality beverage, rather than the development of a particular product, supplier’s trustworthiness, previous advertising campaign for youth foundation is to support port athletes, self-expression without alcohol. The cultural figures and public initiatives. The Klaipėda brewery was awarded a Gold expedience or accuracy in problem-solving. purpose of the campaign was to reduce medal for Švyturys Ekstra beer at the most The study covered both sales and logistics. The Švyturys foundation of Klaipėda origin adult leniency towards under-age drinking. prestigious World Beer Cup competition Jonas Valančiūnas, one of the most popular donated to the port LTL 672,400 last year. The survey of central office employees in San Diego, the USA, in 2012. Švyturys The largest share of the support (LTL shows that Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB Lithuanian basketball players among young Ekstra beat 38 global competitors in the 413,000) went to social programmes for continues the trend of 2010-11 to be the people, became the key face of the campaign. Dortmunder/European-Style Export or communities. The major projects included leader among all eight studied suppliers. the Klaipėda Sea Festival, the Švyturio German-Style Oktoberfest category. The Following the Lithuanian Code of Conduct According to customers, there are several Arena, the Meridian Sailing Ship Foundation, malt, hops, and yeast used for Švyturys for brewers, Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB did areas to be developed – accuracy in and the Klaipėda Lady of the Year Election. Ekstra beer are subject to even more not produced beer stronger than 9.5% and production delivery and expedience in They were followed by support for culture stringent requirements than the Lithuania did not sell beer stronger than 6% during problem-solving. Customers would like the (LTL 162,500) and sports (LTL 96,900). regulation for beer production, which likely festive events in 2012. Furthermore, according company to think not only about sales, but The Art Dock, the Klaipėda Castle Jazz led to this success. to the provisions of the Code of Conduct, also about the turnover growth of the entire Festival, the “Cantare” choir, and the Street the Švyturys-Utenos alus websites have Švyturys Ekstra is an example of how category. Circus Festival are also among those to preventive measures for minors installed. Lithuanian beer is appreciated on the global be mentioned. In addition, the company Accuracy of orders and production delivery scale when Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB awarded individual gifted performers, attends to quality assurance by investing in as well as the social skills of the drivers 2012 support students and teachers from the Department were identified by shop staff as the areas for the output and production processes on a of Arts of Klaipėda University and the enhancement. Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB As a corporation with social responsibility, consistent basis. To brew the best beer, the Klaipėda S. Šimkus Conservatory. The most continues to strive for perfection and takes the major focus of Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB company follows the Quality Declaration substantial support in sports went to the into account customers’ opinion, so part of is on the Klaipėda and Utena communities. Žuvėdra, Neptūnas, Atlantas clubs and the requirements for top quality Švyturys Ekstra the improvement projects is already under Feeling responsibility to the communities, Klaipėda Basketball League. beer. development. the company donated LTL 3,285 million to The Utena brewery satisfies the different organisations in 2012. 2012 was also significant for Utena: after two requirements of the ISO – 9001 standard. Customer related issues years of work, the Contemporary Brewery Centre opened at the Utena alus brewery, The Company is open to customers: In 2012, responsible advertising was Investments to featuring the history of the brewery, and a consumers can speak about our products produced with regard to the Lithuanian Code communities brewing process and raw materials used for at toll-free lines. Consumer complaints are of Conduct for brewers. Commercials did not brewing, with beer tasting entertainment. handled within 24 hours. feature young people under 25; production Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB support to Klaipėda To set up the brewery centre, over LTL of commercials followed preventative increased by 43%, to LTL 672,400 in 2012, 0.5 million had to be invested. Another Customer opinion consultations with the State Tobacco and compared with 2011. The support to the port LTL 100,000 was allocated for equipping a tasting hall. Not only brewery workers, Alcohol Control Authority. Moreover, went up after linking the support to the sales The third consecutive customer opinion study following the new self-imposed restriction but also Utena citizens contributed to this of the Lithuanian flagship beer, Extra. This carried out on behalf of Švyturys-Utenos of the Lithuanian Brewers Association to major project by sharing their exhibits and was achieved by establishing the Švyturys alus UAB by the RAIT market research broadcast non-alcoholic beer and cider reminiscences. foundation of Klaipėda origin in 2012. company in 2012 revealed that customers commercials only after 22.00, Švyturysappreciate most all categories of a particular Utenos alus UAB stopped non-alcoholic beer 13 14 Support for sports Švyturys-Utenos alus The company provided support for Klaipėda UAB support to: and Utena sports teams and national sports teams in 2012. It was the 12th year that Klaipėda community: Švyturys brewers supported the national • The Klaipėda Sea Festival basketball team, and thus contributed to • The Švyturys Arena winning a gold medal at the European • The Meridian Sailing Ship Foundation Championship in Stockholm and three • The Art Dock • The Klaipėda Jazz Festival bronze medals – an Olympic bronze at the • The “Cantare” Choir Sydney Olympics, European Championship in • The Street Circus Festival Madrid, and World Championship in Istanbul. • Awards to young performers From 1999, the Švyturys support for the • The Neptūnas Basketball Club Lithuanian basketball team and club teams • The Žuvėdra Dancesport Club of Klaipėda has exceeded LTL 25 million. • The Amateur Basketball League of Klaipėda • The Atlantas Football Team of Klaipėda Support for culture • The Žemaitijos ledas Winter Sports Association of Klaipėda, etc. Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB continues the tradition to support Opera and Ballet Utena community: Performers of the Year. The Opera Beacons • The Administration of Utena District Municipality award is an acknowledgement to performers • The Juventus Basketball Club for their highlights of the year. At the end of • The Aukštaitis Basketball Club of Utena, etc. 2012, the awards were granted for the 11th This is just a fraction of the list because time. In 2012 Sandra Janušaitė was voted some support and relief was also allocated Opera Soloist of the Year for her part of for other events and teams. Tatiana in “Eugene Onegin”, Inga Cibulskytė was recognised as the Ballet Soloist of the Other supported sports, culture, Year for her part of Isolde in “Tristan and and arts organisations: Isolde”, and Barbora Radvilaitė in “Barbora • The Lithuanian Basketball Federation Radvilaitė” ballet. • The Lietuvos rytas Basketball Club • The Lithuanian National Olympic Committee Merūnas Vitulskis won the Début of the • Santariškės clinics of Vilnius University Year award established by the Lithuanian Hospital National Opera and Ballet Theatre • The Lithuanian National Opera and Ballet foundation for his début as Lensky in Theatre “Eugene Onegin” and as Alfredo in “La • The Lithuanian Music Foundation Traviata”. • The Lithuanian National Symphony Orchestra • Kino Pavasaris, the Vilnius International Film Festival • Vilnius festivals • The Jazz House • The Vilnius Basketball Union • The Ekranas Football Club of Panevėžys • The Sunday Football League, etc. 15 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND WORKING ENVIRONMENT According to the CV-Online and the Verslo žinios study on the most covetous employer 2012, • The conference for managers on sales Moreover, leaders and specialists took Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB was voted one of the most appealing employers in 2012. The process optimisation. Involved 80 managers courses on the protection of the environment company reached the Top 3 in the category of fast consumption products, and took 14th place and specialists of Švyturys-Utenos Alus UAB. and occupational safety. Workers underwent in the general category. trainings on hygiene skills, first-aid • Courses held by the Carlsberg Group. 4 VIP treatment, working at heights and other The company has actively assisted students for several years now by offering on-the job managers took part in the KA Management issues. training at Švyturys-Utenos alus, UAB so that after graduation they can enter the labour training programme and 11 employees of the market easier. Nine students were on training at the company in 2012. marketing division improved their knowledge The project called “A Day in the Other at the BRAND Management trainings. Division”, with the aim to put oneself in the shoes of a colleague in order to understand • Carlsberg Baltic Bridge programme for them better, was carried out for the second Employees’ survey talent fostering (Modules 2 and 3) involved time in December 2012. The idea for the employees of the Carlsberg Group from project was put forward in February 2012. In order to involve employees in the From 2011, the C-15 leadership survey was the three Baltic countries. Five nominated At that time 25 employees from different development of the company, My Voice carried out twice a year providing feedback employees from Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB divisions and cities took part. survey was carried out on the Carlsberg Group to management. The purpose of the survey participated in this programme in 2012. scale in autumn 2012. Workers’ voice was heard and their proposals were implemented. is to develop structural and regular dialogue between a manager and employees on The four-day programme on the basics Equal opportunities for relevant issues based on mutual cooperation. of management was held at Norviliškės employees All the areas under the survey improved The C-15 survey indicator grew from 4.27 to manor in late November 2012. On the first absolutely, and even 6 out of 10 significantly day, participants tried to understand the Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB ensures that 4.38 in 2012, compared with the 2011 results. in terms of statistics. role of a leader, get a better understanding the working environment is free from of themselves as leaders, and grasp the harassment, discrimination and repression. Markedly improved areas include recognition Training and professional meaning of emotional intelligence. On the and encouragement, culture and winning development second and the third days, discussions on Taking into account the age distribution of employees, there were no discrimination behaviours, communication, the Carlsberg situational leadership were held, when group, development, senior managers, a LTL 256,960 was allocated for training leaders were learning to analyse needs cases reported in 2012. corporate image, work efficiency, team in 2012; promotion was granted to 17 and issues related to a specific situation The company had one labour dispute with work, and employees’ involvement. 91% employees, which makes up 49% of and pinpoint the style of leadership that a peaceful resolution in 2012. of employees took part in the survey and appointments a year. The number of is the most appropriate with regard to according to them, 9 out of 10 areas under employees who went on long-term and that situation. The last day was for team evaluation crossed the 75% barrier and are short-term assignments and projects also formation and team work issues. The deemed strengths of the organisation. went up from 3 in 2011 to 11 in 2012. most interesting evening was dedicated to Employees Age Distribution emotional design, when the participants Consistent and effective action taken by Training programmes building up a strong revealed their talents through painting Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB reconciled commercial team became a priority. To and, by listening to the insights of the Age Number Percentage with the 2011 survey results, and strong this end, the following programmes were lecturer, tried deeper self-examination. 19 – 29 112 26 communication in the area of employees’ implemented: These trainings strengthened the inter30 – 39 113 26 recognition and encouragement allowed for functional communication of the company • Trainings on the art of persuasion at 40 – 49 119 27 growth from 50% in 2011 to 69% in 2012. The and introduced new thoughts and ideas, best areas included team work, belonging the subdivision of sales. Involved 50 sales > 50 93 21 and confidence to continue the path of to the Carlsberg Group, and engagement of managers and 8 sales-over-the phone leadership. employees. managers. 17 18 Collective agreement Awards for employees To honour the collective agreement, LTL 957 453 was spent in 2012. Like every year, in 2012 Švyturys – Thank You programme of motivational Utenos alus UAB recognized employees’ awards, during which commendation badges, contribution to fostering the company’s diplomas and souvenirs are awarded to values and handed out 8 Golden Hops. Value employees to express the acknowledgement Ambassadors bestowed with the Golden of customers, management and colleagues Incidental expenses for employees Hops had the opportunity to visit the Baltika for successful projects, outstanding brewery in St. Petersburg, Russia. performance and initiatives. In 2012, the Paid out in 2012 In LTL Comments awards were given to 11 employees. Employees are nominated for the Golden Payments for the first two days of Hops in the following areas: passion to win; 63 employees received awards for loyalty incapacity 95% (in addition to the 5 796 payments under the Labour Code) bravery; client orientation; “together we are expressed by significant length of service in Support for families with three or more stronger”; agent of change; little good works; 2012. children or for a single parent 15 175 For 15 families socially responsible acts. Academic support at the beginning of school term 39 818 For 152 children Another 15 employees were given cash The Month of Good awards: 10 Švyturio alus brewery employees Works Funeral payments 14 300 For 11 employees for winning a Gold medal for Švyturys Ekstra beer at the World Beer Cup competition, In December 2012, we resumed honouring Birth payments 23 498 For 23 new-born babies and 5 Utena alus brewery employees for the the venerable tradition to visit people who presentation, promotion of and visits to the had spent many years working at the Wedding payments 13 281 For 13 employees Utenos Alus Museum and voting for the new Utenos Alus logistic warehouse. Current taste of “Utenos Classic” beer. workers wrapped up thoughtful gifts, wrote Holiday leave premium (33% with the lowest remuneration) 83 827 For 128 employees Christmas cards and went in groups to visit Švyturys Utenos alus UAB launched the the company’s veterans. In accordance with the collective agreement, during the academic leave, provided the studies are related to the Academic leave payments 32 612 position held, employees shall be paid average salary, and where the studies are not related to the position held, minimum salary shall be paid. Paid out to 16 employees. In case of marriage, or funeral Other types of leave 12 831 of a family member, in case of a child birth, 3 days of paid leave are granted (with average salary payable). Additional annual leave (longer than For additional leave, granted to those who work under provided for in the Labour Code) 29 377 conditions in derogation from normal working conditions, payments and for shift-based work. Insurance against accidents payments 20 069 11 accidents in 2012; all employees received payments In accordance with the Labour Code, in the event of any derogation from normal working conditions, tariff rate payable under the same conditions shall be higher than Compensation for conditions derogating from normal working conditions 633 337 the rate payable under the normal conditions. Collective agreements and labour agreements shall provide specific payment rates. The Labour Code does not prescribe the value of the tariff rate raised. Payments for overtime (in addition to the payments under the Labour Code) 33 532 Total 957 453 19 20 For the second year in a row the company was involved in the social project “Another Focus on the children of 100 smiles”. The project is aimed at one of employees the most vulnerable social groups – lonely Švyturys – Utenos alus UAB arranged and disadvantaged elderly people. Therefore, season’s festivities for the children of Vilnius, just before Christmas, we compiled and Klaipėda and Utena region employees distributed packages with food supplements, where they received gifts from Santa Claus, flour, vegetable oil, sugar, pasta and biscuits. played games, recited poems and enjoyed an We also joined the project “Bringing Joy to interactive play of the Three Little Pigs at the Children”. The project raised funds to buy Vilnius Raganiukė Theatre. new beds for the Vilnius orphanage for children with disabilities. Health protection and The campaign for organ donation aimed at working safety helping those suffering from blood cancer Švyturys – Utenos alus UAB records or patients to be operated on or after bone accidents, incidents and emergencies. marrow transplantation also added to the good works of the month in 2012. Employees In order to prevent accidents, the company ran the campaign for organ donation in carries out preventive measures. Workers Vilnius and Utena. must familiarize themselves with previous incidents, and carry out an analysis to Švyturys – Utenos alus UAB responded to prevent their recurrence. the request for support for the “Let’s feel Bearing in mind the results of My Voice better” programme carried out by the Vilnius 2011, working conditions were improved Children and Youth Art Gallery. The purpose as follows: the company installed an air of the programme was to give art classes to conditioner in the Klaipėda office (Šilutės pl. children suffering from oncological diseases 71, Klaipėda. Lithuania), made coffee vending at Vilnius hospital. The support allowed machine prices the same in all regions and children to attend weekly art classes. selected the same suppliers, and allowed Moreover, Švyturys – Utenos alus UAB sales managers to use company cars at supports not only high-profile projects, but weekends. The Švyturys filtering division also smaller-scale initiatives such as the renewed their tool lockers and chairs. Lithuanian Foundation for the Support of In 2012, the company allocated LTL 992,360 Musicians, Santariškės Clinics of Vilnius for the health protection and safety of University Hospital, and others. employees. Most funds were spent on the improvement of work safety and working conditions at the Utena and Švyturys breweries and the Utena logistics warehouse. Funds were also allocated for individual safeguards and worker training on issues of work safety and other needs related to safety at the workplace and working conditions. 21 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND These efforts yielded fruit: the company managed to reduce energy and water lamps in the logistics warehouse to reduce energy consumption. The brewery also PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT consumption, and, above all, CO2 emissions to 1l per product produced. The company modernised the PET belt for outer bottle washing to reduce water consumption. To also significantly increased recycling and the cut down energy consumption, the company Environmental initiatives reuse of packaging, which amounted to 49% last year, almost half of the entire packaging replaced two former pieces of equipment with new equipment for glass bottle The Utena brewery, which is located only materials for packaging as possible. The used. labelling. The Utena brewery improved some kilometres from the Aukštaitija Utena alus brewery intends to expand its waste recycling, trained workers, and got national park, initiated a broad programme ecological projects. The Utena brewery bottling division indoor waste containers. In 2012, the amount of initiatives for the protection of the improved ventilation system control, of mixed municipal waste reduced 10% The project of recycling centres, which turned modified operation of conveyor belts for compared to 2011. environment in 2011 and faithfully proceeded into Eco Stops in 2012, was implemented glass bottles, and installed energy efficient with it in 2012. together with “Žaliasis taškas” and Utena, It was the third consecutive project of the Molėtai, Zarasai, and Ignalina district Energy consumption Water consumption Change, % Change, % Utenos Alus brewery for 10 Eco Stops (litter municipalities. (kWh) (m 3) sorting centres) where tourists could leave In 2012, Švyturys – Utenos alus UAB was the Švyturys-Utenos alus -2,55% Švyturys-Utenos alus -2,86% rubbish after picnics – plastic, metal, glass, UAB production UAB production official partner of the “Darom 2012” annual paper, and paperboard waste – during the campaign for litter cleaning throughout summer. Lithuania, and contributed financial support Air pollution: CO2 emission Sewage (m 3) Change, % Change, % To prove that sorting is cost effective, the as well as effective employee activities. The (g/1l per product) brewers set up five “Utena” recreational company met organisers of the campaign Švyturys-Utenos alus Average as to the areas in the Land of Lakes in 2012. They and identified areas most in need of clean-0,44% -10,3% UAB production volume produced have outdoor furniture, changing booths, up. Employees cleaned up areas in Vilnius, and modern grills – all made from recycled Kaunas, Klaipėda and Utena. Packaging Reuse of packaging waste/recycling, % Recycled, t plastic. 2009 39% 1806 Utena, Zarasai, Ignalina, and Molėtai public Implementation 2010 44% 1882 utility workers calculated that during the of environment2011 49% 2404 summer 2012 tourists left about 1.3 tonnes of plastic, 21 tonnes of glass and 24 tonnes of friendly projects and 2012 49% 2459 paper at the Eco Stops. All the waste went technologies for recycling. The company faithfully proceeded with the The total value of the Land of Lakes project programme for production efficiency and amounted to LTL 200,000. 2012 was the resource savings in 2012. After modernisation third time that the Utena alus brewery of the KEG line, water consumption dropped carried out the Land of Lakes ecological to 0.6 l/hl at the Švyturys brewery. The project, and other ecological projects are brewery also installed the CO2 and nitric even older. They include the maintenance acid accounting system, which allows for of lake shores and the provision of the most the control and optimal use of the above popular beaches with quality recreational substances. The Klaipėda brewery optimised goods. The brewers take care of the nature washing stations in the filtering and bottling of the Land of the Lakes, and promote divisions, which allowed for the more ecological production by effective energy accurate settings of washing programmes consumption, recycling packaging, and and the optimal consumption of water and seeking to use as many biodegradable energy. 23 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB has been following the Carlsberg Group’s policy on business ethics since 2012. This arrangement defines rules of conduct for company’s employees, ensuring that they follow ethical business conducts and all the relevant laws and legislation. The Carlsberg Group policy on business ethics involves eight key areas: 1. Bribery: The Carlsberg Group and its em6. Confidential information: Employees of ployees shall work against corruption in all the Carlsberg Group shall not be entitled its forms, including extortion and bribery. to reveal or misuse confidential business information. The confidential relationship 2. Expedient payments: The Carlsberg Group between the Carlsberg Group and interested shall not approve the practice of expedient parties is protected. payments. 7. Respecting laws on competition: The 3. Lavish gifts and extravagant entertainCarlsberg Group and its employees shall ment: The Carlsberg Group shall not receive ensure that the business practices of the lavish gifts and extravagant entertainments. company are always in accordance with The Carlsberg Group shall also refrain from competition rules, laws and the internal offering lavish gifts and extravagant enterpolicy of business ethics of the company. tainment to any public or private interested party in an attempt to influence business 8. Fraud: Employees of the Carlsberg Group decisions and receive from them such gifts, must not misappropriate the company’s and entertainment. property and resources. Employees can use the company’s property and resources only 4. Donations: The Carlsberg Group shall not for the purpose of business of the Carlsberg make political contributions to obtain undue Group. Employees must follow the proor improper business advantages. cedures preventing fraud as set out in the accounting policy of the Carlsberg Group. 5. Conflicts of interest: The Carlsberg Group shall not engage in activities that might be The company has a telephone line for potential conflicts of interest. reporting incidents to ensure that this policy is followed at every level. Reporting can also be done on the Internet. The system ensures absolute confidentiality and anonymity. 25 26 Publication and availability of the The corporate social responsibility report is corporate social published on the website of Švyturys-Utenos alus UAB at http://www.svyturys.lt and sent to UN GlobalCompact partners. responsibility report The report is available to all interested parties; contacts and information are provided below. Contact person for responses and further information: Dainius Smailys, Director for Corporate Affairs Phone: +370 5 2397600 Email: dainius.smailys@svyturys.lt 27 2
