IN CLUS ION C O N C E RN FO R E N VI RO N ME N T INNOVATIO N PAS SI O N FO R E XCE LLE N C E Values INTE GR ITY that TATA MOTORS LIMITED A CC O U N TABI LI TY CU STOM ER Sustainability in motion Corporate Sustainability Report 2012-13 matter A G ILI TY Mission To be passionate in anticipating and providing the best vehicles and experiences that excite our customers globally Vision Most admired by our customers, employees, business partners and shareholders for the experience and value they enjoy from being with us. Culture • Accountability • Customer & Product Focus • Excellence Values • Speed • Inclusion • Integrity • Accountability • Customer • Innovation • Concern for the Environment • Passion for Excellence • Agility Sustainability in motion Values that matter Over past seven decades Tata Motors has grown to become an institution of trust trusted by customers for superior value, trusted by business associates for ethical business practices, trusted by employees for employee care and welfare, trusted by society for corporate citizenship and for upholding brand India in international markets. This trust places great responsibility on us to march ahead with integrity, passion, quality. We rely on our inherited values to act responsibly with concern for the environment and community for generations to come. The new vision, mission, culture and values are an articulation of our ethos and prepares us to face emerging business challenges. We will continue to live by our values to benefit stakeholders across the value chain and to create a seamless enterprise that plays as ‘One team’ with ‘One Vision’. Sustainability will persist to be in motion at Tata Motors which will enable us drive innovation across our policies, processes and products. 1 Contents About the Report 2 Company Profile 3 Managing Director’s statement 4 Awards 7 Corporate Governance 10 Material Issues 14 Stakeholder Engagement 16 Economic Performance 20 Product Innovation and Safety 22 Energy and Climate Change 30 Environmental Stewardship 33 Workforce Management 38 Occupational Health and Safety 43 Value chain sustainability 50 Community Development 52 Glossary 61 Assurance Statement 62 GRI Index 64 NVG Mapping 67 UNGC COP Index 68 2 This is Tata Motors Limited’s ninth1 Sustainability Report covering the period from About the report 01 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 (financial year 2012-13). This report includes performance data and information related to our Indian operations at Jamshedpur, Lucknow, Pune, Pantnagar, Sanand and Dharwad. The report does not include performance data and information related to joint ventures and subsidiaries. The environmental performance reported excludes our office locations and three company owned service workshops in India. The economic performance, permanent workforce and defined benefit plan related information is reported for the entire company. This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines and is externally assured by DNV. It conforms to the A+ application level of GRI G3.1 Guidelines and also serves as our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact, adhering to GC Advanced level. The report contains linkages to the nine principles defined under the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Businesses in India issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India and is prepared in compliance with the ‘Business Responsibility Report’ Clause 55 of the equity listing agreement with stock exchanges in India. 2 millionth Truck rolled out from 63,530 tCO2e avoided through Jamshedpur renewable energy use 31% Increase in Recon business 1,267,682 KL water recycled, representing from last year to INR 1.33 Billion 13.29% of total water withdrawn 5,672 employees and contractors 37% decrease in total lost-time trained in Defensive Driving injuries techniques 13.48% of total energy consumption More than 19,000 people benefited through -renewable based drinking water project Cautionary Statement This report contains “forward-looking statements” describing the Company’s objective, projections, estimates and expectations. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Company’s operations include, among others, economic conditions affecting demand /supply and price conditions in the domestic and overseas markets in which the Company operates, changes in the Government regulations, laws and other statutes and incidental factors. 1 The report covering our performance for the year 2004-05 and 2005-06 were limited to internal circulation. 2006-07 onwards, we have reported our performance on the public domain and can be accessed at: http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 3 Company Profile Tata Motors Limited is India’s largest automobile company with significant international presence. Regarded as a leader in commercial vehicles in each segment, and amongst the prominent players in passenger vehicles in India, we are also the world’s fourth2 largest truck and bus manufacturer. Over 62,000 employees3 power our vibrant organisation which has world-class manufacturing facilities in India and overseas. Through our joint-ventures, subsidiaries and associate companies4, we have a global footprint with operations spread across Asia, Europe, Africa and South America5. We have also forayed into new markets during the year with winning products to strengthen our global presence. New Market winning products FY2012-13 Tata Aria lauched in Spain Tata Ace Zip, Passenger cars lauched in Bangaladesh Tata commercial vehicles and Passenger cars lauched in Saudi Arabia Wholly owned subsidiary PT Tata Motors Indonesia set up Tata Indigo Manza, Tata Super Ace lauched in South Africa Performance snapshot: The industry performance in the domestic market during FY 2012-13 and the Company’s market share is given below:Industry Sales Industry Sales Total Growth Growth 901,120 1.7% 2,578,538 Growth 0.9% 3,479,658 1.1% 886,362 2,556,035 3,442,397 Company Sales Company Sales Total Growth Growth Growth 536,232 1.1% 229,325 -31.1% 765,557 -11.3% 530,204 333,044 863,248 Market Share Market Share Total 59.5% 8.9% 22.0% 59.8% 13.0% 25.1% Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers report and Company Analysis 2012-13 2011-12 Commercial Vehicles Include V2 Van Sales Passenger Vehicles Include Fiat and Jaguar Land Rover branded cars To know more about us Refer TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 available at Visit our website www.tatamotors.com http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php 2 Source: Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d’Automobiles (OICA) statistics: http://oica.net/wp-content/uploads/ranking-2010.pdf 3 Employees of entire Tata Motors Group 4 For list of our joint-ventures, subsidiaries and associate companies please refer Pg 60,149 of TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 available at http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php” 5 For our complete global footprint please refer Pg 18-19 of TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 available at http://tatamotors.com/investors/financials/financial-reports.php 4 Managing Director’s statement Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to present our ninth sustainability report “Sustainability in motion: Values that matter”. Our values demonstrate our commitment towards the development of cleaner mobility solutions, increasing customer delight, improving people engagement, and enhancing community development initiatives which are embedded in strong corporate governance practices. Our new Vision, Mission, Culture and Values statement is inherently tied to those issues that are of importance to us as well as our aspirations. We continuously strive to inculcate sustainable practices into every aspect of our business in order help us face existing and emerging global challenges and to create value for our stakeholders. This year has been challenging for the domestic automobile sector and the ripple effect of the global economic downturn was felt after a few years of strong positive growth. Factors beyond our control had an adverse impact on demand. Slowdown in infrastructure spending curtailed growth, especially in the Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles (M&HCV). The overall automobile industry production marginally grew by 1.2% compared to the previous year. While the passenger cars domestic sales grew by 2.15%, the commercial vehicles witnessed one of the most turbulent times with a de-growth of 2.02%. Continued slow-down and competition, mainly in passenger cars has severely affected our operations. Nevertheless, this has been a marquee year in terms of product launches. We rolled out the two millionth truck from our Jamshedpur Unit this year. Our Pantnagar Unit rolled out its one millionth vehicle, Tata Ace raced through the one million mark and our ERC prototype manufacturing shop rolled out its 1000th 5 prototype vehicle. We also unveiled a new Micro Bullet-Proof Vehicle (MBPV) at DEFEXPO India 2012. This is a highly mobile combat vehicle for indoor combat inside airports, railway stations and other such infrastructure to assist the country’s elite forces in indoor combat. We are committed to continued investments in new technologies, including developing sustainable technologies to improve fuel economy and reduce CO2 emissions with some of our products boasting class leading mileages. During the year, we filed 83 patent applications and 38 design applications. For the applications filed in earlier years, 16 patents were granted and 68 designs were registered. “Sustainable Mobility” is the future and we are continuously working on the development of CNG vehicles, electric vehicles and hybrids. We, along with our subsidiaries and channel partners continue our support towards cleaner public transport in the country and this year have started supplying CNG buses under the Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit system (DIMTS) cluster scheme. We are continuing our efforts towards making our operations cleaner and reducing our overall environmental footprint. The investments made in renewable energy resulted in emissions avoidance of 63,530 tCO2e. A total of 293,218 GJ of renewable energy has been utilised during the year and this accounts for 13.48 % of our total energy consumption during the year. In a significant step, this year, we along with Water Footprint Network (WFN) and International Finance Corporation (IFC) completed a Water Foot-printing exercise for all manufacturing locations in India which will help us to establish a baseline and a platform to launch intensive water conservation measures. Another feather in the cap this year was ‘IGBC Platinum’ (Green Building) rating to Dharwad Plant, propelling us closer towards carbon neutral manufacturing. We have also been accredited with the ‘Sustainable Plus’ marquee in the Gold category. This is the world’s first Corporate Sustainability label by CII-ITC, Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development. We are striving to improve our sustainability performance and are extending this to our value chain as well. We continue to develop long-term strategic relationships with suppliers to support the development of parts, technology and production facilities. We have identified workforce management as one of the most important aspects of supplier sustenance. This year we conducted an assessment of worker-management relationships in our supply chain, starting with an engagement at Pantnagar. This helped us identify the areas of concern and set up a roadmap for our key vendors to mitigate risks and ensure longevity. Our innovations are geared towards customer satisfaction and we take pride in ‘customer delight’ with our products. This year, we launched the Tata FleetMan Telematics service which is aimed at providing Commercial Vehicles owners with advanced telematics solutions like fuel management, driver management and remote diagnostics. The Tata Delight customer loyalty program launched last year has received good response from its customers. With renewed focus on customer care for our passenger vehicles, this year we have started home visits, where we visit customers who are not satisfied with our dealers’ service along with a technician to provide solutions with minimal turnaround time. While serving our existing customer base, we continuously seek to expand our products and their uptake in the global market. This year we have launched products in Spain, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and South Africa. Through our product base and focus on innovative research we want to strengthen brand Tata Motors globally in the coming years. 6 The organisational environment in which we work is one which is performance oriented and where our employees are encouraged to achieve their full potential. This year, the Tata Motors Academy launched a number of E-learning courses which were offered to our managers as well as dealers, driving a culture of effective and efficient self-learning. The e-learning programs have been well received and over 82% of our white collared employees have accessed the Tata Motors Academy portal. Further, to realise our people potential, we have developed 13 new standards addressing the managerial, cultural, behavioural and technical aspects of safety. Reflecting on our safety performance, this year we achieved a reduction of 37% in the overall Lost Time Injury Frequency rate. However, we had an unfortunate event of one fatality during the year. Our intense focus on nil accidents will ensure we do not have such incidents in the future. We believe our responsibility in ensuring safety extends beyond the plant boundary and thus have strived to inculcate the values of safe driving to all our employees and contractors. In 2012-13 5,672 employees and contractors were trained across 287 training sessions in defensive driving at Tata Motors, making this one of the biggest training projects in the Indian automobile sector. Our community development programs are designed to meet the most important needs of the stakeholders we engage with. Our model of corporate responsibility is founded on initiatives in the four areas of Health, Education, Employability (also livelihood) and Environment. Further to bridge the skill gap, we partnered with 135 ITIs across the country to train youth in various automotive trades. Our Driver Training Program progressed steadily and this year we have trained 554 novice drivers through our centres spread across the country. We have taken the responsibility of uplifting marginalised sections of the society through our Affirmative Action Program. This year we also received a TAAP (Tata Affirmative Action Assessment Program) Jury Award for developing Dalit vendors as a role model, in the true spirit of Affirmative Action, without compromising on cost or quality. As we look forward to step into the tenth year of our sustainability reporting journey we will work to ensure that our sustainability focus has a direct link to our strategic priorities and constantly act with integrity. We present our performance and the challenges that lie ahead through this report and look forward to your ideas and feedback that would help us improve our sustainability performance. Karl Slym Managing Director Tata Motors Limited 7 Awards Environment, Safety and Social Responsibility • Tata Motors was Accredited with the ‘Sustainable Plus’ marquee in the Gold category. This is the world’s first Corporate Sustainability label by CII-ITC, Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development. • Bagged the ‘Golden Peacock Global Award’ for Sustainability 2012 in the private sector organization category. The organization was recognized for its significant contribution towards Corporate Sustainability. • The PVBU plants, Pune and Sanand, have been awarded the ‘Sword of Honor’ Award by the British Safety Council, UK. This award signifies the highest benchmarks for safety performances in the world. • The Lucknow Plant was awarded the Certificate of Merit in National Energy Conservation Award 2012, in Automobile Manufacturing category by Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), Ministry of Power, Government of India. • Tata Motors received the BCCI award for Good Corporate Citizenship as well as the MCCIA B.G Deshmukh CSR Award, 2012. • Tata Motors was conferred with Best CSR Practice Award by ET Now. Manufacturing Excellence • Tata Motors (Lucknow) has won Gold at the Indian Manufacturing Excellence Awards (IMEA) in the mega large business category (automotive sector). • Tata Genuine Parts was conferred with 2 awards in the ‘Sustainable Packaging Excellence’’ and Supply Chain Technology Advancement’ categories, at the 2nd Asia Manufacturing Supply Chain Summit. Tata Genuine Parts also won the ‘Loyalty Award’ in the Best Technology used in a loyalty program category. Accomplishments • Tata Motors (Jamshedpur) rolled out its 2 millionth truck • Tata Motors (Pantnagar) rolled out its 1 millionth vehicle • Tata Ace races through 1-million mark • Tata Motors ERC (Pune) prototype manufacturing shop rolled out its 1000th prototype vehicle in a year 8 Awards Business performance • Tata Motors Customer Care (CVBU) was given the ‘Indian Innovation Award’ 2012 at the 5th annual EMPIIndian Express Awards for its comprehensive skills enhancement drive. • Tata Motors won 3 awards at the 3rd Edition of the Apollo-CV Awards 2012 which included ‘CV of the year’ and ‘LCV Passenger Carrier of the Year’Tata Magic Iris and HCV Truck of the Year. • Tata Motors bagged 3 awards at the 4th edition of the Apollo-CV Awards, 2013. This included an award for the ‘Commercial Vehicle’, ‘Iconic Commercial Vehicle’ and ‘Prime Mover of the year.’ • Tata Motors and Tata Technologies won the 1st prize at the Tata Innovista 2012 for its ‘Knowledge based engineering applications.’ • The ‘Asia HRD Award’ 2012 for outstanding contribution to the field of HR development was given to Mr Prabir Jha, Senior VP of Human Resources, Tata Motors. • Tata Motors featured 314th for the year 2012 in the Fortune Global 500. It also featured in the Forbes Fab 50 list for the best publicly traded companies in the Asia-Pacific region. • Tata Motors has been chosen in the ‘Annual Gartner Top 25’ Asia Pacific Supply Chain organizations for 2012, at its Supply Chain Executive Conference held in Sydney (Australia). • The ‘Amity Business Excellence Award’ was conferred to Tata Motors during the IT Summit Confluence 2012. • Tata Motors Customer Care (CVBU) won the international ‘Customer Service Excellence Award’ (Large Business) at the 11th Annual Australian Service Excellence Award, 2012. Tata Motors won this award for the second year running. • Tata Motors won Silver at the Annual EFFIE Awards for the Tata Acethe Power of the Fourth Wheel campaign, in the automobile category. • Tata Motors was felicitated with 2 IT ‘Business Excellence Awards’ at the 47th Annual Convention 2012. • Tata Motors (CVBU) was conferred with the ‘World Brand Congress’ Leadership Awards in the 4-wheeled automotive category. The team was awarded for it’s marketing case studies. • Tata Motors won 3 awards at the 4th edition of the Rural Marketing Association of India (RMAI) Corporate Awards 2012. The company won 2 Silvers in the category of ‘Best Long-term Objectives' and ‘Best CSR by a Brand.’ A Bronze was won in the category of ‘Creative Awards, Innovative Communication Tool.’ INTEGRITY We are driven by our ethos of maintaining steadfast adherence to a high standard of professionalism, probity and a moral code of conduct. Our actions demonstrate the company’s leadership, values and commitment, and contribute to the group’s legacy. 10 As on 31st March 2013, the Board of Directors at Tata Motors comprised of 11 Corporate Governance directors of which 8 were non-executive. The Board periodically reviews the organisational policies, procedures and performance and provides strategic guidance to the organisation. Various Board committees are established to assist the Board in discharging their fiduciary and other duties. The Board committees include Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Investors’ Grievance Committee, Executive Committee, Ethics and Compliance Committee and Nominations Committee. During the year, 9 Board meetings were held. The Board and it's committee meetings are duly documented and the minutes of meeting are placed before the Board. The actions taken on decisions/minutes of meeting of Board meetings are also presented to the Board in the immediately succeeding meeting. This enables the Board to track and review the progress of the decisions taken on various aspects of the Company’s performance including economic, environmental and social performance. Mr Ratan N Tata stepped down as the Chairman and Director of the Company on December 28, 2012 in accordance with the ‘Policy for Retirement Age of Non-Executive Directors’ adopted by the Company. Mr Tata who was appointed on the Company’s Board in 1981 and later as the Executive Chairman in 1988 had, through his bold vision and strategic leadership and commitment to the Company, transformed it from a domestic truck company to a complete automobile company with path breaking products such as the Indica and the Nano. To know more about us Visit our website http://www.tatamotors.com/ know-us/bod.php Refer TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 (Page 98-107) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/ investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php A steering committee headed by the Managing Director tracks our health, safety and environmental performance and provides insights and guidance for improvement and efficiency on a monthly basis. The Board periodically oversees our Health and Safety performance. Our enterprise risk management framework identifies the risks related to strategies, operations, finances and governance and examines any weaknesses in our internal processes. During the year, we had no instances of significant fines or non-monetary sanctions levied against the Company. Our corporate governance The Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) lies at the core of all Tata group company philosophy rests on the operations. We have adopted TCoC as a way of life which guides every employee to principles of ethics, conduct himself / herself in an ethically acceptable manner. It guides organisation accountability and transparency. policies on key aspects like anti-bribery and corruption, equal opportunities, We have robust internal controls competitive markets, regulatory compliance and human rights. Training and and audit framework in place for awareness on TCoC is provided to all employees and relevant stakeholders are also effective implementation of the made aware of the Code. All our business units are also regularly analysed and governance policies and audited for risks related to corruption as per the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Pursuant to practices. The efficiency and Clause 49 of listing agreement with SEBI, we have also implemented a ‘Whistle efficacy of internal controls are Blower Policy’ and established a mechanism for employees to report concerns evaluated periodically and related to unethical behaviour, actual or suspected, fraud or violation of TCoC. reported to the Board. Our governance standards are fully compliant with Clause 49 of the equity listing agreement of the To know more about Tata Code of Conduct Indian stock exchanges while we strive to adopt international best Visit the website http://www.tata.com/aboutus/articles/inside.aspx?artid=NyGNnLHkaAc governance standards. Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 15-19) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 11 Management systems Classification of incidents under the TCoC We have a robust Enterprise System Model Manual consisting of enterprise level processes and sub-processes. The manual is periodically reviewed and updated to Concerns Concerns reflect the changes in business needs and shifts in processes. Our Enterprise Resource Planning SAP gives us the benefit of accurate and consistent data. We also have a CRM-DMS (Customer Relationship Management – Dealer Management received (Nos.) resolved (Nos.) System) that has been initiated through a centralised system and deployed to all channel partners. This helps us integrate our systems seamlessly across the value chain to deliver better service quality. Our plants at Jamshedpur and Pune are certified to SA8000 social accountability standard and they are subjected to reviews and assessments which include human rights aspects. All our manufacturing divisions are certified for ISO 14001:2004 – environmental Employee 14 14 management system standard and OHSAS 18001:2007 safety and occupational relations health management system standard. Our Pantnagar, Dharwad and Sanand plants are also certified for ISO 50001:2011 energy management system standard. In order to ensure we have reliable and responsible suppliers for automotive production and service parts, we have mandated that all of our suppliers adopt the ISO 9001/TS 16949 quality management system frameworks. We also encourage Environment, 0 0 our dealers to adopt quality, environmental and safety management systems. Health & Safety Concorde Motors, a wholly owned subsidiary of TML, is certified for all three management systems making it the only company in the auto retail industry in India to achieve this distinction. Public Policy Advocacy Being the largest Indian automobile company, we have played a significant role in advocating for a better policy framework which is conducive to nation's growth. We engage with policy makers and regulators on these issues through our Diversity, Equal 8 8 representations in various industry and trade associations. Some of the key topics Opportunity & that we engage with policy makers through industry and trade associations are fuel respect in policies, taxes on vehicles, vehicle norms, climate change and sustainable mobility. the workplace To know more about our associations and memberships (including sexual Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 17) available at http://www.tatamotors.com harassment /sustainability/sustainability.php complaints) Financial 20 18 impropriety Legal 2 2 compliance Unfair business 4 4 practices Total 48 46 12 Board of Directors MrMr. Cyrus RaviPKant Mistry Mr Ravi Kant Mr Nusli N Wadia Non Executive Director Non Executive Director and Non Executive, Non Executive, Vice and Chairman Chairman Vice Chairman Independent Director Mr Sam M Palia Dr Raghunath A Mashelkar Mr Subodh Bhargava Non Executive, Non Executive, Non Executive, Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Mr Nasser Munjee Mr Vinesh K Jairath Dr Ralf Speth Non Executive, Non Executive, Non Executive Director Independent Director Independent Director Mr Ratan Tata Mr Karl J Slym Mr Ravindra Pisharody Mr Satish B Borwankar Managing Director Executive Director Executive Director (Quality) Chairman Emeritus (Commercial Vehicles) Mr Ratan N Tata ceased to be a Director and Chairman w.e.f. December 28, 2012. The Board of Directors designated him ad “Chairman Emeritus” Mr P M Telang stepped down as Managing Director India Operations w.e.f. June 21, 2012 A C C O U N TA B I L I T Y We are accountable to our stakeholders for the choices we make. We strive towards taking responsibility for all the activities that our organization is involved in and seek to capture feedback from our diverse set of stakeholders. We have established long lasting trust with our stakeholders over the years and it is our aim to act on issues that are material to them. 14 We have identified key sustainability issues that are of material significance to us Material Issues and are of relevance to our stakeholders. The issues were identified two years ago through materiality assessment. The assessment included senior management review of sustainability issues against six materiality filters financial impacts and risks, legal drivers, internal policy drivers, peer based performance, stakeholder concerns and opportunity for innovation. Inputs were also gathered from key stakeholders through focused questionnaires and discussions. The assessment confirmed climate change management, supply chain management, materials management, occupational health and safety and community stewardship as key material issues on which our stakeholders expect our response. To know more about our response on the material issues Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 20-21) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php To know more about our business opportunities and risks Refer TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 (Page 84-92) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/ investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php Our sustainability transformation roadmap is expected to be completed this year. This project will assess the issues material to the organization and significant to the stakeholders. The outcome of the exercise will be a delineated roadmap on our material issues. 15 Stakeholder engagement at Tata Motors is ongoing constructive process wherein Stakeholder Engagement we engage with different stakeholders to map their expectations and concerns. These inputs are critical for our strategic business planning and improvement. We have adopted both formal and informal engagement mechanisms to ensure wide coverage of stakeholders and in-depth engagement. Individual business functions of the organisation have been identified and assigned roles towards conducting stakeholder engagement. Response and mitigation plans are made to address stakeholder expectations and concerns and results are communicated through appropriate forums. Learning and feedback E to st nga ak g ck eh e ba rs ol wit rt lde de h rs po ho Re ake Identify issues st and concerns Implement strategic an ise rit s initiatives and io ue s Pr iss rn e ce th on review S an et g Address d c d oa the issues ta ls rg et s and concerns Every year we work along with our stakeholders to 16 formulate sustainable relationships based on creating value that is shared and that benefits everyone. Over the years, we have maintained and enhanced existing channels of dialogue with our key stakeholders. A snapshot of our engagement is depicted below: Stakeholder Engagement lers Dea es , g ra mm nd NPI p ro D a ini ng , J oint n in QF cial tra Audits eets ipatio is, Spe visits; ler m r tic s r Dea nts, Pa d analy il; Deale ev e a n n c en ata Cou Kaiz etitor d ealers p D Com mes; ram ual; Prog Ann erly; rt Qua ily Emp loye Da es and Sun ris Wee Comm and S kly e pa city w; un Foru /Month ications set mee un ca w-ho g ding o rin m; Q ly rev ; 12 T iews Horizon gs; Ho tin Buil nical kn delive mers d tec ing a to custo h Foc o ol; im p tal d rizo n uss Skip L rovem eploym ntal ed G evel ents ent; rov e roup M D Disc eets; To isplays imp espons Ann uss w ; te r r ual; ions n Hall H R bet Qua s ; ion Mon r terl fact Wee ; thly y; r Satis kly le y Und com ersta Dea Surve mun i ndin g com and cating p conce seek olic rns; mun in y icat g feedb decisio ing per f ack; ns orm E anc e satis m ploy fact i ee App on surv rais als ey; eeting; of m ns; utes la Min ction p etters a backl feed ; ent erly opm ; uar t ity d evel ication y; Q mun mmu ncer n ns Min Dail Com ives co ietal co utes t c acti of mee initia ring so on p t lans ing; y; iety unit cap tu Soc mm l co R app elation ity; oca ith l earing rais ship mun in sw h indu g the go building ting public Com disc s Mee uss try con vernme ; ions s n on w traints; t on ay f orw ard Req uire men t ba sed One -toone m Indu eetings stry ; Foru Meetin ms gs i n Gov ernm ent; Reg ulat ory age ncie s Stakeholder Groups 17 Engagement mechanisms Frequency of engagement Key agenda Sup plier Feedback assessment s/V end ors prog Techno ra lo Com mmes gy Day peti , Ka s tor d izen , Suppl ata even ier m an ts ee Ven d analy , Par tic ts, Join dor s i men is; Ven pation i t torin dor n g Cou NPI, ncil; Ann Qua ual; r ter ly Deli veri ng q com time m uality p plian anag rodu con c duc ce to T ement; ts; s; s lder t an M ting d ot L’s co Mee ation; reho her d poli e of eral Sha Ven cies dor c Gen mmuni Bo ra ; ual; Ven ard rev ting; Ann ly; ual r ter Ann terly co t meet dor i Qua a year Sa ews; Twic e Sur tisfactio broa d ce; k and r s Qua Analy veys n man c l pe r for feedba proval ; ncia gies rns; ap Fina trate re s con ce lders futu ess of hareho r s add from of scripts s; e Tran nferenc co tele inutes of M GM A C Und Sati ustom redr erstan d pr sfac e ess JD P tion r c o on p ompla duct fe owe Inde rodu ints; edb ac r Su x; ct d s evel uggest k; rvey opm ions Key Cus t Feed accoun omer m ent ; ting mee As p f bac t e k ca proces ets; o er re utes lans Min ction p quir eme a nt lls; T s; S Cus road e; b and Dire rainin urvey tom ct V s c n g isits Forum ; r for ma back d ers ial pe ies; fee cerns s; an c eg o n Fin strat l of c tu re s s a fu addr e ual; Ann erly; rt ent Qua quirem er r e As p ; eets es tor m alls; Inv stor c s Inve d Show Roa s stor Inve To know more about our stakeholder engagement process Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 22-24) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 18 Customer focus and delight are at the core of our culture and values. We Customer delight continually strive to enhance our customer engagement and relationship initiatives to provide best quality and service. To ensure seamless customer service quality we have integrated our Customer Relationship Management (CRM) framework with Dealer Management System (DMS). Customer feedback is taken across the breadth of our relationship with the customer his/her first visit to the dealer showroom, pre-sales, post-sales and regular services. We use the globally renowned J.D.Power survey scores to assess overall customer satisfaction and benchmark with industry peers. We scored 796 out of 1000 points in J.D.Power CSI Score for 2012, inching ahead by one position to the 6th as compared to last year. In the commercial vehicles business, we use TNS survey scores to gauge customer satisfaction levels. The results of TNS Customer Engagement Index confirm our market leadership in M&HCV Truck and MCV Bus segments with index ratings of 85 and 79 respectively (on a 200 point scale). Similarly, we retained the leadership position in LCV Truck and LCV Bus segments with index ratings of 82 and 84 respectively (on a 200 point scale). We continue to innovate to provide customer delight services. This year, we launched the Tata FleetMan Telematics service which is aimed at providing Commercial Vehicles owners with advanced telematics solutions like fuel management, driver management and remote diagnostics. The service is marketed through our Commercial Vehicle dealer network. The Tata Delight customer loyalty program launched last year has received good response from the customers. With renewed focus on customer care for our passenger vehicles, this year we have started home visits, where we visit customers who are not satisfied with our dealers’ service along with a technician to provide solutions with minimal turnaround time. This year, we have entered into alliance with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and JK Tyre to enable our customers to earn/redeem Tata points for their fuel and tyre purchases. We have also entered into MoUs with J&K Bank and Saurashtra Gramin Bank to help our customers avail attractive loans for commercial vehicles and passenger cars. Our product value proposition coupled with superior service quality has helped us bag the largest ever single order of 1,314 trucks from India’s largest fleet owner.We work closely with our dealers to create state-of-the-art showrooms to provide customers a unique experience. Corncorde Motors, our wholly owned subsidiary, launched its stylish, tech-savvy and best-in-class flagship showroom in Mumbai. It is an enticing hub of first-in-class human-machine interface with contemporary styling. A consumer privacy policy is in place to ensure customer data security and help us enjoy continued trust of our customers. Customer dissatisfaction is another key aspect that is separately tracked and measured. We have an established Complaint Management Process in place and all the complaints are assessed for root cause analysis. The customers are provided feedback on the resolution of the complaint. Sustained financial strength is critical to our ability to achieve our sustainability goals. Our agility in growth and creation of value for AGILITY stakeholders is the real key to creating solutions for today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. 20 As a leading automobile company, we contribute to the nation building beyond the Economic Performance profits generated for our shareholders. While we generate direct economic value through our operations, products and services, we also contribute to significant indirect economic impacts which culminate to increased economic activity. We help transport people and goods, thereby enabling people, enterprises and institutions to realise new possibilities. The vast value chain of automobile companies supports numerous jobs. Our community development agenda empowers communities to carve a path for economic and societal prosperity. To know more about our indirect economic impact Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 26) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php FY 2012-13 has been a challenging year for the domestic automobile sector, influenced by the global scenario. The ripple effect of a global slowdown was felt in the country and after years of strong positive growth, the economy slowed down. The reduction in infrastructure spending resulted in curtailed growth, especially in the Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles (M&HCV). The overall industry production marginally grew by 1.2% compared to the last fiscal year. While the passenger cars domestic sales grew by 2.15%, the commercial vehicles witnessed one of the most turbulent times with a de-growth of 2.02%. M&HCV suffered a record de-growth of 23.18% compared to last year6. This year we focused on growing the Light and Small Commercial Vehicle segments while retaining market share in the Heavy Commercial Vehicle segment as competitive action increased in a shrinking market. This was made possible by targeted financing activities coupled with key product actions to address niches in the market. Another key focus area for the Company has been to focus on solution offerings over and above the product Annual Maintenance contracts, 24x7 service support, Tata Alert assistance etc. In the commercial vehicles our domestic market share during the year was 59.5%, as compared to 59.8% last year. This was mainly due to drop in market share of MHCV segment, which was compensated by growth in the SCV segment. While this year was flat for the passenger vehicle industry, the Utility Vehicles segment registered a healthy growth of 31.0%. We focused on operational efficiency We recorded a gross turnover of improvement during the year by controlling working capital, maintaining right INR 493.2 billion, a decrease of inventory levels and re-structuring the customer facing functions. 16.7%, from the previous year. Economic Performance7 Continued slow-down and 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 competition, mainly in PVBU has Economic Value Generated affected severely the operations. Additionally, the need to increase Gross Revenue8 516.07 597.95 514.08 marketing expenses to protect and grow market share have resulted in EBITDA margins reducing from 8.1% to 4.8%. We 516.07 597.95 514.08 recorded sales of 765,557 (CVBU and PVBU), de-growth of Economic Value Distributed 512.35 596.67 512.77 11.3% over last year. Industry Operating Costs9 413.86 488.58 418.57 growth during the year was also muted resulting in Tata Motors’ Employee Benefits and Wages 22.94 26.91 26.91 market share of 22.0% in the Payments to providers of capital 26.58 24.99 20.33 Indian automotive industry. Our Payments to government 48.97 56.18 46.95 exports stood at 50,938 vehicles during the year. Economic Value Retained 3.72 1.27 1.31 Figures in billion Indian rupees 6 Source: http://www.siamindia.com/Media/Release/SiamViewMediaRelease.aspx?id=332 7 We have recalculated our economic value calculations to consistently apply the economic performance parameters over the years in accordance with GRI definitions and hence have restated the 2011-12 and 2010-11 values. 8 Includes ‘Other Income – revenues from financial instruments’ 9 Includes community investments Innovation is a vital factor that contributes to the ability of our organization to not only keep CUSTOMER, up with the changing times but to also embrace it. We have woven product innovation and product safety into our product responsibility strategy to deliver maximum value to our customers. I N N O V AT I O N 22 Sustainable public transport Product Innovation Sustainable transport systems make a positive contribution to the environmental, social and economic sustainability. As the Government of India is encouraging public transportation through various policies, Tata Motors is providing various cost effective & sustainable products to encourage public transport which are lower in cost and sustainable for any society. TATA Motors Fuel Cell Bus Program We are developing fuel cell power train technology to power a bus which will be fuelled with Hydrogen. Presenty, Tata Motors Research Centre (TMRC) is playing host to design and and Safety development of fuel cell power system in co-operation with Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and Indian Institute of Science (IISc) as well. The concept prototype of Fuel Cell Bus was unveiled during the AutoExpo at Delhi in 2012. TATA Motors CNG Hybrid Bus Program ‘Series Hybrid Electric Vehicle’ was envisaged with a unique architecture –“Common Electric Traction System” – where-in any kind of prime mover ranging from CNG/ Diesel Engine, Over head transmission Line, Fuel Cells or HV Battery can be used. These buses have advanced features and functions like EBS, ECAS, EV mode, Regenerative braking etc. TATA Motors Diesel Hybrid Manza Program A combination of Series and Parallel Hybrid makes it an efficient yet powerful sedan with a focus on driveability and very usable performance in the real world. The hybrid architecture allows the car to boast of an extremely small carbon footprint. Hybrid TATA Manza packed with advanced technology and features was show cased during 2012 Auto Expo at Delhi. TATA Motors Indica EV Program With more than four decades of In 2005, TATA Motors established its European Technical in-house R&D capabilities, we Centre (TMETC) to develop a clean, battery powered electric have created products keeping car with leading edge performance which fulfils the customer demands and expectations of motorists all over the world. TMETC aspirations in mind. Our efforts in developed Tata Vista Indica EV combining performance, product innovation not only comfort and space. The Tata Vista Indica EV has a 160km / helped us continue our market 100 mile range in the European Drive Cycle (NEDC). leadership but also put India on the global automobile map as one of the few nations having TATA Motors Ace EV Program indigenously developed vehicles. The Tata Ace EV emits zero CO2 – saving around 130g/km over Sustainable Mobility is the future similar sized conventional petrol engine vehicles. It is a full and we emphasize on developing electric mini truck that can be charged from any 3 pin plug point technologies for tomorrow. at any opportunity and has a restricted speed of 25mph and a Our innovation capabilities on maximum range of 25 miles (48km). low-emission vehicles, hybrid vehicles, alternate fuel vehicles and electric vehicles is well To know more about our innovation agenda and R&D capabilities showcased by the wide range of Visit our website http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/company-profile.php prototypes developed by us. Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 27-28) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Refer TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 (Page 95-97) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php 23 Product Life cycle assessments and environmental impacts Life cycle assessments (LCA) of vehicles and auto components is a very complex process which entails enormous data collection and analysis, both within the organisation and across the value chain. We have made an attempt to conduct life cycle assessments of five automotive components with an objective of evaluating major environmental impacts, comparing carbon footprint with respect to change in material of automotive components and understanding challenges in conducting LCA of a complete car. We are one of the first Indian automobile companies to conduct LCA using GaBi software. We continuously work on projects to reduce environmental impacts through in-house innovations and in collaboration with our vendors. Breakthrough in alternate material usage Vehicle weight reduction through new and improved technologies is one of the key focus areas for us in order to achieve higher fuel efficiency as well as a reduction in environmental impact. Some of the key areas that we are currently working on are listed below. All these innovations are under validation stage or concept providing stage: • A hollow camshaft (used to operate engine valves by cam lobes) to replace the existing solid cast and a forged camshaft which has the potential to reduce the camshaft weight by 15-20% and also result in reduction of machining efforts and production waste. • Use of low density polyamides for various applications like fluid bottle caps, grab handles etc. This can result in a reduction of the component by 5-10%. • The use of a magnesium alloy for oil sump application instead of the conventional steel and aluminium alloy. One-to-one conversion from Aluminium to Magnesium can result in a significant 50% weight reduction of the components. • Conducted a technical feasibility study for developing the Tata Nano hood with aluminium alloy to realise the component weight saving potential of 47%. • Use of castor oil based polymers (bio-plastics) for the fuel liners and air brake tubings. • Use of jute natural fibre for headlining and insulations. 24 On the materials front, we constantly evaluate the possibilities of eliminating the use of hazardous materials. Chrome Plating is a hazardous process and, we are closely working with our suppliers to find alternative solutions. We are in the final stages of procuring the first prototype which is made from an alternative solution. We are also implementing a controlled cooling process for stub axles which are conventionally hardened and tempered after forging. This will help us reduce the use of oil and fuel required in the furnace for hardening and tempering. Lubricants are used to reduce friction and they contribute substantially in vehicle maintenance cost. We are conducting field trials to extend the oil and grease drain period from existing 80,000 kms (gear oil and axle oil) and 40,000 kms (grease) to 120,000 kms. This helps to reduce the vehicle down time, minimize cost of refilling and make the vehicle eco-friendly. Over the life of the vehicle, this ensures that less oil is discarded to the environment. We have completed the validation of use of hollow glass spheres for creating low density Sheet Moulding Composites (SMC). These hollow glass spheres will provide an opportunity to reduce weight without compromising on mechanical properties. We have taken proactive steps to address EU-REACH regulations which currently only apply to European markets. We have developed an in-house IT system for Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) that is used to compile vendor data on Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) and Banned Chemicals declaration. Vendor awareness was created through vendor meets on REACH regulations. Vendor guidelines are also released for data collection on SVHC and Banned Chemicals declaration. Currently, 15 hazardous materials are listed. Last year CVBU vendors were trained towards this endeavour through awareness sessions. Tata Motors Ltd. has also become the first OEM in India to join International Material Data System (IMDS). We have obtained Homologation certificates for export markets from authorized test agencies and labelling for identification of parts is compliant with EEC directives. Recyclability EEC Directive Recoverability EEC Directive 85.00 90.00 Safari Family 91.20 95.70 85.00 95.00 Indica Vista 91.50 95.00 85.00 95.00 Indica Family 91.40 95.10 Aria Family 85.00 95.00 91.40 96.80 Xenon Family 85.00 95.00 93.95 97.55 %Target % Calculated Efforts to reducing ozone layer depletion We have taken up the following initiatives to reduce our impact of the refrigerants that we use in our vehicles. • We have reduced the refrigerant leak rate from AC system on Euro 5 version passenger cars from 19.13 grams/year to 15.34 grams/year. This was achieved by rationalizing the number of joints in the refrigerant circuit. • Development trials with HFO 1234yf refrigerant with a Global Warming Potential 25 (GWP) of 4 on one of our UV's with dual AC system are in the final stages of completion. These trials are being done with a view to gear up to meet EU legislations that require all cars and UV's exported into EU to use refrigerant with GWP < 150 by the year 2017. Product safety We have augmented our testing facilities for effective crash impact study on a vehicle. New test capabilities developed during the year include: • Collision Avoidance and ISOFIX Child Restraint Testing. • Installation of a drop tower to evaluate and study the performance of metal and plastic components under impact loads. • Installation of Low energy pendulum test facility towards conducting impact tests for components like door latching systems and BIW mounts. • Installation of a Shock tube test facility which will simulate the shock loading conditions with higher pressures to test the vehicles for shock loads such as mine blasts. This year we unveiled a new Micro Bullet-Proof Vehicle (MBPV) at DEFEXPO India 2012, a highly mobile combat vehicle for indoor combat inside airports, railway stations and other such infrastructure. The concept is the first of its kind to assist the country’s elite forces in indoor combat. Noise reduction Noise and vibration reduction is one of the key focus areas of our product improvement. In the Nano, we have designed a tortional vibration isolator for a balancer gear in the engine to reduce exterior noise of the vehicle by 2 dBA. We have used a special dampening compound on a gear-box of our LPT 407 trucks upgraded with higher gear ratios. This vibration dampening coupled with a larger silencer keeps pass by noise level of the truck on highways within CMVR & ECE limits by a safe margin. 26 Light and energy efficient HVAC systems On the Safari Storme we reduced the power consumption of the AC system by deployment of an energy efficient scroll compressor, PWM controlled blower and introduction of an ‘Economy Mode’. On passenger cars initiatives to lower blower power consumption by reducing pressure drop in IP ducts are in progress and the same will be seen on production intent vehicles from early 2014. Trials to lower the power consumption of the AC system by deploying Internal Heat Exchanger and therby enhancing the vehicle fuel efficiency are also in progress. Product launches During the year, we launched our premium hatchback, the all new Tata Vista D90, an advanced and dynamic car, delivering 90PS of raw power and offering first-in-class high-tech features. The next generation Tata Manza – Club Class sedan was launched during the year. The new sedan is designed for new age customers demanding unmatched luxury with unrivalled performance. The year also saw the launch of the new Tata Safari Storme with enhanced safety and performance features. Tata Xenon Pick-up was launched in both single cab & dual cab versions, suitable for wide range of commercial applications. We also launched 6 first-of-its-kind Heavy Trucks, designed and built specifically to offer the lowest Total Cost of Ownership, best in class fuel efficiency, longer service runs and enhanced levels of driver comfort. Innovate n+ was a unique event conducted by our International Business (CVBU) to showcase over 30 different applications on Tata Ace, Tata Super Ace and Tata Xenon platforms. The event attended by channel partners from 37 countries has been a high impact event with TML receiving substantial orders for some of the fully built applications. 27 Our ERC developed a first-of-its-kind CNG engine coupled with a hybrid power train to cater to the order of 10 Series Hybrid buses. We successfully delivered the first lot of 3 CNG Series Hybrid buses during the year. We have proudly displayed our innovation capabilities at various auto shows which include Geneva Motor Show (Geneva), NADA Motor Show (Nepal), Jeddah Motor Show (Saudi Arabia), Riyadh Motor Show (Saudi Arabia) and Indonesia International Motor Show (Indonesia). The Tata Indigo eCS has set a new endurance record and entered the Limca Book of Records, completing a remarkable feat of a non-stop nation-wide mileage run; touching all four gateways – Koteshwar in West to Kibithu in East and Kashmir in the North to Kanyakumari in the South, covering 14,000 kms in just 15 days. The Tata Motors and Autocar India team were associated with KPMG, to validate the results of mileage and the endurance drive, by tracking the distance on GPS. Investing in technology During the year, we filed 83 patent applications and 38 design applications. For the applications filed in earlier years, 16 patents were granted and 68 designs were registered. In FY 2012-13, we spent INR 17.59 billion on Research and Development activities including expenditure on capital assets. In keeping with the requirement of technological up gradation we continue to invest in state of the art infrastructure. Major technology absorption projects undertaken during the last year include: Technology For Status • Development of Infotainment system Development in Progress • Brushless DC Motor for Engine Cooling Module Development in Progress • Development of Low Carbon Vehicle Technology Program Development in Progress • Development of Electric Traction Motor technology Under Implementation • Hydrogen recirculation blower system on Fuel cell-Battery-Hybrid Bus(4x2) family Development in Progress • Battery Management System on Bus and Car Hybrids Development in Progress • Jute Fiber Composite for Headliners Implemented • Development of a Hydra-mount for vibration reduction of vehicles at a particular frequency of resonance of an engine or a cab Development in Progress • Development of CNG turbo technology for M& HCV Development in Progress Major technology imports for • Touch Screen Infotainment System with FY 2012-13 include: text messaging and navigation capabilities Development in Progress • ESP (Electronic Stability • Fully Automatic Temperature control system Program) for Xenon Euro V for Vista Family Implemented VehicleUnder Development • Stain Resistant Fabrics Under Implementation • Average Fuel Economy Display for HCV and LCV platforms• A 2-way Intake silencer and a surge tank Under Development for reduction of vehicle In-cab noise Under Implementation To know more about our special projects on alternate fuel vehicles and technology innovations Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 28) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Refer TML Annual Report FY 2012-13 (Page 63-65) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php 28 Sustainable urban transport has received increased importance over the years from the Indian Government and we aim to be a significant part of this journey. We have already started supplying 320 CNG buses for city passenger transportation under the Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit system (DIMTS) cluster scheme. These buses will thus reduce the overall impact on the environment and serve as a choice for the environmentally conscious customer. We have been proactive in complying with regulatory requirements pertaining to emissions, safety, product labelling and other clauses of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules of India and Bureau of Indian Standards. We have proactively complied with the CMVR regulations on On-Board Diagnostic (OBD-II) systems which have been enforced effective from April 1, 2013. All our products are certified for OBD-II systems. Information about our products has to be disclosed as per the Bureau of Indian Standards. The products and service information including vehicle stickers and manuals are in compliance with all the standards that govern us, based on the laws of the land where we sell our vehicles. We adhere to the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) code for marketing related communication and our policy on advertising promotes responsible advertising based on only justifiable or proven facts. We have not received any sanctions or financial penalties for the violation of regulatory norms regarding aspects of health and safety impacts of products and services; product and service information and labelling; marketing communications including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship; and provision and use of products and services. We also conduct voluntary ‘product upgrade’ drives to provide customers with upgraded components. Body Repair Manual (BRM) Our International Business (passenger vehicles) launched the first ever ‘Body Repair Manual’ (BRM) for the Indica Vista. This BRM was prepared at the ERCTechnical Literature Cell in Pune. While workshop manuals provide guidance for normal service and maintenance details of vehicles and aggregates, BRM provides a detailed guidance for collision and paint repairs. These type of manuals are useful for the collision repair centers and are commonly referred to during the accident repairs. CONCERN FOR Our concern for the environment is clearly visible in our operations and our products. We employ best practices and clean technologies to do our bit to reduce our impact. We understand the challenges of a resource constrained planet and have focused on efforts towards mitigating the existing and ENVIRONMENT emerging risks. 30 Energy and Climate Change Energy and Tata Group climate change policy guides our efforts in mitigating and adapting to climate change. We have developed action plans in line with this policy for our PVBU and CVBU operations. We will continue to pursue low carbon growth through development of cleaner and more fuel efficient vehicles, reduction of environmental impacts of manufacturing operations and enhancement of awareness among stakeholders. To know more about our climate change mitigation and adaptation approach Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 30) available at Climate Change http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Earth hour celebrations at Tata Motors For us, celebration of Earth Hour is not just about saving energy for that one hour, but it symbolises the first step of a personal change, which will lead employees to adopt meaningful every day actions leading to a sustainable lifestyle. The Earth Hour message was taken to employees through a video which was brought together by voices from our manufacturing locations. On 23rd March, 2013 the significance of the event was conveyed to all employees across locations through Total energy consumed internal communication channels such as banners, e mailers, tabletop tent cards, posters, T-shirts, sunrise communication meetings and departmental meetings. 2,339,687 Departmental and Divisional Heads communicated the significance of Earth Hour on the shop floor and also explained the link between energy consumption and 2,284,654 climate change. 2,175,861 At Ahmedabad, we organized the Earth Hour Concert in association with an NGO Dreams and WWF India. The Earth Hour Concert was about capturing people’s 2,876,120 imaginations and empowering them to make a difference by shifting towards a low Indirect 1,901,470 carbon lifestyle. The music on–stage was a combined effort by employees of Tata FY2012-13 1,693,691 energy Motors, TCS and an external band which captured and engaged an audience of Direct over 2000 people towards the Earth Hour message. The event used minimum GJ power by having performances in candlelight. energy FY2010-11 FY2011-12 Energy and emissions We continuously explore opportunities to improve our energy efficiency and increase our clean energy mix. The conventional fuels10 used to meet our energy needs are high speed diesel (HSD), light diesel oil (LDO), furnace oil (FO), liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), propane, compressed natural gas (CNG), and Total energy consumed natural gas (NG). We consume diesel11 and petrol as fuel for engine testing and per vehicle produced transport vehicles. 3.17 2.63 GJ per vehicle produced 2.85 3.23 2.64 Indirect 2.22 energy Direct energy FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 10 IPCC default net calorific values were used to convert the fuel consumption into standard energy units of giga joules. The values of direct energy for FY 2010-11, FY 2011-12 have been reviewed and restated owing to erroneous summation for FY 2010-11 and erroneous consideration of units of measurement for CNG reporting in FY 2011-12. 11 Under direct energy, the diesel consumption reported for Pune (PVBU+CVBU) plant also includes diesel used in rolled out vehicles which are dispatched with minimum fuel quantity as per internal standards. We are currently strengthening our systems to segregate this information in a comprehensive and consistent manner. The segregated information of diesel used as direct energy and as fuel in rolled out vehicles at Pune plant will be reported in 2013-2014. 31 During the year, we have commissioned a Biogas plant at our Pune plant. This Renewable energy waste-to-energy project will generate electricity from biogas to power the pumps consumption within the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP). The Biogas plant will process kitchen 479360.45 waste and leftover food from canteens and generate organic manure as another useful by-product to be utilised for in-house horticulture purpose. The plant has the capacity to process 6 tonnes of organic waste per day, which will yield 420-450 m3/day of biogas. We have invested in renewable energy in order to meet the increasing demands of 293218.16 our plants and utilised wind energy at our Pune, Sanand and Dharwad plants and solar energy at our Lucknow plant. A total of 293,218 GJ of renewable energy has FY2010-11 189728.80 been utilised during the year, resulting in the emissions avoidance of 63,530 tCO2. During the year, 24,243 CERs were issued for wind power project at our Pune plant, equivalent to INR 0.71 million12. Renewable energy13 accounted for 13.48 % GJ of total energy consumption during the year. As per the CERC guidelines, we got FY2011-12 FY2012-13 our 21.95 MW Wind Power project accredited by Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA) and registered by National Load Dispatch Centre (NLDC) for Renewable Energy Certificates (REC). Total 16,976 RECs have been issued by NLDC since July 2012 and total 12,480 RECs sold through auction resulted into accrued benefit of INR 18.1 million. Percentage of total energy Energy conservation is a major process improvement driver across our consumed that is manufacturing plants. We have a structured process to identify and implement renewable based ENCON (Energy Conservation Initiatives) at our plants. The annualised energy savings during the year were to the tune of 86,239 GJ14, leading to an estimated 13.48 avoidance of 15,878 CO2e emissions15. Some of the key energy conservation initiatives undertaken across our plants this year include: 9.19 • Installation of waste heat recovery for paint baking oven. percentage • Improvement in burning efficiency of burners by controlling the air fuel ratio with the help of flue gas analysis. • Conversion of electrical heating into Natural Gas and LPG based heating 4.53 systems for water heaters and Endogas generators respectively. FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 • Installation of Variable Frequency Drives for various applications like Blower’s and Pump’s Motors. • Installation of CFL, LED bus bar indicators and LED street lights, Use of 54Wx4 T5 lamps for high bay lights. • Installation of energy savers in lighting circuits. Greenhouse gas emissions Total greenhouse • Installation of Light pipes and per vehicle produced gas emissions Transparent Polycarbonate sheets. 0.671 482,997 413,406 tCO2e per vehicle produced • Installation of Solar water 407,793 heating systems. 0.464 0.533 Indirect Indirect 190,814 emissions emissions FY2010-11 130,020 FY2012-13 110,267 tCO2e FY2010-11 0.181 FY2011-12 0.214 FY2012-13 0.144 Direct Direct emissions emissions FY2011-12 12 Considering CER-Future(MidDec2013) price of C 0.42 /tCO2 on European Energy Exchange and exchange rate of INR 69.60 per Euro as on 31.03.2013 13 We have restated the percentage of total energy consumed that is renewable based for 2011-12 owing to a restatement in the direct energy reported for 2011-12 14 Energy savings reported are on annualized basis estimating the energy savings of ENCON initiatives for one complete year 15 The direct emissions are calculated based on the fuel quantity consumed using IPCC default emission factors. The indirect emissions are calculated based on electricity sourced from grid using the latest grid emission factors published by Central Electricity Authority, India. The emission reductions are calculated based on the latest grid emission factors published by Central Electricity Authority, India for electricity saved and IPCC default emission factors for fuel saved. We have restated the direct GHG emission values for FY 2010-11, FY 2011-12 owing to a restatement in the direct energy reported for FY 2010-11, FY 2011-12. 32 Annualised energy savings • Modification in electrical logic for automatic switching On-Off operation of due to ENCON initiatives hydraulic motors, coolant pumps, blowers etc. • Optimization of AC plant operations and removal of unwanted AC systems. 230,959 • Use of Wind Ventilators, downsizing of motors, trimming of impeller of oversized water recirculation pump. • Installation of Biogas plant for canteen waste and generation of electrical energy from biogas. 131,677 We extend the energy management principles to our supply chain by creating awareness among vendors on various environmental issues including energy 86,239 efficiency and management. Best practices and case studies are regularly shared with vendors through emails and vendor meets. We realise the impact of transporting our workforce and as a first step this year have quantified the GJ FY2011-120.214 emissions due to employee commute by company provided transport. In 2012-13, employee commute accounted for 9,235 tCO2e of GHG emissions. Going forward FY2010-11 FY2012-13 we intend to increase the scope of measurement to include employee business travel as well. Air emissions Particulate matter (PM), oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and sulphur (SOx) constitute Total Energy Savings major other air emissions arising due to our manufacturing activities. We per Vehicle Produced continually work towards reducing these emissions through efficient manufacturing process and use of cleaner fuels. Various steps are taken to effectively monitor air 0.321 GJ per vehicle produced emissions from our production facilities including an on-line monitoring and alarm system for incinerator emissions. We use R134a which has zero ozone depleting potential as a refrigerant in our products. During the year, our Jamshedpur, Pune and Sanand plants have used 91.85 kg CFC-11 equivalent of ODS. 0.148 Investing in green buildings We realize the importance of reducing the energy and environmental impact of our 0.113 Factory Buildings and began our Green Factory Building journey from the Pimpri Plant in Pune by voluntarily registering for the IGBC Green Factory Rating System. In 2010 the Pimpri Plant received an ‘IGBC Gold’ rating in the category of existing FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 Factory Building. This recognition provided the impetus to seek higher targets when construction began on our most recent Plant at Dharwad (commissioned in April 2012). The twin advantages of learning’s from Pimpri and the availability of contemporary materials and technologies made it possible to build ‘environment GHG emissions reduction Air emissions Air emissions due to ENCON initiatives per vehicle produced 46,637.62 600.04 0.67 641.16 0.89 557.24 0.73 Kgs per vehicle produced 109.07 SOx SOx 24,630.07 FY2010-11 123.29 140.73 FY2012-13 144.27 171.88 0.12 NOx 0.22 NOx FY2012-13 15,877.88 FY2010-11 0.17 0.20 tCO2e tonnes FY2011-12 226.98 FY2011-12 0.25 FY2012-13 0.19 SPM SPM FY2010-11 FY2011-12 33 Environmental Stewardship and energy features’ into the ‘greenfield’ project at Dharwad from the planning stage itself. The Dharwad plant was awarded the 'IGBC Platinum' rating in July 2012. The journey continued at our Pantnagar Plant where IGBC awarded the new Administration Building with the 'IGBC Gold' rating in the new construction category in December 2012. Environmental Stewardship Our climate change and environment policies adopt a precautionary approach to assess and minimize environmental impacts. A Steering Committee headed by the Managing Director addresses safety, health and environment issues on a monthly basis, in order to track performance and identify areas of improvement. Our manufacturing divisions are certified for ISO 14001:2004 – environmental management system standard and we have laid emphasis on conservation initiatives, especially energy, waste and effluent management and water conservation. Materials Management Our efforts, from the design stage to production and sales, are directed towards consuming fewer resources through product innovation and process optimization. This not only makes good business sense but also contributes to lesser environmental impact. We primarily use steel sheets and plates, castings, forgings, tyres, fuel injection equipment, batteries, electrical items, rubber and plastic parts, paints and thinners for manufacturing the vehicles. Aggregates such as axles, engines, gear boxes and cabs are either manufactured by us or procured from our subsidiaries, affiliates or strategic suppliers. We also require consumables such as lubricants, welding consumables etc., for our production processes. Material Units FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 consumed Steel Tonnes 220,133 258,980 135,873 Steel Tubes Tonnes 82 43 19 Non-Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 5,040 5,181 3,577 Ferrous Alloys Tonnes 1,716 3,097 733 Steel Melting Scrap Tonnes 62,195 95,993 68,422 Paints, Oils & Lubricants Tonnes 12,151 14,457 10,840 Kilo Liters 13,349 16,717 12,455 Environmental Expenditure Tyres, tubes & flaps Numbers 7,243,420 8,497,702 5,282,763 Engines Numbers 135,181 152,785 100,737 370.71 362.17 Sand Tonnes 75,036 78,522 52,634 346.90 INR Million FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 34 Recon Business Turnover Our ‘Recon’ (reconditioning) business was conceptualised to cater to the need of CVBU customers whose vehicles require overhauling to extend the life of 1.33 aggregates. The used aggregates are reconditioned at a dedicated facility at our Lucknow plant. The revenue from our ‘Recon’ business grew to INR 1.33 billion, reconditioning 19,037 long blocks and 18 NPI (New Product Introduction) items. 1.01 We also recycled 44,452 tonnes of metal scrap and forgings at our Jamshedpur and Pune plant. 0.78 We took concerted efforts to reduce our packaging footprint. We continue to increase the use of sustainable packaging (replacing wood with metal and plastic) INR Billion and reuse existing packaging (recycling wood). Awareness on reduction of fresh packaging material is created among our suppliers and they are encouraged to innovate on use of packaging material with lesser environmental impact. We have also collaborated with our strategic suppliers and developed custom-built FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 collapsible polypropylene (PP) boxes for components that are difficult to handle (eg. dashboards). These custom-built reusable packaging solutions have significantly reduced our packaging material requirement. Waste Management Recycled metal scrap Our waste management practices place emphasis on reducing waste generation, & forgings reusing/recycling waste generated and disposing waste in an environmentally sound manner. Paint sludge is one of significant hazardous waste generated in 44,452 automobile industry. We took significant efforts to reduce and reuse/recycle paint sludge which is being recycled through an authorized Re-cycler into recycled 37,373 primer paint and is re-used in-house as well as at vendors end for application on castings. At some Plant locations, paint sludge is being diverted to cement 31,140 industry as a waste derived fuel. During the year, 114.97 MT of paint sludge from our Pune plant and 10 MT of paint sludge from our Pantnagar plant was converted to usable primer through an authorized recycler. Tonnes Apart from recycling and reusing the paint sludge, our Jamshedpur plant manufactures pavement bricks from incineration ash generated due to incineration of wastes. Jamshedpur plant utilizes incineration ash and ETP sludge for making pavement bricks. During the year, our Pantnagar plant utilized 107 MT of ETP FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 sludge for making pavement bricks. We are also working with cement companies to explore the opportunities for co-processing of various types of wastes including plastics. Jamshedpur plant conducted trial tests for co-processing of plastic waste at ACC Cement Works, Chaibasa while Pantnagar plant is working with Ambuja Cements on co-processing of wastes. The Sanand plant is also exploring similar Recycled Material used opportunity with Ambuja Cements. per vehicle produced Tonnes per vehicle produced 0.058 0.052 0.035 FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 35 The other hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated at our plants is Total water withdrawal segregated at source through the use of standardized colour coded bins. The 9,539,404 hazardous waste is disposed off in an environmentally sound manner adhering to 8,796,272 pollution control board norms. The non-hazardous waste, primarily wood and 7,785,748 metallic scrap is sold to recyclers. The organic waste generated from our canteen facilities at Jamshedpur and Lucknow plants is converted to manure through organic waste convertors. The canteen waste at Pune plant is recovered and the biogas generated is used to operate pumps in ETP. Hazardous waste disposed FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Sludge16(tonnes) 4,812.81 5,763.35 5,281.62 Used Batteries (tonnes) 198.19 164.44 187.59 KL Used oil (tonnes)17 497.68 510.36 212.67 FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 18 Oil contaminated materials (tonnes) 55.31 230.49 155.75 Other hazardous waste (tonnes)19 936.65 1,495.33 2,296.76 Other hazardous waste (KL)20 231.90 441.07 739.80 Non-Hazardous waste disposed FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Water withdrawn Plastic waste (tonnes) 214.82 246.44 284.19 per vehicle produced Metallic scrap (tonnes) 12,160.92 25,601.96 37,991.19 12.48 KL per vehicle produced Other non-hazardous waste (tonnes)21 71,685.17 99,128.31 50,902.75 10.81 9.87 Water Management It is our constant endeavour to reduce our water footprint, through the implementation of water recycle and reuse systems and checking the leakages in our processes. We have also implemented rain water harvesting systems in our plants, which has proven beneficial in reducing our water usage costs and as back up water supply in times of water shortages. The total water withdrawn by our plants in the reporting year was 9,539,404 KL. FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 Municipal water remained our main source of water and our rain water consumption increased from 513,442 KL in 2011-12 to 557,113 KL in 2012-13. We have successfully commissioned the rainwater harvesting facility with the rainwater harvesting potential of 14,56,920 kilo liters per annum at our Lucknow plant. This facility will enable us to recharge more water than we withdraw, which Source of water withdrawn currently is approximately 0.9 million kilo liters per annum on full capacity in FY 2012-13 utilization. The harvesting facility comprises of 6 percolation pits with recharge shaft, 8 dug cum borewell and 3 dolomite structures with recharge well. A water footprint study has been initiated in Lucknow and Pune plants, as part of a Tata Group initiative on water footprinting. Our plants recycled 1,267,682 KL of water, representing 13.29% of water withdrawn. Water footprint initiative As a part of the Tata-IFC Corporate Water Partnership, Tata Motors along with Water Footprint Network (WFN) and International Finance Corporation (IFC) completed a Water Footprinting exercise for all manufacturing locations in India (Except Dharwad). This ‘Water Sustainability Assessment’ through Water Footprinting has helped us formulate a Water Strategy and Response Matrix. The key aspects of this matrix are: 10% Ground water • Define, develop, establish and deploy a water management system across 6% Rain water organization. 84% Municipal water 16 Sludge includes paint sludge, phosphating sludge, grinding sludge,salt bath sludge,etp sludge,chromium hydroxide sludge 17 Note: density of used oil assumed to be 0.9 18 Includes cotton rags, scrap oil filters, oil soaked saw dust 19 Includes solid hazardous waste like containers of acid, scrap asbestos, glasswool etc. 20 Includes liquid hazardous waste like spent coolants, waste thinner etc. 21 Includes cartons, jute bags, wood waste, rubber waste, canteen waste, sand etc 36 Total water recycled • Explore advanced technologies for re-cycling treated effluent. or reused • Map the Water Footprint of vendor base after prioritization. 1,450,140 • Engage with stakeholders (Vendors, Municipal Corporations, Public Utilities, etc) 1,408,280 who operate in same watershed for water conservation and pollution reduction. 1,267,682 • Identify opportunities ‘inside the fence’ and ‘outside the fence’ for reducing distribution losses, prevention of pollution of receiving water bodies and generating widespread awareness on the ‘carrying capacity’ of natural water systems in the regions in which we operate. Lucknow, Sanand and Dharwad plants are zero discharge plants (i.e. no discharge outside the boundary wall) and we plan to make our Jamshedpur and Pantnagar plants zero discharge plants. We have a reverse osmosis plant at KL Pantnagar, where we treat effluent and reuse it in the paint shop. The treated effluent from Jamshedpur, Pune and Pantnagar are discharged into local water FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 bodies in accordance with the consent to operate conditions prescribed by Pollution Control Boards. The total waste water discharged from our manufacturing locations was 23,51,569 KL. Biodiversity Management Total water recycled or Our plants stand testimony to our commitment to enhance the biodiversity value of reused per vehicle produced the area where we operate. We have established environmental cells at each of the manufacturing locations, which ensure that the biodiversity value of the areas 1.96 in which we operate is maintained and enhanced by our presence. Our plants at KL per vehicle produced Pantnagar, Jamshedpur and Pune are located in industrial areas as designated by 1.63 1.66 the respective State authorities, and hence by design, have minimal impact on biodiversity. Our Pune unit has, since inception, taken a number of steps to preserve the ecological value of the land in which it operates, including creation of four ponds, two lakes and covering 245 acres of the land with trees. Marshy / swampy areas have been developed all along the margin of the water bodies, with the specific intention of creating ideal nesting spots for birds. Our project planning includes prudent water management and green belt development. No significant impact has been assessed during the Environmental Impact Assessment of any of FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 any of our plants and they do not fall within the 10KM range of any biodiversity sensitive area or protect water body. Percentage of water Treated effluent withdrawn that is discharged recycled/reused 18.09 2,351,569 16.49 13.29 900,812 Percentage 872,345 KL FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 At our organization’s core is a passion for excellence that PA S S I O N F O R resonates with everything we do. Our constant endeavour is to translate this passion into a workplace of excellence with high standards in health and safety for our employees. We invest in resources to encourage our diverse workforce to achieve their full potential while embracing an inclusive culture. EXCELLENCE 38 Permanent workforce We consider our human capital as the foundation on which our success is built. profile by cadre We have drawn up a comprehensive human resource strategy (the “Human Resource” strategy) which addresses key aspects of human resource 9629 1079 9055 966 development such as our Code of Conduct, fair and objective performance 7491 823 management, talent management, performance based compensation structuring Senior Management and comprehensive training. We have conducted an extensive process mapping exercise to benchmark and align our human resource processes with global best Middle practices. 14531 3369 15054 4142 15532 4094 Management With the growth in the automotive industry and technological upgradations, there Junior is an increased requirement of highly skilled and qualified professionals. We have Numbers Management set forth a plan for attracting and retaining talent. We encourage a holistic approach to learning and development through our well established training Workers facilities and framework. We proactively manage the needs of the temporary workforce by providing them safe work environment and regularizing them as and FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 when the opportunity arises. Our permanent workforce headcount at the end of FY 2012-13 increased to 30,334 from 29,217 over the previous year. We have responsible hiring policies that place focus on inducting people from local communities into our plant in accordance Permanent workforce with state laws on local hiring. Our management employees are hired solely on profile by gender merit. During the year, we hired 2,232 male and 179 female permanent employees, of which 62 male and 10 female employees left the company in the same year. 871 958 We employ a large number of temporary and contractual workers and strongly 703 believe in working closely with the contractors in order to ensure that utmost care and precautions are taken on site to prevent any mishaps. We ensure that all our 29,376 contractual workers are well equipped and well trained thereby ensuring an 28,346 efficient workforce. All our employees belonging to the operative grades are 25,511 covered by wage agreements with the unions, except at our Sanand and Dharwad Numbers plants. Around 90% of the operative cadre employees at Jamshedpur, Pune, Female Lucknow and Pantnagar plants are members of employee unions. These Male employees represent 46% of the total permanent employees of Tata Motors. We have enjoyed cordial relations with our employees at our factories and offices. FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 The support provided by our operatives and unions in implementation of reforms that impact quality, cost erosion and productivity improvements across all locations is commendable. Permanent workforce Permanent workforce Temporary workforce profile turnover by gender turnover by age 63 23 16774 16287 51 28 439 365 947 10806 842 548 15 500 107 9 >50 years Numbers Numbers Numbers 279 Female 30 50 years Female 732 979 Temporary FY2010-11 178 Male <30 years Male 22 FY2010-11 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 FY2011-12 FY2012-13 Apprentice/ Average worker/ fix term contractual Trainees labour contract workers 439 22 Gender wise categorization is currently not available for contract labor at Pune PVBU. All the contract labor are included in the Male category. 39 We have stringent checks for child labour and forced labour and all our security Workforce Management personnel have been trained to ensure no underage workers enter the plant premises. We also provide information on this to our contractors, prohibiting them to employ underage workers. For any operation we ensure that those employed by us are over 18 years of age. The only exceptions to this are those who are part of government approved apprenticeship schemes and internships. All our security personnel are trained on TCoC including human rights aspects before they begin their duties as part of their induction procedure, a process managed by the Employee Relations (ER) department and activities under SA 8000. We have a Human Rights policy that prescribes to the definitions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). In addition, all our employees are trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures as per the TCoC. We are an equal opportunity employer and recruit people from across the country with diverse ideas, cultures and approaches. During the year, we recruited diverse talent from various premier campuses across the country. Over 600 young professionals joined as graduate engineer trainees and post graduate trainees to support future expansions and growth plans. We have established the Tata Motors Academy as our learning and development platform. The academy is guided by seven guiding principles, based on a governing model derived from the American Society of Training and Development (ASTD) and used by Global organizations. These principles are – Alignment, C Level involvement, Efficiency, Effectiveness, Appropriate Investment, Learning Opportunities and Measurement. Alignment Have formal processes to align business strategies with learning initiatives and priorities and map learning resources to competencies, individual development plans, roles, and corporate goals. C-Level Involvement Have visible support from senior executives and involve leaders as teachers. Efficiency Maximize the efficiency of the learning function by balancing centralized and decentralized aspects of the learning function, internal process improvement, use of technology, and strategic outsourcing. Effectiveness Maximize the effectiveness of learning by aligning learning activities with business needs and providing timely access to relevant learning opportunities Investment Spend more on training than the norm. Learning opportunities Provide a broad range of internal and external, formal, The Tata Motors Academy logo and other learning opportunities, including represents our Tree of Learning. knowledge-sharing systems, coaching, and The black trunk indicates our mentoring. rock solid commitment to the Measurement • Demonstrate effectiveness by monitoring individual cause of learning and and organizational performance indicators and development. The blue color linking changes to training and non-training symbolizes inspiration springing activities intended to improve performance. from a core of infinite knowledge and learning. The outer green • Demonstrate the efficiency of the learning color reflects the results of our organization by monitoring time, usage, and cost learning focus, especially growth indicators, and linking decreases to changes in the and harmony. processes and practices of the learning function. 40 Further, we have established a Learning Advisory Council (LAC) which is a joint platform with the business and line leadership with the following objectives. • Facilitate in defining the learning strategies for the organization in line with business priorities and goals. • Support in implementation of learning agenda towards building capabilities. • Review success measures for learning and evaluate business impact. • Plan, review and approve key resource requirements for all learning interventions in organization. The LAC has representation both from business / line leadership and HR for the purpose of ensuring joint ownership of learning through collaboration, which will in turn result in business impact. It is designed as 2 different multi-tiered structures as elaborated below. • Apex council as the top rung for the entire organization involving the senior most leadership. • Councils for CVBU and PVBU businesses are separate. Also within the business, manufacturing and commercial functions are handled separately. Focus on learning and • Each location has a locational council. development • Manufacturing organization to have three tiered council; rest to be two tiered. At each tier, the Senior Business Leader of that particular tier will be the Chairperson of the LAC, the HR head will be the Secretary and the L&D Lead will serve as the L&D Anchor. 23% Mandatory We are committed to building the competencies of our employees and improving learning hours their performance through training and development. Our focus is on preparing employees to deal with changes in the competitive landscape. We conducted an extensive employee survey, leaders’ survey and a study on external best practices to benchmark and align the training activities to the business requirements and strategy. The focus areas in training in the last year centered around leadership, quality, innovation management and internationalization. There were also some specialized training programmes conducted to drive a change in our employees’ 4% Global leadership outlook as we continue to develop as a global competitor. learning hours 11% Management learning hours 62% Functional / Technical learning hours 41 Tata Motors Academy launched E-learning offerings for our managerial population Total person-hours of and dealer personnel to drive a culture of self-learning and make the learning training 2012-13 process more inclusive and efficient. The e-learning programs have been very 420,224 well received with over 82% of our white collared employees having accessed the 369,084 Tata Motors Academy portal. 5,739 employees have completed at least one 354,831 e-learning course. Developmental initiatives for our senior leadership were undertaken through international programs at various premier institutions around the world. Certain person-hours 181,033 employees have also been selected for the Fulbright fellowships for leadership in management. Some of our identified talent pool employees underwent education 110,245 programs at top notch institutions like IIM Lucknow and SP Jain Institute of 38,238 Management & Research. This year, we also entered into a partnership with the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. The Institution will help to train and support our engineers, and we will encourage our engineers to undertake programs of continuous professional Average person-hours of development. The Institution will conduct regular workshops and sessions for our training 2012-13 engineers on professional registration, academic assessment, assessment of competence and initial professional development and professional review. It will also support us to ensure compliance with UK-SPEC, for engineers working 43.64 towards chartered, incorporated or technician status. 35.44 In addition to the management and non-management cadre of workforce, we also monitor the training provided to our trainees, apprentices and FTCs throughout 26.93 the year. In 2012-13, a total of 4.72 million manhours of training were imparted to 22.85 22.07 person-hours trainees and apprentices across all the plants. The FTCs received 122 manhours of training during the year. 10.20 The year also marked the successful completion of the first year of the iteach program, an internal facilitator program, which aims to leverage the huge reservoir of expertise and knowledge within Tata Motors by inviting subject matter experts Senior Management and leaders to partner with the learning and development team to share their Middle Management knowledge and skills with others. There were 97 such facilitators across Tata Motors in the year, and we hope to have many more in the years to come. Junior Management Workers Autonova TX was launched as a large SteerIn Tata Motors signature Temporary workers / scale technical capability building induction program was launched this Fixed Term Contract workers across CVBU manufacturing year for onboarding new joiners, to Contractual lebour operations to enable the business in accelerate their assimilation process achieving its mission of zero defects by providing an overview of the and zero rework by focusing on five organization. 1,059 new employees key areas of product quality. Around (94% of which were TM grade 2,500 employees have been trained employees) were inducted into the and have achieved impressive company through SteerIn. knowledge gains across locations. At all our manufacturing locations Jamshedpur, Pune, Sanand, Pantnagar and Lucknow in India, we have also established training divisions that impart basic and specialized skills in various trades like milling, grinding, welding, hydraulic and pneumatics to our young apprentices. Our employees have won several national level competitions and received recognition in various technology forums. 42 Gallup Q12 tool is an employee perception survey that we use to map employee satisfaction levels across all operations. This survey questionnaire is reviewed and revised and feedback is gathered through this engagement process, exit interviews and focus group meetings. This survey is done on a regular basis for all our management level employees and on sample basis for others. The result of this survey prompted us to change our performance management system. The satisfaction levels of temporary workforce are gauged through a separate survey administered by Employee Relations team. The survey participation rose to 95% in 2012 when compared to 88% in 2010.There was a significant improvement in the Grand Mean which moved to 3.63(26th percentile) in 2012 when compared to 3.52(21st percentile) in 2010. We continuously capture the ideas of our employees through suggestion schemes, SDT formations, Kaizen and implementations, open house contests such as “Innovision”, “Innovista”, CFT formations across the organization. Our forum ‘Parivartan’ seeks employee inputs and suggestions on improving our policies and practices. Our organization witnessed several changes in policies and organizational infrastructure based on the employee inputs received through Parivartan. We have improved our learning and development tools to foster a more performance oriented culture. We follow an annual salary revision cycle and outputs from PACT (Performance Assessment and Coaching Tool) such as individual ratings, company performance and promotion recommendations are used to decide employee salary revisions. During the year, 100% of eligible employees received performance feedback as per Company policies. People policies and practices are reviewed in order to provide benefits and schemes that are catered to individual needs and are in line with our changing workforce, are best in class and in keeping with our long term viability. We provide a myriad of benefits to our employees starting from their first day to well after retirement. These benefits include gratuity, superannuation, Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana (BKY), post retirement medicare scheme, provident fund and compensated absences. We have crèche facilities as well as superannuation allowance that help cater to the needs of a diverse workforce. Every year we have a number of employees who have completed their service with the organization and we provide them training to prepare them for the challenges and opportunities that arise after retirement. In FY 2011-12, 37 female employees took maternity leave and all of them re-joined at the end of their maternity leave while 34 were on our rolls at the end of FY 2012-13. 43 Health and safety are uncompromised aspects of our operations. We strive to Occupational Health create a positive safety culture towards achieving the ultimate goal of ‘zero-injury’. o Aim Approach Key targets and Safety • Enhance the safety • Senior leadership • Zero fatality standards at Tata commitment • Stringent target of Motors and develop • Safety ownership – 50% reduction in lost a positive safety stakeholder time injury frequency culture across the involvement and rate. organisation with an participation endeavour to be that best in safety and • Consistent safety health in automobile standards industry in India. • Training & awareness • Continual improvement Key Initiatives • Renewed Safety & Health Policy • Mid-term 3 year engagement with M/s DuPont for excellence in safety in CVBU • Alignment of PVBU with BSC ( British Safety Council) star Safety and Health Management System and protocol • Strategic partnership with M/s Castrol to enhance safety standards of dealer workshops • Enhanced focus on training and awareness across operations We have reaffirmed our commitment towards safety and health through the renewed Safety & Health Policy. The new policy reflects the enhanced organisational commitment towards contractors and visitors. The responsibility of safety is also cascaded to everyone concerned and they are expected to demonstrate the commitment towards safety. We will strive to perform beyond compliance whilst influencing our business partners to upgrade their safety standards. The policy is also supported by an increased focus on leading indicators like training and awareness, safety observations, audits etc. to drive a positive safety culture. To know more about our Safety and Health policy Visit our website http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/policies.php 44 The safety and health aspects are governed within the organisation at different levels – from the senior leadership level to shop-floor level. Board of Directors’ Meeting. ExCom, StaffCom, SHE Concil, Senior Management Level Steering Committee Apex Commitee, Plant Plant Level Sub-Committees (CVBU specific) Factory Implementation Factory Level Committees (CVBU specific) Safety review at different levels Senior leadership commitment The senior leadership is fully committed to the ultimate goal of Zero Injury to its employees and all those who work within Tata Motors Facilities. The organization is progressing aggressively with the vision of “Excellence in Safety”. One of the significant steps taken in this direction is the engagement with M/s DuPont for a three year period journey. Taking the One Team One Vision approach, we are now in the process of incorporating the TML standards developed along with DuPont across TML. Safety is an integral part of our operations and is reviewed at the highest levels including Board meetings, Executive Committee, SHE Council, Steering Meetings, Balanced Score Card etc. The plant level Apex committees and department level committees are established to guide the plants to institutionalise safety culture and encourage participation from all levels of workforce. All our manufacturing locations are certified for OHSAS 18001 Safety Management standard and have combined safety management committees with equal representation from management and non-management cadres. A significant initiative taken by us towards achieving safety excellence was to engage DuPont for a three year period for CVBU. Extending this initiative under the One Team, One Vision approach, we are in the process of taking this engagement in PVBU with the aim of adopting & implementing the standards and processes developed and building a strong Safety culture across all our operations at Tata Motors. Journey towards safety excellence We engaged M/s DuPont for the CVBU in September 2011 to build a strong safety culture across the manufacturing plants. This fruitful association has transformed the safety culture over the past one and half year. The engagement focused on • Coaching senior leaders through one to one sessions • Developing and implementing High Risk Standards • Safety Observation Culture through a structured approach • Training and capability building on safety aspects • Enhancing Contractor Safety Management 45 Emphasis was also laid on creating a participatory safety governance model. The SHE council is chaired by the Executive Director of the Commercial Vehicles business. At the plant level, Apex committees are formed which are chaired by the Plant Heads. A total of 88 safety committees have been institutionalized across all the Commercial Vehicle plants that meet on a monthly basis to review and improve the safety management. Five Corporate Sub-committees, each chaired by a Plant Head, are formed to bring in accountability and participation to address the key safety focus areas of • Standards and Procedures • Incident Investigation • Safety Observation • Training and Capability Building • Contractor Safety Management We have developed 13 new standards addressing the managerial, cultural, behavioural and technical aspects of safety. Of these 13 standards, 10 standards address High Risk aspects. 7 standards which address high risk aspects and Critical Processes such as Safety Observations, Incident Investigations, Lockout Tagout, Electrical Safety Management System, Working at Height, Safe Driving & Vehicle Traffic Safety and Personal Protective Equipment are in the advanced implementation phase. The remaining 6 standards addressing high risk aspects/activities such as Contractor Safety Management, Lifting and Supporting of loads, Permit to work, Job Safety Analysis & Take2 and Management of Change and Fire Safety Management will be implemented in the coming year. Training and awareness among all concerned has been a key element of this strategic initiative. 2,058 employees were trained on safety management aspects such as Leading Safety Efforts, Safety Management Fundamentals, Incident Investigations, Contractor Safety Management, Actions Employees Can Take (AECT) etc by DuPont trainers. To sustain this safety initiative, 489 internal trainers have been certified to deliver safety trainings. Videos have been developed for 5 standards to enhance the impact of the trainings and create more awareness. 46 Training e-modules to supplement these training efforts are being developed. An online reporting system is currently live for the reporting and management of Safety Observation and Incident Investigation process. In our endeavour to create consistent safety culture and management systems, we are currently in the process of extending the DuPont Safety Systems to the PVBU. Safety monitoring We have developed an online reporting system for safety observation process and incident investigation for CVBU that has facilitated in enhancing the data integrity, speed and governance. All the safety standards and procedures are made available on the portal. We are in the process of extending this online reporting system to PVBU. A structured review mechanism of safety performance is in place in all our plants. Leading and lagging indicators are reported every month to the senior management. Major incidents and high-potential incident alert (HIPO) announcements go to a serious incident response group that comprises of senior leaders. In-depth incident investigations are conducted for every incident that occurs and the learnings are shared with all employees. All these efforts towards creating a positive safety culture have contributed towards reducing the lost time injuries. This year we achieved a reduction of 37% in the overall lost time injury frequency rate. However, we had an unfortunate event of one fatality during the year. The fatality was investigated in-depth and appropriate mitigation measures are put in place. We have aligned to international incident reporting standards and have voluntarily adopted to monitor Lost-time injuries as an injury where the injured person is not able to resume work in next scheduled shift/working day. Our monitoring on this stringent standard started in FY 2011-12. We are presenting our safety performance as per this revised standard. This year we have two female LTIs resulting in 57 lost days. Safety performance23 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Lost time injuries 200 122 Lost time injury rate (per million manhours) 1.08 0.68 Fatalities 0 1 Safety performance Employees Contractors (FY 2012-13) Lost time injuries 96 26 Lost time injury rate (per million manhours) 0.73 0.05 Fatalities 1 0 Mandays lost 7,260 458 Emergency preparedness is an integral part of the safety management at plants. Mock drills are conducted at our plants and off site as well, to ensure that our employees and communities around us are aware of the preparedness procedures in case of emergencies or threats. During the year, we have conducted 160 mock drills across the plants. The National Safety Week is celebrated annually to propagate the message of safety to all levels of employees. Defensive driving training was a key focus area targeted for employees and contractors who drive on business related purposes. More than 8,000 employees and contractors were trained on defensive driving during this year. 23 We have aligned our Lost Time Injury monitoring as per international best standards as any injury which prevents the person to return to work in the next scheduled shift. The earlier reporting was based on the total reportable injuries as per the Factories Act. We have restated the LTIs for FY 2011-12 owing to this change in definition. We have also restated the Lost Time Injury rate which is now calculated for million manhours worked compared to earlier calculation for 200,000 manhours (100 workforce for 50 working weeks of 40 hours each). 47 Focus on safety training Exhaustive training was given to build awareness amongst employees and contractors in plants this year. This was done during the implementation process of Standards like –LOTO (Lockout Tagout), ESMS (Electrical Safety Management System), Driving Safety & Vehicle Traffic Safety, WAH (Working at Height) & PPE (Personal Protective Equipments). Defensive Driving Campaign With this background, a survey was conducted to have a count of the TML employees and contractors who drive to work or on account of their work profile. This number came close to 12,000. In order to create awareness and ensure safe driving behavior of the drivers – We launched a campaign ‘i-drive safe’ A Tata Motors initiative on building a safe driving culture. This campaign was a structured approach to create awareness on safe driving, thus enhancing the Defensive Driving skills of all those who drive to and from work or on account of it. We endeavour to build ‘I-drive safe’ as one of the personal ethics of our employees. The following are the key steps encompassing this campaign: • Understanding and identification of High Risk Drivers (employee/associate who drive inside company premises/drives for company business) across the Organization • Identification of capable training partners for imparting training across the Organization • Developing a training calendar covering the high risk drivers in a phased manner • Developing training modules for the high risk driver category • Developing a Policy on ‘Travel Safety’ and ‘Safe Driving Standards’ • Extending the training for office and Sales/Services personnel • Celebration of National Safety Road Safety Week and focused communication campaigns (Road Safety Book, Travel Safety pocket card,etc) Defensive Driving training is a structured approach and includes the following modules: • Pre-class room test –written (To assess the understanding) • Half day of class room training (Audio Visual Aid, Movies & Clips) • Post-class room test –written • 15-20 mins of on the wheel assessment for each participant (on real time traffic/roads) As a responsible automobile • Certification of drivers on different categories as per their skill level assessed manufacturer with driver (Safe, Low Risk, At Risk & High Risk). Once a driver is assessed as high risk, community as a key stakeholder, he/she is not allowed to drive we are aware that unsafe driving is one of the biggest risks Since the inception of the campaign in September 2011, 8,135 employees and leading to human suffering on associates (contractors) have been trained on Defensive Driving through 410 account of road traffic accidents sessions across our operations (that includes plants, offices, warehouses and in epidemic proportions in India. workshops). This holds true for our In the year 2012-13, 5,672 employees and contractors were trained across 287 employees and contractors as training sessions. This is one of the biggest training projects in the Indian well be it while driving within our automobile sector with a focus to improve safe driving behavior of employees and plant premises or outside it, contractors. Our aim is to build a safe driving culture among our employees official or personal use. and contractors. 48 International recognition: Sword of Honour Both the Passenger Vehicle plants i.e. Pune and Sanand received the Sword of Honour Award by British Safety Council, UK. The Sword of Honour is the pinnacle Safety Award which the British Safety Council bestows and is one of the highest benchmarks of safety performance in the world. Organisations have to achieve ‘Five Star’ status through the Five Star Health & Safety Management System Audit in order to apply for this award. Both the plants had received a 5 Star rating in the Health & Safety Audit conducted in Dec.’11 at Sanand and in Feb.’12 at Pune PVBU on British Safety Council Standards. Strategic partnering with M/s Castrol on safety in dealer workshops In line with our Safety and Health Policy to influence enhancing of safety standards of our business partners, we have signed an MoU with Castrol. The objective is to raise the safety standards of dealer workshops. The first step in this direction was taken with the release of the Safety Manual on 9th April’13 by Mr Karl Slym (MD, Tata Motors Limited) and Mr Ravi Kriplani (COO and Automotive Director, Castrol India). Requirement of the Safety manual can be implemented in a consistent manner at all the Workshops to reduce all potential risks. Tata Motors and Castrol will together help the Workshops to improve Safety, Health and Environmental practices in their workplace, with a special focus on Safety. This Project is to integrate Castrol’s safety expertise and knowledge into the Workshops to make the value chain a safe place and a model for others to replicate. Health and Wellness We give utmost importance to the health and wellness of our employees and adopt a holistic approach to health with best-in-class practices and an unwavering focus on preventive and proactive measures. The strategic impetus to Occupational Health (OH) is guided by the Corporate Safety & Health Policy which is governed by the newly established SHE structure at the corporate office. The Health Vertical under this structure has a Single Point of Contact (SPoC) on Occupational Health for ensuring uniform deployment of the company’s health strategy across all manufacturing sites. Under preventive OH interventions, specific OH check-ups are conducted and complimented by OH awareness sessions through lectures and exhibitions. Enabling immunization, imparting First-aid training and creating general health awareness amongst employees is an ongoing activity across Plants. Some specific health interventions for female employees included inter alia Immunization, providing crèche facilities for their children, organizing lectures on breast cancer and stress management. Blood donation camps were organized across the Plant locations. Several Lectures and Health talks by experts and specialists were organized on chronic and lifestyle diseases for the benefit of employees and their families. Other initiatives included Rural Health programmes for the community covering Anti-Natal Care (ANC) screening for high risk cases in women, vision check up of children, cataract detection and dental checkup for the elderly and diabetes checkups for villagers. We are working on creating an internal standard on serious disease management and will be rolling it out in 2015 INCLUSION We want to create a positive impact on our value chain and the communities in which we operate through development activities which are focused on empowering people to improve their lives and livelihoods. We have taken the responsibility of encouraging our vendors and suppliers to be a part of our sustainability journey and growth story by sharing best practices and acting as a knowledge partner. 50 Value chain sustainability Value chain sustainability We have a vast value chain that is spread across the country. We work closely with our suppliers, vendors, dealer and channel partners with an ultimate goal to provide quality products and services to our customers. On the supply side, managing the supply chain involves various processes that help enlist new vendors, develop new products, early vendor integration, material scheduling, make vs. buy strategies as well as decision making related to cost reduction. Hence, we use a Vendor Management System across all our locations that enable the execution of the process mentioned above. On the dealer side we have integrated our Customer Relationship Management (CRM) with the Dealer Management System (DMS). Supply chain engagement Our ‘New Supplier Selection Process’ has evolved to meet the dynamic business needs faster with desirable quality. An in depth Cross-functional team (CFT) audit and verification of supplier capabilities forms the basis of supplier induction into the system. Plant level monthly supplier meets to help TML and suppliers understand mutual expectation and concerns. The yearly supplier meet is forum for TML senior management and top strategic suppliers to deliberate on the key business issues and priorities. The supplier evaluation criteria includes a detailed assessment on quality, cost and delivery of their products and this is communicated to all those concerned. In addition to parameters on cost and quality, we also extend the TCoC to our suppliers and vendors and they need to abide by the same. The TCoC has clauses related to human rights and anti-corruption, thus encouraging our vendors and suppliers to abolish the use of child labour in their operations and to also perform business with utmost integrity and transparency. The vendor parks at our Sanand and Pantnagar plants help us reduce logistic complexities while improving the supplier relations and minimizing the climate change impacts related to transportation. Our manufacturing plants have sourced approximately 57.18 % of materials and services from vendors within their state of operations. To know more about our supply chain engagement and processes Refer TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 (Page 40, 48) available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Last year, we have created awareness among Commercial Vehicle dealer network through a publication on green practices ‘Green Drive’ and have supported in developing the Bilaspur, Hassan and Dosarka workshops as model workshops in Percentage of local procurement terms of sustainability. Our Customer care department has encouraged its channel FY 2012-13 partners to create the training centers at their premises so that it can serve the neighboring territory as well as can be revenue source for channel partners. 72.69 68.57 65.04 Towards reducing or supply chain footprint 53.59 As a part of improving our suppliers’ environmental sustainability, we followed a 48.12 two step approach. Last year we mapped the carbon foot print of more than 300 of our suppliers. As next step of this process, these suppliers were given a target to reduce their carbon foot print by 5%. We are extending our support to these suppliers through sharing case studies of innovative approaches and the resulting INR Billion 15.90 22.56 benefits. We also encourage our suppliers to go for ISO 14001 certification. We do a check to assess their ‘asis’ condition and guide them towards successfully obtaining the certification. Under the two-way knowledge sharing process, exceptional suppliers who have established themselves as benchmark suppliers Pune CVBU Jamshedpur Lucknow Pune PVBU Sanand Pantnagar Dharwad are encouraged to share their success story in major events such as annual vendor meet, council meetings etc. In addition to this, we have started work on mapping the water foot print of our key suppliers. 51 Assessing risks in our supply chain Under a pilot project completed for 68 of our suppliers located at Pantnagar, we undertook assessment of worker-management relationship. In a questionnaire based survey we analyzed their response against criteria such as: Policies; Procedures/Practices; Work atmosphere; External factors and presence of Union. Based on the responses and an assingned weighted average score, suppliers were categorized on the basis of potential risk. An action plan was then made for critical suppliers, which was followed by periodic sustenance audits. This exercise helped us map risks in our supply chain and proactively develop mitigation measures for the same. Dealership HR – Engagement program Driven by the requests from dealer principles, an employee engagement program was designed exclusively for Dealership HR managers. The aim of the program was to improve HR processes at dealerships, through established tools for employee engagement. The program content addressed major HR challenges like manpower attrition, recruitment, training and development and performance management. It is a 3 day program which includes a visit to the dealership. The HR team facilitated the pilot program at Bangalore in March 2013 wherein 23 dealership HR managers participated. Business Academy for Sales Excellence (BASE) During the year, the PVBU division launched its certificate program in Automobile Distribution Management, in association with Wigan & Leigh College of India. This unique initiative branded BASE, is self financed by students and is aimed at establishing a comprehensive talent pipeline for sales supervisory positions for the dealerships. On successful completion of the programme, Tata Motors will support the candidates with suitable placements in its dealerships across the country. Service champs Expanding its dealer engagement to a national level, the PVBU customer support organized its first ever nation-wide skill contest ‘Service Champ’ for dealerships. Around 1,200 participants including service managers, customer relationship managers and customer relationship officers participated in the contest. Sustainable workshops Till date we have created four model workshops which encourage resource efficiency and follow environment friendly business practices. We have set ourselves a target of adding 20 more such workshops in coming years. These workshops are currently helping us in minimizing our operating expenses through cost savings in electricity, water and material consumption. 52 Community Development Community Development Our community development program has evolved to fulfill the most pressing needs that are regularly assessed in consultation with various internal and external stakeholder groups. The program is modeled on the Tata Index for Sustainable Human Development and our community development strategy is periodically reviewed keeping pace with changing times. Every year, we participate in TAAP Assessment (Tata Affirmative Action Program), developed on the lines of TBEM (Tata Business Excellence Model). Since TAAP inception, our AA Program has consistently been in the highest score band and this year we have received TAAP Jury Award. Health (Arogya), Education (Vidyadhanam), Employability / Livelihood (Kaushalya) and Environment (Vasundhara) are four pillars of our community development program. Moreover, under our Affirmative Action program, we also focus on facilitating direct or indirect employment of SC/ST personnel and extending business opportunity to SC/ST entrepreneurs. This year, we invested a total of INR 148.66 million towards community development initiatives. • Medical camps in villages • Scholarship programme • Malnutrition treatment and • Extra-coaching classes for construction of low-cost toilets weak students • Safe drinking Water • Infrastructure development • Training in agriculture and • Sapling plantation allied activites • Soil and water conservation • Driver training program • Awareness building on • ITI adoption program training enviornmental issues of youth in aumotive trades Community Development 53 Arogya Key Arogya initiatives Outreach 2012-13 Health care services provided to community 84,243 Health check-ups in schools 2,595 Health awareness programs 10,214 Sanitation drive 3,500 Safe drinking water 19,091 Malnutrition prevention 317 Eye-camp program 2,758 Survey for leprosy detection 165,000 Total population covered 287,718 The health situation in the villages around Tata Motors’s manufacturing units lacks adequate basic health services. The large family size and low income levels deter villagers from availing the required medical services. The status of maternal and child health is low as these groups are especially vulnerable with no proper facilities for immunization, antenatal care , institutional delivery, post natal care and awareness on proper nutrition. Taking this into account, we extended curative and preventive health services to the villages through mobile medical clinics as one of our priority interventions. The medical clinics not only provide necessary medicine but they also carry various social messages. For example – in Jamshedpur, we have developed full-fledged hospital for the community, managed by Parivar Kalyan Sansthan (PKS), which provides clinical aid to community members and has facility to conduct family planning, cataract, and cleft operations. Moreover, in the premises of this hospital, we have established state-of-art 16 bedded Malnutrition Treatment Centre (MTC), in partnership with UNICEF Jharkhand. Since, inception this centre has saved life of 400 plus children. 54 Amrutdhara ‘Water’ is increasingly becoming a scarce natural resource. Availability of clean, potable drinking water becomes an issue particularly during summer season and it adversely affects health of vulnerable sections – women, children and the elderly. To bridge this gap, in 2010–11 we instituted Safe Drinking Water project under aegis of SMDF (Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation). This project is jointly funded by the company and employees. The employees took membership of SMDF by contributing INR 20 per month and we give a matching contribution. In 2012–13, we have entered in 2nd phase of this project and set target of reaching out to 125 villages by May 2013. Till March 2013, we have provided drinking water solutions in 67 villages. Vidyadhanam Our education program envisions bringing a meaningful and positive impact on the lives of children through effective, case based holistic approach. The concept of ‘educational assistance’ needs to be earned by the student as one is expected to demonstrate improvement in school grades for every subsequent class. We strive to create conducive teaching-learning environment through a. Scholarship assistance to meritorious and deserving students. b. Organising coaching classes for weaker students. c. Strengthening school infrastructure by improving classrooms, constructing toilets, establishing library etc. d. Addressing softer issuesChildren are part of different workshops and training programmes that range from residential camps, personality development programmes, skill building exercise, competition etc. Key Vidyadhanam initiatives Outreach 2012-13 Infrastructure and facility up-gradation 15,597 Teacher training 374 Co-curricular activities 6,276 Scholarships 971 Career counselling and coaching classes 1,422 Total population covered 24,640 55 Support to Special Children At Jamshedpur, Asha Kiran and Society for Technical Assistance & Remedial Teaching (START) institutions supporting the cause of the special children is one of the unique initiatives whereby around 100 students are given training on how to manage their lives and get a vocation to earn dignified living. The small kids with special ability are enrolled at Asha Kiran School to learn the basic skills necessary to lead a normal life. Children are also encouraged to take part in academics and other co-curricular activities. Weekly physiotherapy classes and regular computer classes are also organized for these children at Asha Kiran School. START is an institution that provides different vocational trainings to the special children who are above 18 years of age to help them earn a living and lead a dignified life. The youth are also imparted awareness on utilization of services like banks and post offices. Depending on the ability of an individual, each one of them are engaged in photocopying, disinfectant making, distill water making, packaging, book binding, managing stalls etc. for earning a livelihood. In Sanand block there are around 295 children registered under Sarv Shikshya Abhiyan (SSA) in the age group of 6-14 years (survey 2012-2013) with special needs. 5 resource centers are established in different areas of Sanand Taluka under Block Resource Center, Sanand. Children visit these resource centers on Saturdays along with their parents to participate in different programs that are being undertaken by the trained teacher. We support an annual drawing competition for these special children every year. This is an effort to support and promote holistic development among the children with special needs and to create an environment where the creativity of the children can be encouraged and recognized. We provide the required creative materials, logistics and prizes for this competition. In this yearly program, our employee volunteers also get involved and the art work created by the children is recognized and rewarded in the form of converting them in to greeting cards. In Pune, Tata Motors has been taking concrete steps to train the trainers (TOT) under JANEEV Program. The aim of this program is to create a pool of skilled personnel from the concerned department of the Government to respond to the needs of children with speech and hearing loss. This year we focused on training of the officials from Maval Block of Pune district and trained 157 ICDS officials for early recognition of speech and hearing problem amongst children. 56 Kaushalya Natural resources-based livelihood solutions for self-reliant and sustainable development of the community emerged as the way forward to improve agricultural practices. In this pursuit, at Pune, farmland levelling was done adhering to ‘one family one acre’ formula. We have proactively extended the free services of one hydraulic excavator machine with driver and covered maintenance of the machine. The Community agreed to pay for the operating fuel expenses and bear the movement cost of excavator from one farmland to another. In two months, a total 12.14 acres of farmland was levelled benefiting 11 families of scheduled tribes / castes and below the poverty line. The farm-lands were now rendered ready to be cultivated. Some beneficiary families that were able to temporarily tap some irrigation sources have already harvested maiden crops of Wheat, Pearl Millet, Tomato and Fenugreek Greens on approximately 3 acres of developed farmland and have joyfully started reaping dividends on their investments. Key Kaushalya initiatives Outreach 2012-13 Technical and vocational training 5,667 Livelihood opportunity for rural women 912 Land levelling and development / creation of irrigation structures 3,809 Training & support of entrepreneurs 2,139 Total population covered 12,527 Skill development of Indian youth is one of our major CSR programs. A study conducted by NSDC (National Skill Development Council) in 2009, estimates by 2022 around 170 million youth in the country will be employed in unorganized 57 sector. Out of this 170 million, some 35 million will be employed informally within automobile industry. The youth which is expected to join this workforce will neither have necessary skills nor any industrial exposure towards the job they are required to do and in absence of necessary skills the country won’t be able to get the demographic dividend. This year, we have re-aligned our skill development initiatives to cater to this group. Generally, the youth between 1625 years of age prefer daily wage earners’ job or employment in the unorganised sector due to lack of necessary skills. Furthermore, it is the same age group which is highly vulnerable and may get involved in anti-social activities or substance abuse. To bridge this gap, we have associated ourselves with 135 ITIs across 19 states. Focussed initiatives have been undertaken in these ITIs in terms of upgrading the in-house training facilities, improving the quality of training by Training the Trainer etc. Our ultimate aim is to create world class skilled work force and make the potential employees ‘Job-ready’ before they embark upon their professional career. In Pune, we have decided to groom young graduates from Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and Industrial Training Centres (ITCs) through a finishing school. We groomed 1,000 students on training needs which are essential in a professional set up. This is a collaborative initiative with Confederation of Indian Industry – Young Indians (CII -Western Region and Yi) and other industries. Professional Driver Training Program Worldwide, transport sector has emerged as the biggest employer24 one commercial vehicle provides employment to 13.3 people; a car provides employment to 5.3 people. The automotive industry in India is one of the largest in the world and one of the fastest growing globally. However, the fast growth is also clubbed with some challenges. Availability of trained driver is for commercial vehicle is one such challenge. Indian youth don’t aspire to be commercial vehicle drivers on account of the difficulties associated with this profession. Typically these include being away from home for long, risk associated with driving on Indian roads and the lack of dignity in the profession. We believe that the vitality and growth of the Indian economy depend on the road transportation and this sector also opens a door of opportunity for the unemployed youth with relatively lower educational qualification. Our Driver Training Program steadily progressed in FY 2012-13. Through different partners, 554 novice drivers were trained in seven centres spread across the country. In line with the Skill Development Mission of the country, the initiative developed strong Governmental linkages particularly for the training fees subsidy of the candidates. The initiative expanded its scope by adding existing driving schools to the list of its partners. Ambika Motor Driving School, which is a ISO certified driving school in Pune is the first driving school whom we partnered. Ambika has entered into an agreement with us for providing professional driver training programme which includes class room training for driver’s responsibility, defensive driving, behaviour skills, financial skills, vehicle maintenance, health aspects and night driving. Our driver training program also won ‘NITIE CSR Lakshya’ award and the idea was declared a western region winner for NSDC's ‘Power to Empower’ competition. In addition, the Business Plan reached the National & Global Regional finals of competitions organized by NSDC and ISB, Hyderabad respectively. 24 Source: Automotive Mission Plan 2006-16, Includes: Direct and Indirect Employment 58 Vasundhara In the present era of ever-increasing energy consumption, the importance of Biogas and Biomass based power generation has greatly increased. Domestic Bio gas plant fuelled by animal waste is an excellent source of energy. In Sanand, as pilot project, we have installed 5 biogas units as pilot in 2 villages of Manipur & Melasana. The model supported is also currently under the Government of India’s standardization review and, if certified , there will be a special financial grant and subsidy for the rural community to adopt the model. Some of the key features of the Biogas unit are• Alternative energy source for cooking • User friendly technology • Economic and environment friendly model • Clean energy source benefits women’s health Key Vasundhara initiatives Outreach 2012-13 Number of trees planted 233,760 Conservation of natural resources soil and water conservation 15 Population benefited through rain water harvesting structures 8,060 No. people sensitized on environment issues 16,660 Total population covered 24,720 We are now looking forward to scale-up this project and integrate it with our dairy development initiative. At Pantnagar, we mentored youth club to create awareness on environment conservation. We formed ‘Go Green Group’ for school students at Primary school, and ‘Green Club’ for village youth. Through these community clubs, we sensitized villagers about climate change & sustainability. 150 students of the ‘Go Green Group’, have sensitized their peers and parents on aspects like waste disposal, green cover and water management. The ‘Green Club’ mobilizes communities for large plantation in villages and forest area. This club also supports in procurement of saplings and is responsible for safety of the plantation. ‘Haryali – Khusyali’, Uttaranchal Government’s state festival was also celebrated at Pantnagar works. 59 Affirmative Action Program – Towards Inclusive Growth Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) face dual disadvantages of discrimination and limited opportunities. We realize the value of inclusive growth and have positioned our strategy to compliment our business objectives. We have adopted Tata Group Affirmative Action (AA) Policy towards inclusive growth of marginalized sections of society, the Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST). Our AA program focuses on 4Es – Education, Employment, Employability, and Entrepreneurship. We design and implement programs which have defined quantifiable indicators and defined targets. The Affirmative Action Policy of the company drives the strategic objectives for AA, which is summarized as – • Demonstrate responsible corporate practice through inclusive growth • Plug the skill gap in the automotive sector between demand for labor and unemployment through technical and vocational training • Bring SC/ST communities on equal footing by strengthening their education through customized inputs and scholarships • Promote independence and growth by creating entrepreneurs through training and mentoring While we work on all four AA thrust areas, our special focus is on Employability and Education, since we believe that education and skill building (employability) initiatives are keys to generate more entrepreneurs and to create talent pool of skilled manpower. Affirmative Action Performance in 2012 – 13 Employment: This year, we mapped the employment status of SC/ST personnel in our Sanand Vendor Park. Sanand Vendor Park exclusively supplies auto-components to Tata Motors’ plant for the Tata Nano. We mapped 28 of our vendors based in the Vendor Park. These Vendors provide direct employment to 3464 people out of which 975 people belong to SC/ST category. Employability While working with SC/ST youth we realized that it is necessary to provide ‘soft-skill’ training to newly skilled youth to boost their employability. We provided soft-skill training to 302 SC/ST youth. We also partnered with Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) and Young Indians (Yi) to develop modules for Finishing School. The objective of the Finishing School was to enhance the employability of ITI graduates through life skill inputs from Industry driven by CII-Yi-Tata Motors & ITI partnership. Year Blue Collar Soft Skill Improved Allied Service Sector Total Trades Training Agricultural Agricultural (new activity) Practices Activities 2011 -12 489 0 520 435 625 2,069 2012 -13 574 302 295 1,198 986 3,355 Education In 2012-13, we extended 537 scholarships to SC/ST students including scholarships for higher studies. Furthermore, 3,350 SC/ST students benefitted from our school support programs through which we provide coaching classes, teacher training programs, co-curricular activities and infrastructure development to schools. 60 Entrepreneurship We have partnered with DICCI (Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry) to identify and incorporate SC/ST entrepreneurs in our vendor base. We presented our AA program details to our current vendors in vendor meets and obtained their support for our initiative. This year, we have added 4 more SC/ST entrepreneurs in our supply chain and we have extended business worth INR 13.07 million to 9 associated SC/ST vendors. Way Forward The pace of urbanization in the country is expected to accelerate over the next two decades. The 2011 Census shows an increase in the urban population from 27.8 per cent in 2001 to 31.2 per cent in 2011, and it is likely to exceed 40.0 per cent by 2030. This generates need of creating quality social and physical infrastructure. Keeping pace with emerging social needs in urban sphere, we implemented our education support program in partnership with NGOs, on pilot basis. In the first nine months of implementation, students have shown significant progress in tough subjects. In the upcoming year, we will further extend and strengthen our initiatives in education and skill development urban areas. 61 Abbreviations KL – Kilo Litre Glossary AA – Affirmative Action LAC – Learning Advisory council AECT – Actions Employees Can Take LCA – Life cycle assessments ANC – Ante Natal Care LCV – Light Commercial Vehicle ASCI – Advertising Standards Council of India LDO – Light Diesel Oil ASTD – American Society of Training and LPG – Liquefied Petroleum Gas Development M&HCV – Medium and Heavy Commercial Vehicles BASE – Business Academy for Sales Excellence MEDA – Maharashtra Energy Development Agency BEE – Bureau of Energy Efficiency MT – Metric Tonne BKY – Bhavishya Kalyan Yojana MTC – Malnutrition Treatment Centre BRM – Body Repair Manual MW – Mega Watt CFT – Cross-functional team NG – Natural Gas CII – Confederation of Indian Industry NGO – Non-governmental Organisation CMVR – Central Motor Vehicles Rules NITIE – National Institute of Industrial Engineering CNG – Compressed Natural Gas NLDC – National Load Dispatch Centre CRM – Customer Relationship Management NPI – New Product Introduction CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility NSDC – National Skill Development Council CVBU – Commercial Vehicle Business Unit ODS – Ozone Depleting Substance DICCI – Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and OEM – Original Equipment Manufacturer Industry OHSAS – Occupational Health and Safety Assessment DIMTS – Delhi Integrated Multi Modal Transit System Series DMS – Dealer Management System PACT – Performance Assessment and Coaching Tool EEC – European Economic Committee PKS – Parivar Kalyan Sansthan ER – Employee Relations PM – Particulate matter ERC – Engineering & Research Center PP – Polypropylene ERM – Enterprise Process Model PPE – Personal Protective Equipments ESMS – Electrical Safety Management System PVBU – Passenger Vehicle Business Unit ETP – Effluent Treatment Plant QFD – Quality Function Deployment EU – European Union R&D – Research and Development EV – Electric Vehicle REACH – Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and FO – Furnace Oil Restriction of Chemicals FTC – Fixed Term Contract SC/ST – Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes GJ – Giga Joules SMC – Sheet Moulding Composites GRI – Global Reporting Initiative SMDF – Sumant Moolgaonkar Development GWP – Global Warming Potential Foundation HCV – Heavy Commercial Vehicle SRM – Supplier Relationship Management HR – Human Resources SSA – Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan HSD – High Speed Diesel START – Society for Technical Assistance & HVAC – Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Remedial Teaching ICDS – Integrated Child Development Services SVHC – Substances of Very High Concern IFC – International Finance Corporation TAAP – Tata Affirmative Action Program IGBC – Indian Green Building Council TBEM – Tata Business Excellence Model IISc – Indian Institute of Science TCoC – Tata Code of Conduct ILO – International Labour Organization TMETC – TATA Motors European Technical Centre IMDS – International Material Data System TML – Tata Motors Limited IMEA – Indian Manufacturing Excellence Awards TMRC – Tata Motors Research Centre INR – Indian Rupee UK-SPEC – UK Standard for Professional Engineering ISB – Indian School of Business Competence ISO – International Organization for Standardization UNICEF – United Nations International Children's ISRO – Indian Space Research Organization Emergency Fund ITC – Industrial Training Centre UV – Utility Vehicle ITI – Industrial Training Institute WWF – World Wildlife Fund 62 Independent Assurance Statement •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Introduction Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Tata Motors Ltd. (‘TML’ or ‘the Company’), to carry out an independent assurance engagement (Moderate level) on the sustainability performance reported in Company’s Corporate Sustainability Report – 2012-2013 (‘the Report’) in its printed format. This assurance engagement focused on underlying management and reporting processes for the qualitative and quantitative information provided in the Report. The engagement was carried out against the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ www.dnv.com/cr ; available on request) and adherence to principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2011, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1). The intended users of this assurance statement are the readers of Company’s Sustainability Report. The management of Company is responsible for all information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analyzing and reporting that information. DNV’s responsibility in performing this work is regarding the verification of the Report only, in accordance with the agreed scope of work. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based on this assurance statement. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out during May’ – July 2013. Scope, Boundary and Limitations of Assurance The scope of the assurance as agreed upon with TML included the verification of the content of the Report. In particular the assurance engagement included: • The verification of the qualitative and quantitative sustainability performance reported in the Report prepared by the Company based on the GRI G3.1 guidelines, covering economic, environmental and social performance for the activities undertaken by Company over the reporting period 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013 and reported in this Report; • Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report as well as references made in the report to the Annual Report; • Evaluation of the disclosed information in the Report, the systems and the processes TML has in place for adherence to the principles set out in the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2011 (GRI G3.1); • Information relating to company’s sustainability issues, responses, performance data and underlying systems for the management of such information and data; • Information to company’s materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement processes; and • Confirmation of the Company’s declared Application level i.e. A+. The reporting boundary is as set out in the report covering sustainability performance of Indian Operations alone (the Report does not include performance data and information related to joint ventures and subsidiaries) and during the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement. The stakeholder engagement was limited to employees and proximate community engagement. Verification Methodology This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: • Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, Completeness, Responsiveness, Reliability and Neutrality as set out in VeriSustain; • The principles and requirements of the GRI G3.1 for an application level A+. As part of our verification we visited the following operations in addition to the TML’s Corporate office at Mumbai, India • TML’s Corporate office at Mumbai; • TMLCommercial Vehicle Business Unit (CVBU) and Passenger Vehicle Business Unit (PVBU), Pune ,Maharashtra, India; • TMLCar Factory, Sanand, Gujarat, India; • TMLMedium and Heavy Commercials Vehicles Factory, Jamshedpur, Jharkhand, India. During the assurance engagement, DNV has taken a risk-based approach, meaning that we concentrated our verification efforts more on the issues of high material relevance to Company’s business and its stakeholders. DNV verified the statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: • Reviewed the company’s approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality determination process; • Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the data management system, information flow and controls; • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by the TML and Visited the Corporate office at Mumbai and three operational sites (CVBU and PVBU, Pune, Car factory at Sanand, and Commercial Vehicles at Jamshedpur) in India; • Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and decision-makers from different functions of the Company; • Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the company’s sustainability related policies, as described in the Report; • Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. 63 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Conclusions In DNV’s opinion, based on the scope of this assurance engagement the Report provides a fair representation of the Company’s sustainability related strategies, management system and performance. The Report, along with the referenced information in the Annual Report, meets the general content and quality requirements of the GRI G3.1, and DNV confirms that the Report generally meets the requirements for GRI application level A+. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Stakeholder Inclusiveness: The Company has documented its stakeholder engagement process and demonstrates regular engagement with key stakeholders through different channels both at corporate level and operational site level. The Report may coherently bring out the stakeholder concerns, needs and expectations expressed during stakeholder engagement and the Companies response to material stakeholder issues. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. Materiality: The Company has reported its materiality issues of significance based on internal and external stakeholder perspective at the macro level and has not missed out any known material issues; however the process could be further strengthened to bring out all material aspects related to individual operational sites and aggregated at corporate level. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principles is “Acceptable”. Responsiveness: We consider that the Company’s response to key stakeholder concerns, through its policies and management systems including governance are fairly reflected in the Report. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Acceptable”. Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at corporate office and at site(s) were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected; Hence in accordance with the DNV VeriSustain protocol for a moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report are generally reliable. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Good”. Completeness: The Report has fairly attempted to report or respond the sustainability strategy, management approach and sustainability performances against the GRI G3.1 core indicators, with omissions explained or commitments to future reporting that are material within the Company’s reporting boundary for application level A+; In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is “Good”. Neutrality: The Company has reported its sustainability issues and performance in terms of content and presentation in a neutral tone. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Neutrality is “Good”. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and further opportunities for improvement reported to the management of Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusion on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the Management’s objectives: • To expand the boundary of reporting to include corporate and other offices, Joint Ventures and other entities in its Sphere of control and Influence; • To further strengthen the process of material determination to capture all issues related to operational sites and evolve sector specific sustainability strategy to drive growth and address short, medium and long term sustainability impacts based on sectors and peer performance; • Integrate of sustainability aspects in the existing management systems, related to core processes of the Company to enable continual improvement of key sustainability initiatives; • To further improve the quality and reliability of sustainability-related data, the process of data management may be standardized and integrated to existing ERP system; also routine system of data verification (an internal audit process) may be initiated. DNV’s Competence and Independence DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. The DNV assurance team were not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality towards any people interviewed. DNV states its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. For Det Norske Veritas AS Ramesh Rajamani Antonio Astone Project Manager, Assurance Reviewer, Det Norske Veritas AS, India. Det Norske Veritas AS, Italy 29th July’ 2013, New Delhi, India. 64 Contents Page GRI Reference Remarks/Additional Information Inside cover 4.8 4.8 – We also have a Climate Change policy and Environment (Vision and Policy. Details of the same are mentioned in our previous report: Mission http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php About the report 2 2.1, 3.1, 3.6, 3.2 – Our previous report was published for the year 2011-12. It GRI Index 3.13, 4.12 can be accessed at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php 3.3 – Reporting cycle is annual 3.6 We have not reported on the subsidiaries and joint ventures over which we have no direct operational control. 3.7 The environmental performance reported does not include our office locations and three company owned service workshops in India. The economic performance, permanent workforce and defined benefit plan related information is reported for the entire company. Specific limitations (if any) pertaining the performance indicators reported have been detailed in the individual sections. 3.8 –We have reported on the sustainability performance of the manufacturing operations where we have complete control over their systems and processes. 3.9 Relevant explanations have been provided in the individual section where necessary 3.10 – Re-statements of information have been reported in the relevant sections 3.11 – This is year, we have added our newly commissioned Dharwad manufacturing plant under the scope of reporting. The change in safety reporting and measurement techniques have been mentioned on Page 48 4.12 We subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact and Millennium Development Goals Company Profile 3 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.2 http://www.tatamotors.com/vehicles-and-services/ DMA EC (Market passenger-vehicles.php and Presence) http://www.tatamotors.com/vehicles-and-services/commercial-ve hicles.php 2.3 – Please refer AR 2012-13 (page 149). 2.5 – Please refer AR 2012-13 (page 18-19). 2.6 Please refer AR 2012-13 (page 109). 2.7 Our significant markets of exports include Africa (21 countries), Europe (4 countries), Latin America (1 country), Middle East (9 countries), SAARC region (6 countries) and ASEAN region (4 countries) Additional information can also be obtained from AR 2012-13 (page 18, 67-69). 2.8 Aspects of scale are addressed in relevant sections of the report. Please refer AR 2012-13 for additional information. (page 37, 40,52,54,55,74,75,80) Details of employees are mentioned in the Workforce Management section. 2.9 Please refer AR 2012-13 (page 60, 109). SO8 We have not paid any fines for non compliance with laws and regulations in the reporting period Managing 4 1.1,1.2, EC2 1.2– Key impacts, risks and opportunities have been detailed in Director’s relevant sections. Please refer AR 2012-13 (Page 84-92) statement Awards 7 2.10 Corporate 10-12 .1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.9, 4.1 – Please refer AR 2012-13 for additional information (page Governance 4.10, DMA EN 98-106). (Compliance), 4.3 – We do not have any female directors on our Board of DMA HR Directors. (Investment & 4.5 Refer AR 2012-13 (pages 101-106) Procurement 4.6 Refer AR 2012-13 (pages 49,93) Practices, 4.7 Refer AR 2012-13 (pages 104,105) Further information is Non-discrimination available at: , Assessment, http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/bod.php Remediation), 4.11 – Our Climate Change and Environment Management DMA SO policies and practices adopt precautionary approach to (Corruption, anticipate and minimize environmental impacts through Anti-competitive development of products which have lesser environmental behaviour, impact and adopting industry best practices to reduce environCompliance), mental impact of our manufacturing operations. HR3, HR4, HR10, 4.13 Refer SR 2011-12 (page 17) SO2, SO3, SO8 LA13 Refer AR 2012-13 (page 8-11, 99-106). Further details at available at: http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/bod.php DMA HR (Investment & procurement practices) – Refer SR 2011-12 (page15-19) HR3 All employees undergo a one-hour refresher course on the TCoC which includes clauses on ethics, human rights and 65 anti-corruption. HR 10 Through TBEM assessments, all our operations are periodically checked for various elements of the TCoC including but not limited to aspects of anti-bribery and corruption, equal opportunities, competitive markets, regulatory compliance and human rights. GRI Index SO4 – Actions are taken in response to corruption as per the Tata Code of Conduct. There have been no recorded incidents of corruption this year. SO6 We have not made any financial contribution to any political party or politician. SO7 There have been no legal actions against us for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. Public Policy 11 4.13, DMA SO Advocacy (Public policy), SO5 (Partial) Material Issues 14 3.5, EC2 Stakeholder 15-18 3.5, 4.4, 4.14, 4.4 – Refer AR 2012-13 (pages 101-106). Engagement 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, 4.14 – For additional information refer SR 2011-12 (pages 22-24) DMA PR 4.15 We have a wide variety of stakeholders with varying needs. (Product & We engage with each of the stakeholders to address different service labelling, issues and concerns as delineated in Stakeholder Engagement Customer section. For additional information refer SR 2011-12 (pages privacy), PR5 22-24) 4.16, 4.17 – For additional information refer SR 2011-12 (pages 22-24) DMA PR (Product & service labelling) – Refer SR 2011-12 (pages 27-28) Economic 20 DMA EC EC4 – We have not received any significant financial assistance Performance (Economic from the government Performance, EC5 – We abide by all national regulations of wage payments and Indirect pay equal to or above minimum wage requirements at all our Economic plants. The ratio of standard entry level wage to local minimum Impacts), EC1, wage at all locations of operation is 1:1 for men and women EC9 employees. EC9 – Refer SR 2011-12 (page 26) HR1 All our investment agreements and contracts mandate adherence to the TCoC, which includes human rights clauses. There have been no significant investments made during the year. DMA EC(Indirect economic impacts): Refer SR 2011-12 (page 30) Product 22-28 DMA EN EN27 We do not use any significant packaging materials for any Innovation and (Materials, of our vehicles. Safety Products & PR1 A study has been done based on ELV rules for all vehicles Services), EC2, to be exported to European markets. For more information, EN6, EN26, DMA please refer to: PR (Customer http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/ELV/resourcehealth & safety, sustainability.php Product & PR3 – Refer SR 2011-12 (pages 27-28) service labelling, Marketing communications, Compliance), EN6, PR1 (Partial), PR2, PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9 Energy and 30-32 DMA EN (Energy, EC2 – Refer AR 2012-13 (page 88,90) Climate Change Emissions),EC2, EN17 We are enhancing our capacities to monitor other relevant EN3, EN4, EN5, GHG emissions. EN7, EN16, EN23 There were no significant spills (spills greater than 159 EN17 (Partial) litres-one barrel in a single occurrence of an incident) as a result EN18, EN19, of our operations in the reporting period. We are the in the EN20, EN21, process of creating an internal standard for 'Environmental EN22, EN29 incidents, Incident response and Incident Investigation' which will strengthen our monitoring mechanism for significant spills based on the environmental impact. EN24 We do not import or export any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN25 No water body or habitat is significantly affected by our water discharge or runoff. DMA EN (Energy) : Refer SR 2011-12 (page 30) Environmental 33-36 DMA EN DMA EN (Transport) The most significant environmental impact Stewardship (Materials, Water, of transporting products and materials, and members of the Biodiversity, workforce is the associated air emissions. We strive to reduce 66 Contents Page GRI Reference Remarks/Additional Information Environmental Effluents & them by using cleaner CNG fuel, especially for employee Stewardship Waste, Overall), commutation provided by us. EN1, EN2, EN8, EN9 No water sources are significantly affected by our EN10, EN14, withdrawals EN30 EN11 – None of our operations are located close protected or GRI Index reserved areas EN14, DMA EN (Biodiversity) – While we do not have a specific policy for biodiversity, we do undertake initiatives to promote the same at all our locations of operations. Refer SR 2011-12 (Page 38) EN28 – There have been no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions imposed on us for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN12, EN13, EN15 – Not Applicable Workforce 3842 DMA LA DMA LA (Equal remuneration for men and women) – We do not Management (Employment, discriminate based on gender for salary and wage payments. Labour/manage DMA LA (Diversity & Equal opportunity) –Refer AR 2012-13 (page ment relations, 8-11, 99-106). Further details at available at: Training & http://www.tatamotors.com/know-us/bod.php Education, DMA HR (Indigenous rights), HR9 All our manufacturing locations Diversity & Equal except Jamshedpur are in designated industrial areas. At Opportunity), Jamshedpur, there have been no cases of violation of rights of DMA HR Indigenous people. (Freedom of EC3 – Refer AR (page 170-171, 192) association & LA3 Refer AR (page 170-171) collective LA5 – We abide by the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 regarding bargaining, Child notice period to be given before any operational change Labour, LA10 Currently, we do not comprehensively capture training Prevention of man-hours gender wise. We aim to report this information by 2014. forced and LA14 – Everything else being equal, the ratio of basic salary of compulsory men to women is 1:1 labour, Security LA15 – Currently, we do not have systems to monitor the return to practices),EC3, work and retention rates after parental leave EC7, LA1, LA2, HR5 Currently, we do not a formal assessment mechanism to LA4, LA10 identify risks to violation of right to exercise freedom of association (Partial), LA11, and collective bargaining at our supplier. We support these rights LA12, LA15, HR5 through TCoC and awareness on TCoC is created among suppliers. (Partial), HR6, HR11 – There were no cases filed related to human rights HR7, HR8 violations this year. Occupational 43-48 DMA LA LA7There have been no occupational disease cases recorded. Health and safety (Occupational LA9 – Our formal agreements with trade unions cover health and Health & Safety), safety aspects. LA6, LA7(Partial), LA8 Value Chain 50-51 EC6, HR6, HR7 HR2 100% our business partners sign the TCoC which Sustainability mandates that they adhere to all laws related to human rights. Community 52-60 DMA SO (Local 4.12 – We subscribe to the United Nations Global Compact and Development communities), Millennium Development Goals. We also subscribe to the EC8, EC9, LA8, National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and SO1, SO9 Economic Responsibilities of Business, India (NVG-SEE). The Business Responsibility Reporting is done based on the NVG-SEE principles and in accordance with the Clause 55 of listing agreement with Indian stock exchanges. SO1 All our operations have implemented local community engagements and development programs SO10 – None Independent 62-63 3.13 Assurance Statement GRI Content index 64-66 3.12 Back Cover 2.4, 3.4 (request for feedback) AR 2012-13: TML Annual Report FY 201-13 available at http://www.tatamotors.com/investors/financials/annual-reports-20F.php SR 2011-12: TML Corporate Sustainability Report FY 2011-12 available at http://www.tatamotors.com/sustainability/sustainability.php Principle Description Page No. 67 Principle 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 10 12 Principle 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe NVG Mapping and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 22 28 Principle 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees 38 42 Principle 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised 15 18 Principle 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 38 42 Principle 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 30 36 Principle 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 11 Principle 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 52 60 Principle 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to 15 18, their customers and consumers in a responsible manner 22 28 68 Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference Criterion 1: Details on our high-level sustainability The COP describes key aspects of the strategy can found in Managing Director's company’s high-level sustainability Statement (Page 04-06) and Material strategy in line with Global Compact Issues (Page 14 17) sections of the UNGC COP Mapping principles report. Startegy, Governance and Criterion 2: Details on effective decision-making The COP describes effective processes and systems of governance for decision-making processes and systems corporate sustainability can be found in of governance for corporate sustainability Corporate Governance (Page 10-12) of the Engagement report. Criterion 3: Details on engagement with all important The COP describes engagement with all stakeholders can be found in Stakeholder important stakeholders Engagement section (Page 15-18) of the report. Criterion 4: We have implemented Policy on Human The COP describes actions taken in Rights, Policy on Equal Opportunity and support of broader UN goals and issues Non-Discrimination in Employment, Environmental Policy, Green Building Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in support of broader UN goals and issues. Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues can be found in UN Goals and Issues Corporate Governance (Page 10-12), Economic Performance (Page 20) Product Innovation and Safety (Page 22-28), Energy and Climate Change (Page 30-32), Environmental Stewardship (Page 33-36), Workforce Management (Page 38-42) and Community Development (Page 52-60) sections of the report. Criterion 5: We have implemented Policy on Human The COP describes robust commitments, Rights, Policy on Equal Opportunity and strategies or policies in the area of human Non-Discrimination in Employment, rights Environmental Policy, Green Building Human Rights Implementation Criterion 6: Policy, Policy on Bribery and Corruption in The COP describes effective management support of broader UN goals and issues. systems to integrate the human rights Details on Human Rights Implementation principles can be found in Corporate Governance (Page 10-12) and Workforce Management Criterion 7: (Page 38-42) sections of the report. The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration Criterion 8: The COP describes key outcomes of human rights integration Criterion 9: Details on Labour Principles The COP describes robust commitments, Implementation can be found in Corporate strategies or policies in the area of labour Governance (Page 10-12) and Workforce Labour Principles Implementation Criterion 10: Management (Page 38-42) sections of the The COP describes effective management report. systems to integrate the labour principles Criterion 11: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration Criterion 12: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labour principles Area Advanced Criteria Page Reference 69 Criterion 13: Details on Environmental Stewardship The COP describes robust commitments, Implementation can be found in Corporate strategies or policies in the area of Governance (Page 10-12), Product environmental stewardship Innovation and Safety (Page 22-28), UNGC COP Mapping Criterion 14: Energy and Climate Change (Page 30-32) The COP describes effective management and Environmental Stewardship (Page 33-36) sections of the report. Environmental Stewardship systems to integrate the environmental principles Criterion 15: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for implementation environmental stewardship Criterion 16: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the environmental principles Criterion 17: We have implemented Policy on Bribery The COP describes robust commitments, and anti-Corruption in support of broader strategies or policies in the area of UN goals and issues. Details on anti-corruption implementation can be found in Corporate Anti-corruption implementation Criterion 18: Governance (Page 10-12) section of the The COP describes effective management report. systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle Criterion 19: The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anticorruption Criterion 20: The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle Criterion 21: Details on Value Chain Implementation Value chain The COP describes implementation of the can be found in Corporate Governance Global Compact principles in the value (Page 10-12), Stakeholder Engagement implementation chain (Page 15-17) and Value Chain Sustainability (Page 50-51) sections of the report. Criterion 22: Details on company's profile and context Transparency and Verification The COP provides information on the of operation can be found in Company company’s profile and context of Profile (Page 03) and Corporate operation Governance (Page 10-12) sections of the report. Criterion 22: This report uses GRI G3.1 Reporting The COP incorporates high standards of Guidelines and conforms to GRI 'A+' transparency and disclosure Application level. Criterion 23: This report is independently assured by The COP is independently verified by a M/s DNV. credible thirdparty At Tata Motors, we value our stakeholders, and your views are importance to us. Please send in your valuable feedback to: Mr. Parameswaran Balakrishnan Our Registered Office: Head – Employee Relations & Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Corporate Sustainability Mumbai 400 001, India. Email: param@tatamotors.com Tel: 91 22 6615 8540
