2012 ATUS Sustainability Report Sustainability Management of ATUS April 2013 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 2 Contents 00. Corporate Overview Message from the CEO Organization Chart Vision and Values of ATUS Services at ATUS Overview of ATUS Stakeholders UN Global Compact Report Information Corporate Governance 01. Economic Achievements 02. CSR Achievements Highlights on Financial Performance Ethical Management Innovation Management Management and Employees Creative Management Customer Service Local Community Business Partners 03. Environmental Achievements 04. Appendix Environmental Management Third Party Review Statement BEST Index Contact Information 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 3 00. Overview of the Report This section covers an overview of ATUS Corporation and its Sustainability Report. Message from the CEO Vision and Values of ATUS Overview of ATUS UN Global Compact Corporate Governance Organization Chart Services at ATUS Stakeholders Report Information 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 4 Message from the CEO We are pleased to have this opportunity to pledge our commitment to ATUS ’ sustainability management through this report. Since its establishment on May, 2004, ATUS has grown into a professional enterprise that provides Total Education Solution services for business education consulting. Today, the most important factor for a company ’ s growth and sustainability is cultivating its human resources. Therefore, in order to develop a more systematic training program for the next generation of company leaders and to promote company-wide growth, ATUS will continually implement changes and work toward innovation. Furthermore, ATUS will ensure its sustained viability through its commitment to social responsibility and aspire to become a company of the future. ATUS aims to achieve the following goals in order to systematically execute sustainable management: First, to attain high competitiveness, ATUS aims to develop its core competence and innovativeness, and grow into a company that contributes to society. Second, ATUS pledges its commitment to social responsibility and will strive to achieve maximum growth by promoting the mutual advancement of all parties concerned. Third, ATUS will strive to meet the global standard of transparency and integrity. Fourth, ATUS will actively work towards a people-oriented management style in order to raise the quality of life of the executives and staff members, and thereby create a desirable working environment. ATUS will strive to further its ethical, environmental, creative, and innovative efforts, as well as effectively execute sustainability management to become a trusted and respected company. Thank you. April 1, 2013 Chae-Yoon Lee CEO, ATUS Corporation 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 5 Vision and Values of ATUS Since its establishment in 2004, ATUS has been working hard under the overriding banner of sustainability management. To this day, the company remains committed, toward not only the continued survival as a business, but also toward becoming a company that fulfills corporate social responsibilities. ▪ Vision Offering a wide range of services from education program design, program management, and business management consulting, ATUS aims to provide a comprehensive education that champions global standards, leading innovations, environmental management, and ethical management. ATUS also intends to set the future standards in Total Education Solutions among educational providers. ATUS aims to apply global standards across its business in education planning, design, promotion, assessment etc. to upgrade the quality of education and firmly establish a systematic process for fostering core human talent. Global ATUS Corp. aims to In recognition of its Standard become a leading environmental innovative firm that can responsibilities, ATUS lead the education Total aims to be fully solution market through Environ responsible by Leading Education change and innovation. mental designing and Innovati Furthermore, ATUS aims Solution Manage promoting ons to expand its scope of ment environmental-related business to encompass Provider curricula and by management consulting providing diverse interservices going forward. Ethical related activities. Manage ment ATUS pursues to enhance corporate value through a strong commitment to corporate management norms, transparent management, fair competition, and integrity throughout its education services 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 6 Overview of ATUS Corporate Name ATUS Corporation CEO Chae-Yoon Lee Date of Establishment May 29, 2004 Business Type Educational Services and Consulting Revenue KRW 3,620 million (2012) Corporate Address 203 Shincho-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, South Korea ▪ ATUS’ Corporate Image: CI ATUS, a synthesis of “At” and “Us,” implies the notion of “together,” refers to the intent to advance together with clients and customers. The idea came about through public participation, which involved an open contest and open vote amongst the entire management and staff of ATUS. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 7 Global Compact: Ten Principles to Practice On January 8, 2008, ATUS became the 94th organization in South Korea to join the UN Global Compact and is working to practice the 10 Global Compact principles. Category Principle Practice Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the Code of Conduct Rights protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human Code of Conduct rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Arbeitsordnung association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and Arbeitsordnung compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. Arbeitsordnung 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of Arbeitsordnung employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Introduction of approach to environmental challenges. Smart Work 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater A-NA-BA-DA environmental responsibility. Campaign 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of Education environmentally friendly technologies. Activities Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in The Code of Gift Corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Exchange 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 8 Corporate Governance With Seoul Academy, Inc. as a major shareholder, ATUS Corporation was established on May 29, 2004, is a derivative of the educational operations held at the Institute of Industrial Policy Studies (IPS). With extensive know-how and experience, ATUS has seen continuous growth as a professional organization that provides Total Education Solutions, which further out into business consulting activities. ▪ Corporate Governance ATUS is a corporation consisting of 18 stakeholders and 4 board of directors, and adheres to the rights of shareholders and board of directors as stated by commercial law. The 4member Board of Directors is not influenced by the corporation’s shareholders and is run independently. ▪ Board of Directors’ Actions Board of Directors (April 2013) On January 2013, executive director Name Title Chae-Yoon Lee was named CEO of Chae-Yoon LEE CEO, ATUS Corporation ATUS by the Board of Directors. His Jae-Heon DO Non-executive Director wealth of knowledge and experience in (Director, aSSIST) business management is expected to Yong-Joo CHOI Non-executive Director contribute widely to the development of (Dean, aSSIST) ATUS. The Board is composed of three Song-Ja KIM Auditor executive directors and one auditor. This Board of Directors is working toward enhancing the corporation’s value and shareholders’ interests by utilizing broad understanding of the industry and diverse experience. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 9 ▪ General Meetings of Shareholders The General Meetings of Shareholders are classified into provisional meetings and regular meetings. General Meetings of Stakeholders History (May 2004 – April 2013) Date Subject March 2013 2012 Financial Statement Approval February 2013 Amendment in the Articles of Association: Company Name Change January 2013 Inauguration Approval of Chae-Yoon LEE as CEO March 2012 2011 Financial Statement Approval and Sole Representative Inauguration Approval December 2011 Incorporation for Institute of Seoul Fashion and Arts March 2011 2010 Financial Statement Approval June 2010 Co-Representative Inauguration Approval and Company Name Change March 2010 2009 Financial Statement Approval 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 10 Organization Chart Organization Chart (March 2013) The total number of staff has reduced by approximately 14% since last year (2011) due to the business restructuring, and the activities regarding sustainability management are run by the Management Support Department. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 11 Services at ATUS Launched in 2004 with the goal of serving as a Total Education Solution Provider, ATUS not Education IT Asset only provides the education necessary for Design Management developing the core human resources of business partners, but offers diversified ATUS Corp. education services to cultivate competent PR & Account members of society. Through connections with Marketing Managemen renowned universities abroad established from t extensive experiences in education operation by Comprehensive Business management and employees Provider ATUS is responding the needs of relevant businesses by offering customized education programs, short-term programs for professional human resource training, diverse forms of curriculum planning and design to accommodate the challenges of start-up companies, as well as meeting other customer needs. ATUS aims to more vigorously establish itself as a comprehensive business service provider specializing in business education as well as in IT and management consulting. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 12 Stakeholders A stakeholder is defined as any individual Management or group that influences or is influenced Employees by ATUS ’ management activities. It is the company ’ s policy to respond proactively to each and every stakeholder Customers Shareholder group. This report uses value chain and ATUS influence as standards to conduct a Corp. stakeholder analysis. As shown in the diagram, we have five main interested parties: management and employees, Local Business customers, shareholders, business Community Partners partners, and the local community. ATUS is committed to collecting the diverse views of all stakeholders and is highly receptive to all feedback and critique. ▪ Management & Employees All management and employees that serve at ATUS represent internal stakeholders. ATUS adopts an impartial hiring system to shape its management and employee structure, and continues to provide ongoing opportunities for life-long development and growth for its employees. Moreover, through a fair wage and benefits system, ATUS strives to provide adequate compensation as well as stable and sound working conditions for all. ▪ Customers Customers include both corporate and individual consumers that use ATUS' services. ATUS is committed to providing the best services possible to boost the competency level of core human resources in corporations as well as in society at large and its constituents. To this end, ATUS conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys and ensures the application of customer feedback in future services. ▪ Shareholders Shareholders are institutional and individual investors holding shares at ATUS. We advocate the creation of sound shareholder wealth through business performance 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 13 distribution and payout, and are working hard to enhance long-term shareholder returns by maximizing enterprise value. ▪ Business Partners Our business partners include financial institutions, distributors, online companies, ad agencies, etc., that engage in various forms of transactions with ATUS. We view all such parties as valued business partners, and are dedicated to ensuring fair and equitable business with all of them. ATUS offers all qualified companies equal business opportunities based on the principle of free competition. ATUS also provides all partners with equal access to any necessary business information. ▪ Local Community ATUS wishes to contribute to competence building and life-long learning through diverse high quality education services. A diligent tax payer, ATUS upholds all laws and regulations including those concerning environmental protection, and is making every effort to reduce its water and energy usage by adopting a rigorous system of resource management. ATUS recognizes that it is a part of the local community and intends to become leading social contributors by helping create sound personal wealth and corporate value. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 14 Report Information Since establishment, ATUS has dedicated itself to sustainability management. ATUS published its 2012 Sustainability Report to review and build on its past and to be able to better advance toward the future. ▪ Reporting Scope and Time Period This report uses data collected as of the end of 2012. The economic productivity section consists of data collected from the last 3 years from January 2010 to December 2012. ATUS produced a comprehensive report of all business activities in terms of their economic, social, and environmental dimensions. ▪ Reporting Guidelines ATUS’ Sustainability Report adheres to the BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline, which was jointly developed by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, the Korean Chamber of Commerce, and IPS. All figures quoted in the report are based on the Korean Won. The BEST guideline supplements the weak points of the “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI), which is widely used in the Western hemisphere, and is more applicable for the Korean business environment. The guideline includes social responsibility and innovation management, and allows companies to select a standard based on company size. ▪ Report Content Economic Performance ATUS provides key financial highlights and performance outcome and reports on the performance of its innovation and creativity management initiatives. SR Performance ATUS reports on its business ethics practices regarding the treatment of its management and employees; its internal control system to prevent unethical behavior; system for supporting win-win with its business partners; and customer satisfaction and service related policies. It also reports on contribution to society and related issues. Environmental Performance ATUS reports on its stated environmental policies and environmental monitoring outcome. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 15 01. Economic Achievements This section highlights ATUS’ financial performance and current status in order to report on economic outcomes, as well as the innovation and creativity management methods required for these outcomes. Highlights on Financial Performance Innovation Management Creativity Management 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 16 Highlights on Financial Performance ▪ Revenue Revenue recorded KRW 4.3 billion in 4,291 2010, KRW 3.8 billion in 2011, and 4,000 3,796 3,620 KRW 3.6 billion in 2012. It is resulted 3,500 from reducing the dependence of 3,000 consigned education activities, but in 2,500 return representing growth potentials 2,000 with respect to increasing business 1,500 diversity. 1,000 500 2010 2011 2012 Revenue (KRW million) ▪ Current Status of Tax Payment The 2012 year-end corporate tax 200 189 payment amounted to KRW 189 million, an amount increased by 60% 150 141 from last year’s figures resulted by 118 non-operating profits. ATUS fulfills all tax payment obligations so as to 100 contribute to both nation and society. 50 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Tax (KRW million) 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 17 ▪ Key Financial Record (KRW million) Year Revenue Corporate Tax Net Profit Asset Capital 2010 4,291 141 548 4,169 2,530 2011 3,796 118 470 4,364 3,000 2012 3,620 189 772 4,541 3,773 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 18 Innovation Management ▪ Education and Training Systems to Promote Continuous Education ATUS firmly believes that having superior human resources determines a company ’ s competitiveness. ATUS employs an innovative education system other than the yearlong on-the-job-training programs in order to encourage management and employees to pursue continuing education. As a result, in 2012, each employee by average had 186.62 hours of education and training. On-the-job training SIE(*)/ Internal scholarship MBA s Concerts Management & Employees’ Capacity Grants for Personal Sabbatical Developme Leave nt ATUS’ Management and Employee Education and Training System *SIE (Seminar for Intellectual Exchange): Monday Seminars for intellectual exchange among employees 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 19 Creativity Management China Workshop In November 2011, our company held an overseas workshop in Beijing, China, which allowed us to see China ’ s changing development spreading from Asia out to the world. We visited the Chinese Academy of Science and Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business, experiencing China ’ s great potential, and discovered the opportunities for mutual cooperation. Smart Work Since 2012, our company eliminated cubicles and implemented non-designated seating environments for innovative use of office space. This maximized space efficiency, carried out energy saving and increased communication between employees. This is expected to enhance work concentration and cooperation. We also implemented a flexible leaving hour system and we seek to continuously improve the balance of work and life for our employees. Digital-based Work Environment Development Under the smart work environment we are changing the hardcopy type of document storage to a digital-based storage system, and through wireless communications systems, and electronic approval systems, we are constructing a work environment accessible from wherever our employees may be. About 10 thousands of documents have been digitalized and uploaded onto an intranet, and we will continue to remedy the areas showing weaknesses in security and quality. Institute of Seoul Fashion and Arts ATUS incorporated the Institute of Seoul Fashion and Arts in December 2011 and has begun making new challenges for the convergence of educational contents and to provide new insights required by the forthcoming era. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 20 02. CSR Achievements This section introduces an internal control mechanism for applying ethical management and preventing unethical acts in relation to employee treatment. This section also reports on a support system for facilitating good corporate partnership relations and service related policy for customer satisfaction. It also reports on social contribution activities and results of related issues concerning the local community. Ethical Management Management and Employees Customer Service Local Community Business Partners 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 21 Ethical Management ATUS observes ethical policies and believes that a company’s sustainable growth is possible when it offers health value to stakeholders. Under this principle, ATUS implements a company-wide ethical management system that consists of a code of ethical conduct and policies regarding gifts exchange and integrity contracts. ▪ Code of Ethics Who This Applies to All ATUS management and employees Management and Employee Responsibilities To know and comply with work-related guidelines If questions arise when the code is applied, one must receive assistance from the person in charge. If involved parties or another employee violates the code of conduct, or are asked to perform an act with the risk of violating it, one must bring up the issue immediately. Penalty for a Breach of Conduct Management and employees that violate the code may face disciplinary action. Legal Compliance and Corruption Prevention (Legal Compliance) Management and employees must adhere to the law and regulations of the country in which they are working in. (Corporate Regulation Compliance) Management and employees must adhere to corporate regulations (Conflict Avoidance) Management and employees must avoid all acts or relations that present a conflict between the interest of the company and the interest of the individual. (Prohibition of False Documentation) Management and staff must not write false documents under any circumstances The Attitude of Management and Employees (Self-Development) Management and employees should establish an appropriate rolemodel goal, continuously work toward self-development (Innovation Leadership) Management and employees should constantly strive for best practice. (Trust and Respect) Management and employees should have mutual respect and 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 22 implement trust as an underlying principle of work Responsibility toward Management and Employees (Equal Opportunity Employment) ATUS recruits, employs, trains, compensates, and promotes new employees regardless of race, religion, nationality, gender, age, and physical disabilities and also provides other employment conditions. (Equal Personnel Assessment) ATUS adopted an objective personnel assessment system with the participation of all management and staff for rational and appropriate promotion and allocation of assignments, by which corporate outcomes are altogether achieved (Impartial Regulation) ATUS considers fairness and rationality when corporate regulations are newly implemented, and publicizes those minutes transparently. (Privacy Protection) ATUS respects individual privacy and protects personal information of all employees. (Human Resource Development) ATUS provides an opportunity for all management and employees to attain the education training required for their work responsibilities. (Health and Safety Measures) ATUS creates and maintains a safe and healthy work environment and strives to prevent workplace injury. Customer Satisfaction (Prevention of Invasion of Privacy) ATUS does not disclose client information to third parties without client consent. (Customer Satisfaction) ATUS always respects all clients’ opinions and provides services and benefits from the client’s perspective and gains trust by endlessly creating value that benefits the customer. (Customer Loyalty) ATUS not only presents optimum quality to all clients, but also works to continue the relationship after the term of service is terminated, in order to increase clients’ trust. Fair Trade (Improper Payment) When offering services or during business dealings, ATUS representatives are prohibited from presenting money or other valuables, or providing services for the purpose of securing an improper position of advantage. (Fair Trade Rule Compliance) In all business transactions, including pricing, purchasing, selling and sales promotion, ATUS complies with fair trade policies and law. (Fair Trade) In order to fulfill the rights of all businesses and to abide by the principle of free competition, ATUS assures equal opportunities and impartially distributes information 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 23 necessary for creating business deals to all companies qualifying each criteria. (Intellectual Property Protection) ATUS not only protects its own intellectual property rights, but also that of other organizations. This requires proper understanding of the registration and use of word processing, printing, web postings and all other forms of asset. Environmental Protection and Social Contribution (Environmental Protection) ATUS exerts its best efforts to protect nature and to preserve a clear environment, and complies with environmental protection related laws (Energy Conservation) ATUS exerts its best efforts to eliminate wasteful consumption of resources (Social Contribution) ATUS recognizes its role in the local community and is a leader in social contribution through its ethical gains and corporate value ▪ Integrity Contract ATUS implements the Integrity Contract in efforts to eradicate acts of corruption during business transactions with subcontractors and to establish transparency during the contract process. Under the integrity contract, during the process of purchase biddings, closing of contracts, and fulfilling contracts, etc., bribes are neither accepted nor offered from participating companies. In the case of violating this bribery policy, both sides agree to a restriction penalty, which serves as a measure to prevent corruption. The main aspects of the Integrity Contract are the following: Upon signing and conducting the contract, any party must not directly or indirectly present material goods, special treatment, or unjustified profit to the other party’s executives and employees related to the contract If the above situation occurs, responsible parties will be subject to limited biddings, cancellation of contract, halt in transaction, or other forms of disadvantages. If the above case is proven true, responsible parties cannot raise any civil or criminal objections against the cancellation of the contract and against other occurring disadvantages ▪ Bribery: Guidelines for Gift Exchange with Transaction Companies In order to properly apply ethical management, ATUS sets up a guideline for bribery and related gift exchange acts that is clearly stated as a standard for ethical value discernment during the active duties of management and employees. Providing gifts to Cash prohibited unless in a major family event (In the case of a family a transaction event, such as weddings or funerals, maximum of KRW 100,000) 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 24 company Gift certificates and coupons prohibited Gifts below KRW 50,000 market price Receiving gifts Cash, gift certificates, and coupons must be returned and reported from a transaction Must report gifts worth more than KRW 100,000 company Items such as alcoholic beverages must be reported and should be shared in company events Celebration or consolation gifts exceeding KRW 100,000 must be returned and reported Other situations In the case of situations that are not included in the guideline or are difficult to judge, employees must consult with the manager to solve the problem. Code of Conduct In order to apply ethical management, a code of conduct was established for management and employees. Enacted to protect the honor and dignity of management and employees, pledges are made during the orientations for new employees. 1. We pledge to respect our colleagues and adhere to our roles and positions and work cooperatively. 2. We take careful observation of our oral representations and demeanor in order not to damage our dignity, and exhibit our attractiveness through formal attire. 3. We treat our clients with all sincerity and retain our smiles even when our clients make unacceptable requests. 4. When clients present us with gifts as a sign of friendship, we pledge to politely reject them without damaging the relationship. If we accept gifts due to unavoidable circumstances, we immediately report to the head of the department. 5. By regulation, we consider informal dinner meetings with clients as part of work and must adhere to the main purpose of attending such meetings and never make our clients feel burdensome. 6. We properly show our gratitude to our clients and all others who have supported our work. 7. If we are sexually harassed during interactions with our clients, colleagues, or other work-related parties, we pledge to not hide the matter and report to the head of the department to make sure that no damage is done. 8. We protect our own safety and integrity at all times and places. 9. We speak with prudence so that we can take responsibility for our words. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 25 ▪ CEO’s Will ATUS adheres to the principle that in order to instill corporate ethical management, the CEO must have a strong will and act first. To do this, ATUS joined the IPS Ethical Management CEO Club and pleaded our commitment to ethical management to both internal and external audiences. The Ethical Management CEO Club is a national forerunner in ethical management and seeks methods to implement ethical management at the CEO level, shares information related to ethical management strategy, and seeks to contribute to the environment and the local community. Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2008, ATUS also joined the UN Global Compact Korea Network and has remained an active member to disseminate sustainable management over Korean society. ▪ Prevention of Sexual Harassment To build a workplace culture where people work together, ATUS implemented an education program for sexual harassment prevention for management and employees since 2004, based on the law on sexual harassment prevention. This program provides a basic understanding of sexual harassment and behavioral methods to prevent victimization of sexual harassment, measures after becoming a victim, behavioral guidelines to avoid becoming an\ harasser, and measures for when being suspected of a harasser. Since implementing this program, no case of sexual harassment has been found since ATUS’ establishment. ATUS will continue to provide education in this area to create a harassment-free, enjoyable workplace environment. List of Preventive Education Date 7th Sexual Harassment Preventive Education Apr 5, 2010 8th Sexual Harassment Preventive Education May 23, 2011 9th Sex Trafficking Preventive Education Sep 5, 2011 10th Sexual Harassment Preventive Education Apr 30, 2012 11th Sex Trafficking Preventive Education Oct 29, 2012 Regulation for the Prohibition of Workplace Sexual Harassment (Prohibiting Workplace Sexual Harassment) The company ensures that business owners, superiors, or employees do not abuse their position and that they do not use sexual language or behavior to other employees related to work, or utilize this as a disadvantage over an individual’s employment, or cause sexual humiliation and worsen the workplace environment. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 26 (Preventing Workplace Sexual Harassment) The company implements education for preventing workplace sexual harassment at least once a year in order to prevent workplace sexual harassment and construct conditions where employees can work in a safe work environment. The company takes action toward department transfers, disciplinary action, and other actions that apply for sexual harassers. The company must not place measures that disadvantage the victimized employee. (Workplace Sexual Harassment Prevention Education) Workplace Sexual Harassment Prevention Education must include each of the following details: 1. Laws related to workplace sexual harassment 2. Procedures and actions for workplace sexual harassment occurrence 3. Distress counseling and help procedures for employees victimized of workplace sexual harassment 4. Other steps needed for workplace sexual harassment (Examples of Standards Identifying Workplace Sexual Harassment) 1. Examples of sexual language and behavior 2. Examples of employment related disadvantage 3. Examples of worsened workplace environment (Workplace Environment Related Action) The company must autonomously work toward solutions for employees victimized of workplace sexual harassment that report distress by, for example, entrusting the case to the grievance committee. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 27 Management and Employees ▪ Employment Figures ATUS has contributed to the local community’s job creation by employing the youth internship initiative, and the average length of service is 4.6 years. (*Average length of service=All employees’ length of service/N) 40 35 32.1 32.5 31 34 35 30 29 30 25 25 25 20 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Number of Management and Employees Salary per Person (KRW million) ▪ Employment Policy (Equal Opportunity Employment) ATUS recruits, employs, trains, compensates, and promotes new employees regardless of race, religion, nationality, gender, age, and physical disabilities and also provides other employment conditions. ATUS also propels gender equality policy and is expanding the diversity in management and employees. As of December 2012, management and employees consisted of 57% women and 43% men. Female employees are evenly distributed across employee and management levels. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 28 남성 남성 여성 여성 43% 50% 50% 57% Gender Ratio of Management and Employees Middle Manager Ratio ▪ Five Workdays per Week Policy Since July 2004, ATUS gradually introduced the five workdays per week policy and implemented the system before it was legally enforced in July 2005. The legal work hours are 40 hours per week. The five workdays per week policy has improved the standard of living of employees through their increased personal time. The policy also suggests a transition from a job-centered drinking culture to a family-oriented leisure culture. ▪ Education Training System for Management and Employees Based on the conviction that the overall quality of service is determined by the competency of management and employees, ATUS established an education training system to promote lifelong education for management and employees. On-the-job training Internal SIE(*)/ scholarship MBA s Management & Concert Employees’ Capacity Grants for Personal Sabbatical Developme Leave nt ATUS’ Management and Employee Education and Training System 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 29 Corporate Sponsorship System ATUS offers corporate sponsorship opportunities to its management and employees who choose to enroll in an education program organized or hosted by aSSIST and other affiliated institutions. This internal scholarship program is designed to help its employees develop their competency and abilities, as well as enhance the knowledge and skills they need to perform their respective jobs. ATUS aims to create an environment that encourages all employees to strive for self-realization and growth. Category Degree Programs Non-degree Programs Internal Programs Master’s Programs Ph.D. Programs Non-degree Programs Requirement Individuals with more Individuals with more Individuals with more for than 2 full years of than 3 full years of than 1 full year of Application continued service that continued service that continued service meet matriculation meet matriculation requirements requirements * Degree Programs: programs acquiring Master’s or Ph.D degrees * Non-degree Programs: certificate program, job training program etc. * Internal Programs: operated or hosted by ATUS and other affiliate organizations Grants for Personal Development All management and employees are entitled to a total of KRW 500,000 per year (KRW 250,000 per term) for their individual development. In the first and second half of each year, management and employees decide on objectives in which they need development and then individually plan and execute educational measures suitable to their area of need. Sabbatical Leave Since the latter half of Applicants for Sabbatical Leave 2005, ATUS implemented a sabbatical 2010 2011 2012 program for the purpose of recharging 6 9 4 employees. The program is available to anyone who has served over 2 or 3 years at ATUS and the selection process is based on years of consecutive service and work contribution. Selected employees are provided with either a 4 week or 8 week fully-paid vacation days in addition to a separate research grant, and are given an opportunity for self-development and revitalization during their sabbatical period. This policy was later expanded and reformed in 2008 to become an effective system for self-development and employee training. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 30 Job Specific Education All management and staff receive an opportunity for job specific education in order to increase their job specific capacity. Every year, employees select for themselves and participate in education programs most suitable to their job specifications, which guarantees the autonomy on choice of contents. Chinese Language Education Since October 2010 until now, we have initiated Chinese language education for our employees divided into beginner and beginner-intermediate groups, for over 3 terms. In order to understand China, from which a communist state is now growing to become one of the world’s most powerful countries, and as the company seeks to establish a foundation to enter the Chinese market, learning Chinese is not only an improvement of individual foreign language capabilities, but also an opportunity leading to new business opportunities. SIE (Seminar for Intellectual Exchange) SIE is a knowledge and culture sharing forum for management and employees, which was established in June 2004 as a regular seminar held for about an hour every Monday starting 7:50AM. SIE Activities (Jan 2012 – Dec 2012) No. Date Theme No. Date Theme Education in the Era Survival Strategies 370 2012-01-02 393 2012-07-02 of e-learning and for University Smart Learning The Growth of the CSV(Creating Shared 371 2012-01-09 394 2012-07-09 Functional Beverage Value) market Find your Own Color The 21st Century, 372 2012-01-16 395 2012-07-16 Calling up Success Creativity we Want Imagine the House 373 2012-01-30 396 2012-07-23 Real Estate Strategy of the Future The History of Wise Preparation for 374 2012-02-06 Moments, a Moment 397 2012-07-30 Post-retirement of History Sweet and 375 2012-02-13 Bittersweet 398 2012-08-06 Olympics Marketing Chocolate The Status and Problems of Big Data and Professional 376 2012-02-20 399 2012-08-13 Business-Research Terminology Use Opportunities (particularly in Management) Introducing Hawaii, Social Entrepreneur 377 2012-02-27 400 2012-08-20 an Earthly Paradise. MBA 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 31 Cases of Shared Value Creation – Changes from Smart Japanese 378 2012-03-05 401 2012-08-27 Office Mokumoku Homemade Farmland Design Korean Wave in 379 2012-03-12 402 2012-09-03 Consumption in China Market 3.0 A Story about The Green 380 2012-03-19 Behavior-inducing 403 2012-09-10 Revolution, Green Psychology Campus aSSIST Empathy Leadership 381 2012-03-26 China’s Soft Power 404 2012-09-17 and Empathy Marketing Green Culture City IPS Country Brand 382 2012-04-02 (Focused on 405 2012-09-24 Valuation Freiburg in Germany) Report’s on 383 2012-04-09 $30,000 Project 406 2012-10-08 Business Trips to Helsinki, Finland Exciting Global Korea Brand 384 2012-04-16 407 2012-10-15 Stories Awards Four Principles for the Open 385 2012-04-23 Rebellion of Art 408 2012-10-22 World/Design for People, not Awards Preventive Education Sex Trafficking on Sexual 386 2012-04-30 409 2012-10-29 Preventive Harassment in the Education Workplace The Status of the Leadership (Focused Gambling Industry 387 2012-05-14 on the Experience of 410 2012-11-05 and Policy the Gulf of Aden) Challenges Commitment and School Violence, 388 2012-05-21 411 2012-11-19 the Process of Bullying Thinking Introduction to 389 2012-06-04 412 2012-11-26 Apparel MBA Complexity Systems Employee Misunderstandings Satisfaction of Creativity, and 390 2012-06-11 413 2012-12-03 Management Creativity in learned from Organizations HAIDILAO Paradigm Shifts Chinese 391 2012-06-18 through Art, and Art 414 2012-12-10 Hunminjeongeum1 Marketing The future of Business is the Chinese 392 2012-06-25 Mesh/Breakthrough 415 2012-12-17 Hunminjeongeum2 Designs for Ultralow-cost Products 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 32 Establishment of the Seminar for Intellectual Exchange (SIE) Funds Since July 2007, ATUS established a year-based funding system for SIE. Established to promote lifelong education for employees, it serves as a feedback system that compensates for the participation outcomes based on the number of management and employees and amount of participation in education training. The funds will likely instill interest and anticipation regarding the employee education system. In 2012, total SIE funds distributed to all management and staff amounted to KRW 478 million. ▪ Education Training Fees ATUS education and training funds are invested for professional job specific education and self-development activities for management and employees. (Unit: KRW) 2010 2011 2012 Total Training Funds 10,457,000 12,215,000 29,920,000 Training Costs per 307,558 421,206 1,196,800 person ▪ Number of Lost Working Days Since 2004, there has been no case of strike or working days lost. ATUS will continue its efforts to maintain a constructive relationship with its management and employees. ▪ Health and Safety Regulation In order to protect employees, ATUS establishes employees’ safety and health protection provisions under the ethics code. (ATUS’ Liability) ATUS established a safety standard of facilities and machinery as required by law and the necessary health measures to protect employees (Education and Welfare Facilities) 1. ATUS educates employees for their qualification improvement, safety and health, etc., if necessary 2. ATUS covers costs for internal or general training programs and recognizes training hours as working hours 3. Other means of support dealing education & training and benefits are specified separately (Employees’ Liability) Employees must abide by the following for risk prevention and health sanitation. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 33 1. Obey regulations related to workplace safety and health care. 2. Keep the workplace clean at all times in efforts to prevent accident 3. Do not remove or alter security equipment, fire facilities, sanitation facilities, and any other related installations without permission. ▪ Benefits Program ATUS does its best to support welfare benefits in order to improve employees’ quality of life. National Health Insurance, National Pension System, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance and Employment Insurance are implemented under the legal benefits program. Retirement Pension, Schooling Expense Support, Medical Expense Support are also provided apart from the legal program. Retirement Pension Plan The Retirement Pension Plan is a corporate welfare system designed to help employees carry on stable post-retirement lives by setting aside severance payments in an external financial organization. On December 1, 2005, the Ministry of Employment and Labor set up a Laborers’ Retirement Allowance Security act to grant the autonomy of the labor-management union. Since September 2006, ATUS implemented a pension system and 11 employees have obtained the benefits of this system. Schooling Expense Support ATUS aids tuition fees for employees and their families for the purpose of employee’ benefits when they have completed more than 3 full years of service. TYPE Employee/One Child(includes Spouse) Limited Amount Note Middle School KRW1,000,000/1year Less than 50% per semester High School KRW2,000,000/1year Less than 50% per semester Community KRW6,000,000/1year Less than 50% per semester College University KRW8,000,000/1year Less than 50% per semester Master’s/Doctoral Abovementioned Education & Training Policy Degree applies for employees, and Scholarship Opportunities for Partner Organizations apply for the child (including spouse) Medical Expense Support ATUS establishes and conducts the following health and safety regulations in order to improve the health and safety of its employees. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 34 1. We have a contract with a designated hospital for employees and their families’ health care management. 2. We conduct medical inspections for new employees at our designated hospital. 3. Based on the doctor’s diagnosis, we prohibit or restrict the working of the employees with infectious disease, mental illness, or work related disease. 4. Each department is equipped with a first-aid kit for use in emergency treatment response to accidents. 5. We provide safety measures on providing first aid for persons with accidental injury or disease, and preventing subsequent accidents and accident expansion. 6. We inspect and improve the workplace through qualified experts in the case of healthhazardous activities in the workplace. Medical Examination Regular medical examination for employees’ health and safety, medical inspection for new employees, standard medical examinations, and special medical examination are provided. Regular medical examinations are subcategorized for new employees and regular employees, and are each scheduled as shown in the table on the right. In accordance with other ordinances, we conduct regular medical examinations regardless of the schedule when necessary. Type Examination Period Existing Employee Once per year (National Health Insurance, ATUS) New Employee At least once within one month prior to employment Under the Enforcement Decree of the Industrial Safety and Health Act Article 98 Clause 3, when employees are hired or transferred to a risk-prone department, employees are given special medical examinations every 6 months or annually. Employees are given specific medical examinations when deemed necessary. The regulations of medical examination fees are shown below: 1. The primary examination fees are charged to the company, and secondary examination fees are charged to the individual. 2. Medical fees for work injury or work-related disease is entirely charged to the company. 3. Regulations for general medical fees of employees and their families follow a separate guideline. 4. Medical compensation is unavailable in the case of neurasthenia, dental disease that does not directly affect physical health, when employees are working in mandatory military 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 35 service, when being covered by the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance, or when other medical fees are deemed inappropriate for compensation. Female Employment Support Policy As a policy aimed at supporting female management and employees, maternity protection regulations were implemented. This is an important matter considering that 57% of all ATUS employees are female. During the reporting period, one of our employees went on maternity leave. Based on the notion that familyoriented management is a major aspect of the company, we are striving to implement more diverse benefit policies accommodating female employees. Regulations regarding maternity protection are the following: Article 65 (Feeding Time and Parental Leave) 1. A working mother having an infant less than 1 year old, may request and be granted breast feeding time up to 2 times a day for more than 30 minutes each. 2. A working mother or a working spouse on behalf of the mother with preschool children under 6 years of age is granted a 1 year or less parental leave for raising the child. However, it shall not be granted to workers who have not fulfilled a complete year before the parental leave. 3. Workers applying for parental leave should submit the application including the infant name, date of birth, commencement date of leave, termination date of leave, application date of leave, the applicant name, etc., 30 days prior to the expected date of parental leave. However, according to the following provisions, one may apply for parental leave 7 days prior to the commencement date: 1) In case the child's birth occurs before the expected due 2) In case any difficulties such as the spouse's death, injury, disease, physical or mental disability or a divorce with the spouse occurs 4. Any workers should not be given disadvantageous treatment by the company for taking parenting leave, and the period of leave is to be included as a term of continued work. Article 66 (Working Hour Shorten for Workers under Infant Care) 1. Workers eligible to apply for parental leave according to Article 65 Clause 2, can be allowed to shorten their weekly working hours within the range of 15 to 30 hours if they apply for shortened working hours. 2. If shortened working hours cannot be allowed inevitably due to situations where it is impossible to find a replacement, significantly encumbering normal business activities and so forth, standing as one of the situations stated in relevant laws, the company must provide a written notification including those reasons, and allow the worker to use a parental leave or settle an alternative with the worker. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 36 Hotline System Since January 2009, a hotline system was introduced to allow management and employees to discuss problems or give suggestions regarding issues related to sustainability management in the realm of transparency and fairness related to ethical management, environment management and social responsibility. Establishment of a Joint Labor-Management Conference In July 2009, a joint labormanagement conference was established by a six-member committee. This allows employers and employees to reach a mutual consensus on business related matters, management, and other relevant matters, and thereby grow as a developing organization. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 37 Customers ATUS’ vision is to continuously endeavor to provide the most enjoyable, forefront, and leading services to our customers “when with us.” We offer diverse business activities for customer satisfaction. (Customer Satisfaction) ATUS always respects all clients’ opinions, provides services and benefits from the client’s point of view, and gains trust by endlessly creating value that benefits the client. Responding to Client Opinions We conduct lecture evaluations, operation evaluations, satisfaction surveys and other surveys on each education program and seminar in order to respond and provide feedback to client opinions. Response to client opinions is discussed at regular meetings and is reflected in the improvement of teaching environments, educational welfare, selection of lecturers, curriculum planning, and class scheduling. Customer Support We organize meetings and family events for alumni members and also publish regular newsletters. To foster continuing education for clients, we provide useful information about our other education programs and seminars, and also provide discounts on a case by case basis. Client’s Privacy We set forth the principle not to disclose any private information of clients. In the case where disclosure of private information is deemed necessary, we are subject to release the information upon clearly stating the intent of use and matter, after receipt of full consent from the client and under the supervision of the person dedicated to such processes. Client Information Protection To protect personal information of our clients, we do not require them to present their social security numbers and we follow the laws involved in the Privacy Act. To prevent the accidental disclosure of personal information, we regularly conduct education for proper practice. (Prevention of Privacy Invasion) ATUS does not disclose client information to third parties without the client’s consent. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 38 Local Community Interchange and Sharing through the “MBA Concert at aSSIST” – Wednesday Concert Every Wednesday, we provide our employees a time for creative inspiration and refreshment through a 30 minute music concert from 12:30 PM. This weekly event exercises sharing as it is even open to the general public and stands as a donation of talent by the violist Won Jin Song and the pianist Se Jin Song, professors at aSSIST, who were the actual performers behind the scenes for the famous Korean drama, “Beethoven Virus,” in addition to a number of employees. A total of 95 “Immortal Love Story” concerts were performed since January 2011, and from 2012, the name was changed to “MBA Concert” (Music-Business-Art) to create a platform for further growth. Suggestion for Exercising Creation and Sharing-“Please use my building elevator” ATUS practiced creation and sharing by opening the building elevator to the public as a bridge for their daily commuting convenience. In particular, there was a favorable response by elderlies from the neighboring center for senior citizens, who were able to ease their access to public roads using our building elevator. The friendly social interactions between employees and local citizens depict the everyday common scenery found in populated locations of local communities. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 39 Business Partners ATUS recognizes the importance of transparent relations with our business partners and strives to establish transparent business relationships under the non-payment/payment regulation shown below. It was reduced KRW 44 million compared to previous year in 2012. Non-Payment/Payment Regulation 350 Regular monthly payments are paid on 297 300 the 20th day of the month according to the previous month’s tax invoice. 250 Month-end-payments are paid at the 200 end of the month according to the 139 150 invoice. 95 Other payments are paid within 1-5 days 100 after internally claiming the expense. 50 2010 2011 2012 Non-Payment Balance (KRW million) 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 40 03. Environmental Achievements The Environmental Management Achievement section reports on ATUS’ environmental policies and monitoring results. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 41 Environmental Achievements Environmental Management Policy ATUS will protect nature and sustain efforts to conserve a clean environment, and abide by laws related to environmental protection ATUS endeavors to avoid dissipation of resources Environmental Management Activities A-NA-BA-DA Campaign ATUS executed the A-NA-BA-DA Campaign for the conservation and recycling of supplies and resources to minimize the redundancy of their procurement. The name of the campaign is an acronym for saving, sharing, exchanging and recycling in the Korean language. Energy Saving On December 2011, a committee under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy introduced regulations to limit the consumption of energy by reducing high electricity power consumption during the peak hours of the winter season. The purpose of this is to even out demand and supply for electricity, and revitalize the government’s aggressive effort for energy conservation, after an unprecedented blackout in Seoul last summer, caused by a sudden shortage in backup power. Following this, we have battled with the cold by wearing underclothes, and saving energy during peak hours, to maintain government-advised office temperatures and to limit the use of the heating systems in order to participate in the practice of effective energy control of public buildings and reduction of greenhouse gas emission. Reducing Disposable Items ATUS employees prohibit the use of disposable items to protect the earth and humans. We implemented various campaigns, such as using personal mug cups, handkerchiefs, and green shopping bags for environmental protection and cost saving. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 42 Electric and Water Consumption (KRW 10,000) Year Electricity Consumption Water Utility Consumption 2010 649 (60,906 KWH) 81.4 2011 754 (56,415 KWH) 86.9 2012 795 (51,876 KWH) 66.0 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 43 04. Appendix Third Party Review Statement BEST Index Contact Information 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 44 Third Party Review Statement To ATUS Corporation’s Management and Employees The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter referred to as the Auditor) was commissioned by ATUS Corporation as a ‘ third party assurance provider ’ to review ATUS Corporation’s 2012 Sustainability Report (hereafter referred to as the Report). Responsibilities and Objectives ATUS Corporation is responsible for sustainable management objectives, performance management, data collection, and related information and opinion within the Report. Based on an agreement with ATUS Corporation, the review process did not examine the claims and credibility of the Report. Rather, the objective of the Third Party Assurance Statement is to verify whether information or claims presented in the Report contain any material bias or error, and to present an independent opinion required to improve the quality of the Report. Therefore, the Auditor presents this opinion statement below. Criteria The review process was executed using the following criteria: 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008)1 2 2) The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3 Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting 3 Conclusions Based on materials and documents provided by ATUS Corporation, the Auditor 1 AA1000 AS (Assurance Standard) is a standard developed by the nonprofit organization AccountAbility, located in UK, that promotes corporate performance and responsibilities, aims to improve the quality of social and ethical accounting, auditing and reporting, and develops a sustainability report’s criteria. The standard amended in 2008 began implementation since 2010. 2 The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), and allows companies to recognize 5 levels of reporting requirements. 3 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly developed by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economics (CERES) and UNEP. The newly revised G3 version was launched in October, 2006. 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 45 announces the following statements. It found no case of material bias or errors in the Report and the key findings were presented below. ○ Inclusivity: Does the Report indicate whether there was any participation of stakeholders to achieve an accountable and strategic response to sustainability? The Auditor recognizes the emphasis on the importance of stakeholders’ participation in promoting ATUS’ sustainability management and aims to reinforce stakeholder participation. However, the Auditor recommends that ATUS Corporation establish a definition of its stakeholders, and regularly operates a process collecting stakeholder participation and their opinions. Furthermore, it is advisable that ATUS Corporation continuously monitors stakeholders’ requests and concerns, and publish results transparently. ○ Materiality: Does the Report provide key information involving all the stakeholders including ATUS Corporation, the economy, the society, and the environment? The Auditor states that the Report did not omit or exclude any crucial information. The Auditor found the Report to contain information of key material importance to ATUS Corporation across economic, social, and environmental dimensions. Henceforth, however, the Auditor suggests that ATUS Corporation collects key issues of deeper depth from stakeholders and implement a system to report the issues. ○ Responsiveness: Does the report appropriately respond to interest and demand of stakeholders? The Auditor found that ATUS Corporation adequately categorized and defined its stakeholders into management and employees, stakeholders, customers, business partners and local communities and so forth, however, the Auditor highly recommended that ATUS Corporation establish a communication channel to identify the needs of internal and external stakeholders, and establish a strategy to respond to the main issues being deduced. Recommendation for Advancement The Auditor highly evaluates ATUS Corporation’s intent and efforts in publishing its fifth sustainability report and recommends the following for future reports. Establishment of a holistic sustainability management strategy related to corporate vision involving all fields of economics, society and environment. Improvement of reporting depths such as corporate governance 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 46 Regularizing participation of stakeholders such as customers Establishing quantitative objectives for sustainability management and reinforcing evaluations on performance Independence The Auditor has no affiliation with any realm of ATUS Corporation ’s for-profit business or activities, and was not involved in the preparation process of any part of the Report, except for this assurance statement, and had full independence and autonomy in carrying out this task. Adequacy of Assurance The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, employed by ATUS Corporation for assurance, is a ‘Third Party Assurance Organization’ conducting assurance activities on sustainability reports published in Korea. The institute was established in 1993 and became a research organization with extensive experience in the areas of ethics management, social responsibility management and sustainable management since 2002. March 30, 2013 Jae-Eun Kim President The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 47 BEST Index No Details of BEST index Corporate A Corporate Overview Overview A_1 Corporate vision about sustainable management and CEO’s statement A_2 Key risk and opportunity factors A_3 Corporate name A_4 Key products and services A_5 Organization map and list of affiliates and subsidiaries A_6 List of joint ventures, partly-owned affiliate, leased facilities and vendors A_7 List of overseas business sites A_8 Legal ownership structure of the organization A_9 Characteristics of market where one operates A_10 Size of organization (total number of employees, product and service, liabilities and assets) A_11 List of international and domestic industrial & business associations B Contents of Report B_1 Scope of report B_2 Limits to the scope of report B_3 Reporting period B_4 Cost of economic, environmental and social performances, the definition and standard of calculating the cost efficiency B_5 Changes in the method of measuring economic, environmental and social performance B_6 Reporting cycle B_7 Efforts to improve credibility of the report B_8 Changes since the previous report B_9 Contact information of the person in charge of the report B_10 BEST Matrix C Stakeholder Engagement C_1 Criteria and selection of key stakeholders 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 48 C_2 Method of stakeholder engagement C_3 Stakeholder engagement and the result of their engagement D Sustainability D_1 Economic, environmental and social goal D_2 Economic, environmental and social performance D_3 Sustainable management strategy and goal of the future Economic E Economy performanc EC1 Creation and distribution of economic value produced and e distributed EC2 Financial impact by climate changes EC3 Scope of benefits by organization’s fixed rate pension system EC4 Human resource supply in key business areas EC5 Government subsidy EC6 Construction of non-core business infra EC7 Indirect economic effect EC8 Brand value EC9 Innovative Performance EC10 Creative Performance EC_DMA Public announcement of management principle _economy Social GR Corporate Governance and Risk Management performanc GR1 Corporate governance structure e GR2 Ratio of outside directors GR3 Composition of board of directors GR4 Process that shows the professionalism of the board of directors GR5 Process of managing and evaluating economic, social and environmental performance of the board of directors GR6 Organization structure that establishes, executes and supervises the economic, social and environmental policy GR7 Connection between management compensation and economic/social/environmental performance GR8 Activities and decisions by the board of directors GR9 Compliance with laws and regulations related to corporate governance structure GR10 Company’s charter related to economic/social/environmental 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 49 activities GR11 Compliance to corporate prevention principle GR12 Process to submit recommendation and suggestions to the board of directors by shareholders GR13 Process to prevent the conflict of interest by highest governance body? Policies and System considering the social influence to build GR14 investment and cooperation EM Employees EM1 Employee status EM2 Composition of executives and employees EM3 Average wage of employees by gender EM4 Level of income and welfare against other companies in the same business region and similar industry EM5 Job creation rate and turnover rate EM6 Average years of continuous service EM7 Preventive policies of discrimination and the result of monitoring EM8 Policy related to freedom of association EM9 Policy related to prevention of child labor and the result of monitoring EM10 Policy related to prevention of forced labor and the result of monitoring EM11 Overview of organizations of Labor associations EM12 Signing-in of labor union and the number of unionized employees EM13 Policy and process about providing and discussing employee information when corporate operation changes EM14 About Safety and health committee EM15 Industrial safety and health agreement between labor and the management EM16 Compliance with the employee-related international regulation and standard EM17 Compliance with industrial health and safety issues among ILO Conventions EM18 Disease prevention and health improvement programs and policies 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 50 EM19 Number of employees who suffer from injury or disease and absence rate EM20 Employee welfare and benefits EM21 Efforts to improve working conditions of employees EM22 Level of compliance with related laws by employees EM23 Reporting process of unfair labor practice and operation status EM24 Labor disputes EM25 Ethical management department, investment size, reporting structure EM26 Regular training and guideline about ethical training EM27 Average time for employee training and education EM28 Programs for employee training and education EM29 Advisory service to employees about performance and career development EM30 Ratio of employees who had human rights-related training EM31 Ratio of employees who had human rights-related training among those involved in security, guard and patrolling EM32 Policy and support system for family-friendly management EM33 Women leadership development programs EM34 Women-friendly working conditions EM_DMA Public announcement of management principle _human rights 1 EM_DMA Public announcement of management principle _labor 2 PN Partner PN1 Characteristics of the business partners and sustainable management issue PN2 Consideration of social and environmental performances among other reasons of selecting the business partners PN3 Process of evaluating the social and environmental performance of the business partners PN4 Process of supporting and auditing the social and environmental performance of the business partners PN5 Business partner complaint handling system and handling result CS Consumer 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 51 CS1 Characteristics of products and consumers and sustainable management issues CS2 Level of compliance with the consumer-related laws CS3 Policies related to fair competition and anti-trust CS4 Consumer health policies during the product and service cycle CS5 Policies related to product information CS6 Key opinions of consumers and the result of the handling of their opinions CS7 Products and services innovated in consideration of social and environmental issues CS8 Efforts to reduce product impact CS9 Policies and management of customer satisfaction CS10 Voluntary or involuntary product recall cases and reasons for recall CS11 Violations of customer safety and health regulations and customer complaints CS12 Violations of laws related to provision of product information CS13 Advertisement-related standard and compliance with voluntary regulation CS14 Violations related to laws on advertisement and marketing CS15 Complaints related to consumer privacy invention CS_DMA Public announcement of management principle _product liability CO Local community CO1 Characteristics of the local community where one operates and sustainable management issues CO2 Internal policy and process of handling requirements of the local community where one operates CO3 The time invested by the company staffs and the cost for local community programs CO4 Performance of the local community programs CO5 Policy and management related to bribery and corruption CO6 Policy and management related to political lobby and donation CO7 Donation and contribution to parties and supporting organization of political parties CO8 Sociality-related award achievements CO9 Sanctions due to violations 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 52 Social responsibility policy and performance for women, CO10 children, and elderly persons CO_DMA Public announcement of management principle _society Environmen EV01 Environment policy and investment tal EV1 Environment-related investment and cost performanc EV2 Policies to reduce environmental impact e EV3 Quantified goal and performance for environment EV4 Initiative to reduce greenhouse gas consumption and reduction achieved EV5 Initiative to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy EV6 Goals and programs to prevent and restore ecosystem EV02 Source material and energy EV7 Direct energy consumption (operation, product production, transportation) EV8 Indirect energy consumption EV9 Total amount of water resource EV10 Total amount of resources by type (excluded water) EV11 Ratio of recyclable resource use EV03 Environmental impact EV12 Amount of green house gas emission EV13 Amount of indirect green house gas emission (CO2,CH4,N2O,HFCs,PFCs,SF6) EV14 Amount of emission of ozone depletion material EV15 Amount of emission of air polluting materials such as NOx, SOx EV16 Total weight of water by type and disposal method EV17 Total water withdrawal EV18 Water recycled and reused EV19 Impact on water and ecosystem affected by the organization’s withdrawal of water EV20 Impact by the organization’s collection of water on the stability of water resources and biodiversity EV21 Impact of chemicals, oil and fuel leaks on the neighboring environment EV22 Impact on the business site location, size and biodiversity in the region which has high value of biodiversity EV23 Environmental impact caused by key products and services 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 53 EV24 Ratio of the weight of actual product to the weight of recyclable product among products EV25 Indirect energy reduction performance EV26 Business activities and operations in the region which has high value of biodiversity and the impact of its activities and operations on biodiversity EV27 Changes of natural habitats by the organization’s activities and examples of prevention and restoration of natural habitat by the organization EV28 Number of species listed in endangered animals and plants among animals and plants living in the business area EV29 Generation, delivery, import, export and handling of risky waste according to Attachment I, II, III and VIII of Basel Convention EV30 Key environmental impact of transportation among logistics process EV31 Compliance with environment-related laws(by region, by industry) and cases of violations and penalties EV_DMA Public announcement of management principle _environment 2012 ATUS Sustainability Report _ 54 Contact Information This Sustainability Report was completed using BEST Guideline, and ATUS Corporation believes that the resulting self-reflection and introspection of management and staff will serve as on invaluable foundation for ATUS’s sustainability management henceforth. For readers that to obtain more detailed information regarding this report, please contact the following: Contact. Hwa Eun LEE, Management Support Department, ATUS Corporation Address. 6F Daehyun Bldg., Daehyun-Dong, Seodaemun-Gu, Seoul 120-808 Tel. +82 70 7012 2741 Fax. +82 2 360 0797 Email. helee@atus.or.kr
