Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Full Edition Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 About this Report About this Report Page Content GRI Category About this Report 1 About this Report 2 Corporate Vision 3 Message from the CEO The MUFG Group's mediumto long term Corporate Vision is to be the world's most trusted financial group. To realize this vision and continue to support our customers and society at large, we engage in a variety of CSR 4 MUFG Group Profile activities. The Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 helps us improve the quality of these activities—and thus their effectiveness in promoting sustainability—by reporting to stakeholders about our progress and chal5 MUFG Group's CSR lenges and inviting feedback on what we can do better in the future. Supporting Reconstruction 11 after the Great East Japan Earthquake From the Editorial Team 13 Corporate Governance Strategy and Profile To clearly convey the links between MUFG Group business activities and CSR activities, this FY 2012 report was 14 Risk Management compiled with reference to Version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, international guidelines for CSR and sustainability reports. 15 Compliance 17 Financial Crime Countermeasures ● Scope of Reporting: This report mainly covers the following five core companies: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial 18 Major Compliance Policies and Measures Group (MUFG), The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU), Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB), Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (MUMSS), and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS (MUN). The report also covers some of 21 CSR Structure the activities of Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance (MUL) and Union Bank. Where activities relate to a specific company, the following symbols are used: MUFG BTMU MUTB MUMSS MUN MUL UB 22 Participation in Initiatives ● Period Covered: This report describes activities and achievements in FY 2011 (April 2011 to March 2012). 23 Our Stakeholders and the MUFG Group In some cases, reporting covers activities before or after FY 2011. ● Content Selection: Criteria for the selection of content in this report are as follows—(1) level of stakeholder 24 Relations with Shareholders and Investors interest (based on readers' surveys and our policies), (2) level of importance for the companies concerned (based Economy on company's own judgment). 25 Relations with Business Partners ● This Publication: December 2012. Next Publication: December 2013. 26 Environmental Policies and Initiatives Environment The MUFG Group publishes the following CSR reports to meet the interests of our readers. 38 Employee Policies and Initiatives Labor Practices & Decent Work The full edition provides a comprehensive summary of the MUFG Group's approach to CSR Full Edition and our FY 2011 CSR activities, with detailed data. 43 Human Rights Policies and Initiatives Human Rights The highlights edition presents the highlights from the full edition to give readers a clearer Highlights Edition 44 Local Community Policies and Initiatives Society understanding of the MUFG Group's CSR activities in FY 2011. http://www.mufg.jp/english/csr/csrreport/ 54 Relations with Customers Product Responsibility To learn more about the management, financial performance, and services of the MUFG Group, please refer to the disclosure documents on the following website. 62 Third Party Comment Strategy and Profile (Report Parameters) http://www.mufg.jp/english/ir/ MUFG CSR Report 2012 1 Corporate Vision Corporate Vision Corporate Vision OUR MISSION OUR VISION OUR VALUES To be a foundation of strength, – Be the world's most trusted financial group – committed to meeting the needs of our customers, serving society, and fostering shared and 1. Work together to exceed the expectations 1. Integrity and Responsibility sustainable growth for a better world. of our customers Strive to be fair, transparent, and honest. Always act responsibly Strive to understand and respond to the diversified needs of our in the best interest of customers and society as a whole, building customers. long-term stakeholder relationships and giving back to our comMaintain and expect the highest levels of professionalism and munities. expertise, supported by our consolidated strength. 2. Professionalism and Teamwork 2. Provide reliable and Respect the diversity of our fellow workers and foster a strong constant support to our customers spirit of teamwork. Expect the highest levels of professionalism. Give the highest priority to protecting the interests of our customers. 3. Challenge Ourselves to Grow Promote healthy, sustainable economic growth. Adopt a global perspective to anticipate trends and opportunities Maintain a robust organization that is effective, professional, and for growth. Create and sustain a responsive and dynamic workresponsive. place where everyone can focus on providing outstanding customer service and embrace new challenges. 3. Expand and strengthen our global presence Leverage our strengths and capabilities to attract a loyal global customer base. Adapt rapidly to changes in the global economy and their impact on the needs of our customers. MUFG CSR Report 2012 2 Message from the CEO Message from the CEO We will work to fulfill our inherent mission in society as a financial group and to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. I would like to express my appreciation to readers for their The priority themes for the MUFG Group's CSR activities are interest in the MUFG Group. Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Society's Next Generation – themes that were selected from the It is with pride that I present the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial perspective of contributing to the resolution of the most imporGroup's Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012, which tant issues of society as a whole. Under the first theme, we describes our principles and initiatives relating to CSR. I invite have sought to use the financial functions of the MUFG Group you to review these pages. as we strive to provide products and services that contribute to a reduction in environmental impacts. Under the second A year and a half has passed since the Great East Japan Earththeme, we have focused our social contribution activities on quake. To those who were affected by the disaster, we again employee participation in local activities as members of the express our deepest condolences and hope for the earliest local community and society. possible recovery of the affected region. The MUFG Group is working to support the recovery, taking a mediumto long term Going forward, all executives and employees would like to work perspective. We are providing support in the financial dimentogether to fulfill our inherent mission of the MUFG Group as sion for the recovery of the affected region, such as through financial institutions, and contribute to the sustained growth of the supply of funds – which is part of our mission in society as Japan and the world. We welcome your continued support. a financial institution – as well as through activities such as the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund and participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative, an exchange project between Japan and the United States. This past year, we have revisited our Management Philosophy, which was formulated when the MUFG Group was created, and restated it as our Corporate Vision, which articulates our mediumto long term vision: Be the world's most trusted Katsunori Nagayasu financial group. The Corporate Vision serves as a basic guide President and CEO for the activities of every corporate member of the MUFG Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Group and is also a basis for our CSR activities. September 2012 3 MUFG Group Profile Major MUFG Group Companies MUFG Group Profile MUFG Group Profile Major MUFG Group companies meet the diverse needs of our customers as a network of top-class companies which each take pride in their performance in banking, trust banking, securities, credit cards, leasing, and other major financial services fields. With 40 million individual customer accounts, 500,000 corporate customers, and 84 trillion yen in total loans outstanding, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Senshu Ikeda Holdings The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ The Chukyo Bank we are the largest financial institution in Japan. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Tokyo Credit Services We are keenly aware of our social responsibility, and act based on our status Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings (World Currency Shop) as a comprehensive financial group. Tokyo Associates Finance ACOM BOT Lease MU Hands-on Capital Japan Shareholder Services Group's Network MU Business Engineering NBL MU Frontier Servicer The Master Trust Bank of Japan The MUFG Group has a balanced network throughout Japan, and is responsible for the provision of MU Investments Defined Contribution Plan Consulting of Japan kabu.com Securities Nippon Mutual Housing Loan credit as the life-blood of society. The Group also maintains the greatest overseas network of all Jibun Bank Japan Electronic Monetary Claim Organization Japanese financial institutions, providing financial services in many countries. JACCS Ryoshin DC Card JALCARD Direct Channels Paygent Overseas Internet Mobit UnionBanCal Corporation Mobile Telephone Europe, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities PT U Finance Indonesia Convenience Store ATMs Approx. 35,800 locations Middle East, etc. Americas Marunouchi Capital PT. BTMU-BRI Finance External ATMs 36 30 KOKUSAI Asset Management BTMU Capital Corporation Approx. 1,700 locations Eastern Japan Region Asia, Oceania Union Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Capital BTMU Leasing & Finance Retail: 414 57 401 Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Mitsubishi UFJ Trust International Western Japan Region Corporate: 143 Retail: 230 Mitsubishi UFJ Factors Mitsubishi UFJ Global Custody Corporate: 101 Central Japan Region Mitsubishi UFJ Merrill Lynch PB Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corporation Retail: 149 Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities (U.S.A.) Corporate: 69 Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (HK) Holdings Mitsubishi UFJ Personal Financial Advisers Mitsubishi UFJ Securities (USA) The number of locations is the simple total for The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Mitsubishi UFJ Wealth Management Bank Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. Retail: Head office and branches, including sub-branches. The number for The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services (Switzerland) Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ does not include virtual branches (only do funds transfers, etc.), loan promotion sub-branches, partner banks, etc. Mitsubishi Asset Brains PT. Bank Nusantara Parahyangan Corporate: Including corporate sales offices. Mitsubishi Research Institute DCS TAISHO Bank (As of March 31, 2012) (As of March 31, 2012) MUFG CSR Report 2012 4 MUFG Group's CSR MUFG Group's CSR MUFG Group's CSR Corporate Vision and Our CSR Corporate Vision: A Guide for CSR Activities Group CSR Priority Themes The Corporate Vision will serve as the basic policy in conducting business activities, and will provide When considering CSR, we at the MUFG Group realize that our very existence depends on customguidelines for all group activities. We aim to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society, ers and society. For our CSR activities we have adopted Addressing Global Environmental Issues and using the Corporate Vision to guide our corporate social responsibility activities. Nurturing Society's Next Generation as the two priority themes for the entire Group and will work in earnest to achieve them. Nur turing Society's Nex t Generation Nurture society's next generation Addressing Global Environt h at w ill a d d re s s i s su e s like mental Issues global environmental problems Address global warming, biodiand poverty on a global scale, as versity and other global environwell as domestic problems in mental issues. Japan such as low population growth, the aging of society and local or regional issues. MUFG CSR Report 2012 5 MUFG Group's CSR Addressing Global Environmental Issues ■ Environmental Finance and Financial CSR MUFG Group's CSR In order to create an eco-friendly society through finance, we are active in environmental finance, The MUFG Group will continue to leverage its unique capabilities as a comprehensive financial whereby funds are provided directly to a project aiming to reduce environmental impacts, as well as group to provide financial support so that funds flow to companies and individuals that are passionfinancial CSR, whereby funds are provided to economic entities including businesses, groups and ate about social and environmental initiatives. We will continue to offer products and services that individuals working to reduce environmental impacts. The MUFG Group is implementing a balanced directly lead to customers' social and environmental projects. We will also continue our initiatives approach, recognizing the significance and issues involved with each type of environmental finance. to promote biodiversity. Environmental Direct provision of funds Investment Reducing CO2 ■ MUFG Environmental Action Policy to projects that reduce Project = emissions, etc. Finance environmental impacts and financing The MUFG Group is concerned about global environmental issues. To put those concerns into action, we created our policy to promote concrete efforts for the environment as the MUFG Environmental Action Policy in June 2008. This policy will make employees aware of the roles that we should play Provision of funds to Investment Economic Reduced as a comprehensive financial group—as we work to strengthen our environmental initiatives in variFinancial suppor t economic environmental CSR entities acting to reduce and financing entities impacts ous ways, such as by offering products and services that are better for the environment. environmental impacts MUFG Environmental Action Policy MUFG views environmental issues with the utmost seriousness, and • Through our credit card operations, we will provide access to emission ◯ We will leverage the comprehensive strengths of the Group, making use aims to help realize a sustainable society in which future generations rights, which aid global warming prevention. of our market intermediary functions to provide stable means for emiscan live with peace of mind. • We will promote the spread of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) sions reductions to more customers. ◯ Environmental threats such as global warming, resource depletion, and funds, which contribute not only to the growth of customer assets but • We will provide a range of services that increase the liquidity of emispollution are increasing at an accelerating rate. In particular, in Asia, pollualso the wellbeing of society and the planet as a whole. sions rights, which are created in CDM operations. tion of water, air, and soil is worsening. ◯ We will use our comprehensive financial capabilities to support the • We will enhance our transaction base to allow the maintenance of cost ◯ Environmental issues constitute an urgent problem requiring a unified environmental initiatives of our corporate customers. transparency and liquidity. approach from the entire world. It is essential that, in seeking solutions, • We will provide seamless support to customers as they advance environwe reexamine from an environmental perspective the patterns of our mental initiatives, involving the cooperation of companies with advanced II. We will work to reduce our own environmental impact and also own lifestyles as well as society itself. environmental technology to provide consulting, business matching and focus on social contribution activities. ◯ MUFG gains support from customers and members of society around fund procurement, and other services. ◯ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Bankthe world, and we therefore feel it is our duty to address environmental • We will support the activities of companies that actively engage in initiaing Corporation, and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. issues, which have a major impact on the lives of future generations. We tives to address environmental issues by developing and selling products have each set a target of a 25% reduction in emissions of CO2 and other will channel our full capabilities into working toward the benefit of the such as SRI-type investment products, which invest in shares of compagreenhouse gases from 2000 levels by 2012. environment and future generations. nies associated with environmental measures, and by promoting SRI • We will work to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gases, conducting ◯ We aim to fulfill society's expectations of us as a comprehensive financial amongst our pension fund customers. measurements of data concerning the environmental burden at each of group that exerts a wide-reaching influence on the environment and ◯ We will actively promote initiatives overseas that take regional characterour locations, continuously operating and improving environmental mansociety through its capital flows, while working to achieve a sustainable istics into account. agement systems based on ISO 14001, switching to environmentally society in which future generations can live with peace of mind. We will • In Asia (particularly China), we will use the capabilities of Group compafriendly equipment, and adopting alternative energy, amongst other initiaalso endeavor to enhance the awareness of each individual Group nies to conduct Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and other operatives. employee, while taking initiatives to reduce our own environmental impact. tions. • We will use emission rights to offset the carbon emissions of our head • In the Americas and Europe, we will promote initiatives centered on the office and other main buildings. I. We will dedicate our efforts to creating an environmentally conscious provision of finance in the fields of alternative energy and renewable ◯ We will provide environmental burden measurement tools to Group society through finance. energy. employees and their families in order to increase their environmental ◯ We will provide products and services that reflect the concerns of ◯ In addition to our approach based on the Equator Principles, we will awareness in relation to their own lifestyles. individual customers in relation to the environment. further clarify our lending criteria from an environmental perspective, in ◯ We will pursue environmental conservation initiatives such as tree plant• We will provide loans to support the installation of solar power generation order to contribute to the creation of an environmentally conscious ing by employees, environmental education support, and local contribusystems. society through our financial functions. tion activities both in Japan and overseas. MUFG CSR Report 2012 6 MUFG Group's CSR ■ Eight Environmental Project Teams MUFG Group's CSR Based on the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, a total of eight project teams comprised of personnel from throughout the Group are leading efforts to carry out specific initiatives. The following is an overview of FY 2011 results and FY 2012 plans. Project FY 2011 Plans FY 2011 Results FY 2012 Plans Team Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans. Promoted eco -equipment and eco -housing loans (expanded Promote eco-equipment and eco-housing loans. Study and promote new financial products related to eco the scope of preferential loan terms). Devise and promote new environmentally friendly products. products. Began processing loan applications for eco -friendly home Promote the elimination of paper use. Individuals Promote the elimination of paper use. renovations over the Internet (BTMU). Launched Specified Donation Trust to support donations to environmental non-profit foundations (MUTB). Switched to electronic management ledgers (BTMU). Fur ther develop and promote financial products and Released new financing products that utilize carbon emission Further develop and promote financial products and schemes. schemes. credits and the MOE and METI's interest support programs. Hold seminars for customers on environment topics and bolster Provide more information to customers (via seminars, etc.) Held seminars for customers on the environment and energy activities to propose solutions to customers' managementand b olster ac tivities prop osing solutions to customers' conservation. related issues. environment-related management issues. Analyzed the correlation between energy performance ratings Promote collaboration within the MUFG Group on the environDomestic Build know how and hold workshops on saving energy in and financial savings in real estate and held seminars on energy ment (including renewable energy). Corporations real estate field. efficient, high-performance equipment (MUTB). Continue to acquire knowledge on energy conservation in real estate. Support energy conser vation measures at office buildings owned by customers. Promote SRI outside the company through seminars, Promoted SRI outside the company through lectures, including Promote SRI outside the company through seminars, lectures, lectures, etc. the Responsible Investment Seminar. etc. Pension Promote initiatives by ESG research office. Independently conducted research on environmental, social, and Promote initiatives by the ESG research office. Funds corporate governance ( ESG ) topics and adjusted SRI funds based on evaluations. Demonstrate MUFG's comprehensive capabilities, starting Expanded project financing for renewable energy. Demonstrate the comprehensive strengths of the MUFG Group with environmental technology transfer and CDM consulting. Participated in a feasibility study on the bilateral emission credit by leveraging its knowledge of and experience with carbon Overseas Expand renewable energy-related project finance. program of METI and other ministries. emission credits. Expand project financing for renewable energy. Credit Consider detailed screening from environmental and social Considered screening from environmental and social perspecConsider detailed screening from environmental and social perspectives, based on Equator Principles. tives, based on the Equator Principles. perspectives, based on Equator Principles. Screening Research emissions trading market trends, bolster related Collected information on and researched emissions trading Collect information on and research emissions trading market Markets systems. market trends. trends. -Make progress on initiatives in European market (EU-ETS). Continued trading initiatives in the European market (EU-ETS). Accumulate knowledge of the European market (EU-ETS). Promote energy-conservation for the overall Group. CO 2 emissions in FY 2011 were 36% lower than in FY 2000, Promote energy conservation across the Group. Internal compared to the Group's CO 2 reduction target of 25% by FY 2012. Promote Group collaborative activities. Carried out the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth enviPromote collaborative Group activities. Enhance local involvement activities at each office. ronmental education project. Boost local contribution activities at each office. Social Implemented fourth term of Next Generation Leaders Training Contributions Program for Asia and the Pacific. Held the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Soccer Tournament. Implemented local contribution activities at each office. MUFG CSR Report 2012 7 MUFG Group's CSR MUFG Group's Contribution to Society ■ Employee-participation social contribution initiatives supported by the MUFG Group MUFG Group's CSR As an active member of communities all around the world, the MUFG Group promotes a wide range of social contribution activities driven by employee efforts. See page 53 for expenditures on social contribution activities. Next Generation Leaders Environmental Education Economic/Financial MUFG Graduation Job Shadowing Work Gifts for the Future TV Training Program for Asia Project: Save Our Common Education Program Let's Memorial Cup Soccer Experience Program Program and the Pacific Treasures of the Earth Learn Finance and Economy Tournament (See page 44 for details.) (See page 45 for details.) (See page 44 for details.) (See page 44 for details.) (See page 44 for details.) (See page 44 for details.) ■ Wide-ranging social contribution activities promoted by the MUFG Group Photo by Takeshi Arai Peter Rabbit® 'Forest for the Future' Supporting UNESCO Associated Culture Support Project: Sponsoring and volunteering Supporting FIT For Charity Run 2011 Environmental Conservation Schools Shiki Theatre Company's in the Special Olympics Nippon (See page 47 for details.) Activities (See page 45 for details.) Kokorono Gekijou (See page 47 for details.) (See page 45 for details.) (See page 46 for details.) ■ Activities at each branch and office emphasize relationships with the community. Tama Center Branch, BTMU Wako Branch, BTMU BTMU (Mexico) S.A. Beijing Branch, BTMU (China) (See page 48 for details.) (See page 48 for details.) (See page 48 for details.) (See page 48 for details.) Sapporo Branch, MUTB London Branch, MUTB Hiroshima Branch, MUMSS Higashi-Nihonbashi Area, MUN (See page 49 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) (See page 49 for details.) MUFG CSR Report 2012 8 MUFG Group's CSR CSR Topics at the MUFG Group MUFG Group's CSR 2011 2012 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb M ar A pr M ay Jun Jul ●Fourth term started for Next Generation ●Held MUFG Girls' Soccer Invitational ●Held fifth MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup ●Fifth term started for Leaders Training Program for Asia and the Pacific Tournament 2011 Soccer Tournament Next Generation Leaders Training Program for Asia and the Pacific ●Established MUFG NFUAJ East Japan ●Participated in FIT For ●Held large Business Link event (Nagoya) ● Announced participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative Mitsubishi UFJ Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund ●Fifth Job Shadowing work experience program Charity Run 2011 Financial Group, ●Started taking applications for scholarships under ●Ninth and 10th tree-planting Inc. ●Seventh and eighth tree-planting events held for the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and event held for the Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth project Scholarship Fund for FY 2012 Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth project ●Started taking applications for scholarships under ●Fourth Next Generation Leaders Training MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund Program for Asia and the Pacific ended ●Started volunteers' flowerbed replanting activities under ●Signed Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century ●Implemented second ESD International Exchange Program MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund The Bank of ●Exhibited at MESSE NAGOYA 2011 Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. ●Implemented first ESD International Exchange Program ●Held Kagaya Kids' Day ●Started issuing bank account passbooks ●Weed-clearing as part of Peter Rabbit® ●Signed Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century ●Launched Zutto Anshin Trust incorporating Universal Design Forest for the Future activities ●Held Responsible Investment Seminar 2011 ●Donated from Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund to organizations assisting Mitsubishi UFJ ●Helped provide emergency supplies to in cooperation with UNEP FI and supporting recovery in disaster areas Trust and disaster areas ●Launched Uketori Anshin Trust Banking (through Keidanren – Japan Business Federation) ●Launched Specified Donation Trust Corporation ●Participated in volunteering to distribute ● Launched Guardianship System Support Trust emergency supplies (organized by Keidanren) ●Provided lecturer for International Program for Environmental Innovators ●United Nations approves new CDM methodology at Keio University's Graduate School Mitsubishi UFJ ●Launched instructor system ●Donated to two organizations from Employee Donations Account ●Implemented coastal forest restoration in Kujukurihama beach Morgan Stanley Securities ●Launched project to promote the full use of women's abilities in the workplace Co., Ltd. ●Implemented Rikuzentakata ●Collected relief supplies for the disaster areas Paintfest ●Launched employee volunteer activities in Iwate Prefecture coastal disaster areas ●Launched Payment Meister service ●Held trainings for educators at private companies ●Launched support for ●Launched TOKYO FM Earthquake Memorial program J-Mups service ●Implemented Cool Earth Day (No Overtime Day) Mitsubishi UFJ ●Held Customer Service Week ●Launched employee volunteer activities to restore disaster areas NICOS ●Launched child daycare volunteering in evacuation areas Co., Ltd. ●Held Family Visit Day ●Launched ongoing donation system (matching gift program) ●Launched assistance for for direct support in disaster areas concert for emotional care MUFG CSR Report 2012 9 MUFG Group's CSR Summary of Key Indicators for FY 2011 MUFG Group's CSR This page summarizes key indicators concerning the CSR initiatives of the MUFG Group. Reporting Reporting Item Indicator Notes Item Indicator Notes category category Greenhouse gas emissions MUFG Total CO2 emissions Career development for female BTMU Female general managers 42 (80) As of early April 2012 employees Numbers in parentheses (Actual emission factors) 12.9% reduction compared Female chief and senior managindicate targets for March 209,922t to FY 2010 ers 223 (220) 2015 (Adjusted emission factors) 5.4% reduction compared Total 265 (300) 199,997t to FY 2010 Female managers 12.4% (15%) Employees Females among new hires for Cost of environmental MUFG Investment 4,512 million yen 53.3% increase compared Main Career Track 25.6%*2 (over measures by offices to FY 2010 20%) Expenses 2,203 million yen 14.9% increase compared to FY 2010 MUMSS Female general managers 5 As of the end of March 2012 Female deputy general managReducing paper consumption BTMU 5% reduction compared to F Y FY 2011 Results ers, chief managers 9 2010 Deputy chief managers, senior MUTB 11.7% reduction compared to FY FY 2011 Results managers 103 2010 (approx. 273 tons) A mount of copy paper purchased for Head Office MUN 5.1% reduction compared to FY Local and 2010 (per person) Expenditures for social contribuBTMU MUTB MUMSS tion activities Environment Education & culture 199 million yen Number of UN-registered CDM MUMSS 63 (as reported by UNFCCC) Cumulative as of June consulting projects 2012 Social welfare & environmental conservation 157 million yen international communities Community contributions, Projects reviewed for social and BTMU By Category From Januar y 20 0 6 to international exchange, others environmental considerations March 2012 2,221 million yen based on Equator Principles*1 Category A 29 Total 2,576 million yen Category B 172 Category C 24 Customer satisfaction Total of Satisfied or Somewhat satisfied Customer Satisfaction Total 225 (individual customers) Survey Results in FY 2011 BTMU Approx. 65.7% By Sector Customers BTMU MUTB Approx. 61.5% Infrastructure 76 MUMSS Approx. 53.2% Mining 8 MUN Approx. 63.7% Oil and gas 41 Petrochemicals 13 Power 85 Other 2 *1 Detailed report available at: http://www.bk.mufg.jp/english/ourcompany/societyandenvironment/implementing.html *2 Among new hires as of April 2012 Total 225 MUFG CSR Report 2012 10 Supporting Reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake to work in cooperation with schools for up to 15 years to operate a scholarship program to provide continued emotional and material support to children and students, and contribute to their healthy growth. The main Supporting Reconstruction Supporting Reconstruction after activity of this fund is the provision of a scholarship for orphaned students (that is, children for whom one after the Great East Japan Earthquake or both of their parents are deceased or missing as a result of the earthquake and/or tsunami); the fund also conducts programs to promote healthy growth, flower-replanting, and volunteering activities. Executives and staff of all of the MUFG Group make financial contributions and also support volunteer activities. the Great East Japan Earthquake Program overview It is crucial that people and communities affected by the Great East Japan Program name Details Status Earthquake receive maximum support over the mediumto long term, 1. Scholarship Providing scholarship funds to In FY 2012, 1,225 students benefited from the Scholarship Program. Program support children orphaned as a result and the MUFG Group remains steady in its efforts to provide that support. of the Great East Japan Earthquake, until they graduate from high school. Hoping for the quickest recovery possible, the MUFG Group will continue to 2. Healthy H olding a Suppor t E xchange (1) Support Exchange Meetings Growth Program Meeting among scholarship recipiFrom August to December 2011, a Tohoku special invitational ents. Conducting a workshop for performance by the Shiki Theatre Company, recreational activi work together to offer the greatest assistance in this time of need. teachers in the disaster-affected ties at Koiwai Farm Makiba-en and the Christmas Charity Soccer areas regarding mental health 2011 events were held for approximately 100 students receiving care for children. scholarship funds and their parents or guardians. (2) Earthquake Relief Workshop Initiatives by the MUFG Group In August 2011, a workshop was held in Sendai City for teachers in earthquake-affected areas under the theme of emotional care for children as part of educational activities. Approximately 50 UNESCO School teaching staff attended the workshop. The MUFG Group appealed to member companies to undertake initiatives that will contribute to the 3. FlowerReplanting flowerbeds at elemenThe Flower-replanting Program has been held twelve times in Iwate, reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. replanting tary and junior high schools in the Miyagi and Fukushima Prefectures. A total of 13,000 plants were donated Program disaster-affected regions. to 30 elementary and junior high schools in earthquake-affected regions. In keeping with the Group's core business focus, member companies set up accounts to receive The program will continue to be held in the future. 4. Volunteer School-based volunteer activities About 420 executive and other staff from BTMU and the MUFG Group donated funds and contributions, and established consultation groups to advise on reconstruction assisProgram including hosting opportunities for participated as volunteers in running the programs listed above. executives and employees to tance; preferential interest rates on mortgage loans were also made available to disaster-affected interact with children and students. individuals and business, and funding was provided for the Disaster Reconstruction Fund. In addition, (As of July 31, 2012) BTMU newly established a Reconstruction Public-Private Partnership Office in Sendai in May 2012. The ■ Participating in the TOMODACHI Initiative MUFG Group will continue to solicit credit card payments for assistance to affected people and to As part of the TOMODACHI Initiative, a U.S.-Japan exchange program involving promote the Tohoku Region's tourism, foods and beverages, and local products. the U.S. government and a U.S. non-profit organization, the U.S.-Japan Council, In addition to these activities, we remain involved in a variety of ways, including through employee volunthe MUFG Group established the TOMODACHI MUFG International Exchange teering for reconstruction assistance, holding concerts to heal the psychological wounds of affected Program, a three-year exchange program for students and educators from the people, and appealing for reconstruction assistance through the radio programs that we sponsor. disaster-affected areas in Japan and the United States. In June 2012, applications were received from students in Miyagi Prefecture in grades 9 through 12 (from Mediumto Long Term Reconstruction Assistance Efforts among those students either enrolled in UNESCO-Associated Schools or who received scholarships from the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery ■ Establishment of the MUFG NFUAJ and Scholarship Fund). For about two weeks, starting at the end of July 2012, East Japan Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund twenty students and four educators travelled to the cities of Carlsbad and Los BTMU, in cooperation with the National Federation of UNESCO Angeles in the state of California, where they learned English during homestays Associations in Japan, established the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan and classes, and participated in local community activities and volunteering Participation in the Earthquake Recovery and Scholarship Fund. The goal of this fund is Flower-replanting Program efforts, and also visited the offices of Union Bank and other companies. TOMODACHI Initiative MUFG CSR Report 2012 11 Supporting Reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake ■ Credit Card-Related Support Activities Other Initiatives As an extension of its core business activities, beginning immediSupporting Reconstruction after ately after the Great East Japan Earthquake, MUN began facilitating ■ Employee Volunteering credit card payments in support of mediumto long term disaster In June 2012, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities reconstruction efforts. MUN has also been consulting with credit Holdings (MUSHD) held the Rikuzencard holders in disaster-affected areas regarding payment concerns, takata Paintfest in Rikuzentakata, Iwate the Great East Japan Earthquake and provided free replacement cards to those needing them; MUN Prefecture. Employees joined evacuees has also solicited donations of funds to disaster victims by using and public high school students in paintcredit cards and by exchanging cardmember loyalty points. MUN ing pictures (set of six canvases per also launched a reconstruction assistance website that uses the painting). The finished artwork was Rikuzentakata Paintfest slogan Cheer Up Japan! which promotes sales of products made in presented to Iwate Prefectural Takata the Tohoku Region and other reconstruction assistance initiatives in Great East Japan Earthquake Hospital and the temporary housing Recovery and Reconstruction cooperation with cardmembers and participating merchants. MUN Assistance Logo (MUN) compound that provided the space for will continue to promote credit card-related initiatives to support the event. Employees at U.S. subsidiary disaster-affected areas. MUS (USA) planned the event, MUS (USA), BTMU and other companies Initiatives through Business donated money to purchase art supplies, and 10 volunteers including ■ Reconstruction and New Capital Investment Support Seminars employees at MUMSS lent a hand in In Aomori and Iwate prefectures, two places impacted by the earthquake and tsunami, BTMU partcreating the paintings. nered with Aomori Bank and the Bank of Iwate to hold seminars on reconstruction assistance In July 2011, MUN launched a volunteer Volunteer activities by employees programs offered by the national and prefectural governments. The Tohoku Bureau of Economy, program for inspired employees that made use of a volunteer leave system. Around 240 employees Trade and Industry and each participating prefecture presented an overview of subsidies they offer to participated in 11 volunteering events running through July 2012, starting with the first held in Ishinosupport reconstruction and promote investment in fixed assets. Also attending the seminars were maki, Miyagi Prefecture. The company supported employees' social contribution efforts by covering Mitsubishi Electric and other companies with businesses in the energy efficiency field; the compatransportation, accommodations and other costs needed to participate. nies held consultation sessions with customers to provide guidance on energy efficiency investments. ■ FM Radio Show and Music Concerts Once a month, Dear Partner, an FM radio show sponsored by MUN and hosted by Masataka ■ MUFG Tohoku Fair Matsutoya, invites someone on the forefront of the reconstruction effort to talk about their efforts In another initiative to support post-disaster reconstruction through business, BTMU invited 19 and experiences. The program is aimed at supporting the recovery by providing the latest topics on corporate customers at its branch offices in the Tohoku region and Mito City to exhibit products in the disaster and sustaining public interest over the long term. The company has also been sponsoring the MUFG Tohoku Fair held for three days at the Marunouchi Head Office and Otemachi Building concerts performed by the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra in areas damaged by the disaster. As of in Tokyo. The fair at both venues attracted crowds of employees and even sold out of some prodJuly 2012, four concerts have brought professional musicians to perform at shelters, schools and ucts. community venues. The company plans to continue sponsoring concerts in the disaster-affected areas. MUFG CSR Report 2012 12 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ■ Governance System of the Whole Group Group Corporate Governance Structure MUFG General Meeting Corporate Auditors/Board of The holding company fulfills the function of overseeing the manCorporate Governance Governance, Commitments, and Engagement of Shareholders Corporate Auditors (3 of 5 auditors are external) agement of each member company by introducing a group-wide Corporate Auditors Office risk management, compliance and internal audit structure, and by Chairman Reports and recommendations dispatching senior management to the major subsidiaries, includBoard of Directors Committees reporting To realize the mediumto long term goal (Several outside directors) to the Board of Directors ing BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD and MUN. The board of directors of Advisory Board Internal Audit and Compliance Committee each company includes external directors. The internal audit and articulated in our Corporate Vision— Advice Executive Report compliance committees for each company are composed of a (External experts) Committee to be the world's most trusted financial group— President Committees reporting Nomination and Compensation Committee majority of external members, and these committees report to & CEO to the Executive the MUFG Group treats the development and Committee Report each company's Board of Directors. maintenance of a properly functioning corporate Corporate Risk Audit governance system as one of management's Integrated Business Group Corporate Staff Units Management Internal Audit Division Units highest priorities. Internal Audit and Compliance Committees of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Holdings and Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Does not include external members Includes external members ■ Governance Functions of the Holding Company MUFG Overview of Internal Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination and The holding company (MUFG) has established a fair and transparCompensation Committee ent corporate governance system including a board of corporate Committee name Scope of committee deliberations Members auditors and voluntary committees from external viewpoints. Internal Audit Matters related to internal audits Chairman: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) and Compliance and statutory compliance at the Members: Kazuhiro Watanabe We are making every effort to enhance the system. In keeping Committee holding company and Group (Outside director) subsidiaries Hideo Kojima with provisions specified by Japan's financial instruments (External expert/ certified public accountant) exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, three out of the Shin Kikuchi 17 members of the Board of Directors are designated as indepen(External expert/attorney at law) Kinya Okauchi dent directors from outside the company; also in keeping with (Deputy Chairman and CAO, MUFG) these provisions, a majority of the five-member Board of CorpoNomination and Matters related to the selection of Chairman: Kazuhiro Watanabe Compensation candidates for directorships at the (Outside director) rate Auditors is comprised of independent outside auditors. We Committee h o l d i n g c o m p a n y, i m p o r t a n t Members: Ryuji Araki (Outside director) personnel affairs at the holding Katsunori Nagayasu also have an Internal Audit and Compliance Committee and a company and Group subsidiaries, (President & CEO, MUFG) and remuneration for senior Nomination and Compensation Committee under the Board of management of the holding company and Group subsidiaries Directors; they are both chaired by external directors, and the majority of their members are from outside the company. The Members of Advisory Board holding company also has an Advisory Board of external experts, Naotake Okubo (Director and Executive Advisor, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) Yuko Kawamoto (Professor, Waseda University, Graduate School of Finance, Accounting & Law) which provides advice from an independent perspective to the Shin-ichi Fukuda (Professor, The University of Tokyo, Graduate School of Economics) Akio Mimura (Director, Member of the Board and Senior Advisor, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation*) Executive Committee (which deliberates and decides on impor* Mr. Mimura's position at the Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation is according to the tant business matters) on overall management of the Group. news release on April 27, 2012. MUFG CSR Report 2012 13 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement agement policies based on the discussions held by these comRisk Management System mittees and councils. Risk Management Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Holding Company The holding company seeks to unify risk awareness within the (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) Group, to improve the Group's risk management framework and Board of Directors related methods, to maintain asset quality through risk manageCorporate Risk ment and to eliminate concentrations of specific risks, among Management Management Planning We comprehensively monitor and manage diverse Committee Executive Committee Committee other objectives. The MUFG Group maintains and implements its (includes crisis management) risks to maintain sound financial health. own risk management framework in line with Group-wide risk Group Credit Corporate Risk management policy determined by the holding company. Management Management Division Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, ■ Risk Management Policy MUFG (Coordinates risk management) Committee Operational Risk, and Operations Risk In this ever-changing business environment marked by financial deregulation, globalization, and advances in information technolCredit & Investment Credit Risk Management Division ogy, the MUFG Group aims to be one of the world's foremost Corporate Risk comprehensive financial groups, housing a diverse array of Management Division, Operations & Systems Information Asset Risk companies—including commercial banking, trust banking, securiPlanning Division ties businesses—all under one roof. The risks these businesses Public Relations Division Reputation Risk are subjected to are growing in size and scope, giving risk management an increasingly important role in our line of work. Discuss Establish fundamental policy Discuss The MUFG Group comprehensively identifies the various risks and report Guidance and advice and report that arise from business operations using uniform criteria and Group Companies adopts an integrated risk management approach as a basic policy for maximizing shareholder value while safeguarding business BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUN, other subsidiaries operations. Under these policies, a wide variety of risks are identified, measured, controlled, and monitored with the goal of posting stable returns commensurate with risk, maintaining an appropriate capital structure, and optimally allocating resources. ■ Risk Management System MUFG Chief risk management officers and risk management divisions at the holding company (Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group) and major Group companies work closely to manage risks on a Group level. Various committees and councils are also tasked with actively managing risk for the Group from both qualitative and quantitative approaches. These committees and councils monitor the status of each type of risk and discuss important matters pertaining to their management. The Board of Directors determines risk manMUFG CSR Report 2012 14 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Executive Committee and to the Boards of Directors of the among directors and employees in awareness of an open corporespective companies. All five companies have also established rate culture as a workplace environment. The MUFG Group has Compliance Governance, Commitments, and Engagement voluntary committees, such as a Compliance Committee and an designed questions to address and analyze its own issues Internal Audit and Compliance Committee (a majority of which respectively and is advancing various initiatives toward improveconsist of external members), as voluntary bodies for the delibments. eration of important compliance issues. We have also estabFollowing the release of the MUFG Corporate Vision in April We go to great lengths to ensure full compliance lished a Group CCO Committee comprising the Chief Compli2012, awareness of its contents has been added to the survey throughout the MUFG Group, guided by our ance Officer and Deputy Chief Compliance Officers of the holditems, and measures are being considered and promoted to Corporate Vision, which emphasizes strict ing company. The Group CCO Committee deliberates important spread the Corporate Vision. compliance with laws and regulations and compliance issues as well as issues that require a common understanding throughout the Group, shares problematic issues Internal Reporting Systems the conduct of business in a transparent manner, for the Group as a whole, and works to prevent problems from to gain the public's trust and confidence. occurring. Expanded Group CCO Committee meetings, with The MUFG Group has established internal reporting systems additional members, are held for deliberations on compliance that aim to identify compliance issues early so that any probCompliance Framework issues that are in common among multiple Group companies. lems can be quickly rectified. This system includes an independent external compliance hotline. Furthermore, the holdCompliance Framework Group-wide Efforts ing company has set up an MUF G Group C ompliance Holding Company (MUFG) Helpline that acts in parallel with Group-companies' internal Board of Board of Directors Internal Audit and To promote compliance policies and measures, the MUFG reporting systems and provides a reporting channel for direcCorporate Compliance Committee Group holds forums for Group companies to share information tors and employees of Group companies. Auditors Executive Committee Group Compliance concerning the regulatory environment, customer response and Committee other issues. CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) Group CCO Committee The forums address important common group themes such as response to anti-social elements and preventing misconduct, Compliance Division (Coordinates compliance issues) aiming at improving the Group's overall skill to deal with such issues. Consultation and report Guidance, advice and instruction Furthermore, MUFG keeps the whole group informed of compliBTMU, MUTB, MUSHD, MUN, other subsidiaries ance through trainings for Group directors and employees (for Group Companies new employees, managers and general managers, respectively), which present issues that the participants need to learn about, such as basic approaches to compliance, and compliance Compliance Divisions are in place at the holding company topics. (MUFG), as well as at BTMU, MUTB, MUSHD and MUN. The MUFG also conducts regular compliance awareness surveys of Compliance Divisions at each company promote compliance the directors and employees of Group companies. Recent policies and measures by developing compliance programs and surveys have received responses from about 80,000 Group offering training, etc., and report the status of compliance to the directors and employees, confirming an overall improvement MUFG CSR Report 2012 15 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Major Compliance Policies and Measures clients ■ Response to Anti-Social Elements (3) Situations where high reputation risk resulting from transacThe MUFG Group has announced a Basic Policy regarding AntiGovernance, Commitments, and Engagement ■ Conflicts of Interest Management tions between MUFG Group and clients could arise Social Elements, includes organized crime exclusion clauses in Examples for Managed Businesses include: The MUFG Group has established a system whereby items that contracts, transaction terms and other agreements, and is reinM&A advisory, Securitization of Assets/Receivables, Loan might pose a conflict of interest are centrally managed at the holding forcing efforts to ensure that anti-social elements cannot take Syndication, Principal Investment, Equity and Debt Undercompany to prevent any untoward damages to customer interests. writing, and Bond Management advantage of the financial system. We have also announced a Policy for Conflicts of Interest Manage3. Companies with Requirement for Conflicts of Interest Manment, and conduct trainings for the education of officers and agement ■ Basic Policy regarding Anti-Social Elements employees as well as periodic reviews of the management system. MUFG Group companies conducting Managed Businesses shall The MUFG Group has adopted the following Basic Policy regardbe required to develop appropriate management system for coning Anti-Social Elements, and our officers and employees are flicts of interest. striving to ensure the propriety and safety of all Group operations Policy for Conflicts of Interest Management Examples of companies with requirement for conflicts of interMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group ( MUFG ) and its subsidiaries by observing this Basic Policy. est management include: and affiliates (collectively, MUFG Group ) shall establish the The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., Mitsubishi UFJ Trust following policy for conflicts of interest management and take all and Banking Corporation, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Secu1. Response as an organization necessary actions to ensure all officers and employees to rities Co., Ltd., The Senshu Ikeda Bank, Ltd., The Taisho Bank, In relation to anti-social elements, the Company has estabcomply with the policy and not to falsely harm clients' interest. Ltd., and The Chukyo Bank, Ltd. lished the foundation of express provisions in the Principles 1. Conflicts of Interest 4. Management System for Conflicts of Interest of Ethics and Conduct and Internal Rules, etc., and will A conflict of interest means the situation where an MUFG MUFG Group shall centralize the management of conflicts of respond as an entire organization, from the top management Group's client's interest conflicts with MUFG Group's or one interest by establishing divisions responsible for management downward. In addition, the Company will guarantee the MUFG Group's client's interest conflicts with other MUFG and control of conflicts of interest at each company under a legal safety of employees who would respond to anti-social Group's clients'. duty to establish management system for conflicts of interest. elements. While such conflicts of interest occur on a day-to-day basis as a MUFG Group shall comply with applicable laws and regulations 2. Cooperation with external specialist organizations result of conglomerations of financial institutions and diversificarelated to conflicts of interest and maintain appropriate manageUnder normal circumstances, the Company endeavors to tion of financial trading, MUFG Group shall establish appropriate ment for conflicts of interest. establish a close cooperative relationship with external spebusiness management and compliance system to prevent 5. Measures for Management of Conflicts of Interest cialist organizations such as the police, the Centers for the adverse effects from conflicts of interest within the Group. With the following measures MUFG Group shall prevent Elimination of Boryokudan, and lawyers. 2. Identifying Transactions with Potential Risk of Adverse Effects adverse effects from conflicts of interest issues and avoid falsely 3. Blocking of relationships, including business transactions from Conflicts of Interest damaging clients' interest. The Company shall block all relationships with anti-social MUFG Group shall identify in advance businesses, which require (1) Separating a division/company conducting a transaction elements, including business relationships. special management ( Managed Businesses ), from businesses with potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest from 4. Civil and criminal legal responses in times of emergency in the following situations. MUFG Group shall intensively other divisions/companies The Company shall reject improper demands from antimanage transactions with potential risk of adverse effects from (2) Changing the conditions/methods of either/both transacsocial elements, and take legal actions on both a civil and conflicts of interest in performing the Managed Businesses, tions with potential risk of adverse effects by conflicts of interest criminal basis, as the need arises. taking into consideration reputation risk. (3) Terminating either one of transactions with potential risk of 5. Prohibition of secret deals and provision of funds (1) Situations where a client reasonably expects MUFG Group adverse effects by conflicts of interest The Company shall absolutely not engage in secret deals to prioritize the client's best interest (e.g., advisory service) (4) Notifying clients of potential risk of adverse effects by conwith anti-social elements. (2) Situations where MUFG Group could inappropriately benefit flicts of interest The Company shall absolutely not provide funds to antiin the market using information obtained from transactions with social elements. MUFG CSR Report 2012 16 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ing or guessing passwords, such as installing rear-view mirrors for force in June 2008, we repay victims with funds arising from ATM users, installing polarized film on ATM screens, and displaycriminal damages and remaining in financial institutions' bank Financial Crime Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ing reminders about password management on ATM screens. accounts if they were used for criminal purposes. Countermeasures ■ Security Measures for Internet Banking BTMU MUTB ■ Assistance for Victims BTMU MUTB MUMSS We are protecting customers' valuable information by using of Fraudulent Withdrawals advanced encryption technologies for Internet banking transacBTMU and MUTB compensate victims for losses suffered from The MUFG Group is implementing diverse tions. We have established 24-hour monitoring systems for the use of forged or stolen cash cards, stolen passbooks, and countermeasures against malicious Internet-based attacks, and remain vigilant with solid security Internet bank fraud withdrawals based on Japan's Depositor Profinancial crimes such as money transfer systems to address a variety of risks, including unauthorized tection Act and on an arrangement announced by the Japanese third-party access, information leaks, impersonation of contracBankers Association in February 2008. and investment fraud, tors, and so on. Based on a resolution of the board of directors of the Japan Secuas well as victim assistance measures, and more. rities Dealers Association in February 2006, MUMSS provides ■ Security Measures to Reduce Losses from Phishing BTMU MUTB compensation to victims of unauthorized withdrawals that were Financial Crime Countermeasures and We have adopted an electronic signature system which displays a made using forged or stolen cards. Victim Assistance warning message when the e-mail contents have been tampered with during transmission and allows customers to confirm the ■ Loss Prevention from Money Transfer and message sender. We have also made arrangements so that cusBTMU MUTB Investment Fraud tomers can easily verify that they are connected to the authentic We take numerous measures to make customers aware of the Internet server when conducting direct banking from their criminal methods used in money transfer and investment fraud. personal computers. Such measures include placing posters in branch offices and ■ Advancing PCIDSS Conformity throughout the Company MUN displaying warnings on ATM screens, and so on. Attendants frequently remind customers to take precautions or to verify the Throughout the company, MUN is advancing conformity with the details of transactions. We also confirm identity and intended use Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIDSS), which when new bank accounts are opened, to ensure that accounts is an international credit card industry security standard estabare not used for criminal purposes. In some cases, we must lished for the safe handling of credit card member data. MUN refuse to open a new account, and on these occasions we acquired conformity certification for the credit card settlement request the customer's understanding. Application Service Provider (ASP) EC Card Settlement System in September 2010. MUN has been steadily expanding the range of ■ Preventing Losses from Forged or applications since then, and will continue working to improve BTMU MUTB Stolen ATM Cards security levels. We have been introducing technologies to verify user identity, ■ Assistance for Victims of Money Transfer Fraud BTMU MUTB such as electronic IC cards and biometric authentication, to prevent losses from cash card forgery and theft. We are also Based on Japan's Act on Damage Recovery Benefit Distributed implementing countermeasures to prevent strangers from learnfrom Fund in Bank Accounts Used for Crimes, which entered into MUFG CSR Report 2012 17 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement of the trust and confidence that customers have placed in us −the and rules that apply to us. We avoid insider trading, do not engage in result of years of fair, transparent, and honorable dealings. Our business anti-competitive conduct or any form of corrupt activity, and publicly Major Compliance Policies Governance, Commitments, and Engagement culture is not driven by the prospect of short-term, immediate gains. disclose corporate information in an appropriate manner. and Measures Instead, we place a premium on supporting long-term, sustainable relationships with our customers to help them meet their goals. 2-2. Combating Criminal Activity We do not conduct business with criminal elements. We do not allow 1-1. Acting with Honesty and Integrity our financial products and services to be used for illegal or improper MUFG's CSR activities are guided by a set of We always place our diverse customers at the center of all activities and activities such as money laundering, fraud, or financing terrorist activiprinciples, policies, and rules. act with honesty and integrity in all of our dealings with them. We ties. protect customer assets, including their personal information, and strive at all times not to damage their interests. 2-3. Commitment to Social Sustainability ■ Principles of Ethics and Conduct MUFG We respect the history, culture, and customs of local communities and 1-2. Controlling Quality strive to contribute to their development and the protection of the enviIntroduction In order to earn the lasting trust and confidence of our customers, we ronment through our corporate activities and employee volunteer maintain thorough quality control of our products and services in all efforts. These principles of Ethics and Conduct establish clear and consistent aspects from product design and development to delivery, and continustandards for all MUFG employees to guide decisions and actions. They ally improve our processes to provide accurate and secure transactions. Chapter 3 Ethical and Dynamic Workplace reflect and support the MUFG Corporate Vision. We are committed to creating a working environment that fosters The principles are organized in three sections. Chapter 1 presents the 1-3. Exceeding Customer Expectations mutual respect among MUFG employees, supports the full expression attitude that we adopt with our customers, to act with honesty and We strive to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers worldwide and of our individuality as professionals, promotes the power of teamwork, integrity and pursue their best interests, which is a core component of to exceed their expectations through the highest standards of profeshonors diversity, transcends differences, and embraces new chalour business practices. sionalism and by effectively leveraging our global network and consolilenges. Chapter 2 presents a set of standards to help us fulfill our responsibilidated strength. ties as a good corporate citizen. MUFG's reputation depends upon the 3-1. Stimulating Workplace trust and confidence of our customers and other stakeholders, including Chapter 2 Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen We strive to enhance our knowledge and expertise, focus on maximizlocal communities, and we are responsible to society on a global level. As a member of MUFG with global operations, we act honorably, with ing the value of teamwork, and view changes in the business environChapter 3 describes the actions and mindset that will create a stimulathonesty and integrity, and comply at all times with laws, regulations, ment as opportunities to launch new initiatives. ing and supportive working environment as MUFG continues to grow. rules, and internal policies globally. We strive to maintain stability and Our success depends on building and maintaining a dynamic workplace confidence in the global financial system and to contribute to the sound 3-2. Ethical Workplace where all employees can reach their full potential in ways that support growth and development of society. We behave in a manner that We respect the diversity and human rights of all MUFG employees. We our customers and contribute to society as a whole. supports and strengthens the trust and confidence that MUFG has built do not engage in or tolerate discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or up over the years. any other behavior or activity that is inconsistent with these core Outline / Overview beliefs. We report any violations of laws and rules, and we manage Chapter 1 Customer Focus 2-1. Adherence to Laws and Regulations corporate assets appropriately. We place our diverse customers at the center of all our activities and We always judge and act with honesty and integrity, do what is right, always act in their best interests. MUFG is able to thrive today because and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the laws, regulations, MUFG CSR Report 2012 18 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ■ Personal Information Protection Policy MUFG improve its management systems to protect personal information. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group believes it is the group's social Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ■ MUFG Group Environmental Statement MUFG responsibility to handle customer's personal information properly under Corporate Vision. The following is our Personal Information We, the directors and employees of MUFG, recognize that Protection Policy. We intend to do our best to protect our customprotection of the global environment is the responsibility of all ers' personal information by ensuring that every executive and human beings and, as a good corporate citizen, MUFG fulfills its employee complies with this Policy. social responsibility by working actively towards the realization of 1. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will comply with laws and regua sustainable environment. lations regarding the proper handling of the customers' personal Through our business activities, we will support environmental information. protection efforts by both industry and individuals that contribute 2. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will acquire personal information to realizing a sustainable society. properly. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will notify and/or disclose ■ MUFG Group Environmental Policy MUFG the purpose of such personal information to customers and will not use it beyond the disclosed purpose except as permitted by In accordance with the spirit and philosophy outlined in its Envilaw. ronmental Statement, We, the directors and employees of MUFG 3. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will educate all of its executives will: and employees so that they understand the importance of protect1. Comply with all laws and regulations related to environmental ing personal information and handle customers' personal informaprotection and other requirements to which Group companies tion properly. subscribe; 4. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will take necessary and appro2. Support business activities that contribute to the protection and priate measures to ensure the security of personal information and improvement of the environment through the provision of highwill endeavor to prevent improper access to, alteration, loss and/or quality financial products and services, and aim to reduce environleakage of personal information. mental risks; 5. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will not supply any personal 3. Recognize the environmental burden caused by consumption information to third parties (including parties in Mitsubishi UFJ of resources and release of waste from our own business activiFinancial Group) without the prior consent of the individual conties and aim to protect the environment through resource recycerned, except as permitted by law. cling as well as efficient use of energy and resources; 6. When outsourcing the handling of personal information to other 4. Monitor the effects of our activities on the environment and institutions, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will monitor the instiwork towards continuous improvement and pollution prevention; tutions concerned to ensure that appropriate measures are taken 5. Provide in-house environmental education and support and to protect customers' personal information. promote environmental protection activities of individual directors 7. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will establish procedures for and employees both during and outside working hours; correcting and disclosing personal information of customers. 6. Inform the entire Group and the general public of our environMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group is also willing to receive opinions mental statement and policy and help raise awareness of environand inquiries regarding the handling of such personal information. mental issues through extensive communication. 8. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group will continually review and MUFG CSR Report 2012 19 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ■ Our Approach to Addressing Biological community has expressed humanitarian concerns about the impacts to Facilitate Financing, which specify the basic items and internal MUFG Diversity Conservation of these munitions. Japanese legislation, in principle, prohibits the systems for management to facilitate financing. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Biological diversity, or biodiversity, is considered to have three dimenproduction and possession of cluster bombs. Based on the enactThe company has also appointed a Director in Charge of Facilitatsions: ecosystem diversity, species (interspecies) diversity, and intrament of that legislation, and in accordance with the spirit of its own ing Financing as well as Managers to Facilitate Financing at each species (genetic) diversity. It is said that biodiversity is facing three Charter of Corporate Conduct, the Japanese Bankers Association, branch, and established a Smooth Retail Financing Office, a crises: reduction and extermination of species due to human activities recognizing the importance of the banking industry's public role, Smooth Corporate Financing Office, an Office to Facilitate (development and overharvesting), deterioration in the quality of nature agreed in October 2010 that Japanese banks shall not provide financFinancing and a Management Office to Facilitate Financing at due to insufficient care for woodlands, and disruption of ecosystems ing for the manufacture of cluster bombs in Japan or overseas. headquarters as specialized units to facilitate financing. The comfrom influences such as invasive species and chemical substances. BTMU and MUTB are full members of the Japanese Bankers Assopany's officers and employees are united in implementing works to In recognition of the importance of conserving the biological diverciation. Both clearly stipulate in their credit policies and financing facilitate financing, with the active involvement of corporate mansity that supports the global environment, the MUFG Group checksheets that the provision of financing for the manufacture of agement. Please visit the following website for the status of our intends to pursue efforts based on the following approaches: cluster bombs is prohibited. Both companies strictly observe these initiatives to facilitate financing (number of loans and amounts). (1) Active engagement procedures. http://www.tr.mufg.jp/ippan/soudan/kinyu_soudan_joukyou.html Raise awareness among corporate officers and employees about (in Japanese) biological diversity, linking them to voluntary and company-wide Initiatives to Facilitate Financing ■ Designated Dispute Resolution Organization System BTMU MUTB activities. ■ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ BTMU (2) Promotion of social contribution activities that make use of Designated dispute resolution organizations are dispute resolution financial products and services The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) has adopted Management bodies designated by government authorities. From a fair and neuSupport biodiversity conservation projects through the provision Regulations to Facilitate Financing as a basic policy to facilitate financtral standpoint, they are to deal with complaints and requests from of integrated financial services. Make use of the expanding busiing based on the Japanese government's Act concerning Temporary customers for dispute resolution concerning the actions of financial ness base and other resources of the MUFG Group to support Measures to Facilitate Financing for Smalland Medium-Sized Enterinstitutions. The following designated dispute resolution organizasocial contribution activities. prises, etc. tions have been contracted by BTMU and MUTB for these matters. (3) Linkages with communities and society To establish and maintain an appropriate management structure to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (BTMU) In order to conserve biodiversity, link and cooperate with a wide facilitate financing, BTMU has appointed a Director in Charge of FaciliOrganization Japanese Bankers Association*1 variety of partners, including international organizations, national tating Financing, has established an Office to Facilitate Financing and JBA Customer Relations Center Contact government, communities, and non-profit organizations. a Small & Medium Enterprise Credit Office, and has appointed Man0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 (4) Considerations related to purchasing activities agers to Facilitate Financing at each sales branch office. The entire Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) Consider biodiversity protection when purchasing materials for bank is working to strengthen initiatives to facilitate financing. Please Organization Japanese Bankers Association*1 business operations. visit the following BTMU website for the status of initiatives to facilitate JBA Customer Relations Center Contact (5) Information disclosure and communications financing (number of loans and amounts): 0570-017109 or 03-5252-3772 Share information about our activities widely with society, contributing http://www.bk.mufg.jp/info/kinyu_enkatsuka/index.html (in Japanese) Organization Trust Companies Association of Japan*2 to the development of society's overall efforts to conserve biodiversity. Trust Consultation Center ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking MUTB Contact 0120-817335 or 03-3241-7335 ■ Activities against Cluster Bombs BTMU MUTB Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking (MUTB) has established a Man*1 The Japanese Bankers Association is a designated dispute resolution organization under the Cluster bombs contain multiple smaller bombs that scatter over a agement Policy to Facilitate Financing, which specifies the basic Banking Act and the Norinchukin Bank Act. *2 The Trust Companies Association of Japan is a designated dispute resolution organization under wide area. As they have often affected civilians, the international policy for facilitating financing as well as Management Regulations the Trust Business Act and the Act on Provision, etc. of Trust Business by Financial Institutions. MUFG CSR Report 2012 20 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement CSR Structure Governance, Commitments, and Engagement The MUFG Group has established a CSR structure integrated with its management strategies. CSR Promotion Structure of the MUFG Group The MUFG Group has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (meets twice per year) to promote CSR activities throughout the Group, consisting mostly of members of the Executive Committee of the holding company. The committee discusses the Group's CSR policies, develops strategies for the CSR Structure of the MUFG Group entire Group, and works to strengthen cooperation between member companies. The MUFG Group is engaged in CSR activiMitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ties and maximizes the special characteristics of the MUFG Group along with the Group policy. During FY 2011, the Corporate Executive Committee Social Responsibility Committee met in July and February, and discussed future directions for activities based on the current Corporate Social Responsibility status of CSR activities in the Group, as well as other topics. Committee CSR Promotion Division The Bank of Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. Banking Corporation Holdings Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Executive Committee/ Management Committee/ Executive Committee/CSR Committee Executive Committee CSR Promotion Committee MUSHD Group CSR Committee CSR Office, CSR Promotion Office, CSR Promotion Division Corporate Planning Division Corporate Communications Division Corporate Planning Department MUFG CSR Report 2012 21 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ensure that their projects consider the environment in compliance continue to actively consider the environment and society based with international standards. Through this advice, we support on these principles. Participation in Initiatives Governance, Commitments, and Engagement both funding and environmental protection. ■ Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) MUFG ■ Participating in the United Nations The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a project run by instituBTMU MUTB Environment Programme Finance Initiative tional investors from around the world that urges corporations to The MUFG Group participates in a variety of BTMU and MUTB are signatories to the United Nations Environdisclose their strategies on climate change as well as detailed initiatives to identify, promote and ment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). This is a global data on their emissions of greenhouse gases. The MUFG Group realize the adoption of the best environmental partnership between UNEP and the financial sector with the mishas been participating in this effort since 2004 and since 2007 and sustainability practices. sion to identify, promote, and realize the adoption of the best envihas been sponsoring the publication of Japanese-language ronmental and sustainability practice at all levels of financial instiversions of CDP reports. tution operations. ■ UN Global Compact ■ Sponsoring and Participating in Conferences MUFG The MUFG Group has endorsed the United Nations Global Com■ Promotion of and Other Events MUTB BTMU pact. A voluntary code of conduct advocated in 1999 by the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) ●Exhibit at MESSE NAGOYA 2011 then-Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, it calls UNEP FI and the UN Global Compact jointly promote the PrinThe MESSE NAGOYA 2011, one of Japan's largest crossfor corporations and organizations around the world to work ciples for Responsible Investment (PRI), which were announced industrial trade exhibitions, was held in Nagoya in November within their respective spheres of influence to support internationin 2006. The PRI are intended to address decision-making issues 2011. This was the sixth such exhibition, and had the theme of ally recognized standards for human rights, labor, the environrelated to environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) Environment & Energy, Safety & Security and New Manufacturment, and anti-corruption, and to act based on them. for investments within the scope of an organization's fiduciary ing. BTMU put a major effort into this exhibition by introducing The MUFG Group, as a financial group that upholds the philosoresponsibility, and to improve the long-term results of investthe MUFG Group's environmental and social contribution activiphy of contributing to the realization of a sustainable society, ments. In May 2006, MUTB was among the first organizations in ties using video, panel displays, and mini-seminars. MUTB endorses the principles of the Global Compact, and works to fulfill Japan to endorse these Principles, and actively participates in the ●Lectures & Participation in Government Advisory Committees its duties as a global citizen. PRI Japan Network, which promotes PRI and responsible investMUTB representatives periodically give lectures in Japan and ments in Japan. overseas concerning environmental topics, and also participate in ■ The Equator Principles BTMU policy discussions, including as members of governmental adviBTMU adopted the “Equator Principles” as a framework to ■ Signing of Principles for Financial Action sory committees. BTMU MUTB BTMU ensure that social and environmental considerations are made for the 21st Century ● Sponsoring UNEP Publications when implementing large-scale project finance transaction. BTMU and MUTB signed the Principles for Financial Action A public interest incorporated foundation Associates of the Earth The Principles stipulate to assess social and environmental towards a Sustainable Society (also known as Principles for conducts various activities in support of the work of the United impacts of a project based on certain standards, to prompt the Financial Action for the 21st Century) when they were first Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), including hosting borrowers to take appropriate countermeasures, and to conduct announced in November 2011, developed mainly through the events in Japan in connection with UNEP's World Environment post-financing monitoring to check the progress of the measures efforts of financial institutions. Photo Exhibition, and by publishing Japanese-language editions taken. The Principles include seven items for best-effort actions by the of the UNEP publication, TUNZA. In addition to cosponsoring When providing financial advisory services to customers who financial industry to create a sustainable society, and guidelines TUNZA, BTMU distributes it at its branches in Japan. seek project financing, BTMU assists them from an early stage to for each sub-industry to put the principles into action. We will MUFG CSR Report 2012 22 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Our Stakeholders and Governance, Commitments, and Engagement the MUFG Group Environment Shareholders The MUFG Group indirectly influences The MUFG Group is listed on the Tokyo, the environmental impacts of our Osaka, Nagoya and New York stock The MUFG Group's business activities are founded customers' operations through financexchanges, and has approximately ing and the provision of various finan760,000 institutional and individual on the support of our various stakeholders cial services. We also use electricity, shareholders. gas, water and other resources, and in Japan, across Asia, and worldwide. emit CO 2 and waste from our business activities and offices. We will continue working to maintain mutually harmonious and prosperous relations with all our stakeholders Local and and to contribute to the realization International Communities The MUFG Group operates in hundreds of of a sustainable society. communities in Japan and overseas, with Customers 793 domestic retail branches, 313 domestic corporate branches and 524 branches MUFG The MUFG Group provides services to approximately 4 0 million individual overseas (in over 40 countries worldwide). While we are active in the international Group customers and 5 0 0,0 0 0 corporate customers. We have about 125 trillion community as a global financial group, our yen in deposits and 84 trillion yen in employees at each location are also in loans outstanding. contact with many people as members of their local communities.* Employees Business Partners The MUFG Group has 224 consoliThe MUFG Group has diverse dated subsidiaries with about 120,000 business partners including providers employees in total on a consolidated of financial products and services and basis. partners in business alliances. * Total number of the branches and offices of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. (As of March 31, 2012) MUFG CSR Report 2012 23 Relations with Shareholders and Investors dated net income RORA*2 as benchmarks, implement attentive making use of the comprehensive strengths of the MUFG Group risk-return management, and simultaneously pursue capital including preferential interest rates on time deposits and Relations with efficiency. discounted stock trading commissions. Shareholders and Investors Relations with Shareholders and Investors *1 ROE is an abbreviation for Return on Equity. It is an indicator showing how effectively a company uses shareholder equity to generate profits. ■ General Shareholders Meeting MUFG *2 RORA is an abbreviation for Return on Risk Weighted Assets. It is an indicator showing the profits generated from the risks taken by financial institutions. The seventh Annual General Meeting of Shareholders was held in June 2012 at the Nippon Budokan (Tokyo). A webcast of the We strive to increase our corporate value Capital Management and IR meeting can be viewed at the following site: by improving our reliability as a financial group, http://www.mufg.jp/investors/movie/ (in Japanese) ■ Appropriate Management of Capital MUFG manifesting our comprehensive strengths as a Group, ■ Shareholder Composition (Common Shares) MUFG In our aim to raise corporate value, our capital management and responding to the expectations of customers emphasizes maintaining balance between strengthening equity National or Local Governments 0.0% Financial Products Traders 2.5% and society. capital, further enhancing shareholder returns, and capital use for Other Investors We are also striving to enhance increased earning power. (Individuals and Others) Financial Institutions 15.8% 33.2% two-way communication with our shareholders. ■ Basic Stance on Investor Relations MUFG Today, the quality and appropriateness of information disclosure Other Medium-Term Business Plan have become essential issues from the viewpoint of investor Corporations 16.5% protection. The MUFG Group undertakes investor relations activi■ Start of the New Medium-Term Business Plan MUFG ties that fairly and promptly provide the market with accurate In April 2012, we renewed our Management Philosophy to Corinformation on our financial conditions and business strategies, porate Vision and formulated a new medium-term business plan and boost shareholder value by reflecting market perception into laying down management targets and strategies for the next the management process. The MUFG website has won high Overseas Corporations 31.8% three years. In our Corporate Vision, we set our mediumto long acclaim, including awards as an outstanding website from two * Excluding treasury shares; percentages calculated to the first decimal point. term objectives as Be the world's most trusted financial group. external rating companies. (As of March 31, 2012) Under the new medium-term business plan, we will strive to www.mufg.jp/english/ ■ MUFG Selected for SRI Indexes MUFG expand income steadily and continuously, enhance our business ■ IR Activities for Institutional Investors MUFG management framework to improve capital efficiency, and then In recent years, socially responsible investment (SRI) has become aim to establish a strong financial foundation to achieve global We proactively provide information to domestic and foreign instiincreasingly popular in the world of asset management as a stancompetitiveness. tutional investors by holding investor meetings regarding our dard for investment decisions that are based not only on financial To strengthen profitability, we will firmly maintain a foothold in the financial results and using various other channels. We also carry perspectives, but also the broader views of society including envidomestic market, where we have a strong business base, while out diverse activities such as responding to requests for interronmental considerations and social contributions. MUFG has further improving comprehensive financial service capabilities on views and regularly visiting investors. been selected for inclusion in the DJSI Asia Pacific, FTSE4Good a global basis. Index Series, and the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence ■ Shareholder Benefit Program (MUFG Shareholder Club) MUFG In establishing a strong financial foundation, we will enforce busiGlobal (as of June 30, 2012) and other SRI indexes. ness management by adopting consolidated ROE*1 and consoliThe MUFG Shareholder Club provides preferential services MUFG CSR Report 2012 24 Relations with Business Partners When purchasing goods, we comply with all related laws, regulaExamples of Major Business Partnerships tions and rules, and act based on high ethical standards. Relations with 3. Secure Management of Confidential Information Date Business Partner MUFG Details Initiated Payment Meister Business Partners Relations with Business Partners We securely manage all confidential information about suppliers Apr. 2011 Flight System MUN iPhone/iPad settlement Consulting, Inc. solutions service. that we obtain through purchasing activities. Concluded agreement on 4. Environmental Considerations May 2011 China Development BTMU disaster assistance finance Bank program. We consider environmental implications, such as mitigation of The MUFG Group works Commercial global warming and biodiversity protection, when making Jun. 2011 International Bank BTMU Concluded memorandum on joint promotion. with a wide range of business partners, purchasing decisions. In principle, we only purchase office paper (Egypt) including institutions that provide financial products which is produced using appropriate forest management pracEstablished joint venture for Jul. 2011 TIS Inc. BTMU collection of public funds. tices and is otherwise manufactured in an eco-friendly manner. and services, and business alliance partners. We respect companies that have obtained environmental certifiRomania Trade Concluded investment We strive for fairness in all interactions cations and otherwise try to protect the environment, and work to Sep. 2011 and Investment BTMU promotion cooperation agreement. with these business partners, deepen our partnerships with such companies. International Initiated environmental Dec. 2011 MUL and work to create value through collaboration. 5. Requesting Cooperation from Suppliers Finance Corporation program in Thailand. We ask that our suppliers maintain fair and sound business pracPhilippine Economic Concluded memorandum on tices. This includes respect for basic human rights, compliance Jan. 2012 Zone Authority, BTMU cooperation in investment Republic promotion, etc. ■ Fairness in Business MUFG with laws and regulations, environmental considerations, and of the Philippines The MUFG Group has included three items in its Principles of elimination of business with anti-social, corrupt, or criminal Concluded capital and business AMP Capital Holdings, alliance agreement, with an Ethics and Conduct to create and sustain healthy relationships elements. Ltd. (Australian asset MUTB appointment of non-executive management company) director, and made the company with business partners— acting with honesty and integrity, 6. Maintaining Partnerships with Suppliers an equity method affiliate. Mar. 2012 adherence to laws and regulations and combating criminal activWe respect all companies that we do business with as partners, Invest Victoria ity. We maintain fairness in business by carefully observing the and we strive to maintain relationships of trust and cooperation by (state investment Concluded memorandum on BTMU promotion agency operating alliance. law under all circumstances, and by building fair and sound parttreating them with honesty and as equals. We do not use a domifor Victoria, Australia) nerships, while ensuring that we do not support anti-social, nant bargaining position to demand or receive unfair benefits. Concluded operating alliance May 2012 Mercer Japan, Ltd. MUTB agreement on global pension corrupt, or criminal elements. consulting. ■ Creating New Societal Value through Collaboration MUFG Initiated service of J-Mups JR East Mechatronics ■ Approach to Purchasing Activity MUFG Collaboration with business partners holds the potential for Jul. 2012 Co., Ltd. MUN cloud-type joint multi-payment processing system. The MUFG Group purchases paper and other materials in accorcreating new societal value by making the most of the merits dance with the principles discussed below. of each company's core businesses. We strive to develop 1. Fair and Honest Selection and Treatment of Suppliers relationships with our business partners based on this underWe determine suppliers fairly and honestly based on economic standing not only to provide services and products that are common sense. We do not give special treatment to specific supmore useful to society, but also to contribute to the developpliers without any appropriate reasons, nor do we treat any suppliment of healthy financial markets and the construction and ers unfairly. development of social infrastructure. 2. Compliance with Laws and Social Norms MUFG CSR Report 2012 25 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Independent Assurance Report MUFG mental Action Policy Promotion Committee, which includes officials responsible from each company, holds quarterly meetThe MUFG Group has obtained an Independent Assurance Environmental Policies ings to periodically follow the progress of efforts by each team. In Report for the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG indicators) of this way, the MUFG Group continues to work to raise the level of companies and major subsidiaries included in the CSR report for and Initiatives its environmental efforts, based on an awareness of the special the reporting period from April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012. Environmental Policies and Initiatives role that it can play as a comprehensive financial services group, through the provision of products and services that mobilize finanWe work to reduce negative impacts cial flows for the benefit of the environment. * Environmental Project Teams: Eight cross-cutting teams within the MUFG Group that address on the environment through our core business environmental activities based on customer segments or themes (for individuals, domestic corporations, pension funds, overseas, credit screening, markets, internal, and social as a financial institution, such as financing contributions). of the environmentally friendly business. ■ ISO 14001 Certification MUFG ISO 14001 is an international standard for management systems that aim to protect the environment. This standard requires that the environmental impacts of business activities continually be Basic Policies and Structures reduced. The following locations in the MUFG Group have acquired ISO 14001 certification: Reducing environmental impacts and helping create a sustainable ・The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. society are key concerns for the MUFG Group. To address these —Marunouchi Head Office, Nagoya Building, Osaka Building concerns in a unified way, in March 2006 we formulated the ・Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation MUFG Group Environmental Statement and Policy. Based on a —Marunouchi Head Office, Konan Building shared awareness within the MUFG Group of the critical nature ・Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.* of global environmental challenges, in June 2008 we also —Divisions within the Marunouchi Building (including the Clean adopted the MUFG Environmental Action Policy, which provides Energy Finance Division in the Toyosu Building and the Corporate guidelines for concrete actions to deal with environmental issues. Administration Division in the Mitsubishi Building) Our efforts relating to the environment are based on the philoso・Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Co., Ltd. phy and principles outlined in these policies. —Head Office Building (The MUFG Group Environmental Statement and Policy and the ・Mitsubishi UFJ Lease & Finance Company Ltd. MUFG Environmental Action Policy can be found on pages 19 —All locations in Japan and affiliate companies (MUL Business and 6, respectively). Company Ltd. and MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd.) * Expired September 2011. The company is currently in preparations to obtain certification for its Mejirodai Building in Tokyo's Bunkyo Ward, in 2013. ■ Actions Based on the MUFG Environmental MUFG Action Policy Eight cross-cutting Environmental Project Teams * have been created to advance concrete actions in their respective fields based on our Environmental Action Policy. The MUFG EnvironMUFG CSR Report 2012 26 Environmental Policies and Initiatives MUFG Environmental Impact Data MUFG Group Environmental Impact Data and Greenhouse Gas Emissions*1 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Item (GRI Indicators*2) Units MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total MUFG 4 Companies MUFG Total To reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate global Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 Indicator Accuracy*3 warming, the MUFG Group actively seeks reductions in CO 2 Total floor space*4 '000m2 2,186 2,282 2,255 2,348 2,255 2,319 Floor space monitored '000m2 1,882 1,980 1,974 2,069 2,086 2,180 emissions from business activities and employee travel. Core Environmental Policies and Initiatives Coverage rate*5 % 86.1% 86.8% 87.5% 88.1% 93.8% 94.0% Group companies (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS, MUN) Direct energy consumption (EN3) continued to measure environmental impact data and greenhouse City gas '000m3 3,928 ■■■ 4,022 ■■■ 4,276 ■■■ 4,393 ■■■ 5,347 ■■■ 5,429 ■■■ Heavy oil kl 1,948 ■■■ 1,948 ■■■ 1,714 ■■■ 1,714 ■■■ 1,417 ■■■ 1,417 ■■■ gas emissions in FY 2011. Kerosene kl 119 ■■■ 119 ■■■ 134 ■■■ 134 ■■■ 137 ■■■ 137 ■■■ The MUFG Group aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Indirect energy consumption (EN4) from the four core Group companies (not including MUN) by at Electricity '000kWh 504,729 ■■■ 532,065 ■■■ 505,865 ■■■ 531,761 ■■■ 434,924 ■■■ 457,522 ■■■ Steam GJ 22,603 ■■■ 23,476 ■■■ 33,290 ■■■ 34,122 ■■■ 32,142 ■■■ 32,972 ■■■ least 25% by FY 2012, using FY 2000 as the baseline year. Hot water GJ 1,959 ■■■ 1,959 ■■■ 3,910 ■■■ 4,090 ■■■ 3,041 ■■■ 3,239 ■■■ Total CO 2 emission from these four companies ( MUFG 4 Cold water GJ 13,802 ■■■ 18,261 ■■■ 29,962 ■■■ 35,372 ■■■ 21,381 ■■■ 26,374 ■■■ companies) in FY 2011 achieved a target, declining from baseEnergy use from employee travel and transportation (EN29) line (298,000 tons of CO2 in FY 2000) by approximately 98,000 Air route (international routes) '000km 48,912 ■□□ 49,228 ■□□ 56,827 ■■□ 56,982 ■■□ 66,886 ■■□ 67,185 ■■□ tons (33%) based on actual (non-adjusted) emission factors, Automobiles (gasoline) kl 3,540 ■■■ 3,626 ■■■ 3,575 ■■■ 3,615 ■■■ 3,499 ■■■ 3,537 ■■■ Water usage efficiency (EN8) and by approximately 107,000 tons (36%) based on adjusted Tap water '000m3 2,185 ■■□ 2,301 ■■□ 2,098 ■■□ 2,225 ■■□ 1,921 ■■■ 2,036 ■■□ emission factors. As a result of continued efforts to conserve Waste water '000m3 1,686 ■■□ 1,754 ■■□ 1,554 ■■□ 1,633 ■■□ 1,479 ■■■ 1,552 ■■□ Carbon dioxide emissions*6 energy, total CO 2 emissions from the core Group companies Direct CO 2 emissions (EN16)*7 t 14,354 ■■■ 14,546 ■■■ 14,538 ■■■ 14,802 ■■■ 16,134 ■■■ 16,317 ■■■ (MUFG total) declined from FY 2010 levels by approximately Indirect CO 2 emissions (EN16)*8 t 212,855 ■■■ 224,739 ■■■ 199,622 ■■■ 210,191 ■■■ 167,840 ■■■ 176,858 ■■■ 31,000 tons (13%) based on actual emission factors, and by Adjusted emission factors (EN16)*8 t 174,952 ■■■ 184,758 ■■■ 171,506 ■■■ 180,648 ■■■ 158,295 ■■■ 166,933 ■■■ Other indirect CO 2 emissions (EN17)*9 t 14,823 ■■□ 15,112 ■■□ 15,702 ■■□ 15,875 ■■□ 16,571 ■■□ 16,747 ■■□ approximately 11,000 tons (5%) based on adjusted emission Total CO2 emissions (actual emission factors) t 242,032 ■■■ 254,398 ■■■ 229,863 ■■■ 240,868 ■■■ 200,546 ■■■ 209,922 ■■■ factors. (Adjusted emission factors)*10 t 204,130 ■■■ 214,417 ■■■ 201,747 ■■■ 211,324 ■■■ 191,000 ■■■ 199,997 ■■■ CO2 emissions per unit of floor space In consideration of transparency, data is classified in accordance (actual emission factors) t/'000m2 111 111 102 103 90 91 with ISO 14064 (specifications for quantification and reporting (Adjusted emission factors)*10 t/'000m2 93 94 89 90 86 86 of greenhouse gas emissions and removals). To increase the Units: '000 m = thousand square meters; '000 m = thousand cubic meters; kl = kiloliters; '000 kWh = thousand kilowatt-hours; GJ = gigajoules; t = tons 2 3 reliability of disclosed content, this fiscal year we commissioned *1 Measurement totals include five companies: MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and * 6 CO 2 emission factors are presented based on the factors used in Japan's MUN. Data for MUMSS includes data for MUSHD, with the exception of energy Ministerial Ordinance Concerning Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Arising Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC to verify, based on the International consumption for employee travel and road transportation (EN29). from Business Activities of Specified Emitters. CO 2 emissions are categorized Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, that environ*2 The environmental numbers (EN) shown here indicate the performance indicators following the five greenhouse gas inventory components defined in ISO 14064 Part and protocols outlined in the 2006 Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting 1 ( Specification with guidance at the organization level for quantification and mental impact data and greenhouse gas emissions have been Institute (GRI). (www.globalreporting.org) reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals ). *3 Margins of error are indicated as follows: ■■■ indicates that highly accurate *7 CO 2 emissions associated with EN3 (direct energy consumption). correctly calculated in accordance with ISO 14064 standards. data have been collected from most offices (error within ±3%); ■■□ indicates *8 CO 2 emissions associated with EN4 (indirect energy consumption). Calculations that highly accurate data have been collected from major offices ( error within of CO 2 emissions from indirect purchases of energy through electricity are divided Going forward, we plan to expand further the measurement ±7.5%); ■□□ indicates a wider range of measurements and data requiring greater into two categories: those based on adjusted emission factors announced by each precision (error greater than 7.5%). electric power provider (which subtract Kyoto Protocol-related credits and other scope of environmental impact data and improve the accuracy of *4 In FY 2011, the total area of floor space occupied was 1,704,000 square meters adjustments based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures), such data. for MUFG and BTMU combined; 359,000 square meters for MUTB; 161,000 square and those based on actual (non-adjusted) emission factors. meters for MUMSS; and 94,000 square meters for MUN. *9 Includes CO 2 emissions from energy consumption associated with transporting *5 The coverage rate represents the percentage of floor space for which data is company officers and employees, including domestic travel by road (gasoline) and collected relative to the total floor space; this rate is used to calculate the weighted overseas air travel (EN29) and efficient water use (EN8). average of greenhouse gas emissions for each category of environmental impact *10 CO 2 emissions related to electricit y have been calculated using adjusted data. emission factors since FY 2009. MUFG CSR Report 2012 27 Environmental Policies and Initiatives Reducing Our Environmental Impacts facsimile machines, copiers, and other types of office equipment. printed materials distributed at branches. MUN has also replaced all of the company's beverage-vending ■ Reducing Waste BTMU MUTB MUMSS The MUFG Group is implementing plans for phasing in more machines with energy-saving models that use heat pumps. environmentally friendly equipment at its offices and sales The MUFG Group is working actively to separate and recycle ■ Carbon Offsets MUFG outlets. Efforts are also being made to reduce energy consumpwaste. BTMU's Head Office in Tokyo, Nagoya, and Osaka Environmental Policies and Initiatives tion and to cut CO2 emissions, including through reduced lighting The MUFG Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions have acquired ISO 14001 certification; these offices separate and discontinuing the use of extra elevators, promoting casual through energy conservation and other activities under its waste into 13 categories and recycle more than 90% of their attire in the summertime and changing the temperature settings environmental management systems, as well as by purchasing waste. for air conditioning and heating, and having staff turn off their emission credits to offset the greenhouse gas emissions associTo actively promote recycling, MUMSS sorts waste into six computers and monitors when they step away from their desks. ated with its operations. categories at its Mejirodai Building, and MUTB separates waste By 2009, BTMU and MUTB had acquired a combined 90,000 into 19 categories at its Head Office and 18 categories at its ■ Reducing CO2 Emissions MUFG tons of CO2 emission credits. Konan Building. BTMU is making an effort to utilize renewable energy, and MUMSS receives a portion of its compensation for CDM consulthas installed solar and wind power generation equipment for ing services in the form of emission credits, which are applied as ■ Leading the Banking Industry in Adopting BTMU MUTB its Nagoya Building. In addition, BTMU is working to reduce offsets. Use of Electric Vehicles electricity consumption by installing upgraded heating systems Meanwhile, MUN has introduced a program that allows customIn FY 2009, BTMU and MUTB became the first companies in and automatic lighting controls at each of its buildings. ers to take the points they earn from using their credit cards and Japan's banking industry to introduce electric vehicles for official MUTB is reducing energy consumption by installing energyexchange them for carbon offsets. business use. efficient lighting equipment and updating HVAC equipment and Currently over 20 electric vehicles are used at their offices and ■ Recycling Waste Cooking Oil MUMSS transformer equipment at its main buildings and branches. The branches. These eco-friendly vehicles (i-MiEVs) produce no CO2 company is also saving energy by increasing monitoring of energy MUMSS recycles cooking oil used in the cafeteria of its Mejiroemissions when operated, and have total emissions (including consumption at some of its main buildings. dai Building. The waste oil is collected by a waste processing CO 2 emissions from the electricity used for charging) that are Designed to realize major improvements in energy performance, company and converted into biodiesel fuel, an alternative to only 30% of the level of emissions from gasoline vehicles in the MUMSS's Mejirodai Building is equipped with technologies that petroleum-derived diesel for use in diesel engines. Biodiesel fuel same class. comply with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government's criteria for a is a clean energy source, largely free of the air pollutants (sulfur ■ Eco-Friendly Promotional Goods MUFG top-level facility, a facility that has made excellent or outstandoxides) that cause childhood asthma, atopic dermatitis, and other ing progress in the implementation of measures against global health problems. In the roughly one year since the cafeteria's The MUFG Group also gives consideration to the environment warming. opening, 0.4 tons of used cooking oil have been collected and all in connection to the promotional items that are presented to MUMSS is augmenting its ongoing energy conservation measures recycled. customers, by using PVC-free materials, and other measures. by joining the government's Cool Earth Day, an event held on MUMSS provides Blue Dolphin's Natural Soap (a 100% natural, ■ Reducing Paper Consumption MUFG July 7 (the date of Japan's traditional Tanabata festival); all additive-free soap) as an environmentally friendly promotional employees are encouraged to leave work by 6 p.m. to participate. The MUFG Group works to reduce the amount of copying paper item. This soap is made by a social services organization that MUN conserves energy by utilizing a universal plan office layout used in its offices, and also to recycle used paper. supports disabled persons to be independent, and is sold by a having no pillars or dividers in a space of 140 square meters. This To the extent possible, the Group is also switching to Forest non-profit organization that promotes an appreciation of the global leads to improved efficiency for air conditioning and lighting Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper and environmentally environment through awareness of dolphins and whales. systems, and allows employees to share a smaller number of friendly inks (such as vegetable-based ink) for brochures and MUFG CSR Report 2012 28 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Environmental Initiatives at Union Bank UB In early 2009, we committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions over five years by a total of 9% from a 2008 baseline. Our emissions are normalized on pounds of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2 -e) per square foot of real estate. In 2011, we Environmental Policies and Initiatives restated our baseline to account for acquisitions of two banks. Though our direct emissions from energy sources such as natural gas, propane, diesel fuel, and gasoline increased, overall we experienced a 3% decrease in emissions on our normalized square-footage basis compared to 2010. This was attributed largely to reducing our electricity consumption by nearly 4%, and our air travel by 15%. The reduction in emissions-per-square-foot was also achieved by adding more than 30,000 square feet of new real estate as a result of acquisition activity. Recent projects to reduce emissions and boost efficiency include lighting retrofits, window tinting, and upgrading our computer monitors with more efficient models. A three-month campaign during 2011 persuaded Union Bank customers to stop receiving traditional paper statements for more than 25,500 accounts, in favor of online-only electronic statements. The move saved considerable amounts of paper as well as energy needed to deliver the statements to mailboxes. And at 65 cents per statement to print and mail, the campaign helped save the bank almost $ 600,000 over the life of the accounts – more evidence that conservation is a winning proposition for everyone. In 2011, Union Bank brought the waste not, want not adage into the digital age. UList is a new internal message board where employees list overstock of office supplies, miscellaneous computer equipment, and other items that could be put to good use within the company. This prevents both unnecessary purchases and disposal of office supplies. In its first year, UList helped find new homes for more than 500 items, keeping them out of landfills and saving the bank an estimated $15,000 if the items had been newly purchased instead. MUFG CSR Report 2012 29 Environmental Policies and Initiatives BTMU Environmental Targets and Results MUTB Environmental Targets and Results MUMSS Environmental Targets and Results Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction of Copy Paper Use Reduction of Copy Paper Use Mediumto Reduce FY 2012 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% FY 2011 target at Manage the volume of copy paper used at the Established a system to reduce the quantity of F Y 2011 targets long term plan from the FY 2000 level. Head Office Head Office. copy paper used at the Mejirodai Building. Reduce FY 2011 greenhouse gas emissions by 5-15% Copy paper purchases for Head Office: Measured the volumes being used, which will Environmental Policies and Initiatives FY 2011 targets Results from the FY 2010 level. Approx. 273 tons (11.7% reduction compared to become the basis for implementing reduction F Y 2011 results previous fiscal year). measures, prepared the year-on-year comparison Achieved targets with thorough energy conservation database, and created the required systems. centered on lighting and air conditioning. Waste Recycling Results Head Office: 18% reduction (target was 15%) Reduction of Electricity Use Nagoya Building: 29% reduction (target was 10%) FY 2011 target at Implement waste sor ting programs at Head Osaka Building: 10% reduction (target was 5%) Head Office Office. Reduce FY 2011 CO2 gas emissions from electricF Y 2011 targets ity use from the previous year at MUMSS overall. Checked compliance with waste-sorting rules at Reducing and Greening Paper Consumption Results each Head Office division and office in August FY 2011 increase in CO 2 gas emissions of 3.9% F Y 2011 results Mediumto 2011 and February 2012. (rough estimate) from the previous year.* Reduce use of copy paper. long term plan * Because two buildings were temporarily being used simultaneously Reduction of Energy Use during the relocation of the Head Office. FY 2011 targets Reduce copy paper use by 5% compared to FY 2010. FY 2011 target at Implement program to reduce energy use at Achieved reduction of 5% with regular feedback on Head Office. MUN Environmental Impact Reduction Targets Head Office Results purchasing volumes and conser vation awareness Improving Our Green Procurement Ratio education. Made internal announcements on the use of air conditioning outside of business hours, by floor FY 2011 target at Achieve a green procurement ratio above 85%. Waste Reduction of the Head Office. Head Office Clearly indicated which switches control which Mediumto Firmly establish zero emissions efforts (a recycling rate lights in the offices of Head Office and promoted Achieved targets by completely purchasing long term plan of at least 95%). awareness about diligently turning off lights. Results goods that comply with the Act on Promoting Results Head O f fice energ y consumption ( crude oil Green Purchasing. FY 2011 targets Achieve a recycling rate of at least 95% for waste. equivalent): 4,198 kiloliters (reduction of 16.3% from previous fiscal year). Reduction of Copy Paper Use Achieved recycling rates of at least 9 5% through Head Office energy consumption per person Results careful sorting of waste: (crude oil equivalent): 1.091 kiloliters (reduction FY 2011 target at Reduce by 3% per person compared to FY 2010. Head Office: 97% of 16.6% from previous fiscal year). Head Office Nagoya Building: 98%; Osaka Building: 95% While the target for the Head Office was not Results achieved, MUN reduced copy paper use by 5.1% Prevention of Air Pollution from FY 2010 overall with double-sided printing, Mediumto layout printing, and display of how to use aggregate Work at reducing air pollution from vehicle emissions. printing and other functions on multifunction printers. long term plan Reduce number of sales vehicles; promote shift to Reduction of Electricity Use FY 2011 targets compact vehicles. FY 2011 target at Reduce by 3% per person compared to FY 2010. Reduced by about 40 vehicles and shifted to about 50 Head Office Results compact vehicles. Although the target was not achieved at the Head Office, MUN achieved a reduction of 12.8% overall Results from FY 2010 through efforts to reduce energy use in the summer and winter months. MUFG CSR Report 2012 30 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Environmental Accounting Information Table 1. Costs of Environmental Measures (Million yen) MUFG for Our Offices 2 periods prior Previous period Current period Environmental conservation costs The MUFG Group introduced and began announcing the results of enviCategory Details FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 compared to FY 2010*1 ronmental accounting from FY 2009, as part of environmentally Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense conscious business activities, for the quantitative management of envi1. Operations Area costs*2 1,640 745 2,935 1,488 7,448 3,651 4,513 2,163 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ronmental efforts. Table 1 (Costs of Environmental Measures) presents 1-1. Costs for pollution Costs for asbestos surveys, removal, prevention measurement and inspection, etc. 147 321 83 -238 the aggregate results for the costs of Group environmental measures. Investments: Installation of energy-efficient 1-2. Costs for addressing lighting and air conditioning equipment, etc. The MUFG Group measures and reports environmental impact data and Details global environmental Costs: Depreciation for energy-efficient 1,640 514 2,935 1,102 7,448 3,217 4,513*3 2,115 issues equipment, etc. greenhouse gas emissions quantities for all core Group companies. Table 1-3. Costs for reuse of Disposal of general and industrial waste 84 65 351 286*4 2 (Benefits of Environmental Measures) presents data regarding the resources 2. Upstream/downstream costs benefits of these environmental measures, including the consumption of Development/operation of environmental fuel, electricity and heat, and other factors, as well as CO2 emissions. 3. Costs for management management systems, environmental information 393 8 320 7 279 -1 -41 activities disclosure, etc. We aim to further enhance the Group's environmental measures and 4. Costs for research and development build upon the benefits, as demonstrated through this environmental Charitable contributions related to 5. Social activity costs 103 108 189 81 environmental conservation, etc. accounting, of the environmental actions taken by the Group's core com6. Environmental remediation panies. costs □ Period covered: April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012 Total 1,640 1,241 2,943 1,916 7,455 4,119 4,512 2,203 □ Companies included: Core Group companies (MUFG, BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS and MUN). Table 2. Benefits of Environmental Measures □ Accounting method: Based on Environmental Accounting Guide2 periods prior Previous period Current period Environmental benefits compared Category Environmental performance indicators*5 (Units) FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 to FY 2010*6 lines 2005, published by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. As for the method of calculation, the depreciation expenses on investCity gas '000 m 3 4,022 4,393 5,429 -1,035 ment amounts are included in expenses using the straight line method Oil kl 1,948 1,714 1,417 296 for a service life of five years (with no residual value). The service life is Kerosene kl 119 134 137 -4 Environmental benefits set at five years as the period during which repairs and improvements related to resource inputs Electricity '000 kWh 532,065 531,761 457,522 74,239 are required following the introduction of environmental equipment. for business activities Steam GJ 23,476 34,122 32,972 1,150 As for standards for the posting of compound costs, items related to environmental preservation are calculated following Environmental AccountCold water GJ 18,261 35,372 26,374 8,998 ing Guidelines 2005, published by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Tap water '000 m 3 2,301 2,225 2,036 190 Environmental benefits Actual CO 2 emissions based on GHG t-CO 2 254,398 240,868 209,922 30,947 *1 Values for FY 2010 are subtracted from those for FY 2011. Positive numbers indicate an emission factors related to goods and services increase in the cost associated with environmental measures. *2 Increased Operations Area costs resulted from installing energy-efficient equipment for produced through business activities Waste water '000 m 3 1,754 1,633 1,552 80 lighting and air conditioning at branches and company office buildings. *3 The investment amount is increasing with increased investment in energy conservation. Energy consumption associated with travel for *4 Increased because the range of waste products costs aggregated for BT MU was executives and employees: air travel '000 km 49,228 56,982 67,185 -10,203 expanded from the Head Office Building to include each branch and office. Other environmental (international routes) *5 Achieved values of the environmental performance indicators show the totals for core Group companies. benefits Energy consumption associated with road kl 3,626 3,615 3,537 79 *6 Values for FY 2010 are subtracted from those for FY 2011. Positive numbers indicate that travel for executives and employees: gasoline measures resulted in a decrease in volumes of inputs or emissions. MUFG CSR Report 2012 31 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Paperless Initiatives MUFG Environmentally Friendly Products and Services Recovery and Scholarship Fund. To reduce CO2 emissions by going paperless, BTMU has introMUN is working to expand its service by which customers can ■ Supporting Purchases of Eco-Friendly Homes BTMU MUTB duced Eco Bank Book and Eco Notification; these provide use the Internet to verify account statements that would normally BTMU and MUTB support the greater use of renewable energy account information to customers anywhere and at any time be sent by postal service. By reducing the amount of paper used by offering a reduction in interest from posted rates that apply to through the Internet. The Eco Bank Book provides access via for account statements, we can reduce CO2 emissions by about Environmental Policies and Initiatives each type of mortgage for a customer who builds or purchases personal computers and smartphones to up to 25 months of 500 grams per item mailed. an eco-friendly home meeting BTMU or MUTB criteria by having deposits and withdrawals, and also allows customers to save Also, a portion of costs saved by customers signing up to check a photovoltaic system installed, and so on. notes about transactions to assist them in managing their housetheir MUFG CARD statements online will be donated to public hold budgets. Because paper-based passbooks are not issued, interest incorporated foundations engaged in environmental ■ Environmentally Friendly Home Improvement Loans BTMU customers do not need to record transactions, and there is no protection. Responding to a growing awareness about climate change and need to worry about losing the passbook. Eco Notification is ■ Promoting SRI Funds MUFG other environmental issues, BTMU offers incentives such as prefa service through which online status updates are provided erential interest rates on home improvement loans for ecoby the bank, including notifications of mutual fund transactions Socially responsible investment (SRI) is a style of investing that friendly improvements. and the maturation of time deposits. When a new notification is helps create a better society by selecting corporations based not We offer financing at interest rates lower than 3%, with a 0.5% posted, an e-mail is sent to the registered e-mail address, allowonly on the conventional measures of growth and profitability, but reduction below posted rates for regular unsecured loans of Net ing the customer to efficiently manage the account and eliminatalso by considering their initiatives for the environment and DE Home Improvement Loans and Super Renovation Loans, ing any worries about unrecorded transactions. society, and so on. not only for eco-friendly projects like installing photovoltaic Through Internet banking, MUTB offers electronic delivery that The Mitsubishi UFJ Global Environmental Stock Fund (dubbed systems, but also projects such as barrier free renovations to allows customers to view various documents relating to investFuture Vision ) is an investment trust (SRI fund) that invests in make homes more people-friendly (as of August 2012). ment trust transactions that would otherwise sent by mail. One shares of companies making an effort to increase profits and benefit of this method is the reduction of environmental impacts, competitiveness while also seeing environmental solutions and ■ Offering a Service via Credit Cards MUN by eliminating the need to print and mail the documents, as they the resolution of environmental problems as business MUN offers a service in which customers can contribute to the can be received and saved by a personal computer. MUTB stores opportunities. It has been operating since July 2008. environment by using points accumulated with credit cards electronic versions of some paper pamphlets, such as prospec(MUFG CARD, DC, or NICOS). tuses for mutual funds being sold in branches, and has introduced Customers who select the Carbon Offset option can obtain 0.2 the capability to print and bind such booklets on demand using tons of CO 2 emission credits for every 200 points redeemed, copiers. This approach reduces the use of paper that would otherallowing them to support efforts under the Kyoto Protocol to wise have been wasted when branches had to dispose of surplus reduce emissions. pamphlets when revisions were made. Carbon offsetting is an approach to offset the CO 2 emissions MUMSS is working to expand a service that allows customers to from daily life and economic activities with emission reductions view electronically by Internet (in PDF format) about 60 types of achieved by activities such as clean energy development, forest documents the company sends out, including transaction stateprotection, tree planting, and so on. Meanwhile, by selecting the ments and account statements. From July through September Charity option, customers can convert each point into a donation 2012, we implemented an e-post sign-up campaign. For every of 5 yen to a volunteer organization engaged in environmental account signed up for this service during the campaign, we conservation or similar activities. donated 100 yen for the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake MUFG CSR Report 2012 32 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Supporting Funds-Procurement for The Ministry of the Environment's interest subsidy program mental certification, we also provide the Eco Stage Bond, a bankBTMU MUTB MUL Customers Promoting Environmental Efforts offers a maximum 1% interest subsidy for up to five years for the guaranteed private placement bond with reduced fees for bond BTMU and MUTB provide extensive support – from support for interest on loans made to install environmentally friendly equipissuance. planning environmental initiatives to the provision of financing – ment and facilities, provided the borrower has acquired a certain * Japan-specific environmental management standards administered by the Eco Stage Institute. for customers who engage in environmental businesses and for environmental rating, and has made a declaration to reduce CO2 ● CO2 Reduction Support Loan Environmental Policies and Initiatives customer initiatives that aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions and achieved results. Since 2009, MUTB has been offering CO 2 Reduction Support from business activities. ● Loans to Generate Emission Credits Loans, its own specially-developed product with preferential interTo support funds procurement, all branches are making use of BTMU and MUL have started offering Loans to Generate Emisest rates for customers that have made a Declaration to Reduce BTMU's strengths in the banking business by actively promoting sion Credits to support customers' investments in energy CO2 Emissions and wish to secure financing for environmental financing to meet the demand for capital expenditures required efficiency, by making use of Japan's Domestic Clean Developand other initiatives. The feature of this product is that if the cusfor facilities to contribute to energy conservation. In addition, the ment Mechanism. The first of its kind in Japan, this product tomer is unable to reduce emissions as much as originally Environmental Finance Office broadly supports initiatives to install works when emission credits are issued after a certain energydeclared, money deposited at the outset into each segregated energy efficient equipment for customers' factory construction, saving effect results from capital investments under these account will be donated to an environmental cause. This arrangeoffice buildings, retail stores, and so on. loans, and MUL then purchases those emissions (one year's ment allows the customer to publicly demonstrate its commitMUTB also offers environmental financing schemes to support worth) at market prices. In August 2011, this product was used ment to CO2 emission reductions. corporate efforts to address climate change. when Meijo Shokuhin Co. (Aichi Prefecture) converted to ■ Financial Services for Environmental Businesses MUL ● Environmental Management Support Loans energy-efficient boilers at factories in two locations (Shiga PreBTMU works with Mitsubishi UFJ Research & Consulting to fecture, Yamaguchi Prefecture). Once the new boilers begin MUL provides total support for achieving business plans by evaluate environmental management initiatives of corporate cusoperating, an annual CO 2 emission reduction of 1,000 tons is offering finance services to customers engaged in energy contomers, and depending on the results, can offer Environmental expected, and sales of the resulting credits can reduce actual servation and renewable energy. Besides providing corporate Management Support Loans (CSR type) to finance them. When financing costs by about one million yen. This is an innovative financing, we also offer diverse financial services that match this program began in April 2011, a financing agreement was initiative, being a financing product that incorporates the projects and operations, such as by using project financing signed with transportation services company Nippon Yusen purchase of emission credits that have been created as a part of methods that rely on profitability and stability. Kabushiki Kaisha (NYK Line) after an evaluation of its environmena support scheme. The MUFG Group will continue working to ■ Carbon Offset Businesses MUL tal management vision and technical initiatives to address climate support environmental investments by mediumand smallchange. enterprise customers, by enhancing these kinds of initiatives to MUL offers the Offset Partner Service (a trust service for Also, through this type of financing, we promote the use of Envipromote new environmental investment. carbon offsets) to support from procurement to management of ronmental Management Support Loans (1% interest subsidy ● ECO Accreditation Support Loans carbon offsets. This service supports customers' environmental type) that make use of Japan's Ministry of the Environment's BTMU is developing products and services that support smallinitiatives in a variety of scenarios, such as development of interest subsidy program for financing businesses that encourage and medium-sized enterprises working to reduce their impacts on products that come with carbon emission credits and provision of environment friendly management. In January and February the environment. We offer ECO Accreditation Support Loans, carbon offsets for exhibition events and manufacturing plants. 2012, financing was provided for a wide range of companies that which provide 100,000 yen in financing to cover a portion of Our Carbon Natural Leases (leases bundled with carbon attained environmental ratings for having progressive environaccreditation costs of customers who have already acquired or emission credits) offset the CO2 that will be emitted in connecmental management and acceptable initiatives, including Daikan are working to acquire ISO 14001, EcoAction 21, or some other tion with the lease using carbon emission credits. Customers (Osaka Prefecture), Mitsuba Corporation (Gunma Prefecture), type of environmental certification. For smalland medium-sized can, in effect, be engaged in environmental activities without Kagetsudo (Aichi Prefecture), and Technoflex (Tokyo). enterprise customers that have acquired Eco Stage* environhaving to do the cumbersome paperwork or accounting. MUFG CSR Report 2012 33 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Various Services MUTB MUL ● ESCO Services In July 2010, MUL was authorized as an issuer of Tradable Green The MUFG Group is engaged in a variety of other initiatives and Energy service company (ESCO) projects can assist large Certificates, and launched a Tradable Green Certification service, services to address climate change. consumers of energy—including buildings, factories, hotels, by which MUL purchases from a customer the environmental ● Eco-Custody hospitals and other facilities—to achieve greater energy value of the renewable energy generated from the use of photoEco-Custody is the term MUTB uses to describe its real-estate efficiency. An ESCO project provides a package of services voltaic equipment leased to the customer. MUL is using these Environmental Policies and Initiatives related environmental initiatives for corporate customers. Activi(which can include energy audits, planning, facilities upgrades, acquired Tradable Green Certificates for green leases, which ties in this area are expanding. and validation of results) that achieve reductions in environmental connect customers who want to invest in the environment with In addition to our existing eco-custody initiatives for buildings that impacts while also reducing costs. Because all of the costs assocustomers who want to reduce CO 2 emissions by using green were entrusted from owners, in collaboration with partner corpociated with an ESCO project, including upgrading of facilities, can power. rations, we provide support to customers, such as suggesting be recouped through future reductions in energy costs resulting CO 2 emission reductions and energy-saving actions for office from improved energy efficiency, ESCO projects can allow buildings they own, and actions to comply with environmental companies to achieve their environmental conservation and other regulations, including Japan's Law Concerning the Rational Use goals without the need to invest new funds. Moreover, once an of Energy, and the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security ESCO project achieves its return on investment, the savings Ordinance. resulting from reduced energy costs become a source of profit for ● Social Contribution-Style Shareholder Benefits Service the customer company (minus maintenance and management (Eco SBS) costs). MUTB offers corporate customers who use stock transfer One feature of ESCO projects is that they do not seek any addiagency services the option of adding a Social Contribution-Style tional outlays by the customer company even in cases when a Shareholder Benefits Service (Eco SBS) to their menu of benefits project's effectiveness in reducing energy consumption falls short that shareholders themselves can choose. This offering allows of the original plans. Also, because of their comprehensive shareholders to act on their desire to make a contribution to approach, ESCO projects can take advantage of a diverse suite of society by choosing Make a donation for environmental consertools and approaches, including subsidy programs established by vation as a shareholder benefit. various countries, thus reducing the overall investment required. ● Used Equipment Sales Business MUL was one of the first companies in Japan to undertake ESCO Taking advantage of being a leasing company that deals with projects and is recognized for its top-class performance in this physical assets in the course of daily business, MUL is aware of field, having been involved in 398 ESCO projects so far (as of its various roles and responsibilities relating to topics such as March 31, 2012). waste reduction, and has for years been trading in used equip● Green Leases and Tradable Green Certification Services ment. For example, office equipment is reused and recycled A green lease is a leasing service that covers a portion of the electhrough MUL Eco-Business Co., Ltd., which has a complete tricity consumed by leased equipment, by using green electricity in-house system for secure data destruction, and approaches generated using natural energy sources that have a low environzero emissions* in its operations. mental impact, such as wind or solar power. Customers can easily * Zero emissions refers to systems in society that employ reuse and various other means to result use green power by applying Tradable Green Certificates to their in almost no net emissions or waste. lease contracts, thereby certifying the environmental value of the renewable energy used. MUFG CSR Report 2012 34 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ CDM Consulting Activities MUMSS ment. MUMSS will continue to support CDM registration of this In the wind sector, BTMU has taken leading roles on a number of The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is a market mechaproject activity. transactions globally. For example we acted as the financial advisor nism defined in Article 12 of the Kyoto Protocol, which was and mandated lead arranger of the 270MW Lincs Offshore wind ■ Bilateral Offset Credit Mechanism MUMSS adopted under the United Nations Framework Convention on farm project*1 in the United Kingdom; mandated lead arranger for Climate Change (UNFCCC). Under the CDM, a developed country The 17th Conference of the Parties (COP17) to the United the 272MW Seigneurie de Beaupré wind farms*2 in North America Environmental Policies and Initiatives with a greenhouse gas emission reduction target provides techniNations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and are currently acting as finance arranger on the 52.5MW Hallett cal or financial assistance to greenhouse gas emission mitigation held in November and December 2011 in Durban, Republic of 5 wind farm project*3 in Australia. The Seigneurie de Beaupré projprojects to promote sustainable development in a developing South Africa, agreed to work toward the development of a new ect was awarded, the Americas Renewable Deal of the Year*4 country. The United Nations then certifies the resulting greenlegal framework that would involve all of the countries of the award in 2011. house gas emissions reductions, and the developed country is world after 2020. Currently, various international negotiations are In the biomass sector, BTMU acted as the coordinating lead allowed to count the emission credits as its own reductions. underway. The Japanese government has proposed internationarranger of financing for the 100MW Gainesville Renewable Energy Know-how in CDM procedures and expertise in methodologies to ally that its Bilateral Offset Credit Mechanism (BOCM) serve as a Center plant*5 which is the largest of its kind in the United States. calculate emission reductions is essential for successful implemennew mechanism to supplement the existing Kyoto Mechanisms. This was one of the first large-scale biomass power generation tation of a project under CDM scheme. Since FY 2010, the Japanese government has sought proposals projects financed which presented a number of unique challenges, MUMSS became engaged early on in providing CDM consulting for support under its Feasibility Studies Program for Establishing but with the contribution of BTMU the transaction will now provide services, and has been involved in over 100 projects so far, includBilateral Offset Mechanisms ; MUMSS has been involved in a template for financing future biomass energy projects. ing a biomass power project in Kandal Province in Cambodia that more than 20 related projects so far. In the solar sector, BTMU has financed several projects in Europe, utilizes waste rice husks as fuel; 63 of these projects (as of June The BOCM can support activities in many different sectors, and Middle East and United States using both photovoltaic and concen2012) have been registered by the United Nations. efforts are underway to make use of the BOCM for activities in trated solar thermal technology. For example we acted as man● Rural Electrification Projects in the Kingdom of Bhutan sectors including streamlining urban transport, energy-saving dated lead arranger for the 100MW Shams 1 concentrated solar One of the more recent CDM projects by MUMSS is the rural buildings and appliances, and water-saving sanitary equipment power project*6 in Abu Dhabi which was the first large-scale electrification by grid extension in the Kingdom of Bhutan. With that have been difficult to support under the existing CDM framerenewable independent power producer in the Middle East. a pledge to electrify all households in the country by 2013, the work, as well as to mobilize the know-how acquired through The active involvement of BTMU and Union Bank in these and Government of the Kingdom of Bhutan is undertaking this rural participating in the CDM to advance global warming solutions on other projects resulted in us being the world's largest provider of electrification project with support of the official development a global scale in ways that will benefit both Japan and the develproject finance debt to renewable energy projects in 2011.*7 assistance (ODA) provided by the governments of Japan and oping countries. Renewable energy remains a core element of our global project other countries. The project aims at reducing fossil fuel consumpfinance strategy and we intend to continue to use our extensive ■ Project Finance for Renewable Energy BTMU tion and greenhouse gas emissions by supplying renewable experience and expertise to supporting the ongoing growth and electricity from hydroelectric power plants to non-electrified Countries and governments around the world are initiating steps to global development of sustainable and renewable energy. areas in the Kingdom of Bhutan. support the growth of renewable energy sources as clean energy *1 The Lincs Offshore Wind Farm is under construction off the east coast of Lincolnshire, England, and is scheduled to generate electricity from 2012. (Total financing GBP1 billion/over equivalent US$1.5 billion). For this project, MUMSS developed a novel CDM methodology, alternatives to fossil fuels. BTMU is a proactive supporter in the *2 The Seigneurie de Beaupré wind farms are under construction in Quebec, Canada, and are planned to become operational in 2013. (Total financing US$725 million). which was approved by the United Nations in March 2012. By global development of renewable energy through its role as a proj*3 Construction of the Hallett 5 wind farm was completed in March 2012. (Total costs of A$129 million). *4 The award for Americas Renewable Deal of the Year is presented by the Project Finance International utilizing its abundant hydropower resources for domestic electrifiect finance lender and provider of other financing services. Renew(PFI) by Thomson Reuters. *5 The Gainesville Renewable Energy Center is a large-scale biomass plant under construction in Florida, cation of the regions that lack electricity, the Kingdom of Bhutan able sectors where BTMU and its group companies, including United States, and is planned to become operational in 2013. (Total financing US$394 million). *6 The Shams 1 CSP (concentrated solar power) station under construction in Abu Dhabi, the United will be able to promote energy self-sufficiency with renewable Union Bank in the United States, have provided debt finance Arab Emirates, is planned to become operational in 2012. (Total financing US$634 million). *7 World ranking according to PFI research. energy, thereby contributing to the country's sustainable developinclude wind, solar and biomass power generation. MUFG CSR Report 2012 35 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ The Wild Bird and Greenery Trust Fund ■ MUFG Seminar on Energy-Saving Business BTMU MUL MUTB for Environmental Conservation For corporate customers who are aware of market concerns MUTB created the Wild Bird and Greenery Trust fund as a finanabout the stability of the energy supply and possible increases cial vehicle to support environmental conservation activities; in energy costs in the context of power supply-related issues in income from this trust fund is donated to a public interest incorpoJapan, we organized the MUFG Seminar on Energy-Saving Environmental Policies and Initiatives rated foundation, the Wild Bird Society of Japan. When payments Business for electrical contractors and customers involved in are made to this society, MUTB provides a matching contribution the manufacture and wholesaling of energy efficient equipment from its own funds (a minimum of 500,000 yen, and maximum of who want to expand the sales promotion and marketing chan2.5 million yen, semi-annually), further meeting our customers' nels for their equipment. desire to protect the environment. As of March 2012, the trust At the seminars, BTMU, MUL, and the Mitsubishi Research fund's contract balance was 243.8 million yen. In FY 2011, donaInstitute introduced topics such as general energy conservation tions from the trust fund and matching donations from MUTB trends in the corporate world, the possibility of future increases totalled 1.11 million yen. in energy costs, energy service company (ESCO) projects and ● Bird Sanctuary Created for Red-crowned Crane Habitat emission credits, ways to incorporate subsidies into leasing In March 2008, MUTB contributed funds to the Wild Bird Society arrangements, and ways to make use of environmental financof Japan to acquire land to permanently protect from development ing. In the future we will continue to work in an integrated way the nesting grounds of the red-crowned crane (also known as the in the MUFG Group to help expand opportunities for companies Japanese crane) in Japan. The society purchased a 34.9-hectare in the energy conservation business. parcel of wetlands in Nemuro City, Hokkaido, and established the Wild Bird Society of Japan–MUTB Rakuyo Bird Sanctuary. ■ Briefings on METI Subsidy Programs BTMU MUL BTMU organized briefings, in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka, on METI subsidies under two programs, one to promote siting of lowcarbon job-creating industries and the other to support strategic basic technology advancement, which encourages corporations to invest in environmental businesses. Regional Bureaus of Economy, Trade and Industry, the accreditation organizations, provided an outline of each program and explained the key requirements for a project to be certified under the programs. Also, BTMU provided an overview of trends in environmental and energy conservation, while MUL explained key points about energy conservation subsidies and how to make use of them. With all three venues combined, a total of 113 companies attended the briefings. We will continue to share useful government information. MUFG CSR Report 2012 36 Environmental Policies and Initiatives ■ Environmental Accounting— Value of Environmental Impact Reductions Achieved through Financing (Annualized Basis)*2 Environmental Finance Projects by Type, 2004-2011 BTMU Line and scale on right indicate CO2 emission reductions (Thousand tons CO2) Finance to Reduce Environmental Impacts as portion of environmental impacts. Types of Environmental 3,969 3,763 3,802 Finance Projects BTMU indirectly supports activities that reduce impacts on the environment 3,568 (Million yen) Monetary value CO2 reduction by financing customers' environmentally friendly projects. To determine the 2,940 Alternative energy reduction amount (%) amount (%) 3,000 400 (wind power, etc.) extent to which the financed activities reduce impacts on the environment, 2,619 396.9 7% 1% 1% 8% Environmental Policies and Initiatives 371.0 375.8 we also estimate the economic value of these reductions by identifying the Recycling 2,000 351.0 300 (construction debris, etc.) 7% 314.7 reduced environmental impacts of substances, including CO2. 1,503 17% 293.6 Proper processing Our assessments of the benefits of environmentally friendly projects have and disposal of waste 1,000 200 (landfills, etc.) 45% 26% 58% covered the installation of alternative energy equipment such as wind power, Installation of energyefficient equipment/materials 30% recycling facilities for industrial waste, factories or facilities such as melting 500 158.7 100 (electrical parts, materials, etc.) furnaces and landfills with proper waste processing, installation of energyInstallation of energyefficient equipment/materials saving equipment and materials at factories and other buildings, and the 0 0 Before FY 2005 FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 (shopping malls, construction of energy-efficient buildings. *2 Reductions in value of environmental impacts and for CO2 are based on facilities' operations plans. office buildings, etc.) To ensure the transparency of the estimation process, BTMU's environmental assessments follow the ISO 14040 series of standards for lifecycle assessEstimated Reduction and Monetary Value ment, through which we can identify the reduction of environmental impacts Cumulative CO2 Reduction*3 Cumulative Monetary Value*4 as a result of designing projects to be more environmentally friendly. As an Type (thousand tons/year) (million yen/year) example of the methodology used, in the case of equipment that use alternaFY Before 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Before 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2004 2004 tive energy, the reduced environmental impact resulting from the equipment CO 2 2.7 158.7 293.6 314.7 351.0 371.0 375.8 396.9 19 1,111 2,055 2,203 2,457 2,597 2,630 2,779 introduction is represented by the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, NOx 0.006 0.083 0.145 0.208 0.357 0.375 0.377 0.384 16 208 361 520 892 937 942 961 Subs tanc e compared to emissions from conventional power generation equipment. SOx 0.008 0.048 0.071 0.081 0.099 0.113 0.115 0.122 0 2 3 3 4 5 5 5 To estimate the reduced environmental impact in monetary terms, BTMU COD 0.007 0.007 0.007 0.010 0.010 0.012 0.012 0.012 34 34 38 50 50 60 60 60 uses evaluation coefficients from the Maximum Abatement Cost Method,*1 Total 0.009 0.009 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 145 147 162 164 164 164 164 164 Nitrogen estimated from reduction measures currently being taken in Japan for Total 213 1,503 2,619 2,940 3,568 3,763 3,802 3,969 substances that have environmental impacts. *3 Reduction: Total amount of reduction (thousand tons/year) for each substance reduced by environmentally friendly projects (fiscal year totals). Cumulative CO2 emission reductions in FY 2011 amounted to 396,900 tons, about *4 Monetary Value: Reduction amount (thousand tons/year) x coefficient of Maximum Abatement Cost Method (thousand yen/ton). 90% greater than the MUFG Group's CO2 emissions of 209,900 tons (based on Estimated Value of Environmental Impacts (Evaluation Coefficients for Maximum Abatement Cost Method) GHG emission factors) in FY 2011. The cumulative benefit of the economic value of environmental impact reductions in FY 2011 amounted to 3.969 billion yen. This was Substance Coefficient Methodology for Estimation of Coefficients (thousand yen/ton) achieved by efforts to reduce the quantity of substances that have environmental CO 2 7 Highest-cost measures required to achieve targets under the Kyoto Protocol impacts, and means that it would cost 3.969 billion yen to obtain the same benefit. BTMU will continue to contribute to environmentally conscious projects of our customNOx 2,500 Estimated from costs of Automobile NOx Law ers, and at the same time will strive to quantify the reduction of use of substances that SOx 43 Estimated from flue gas desulfurization costs for thermal power plants have environmental impacts and to calculate economic benefits of these efforts. COD 5,100 Estimated from wastewater treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) *1 Maximum Abatement Cost Method: Oka, T., M. Ishikawa, Y. Fujii, G. Huppes. 2005. Calculating Cost-effectiveness for Activities with Multiple Environmental Effects Using the Total Nitrogen 16,745 Estimated from wastewater treatment costs for Lake Biwa (Japan) Maximum Abatement Cost Method, Journal of Industrial Ecology 9(4):97-103. MUFG CSR Report 2012 37 Employee Policies and Initiatives ■Number of Hires*1 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Main Career Track 530 350 5 07 578 Employee Policies and Initiatives The Bank of Main Career Track (specific) 1,0 3 3 15 9 10 4 15 8 Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Area-Specific Track 147 24 5 5 91 Total 1, 5 6 3 656 856 1, 327 Track G 18 3 17 7 147 14 4 We strive to create work environments that foster an effective approach towards work. Mitsubishi UFJ Employee Policies and Initiatives Track B 18 9 191 10 3 56 Trust and Banking Total 372 368 25 0 20 0 Main Career Track 23 8 84 14 8 47 Basic Policies and Structures Mitsubishi UFJ Regional Track 18 3 48 50 0 Morgan Stanley Securities Total 421 132 19 8 47 The MUFG Group believes that higher employee satisfaction is reflected in work performance, and leads to increased Females among new hires for 27.7% 31. 9 % customer satisfaction. The Group also believes that employees' job fulfillment is reflected in society and at home, fosterMain Career Track*2 Main Career 52 42 20 28 ing better communities. Based on these beliefs, we listen to employees' ideas to create more fulfilling workplaces. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Regular Service 10 3 70 0 20 ■Status of Employees (new criteria) FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 *1 These join the company on April 1 each fiscal year (only new graduates). *2 There were 41 female Main Career Track employees in FY 2010 and 15 in FY 2011. Number of Employees*1 3 3, 827 3 4, 9 02 3 4,797 3 5, 4 8 0 Of these, overseas local hires 5, 3 6 7 5, 5 32 6,0 8 4 6, 814 ■Number of Employees Using Support Systems and Leave FY 2010 FY 2011 The Bank of Contract employees 2,0 5 3 2,0 0 8 2,0 0 0 1, 8 9 6 Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Temporary employees*2 17, 224 14, 3 92 12,79 5 12, 262 Childcare leave 1, 312 ( 23 3 men ) 1, 5 0 3 (19 8 men ) Average age 37 yrs. 8 mo. 37 yrs. 6 mo. 37 yrs. 10 mo. 38 yrs. 1 mo. Shorter work hours for childcare 514 654 The Bank of Average years of continuous service 14 yrs. 10 mo. 14 yrs. 6 mo. 14 yrs. 9 mo. 14 yrs. 11 mo. Nursing care leave 116 ( 25 men ) 131 ( 24 men ) Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Number of employees*3 7,0 6 9 7,14 4 7,0 9 0 6, 9 9 9 Relocation recruitment system 89 79 Of these, contract salespersons 887 858 821 74 9 Family care leave 20 16 Mitsubishi UFJ Of these, overseas local hires 212 212 20 6 214 Childcare leave 15 8 ( 3 men ) 178 Trust and Banking Temporary employees 2,127 1, 9 6 3 1,6 76 1, 471 Shorter work hours 96 137 Average age*4 40 yrs. 5 mo. 40 yrs. 4 mo. 40 yrs. 6 mo. 40 yrs. 8 mo. Mitsubishi UFJ Subsidy for childcare expenses 212 20 8 Average years of continuous service 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 5 mo. 15 yrs. 8 mo. Trust and Banking Use of maiden name 101 120 Number of employees*3 6,732 6,75 0 6, 5 8 7 4,707 Employees in the Job Challenge system 46 44 Of these, overseas local hires*5 3 4 0 0 Mitsubishi UFJ Childcare leave 74 ( 2 men ) 13 8 ( 3 men ) Temporary employees Avg. 998 Avg. 349 Avg. 191 Avg. 187 Morgan Stanley Securities Mitsubishi UFJ Shorter work hours for childcare 99 112 Average age 38 yrs. 10 mo. 38 yrs. 9 mo. 39 yrs. 7 mo. 39 yrs. 10 mo. Morgan Stanley Securities Family care leave 0 0 Average years of continuous service 11 yrs. 10 mo. 12 yrs. 1 mo. 13 yrs. 1 mo. 12 yrs. 8 mo. Relocation requests*1 14 3 Number of employees*6 3,6 92 3,732 3,742 3, 420 *1 Total for fiscal year. Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS Average age 38 yrs. 0 mo. 38 yrs. 4 mo. 38 yrs. 8 mo. 38 yrs. 9 mo. Average years of continuous service 14 yrs. 0 mo. 14 yrs. 4 mo. 15 yrs. 1 mo. 15 yrs. 2 mo. *1 Does not include executive officers, excludes BTMU employees seconded to other companies, includes employees of other companies seconded to BTMU. *2 Includes temporary staff. *3 Does not include executive officers. *4 Excludes executive officers, employees seconded from other companies and employees hired by overseas subsidiaries. *5 Employees hired by the Beijing office. *6 Does not include executive officers or seconded employees. MUFG CSR Report 2012 38 Employee Policies and Initiatives ■ Expanding Maternity and Childcare Support Programs MUMSS Promoting Work-Life Balance employees' family members were invited to see their parents working at the office. Children visited their parents' workplace MUMSS continues to expand its programs supporting the work■ Certification under the Act on Advancement of where they had a rare chance to see and practiced exchanging life balance of its employees. Recent efforts aimed at creating a MUFG Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children business cards. Friendly welcome parties hosted by each division family-friendly work system include the expansion of the system The MUFG Group has obtained certification under the Act on drew particular excitement from the children. By holding events allowing employees to shorten their working hours to allow more Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation like this, MUN hopes to raise employees' families' understanding time for childcare, adding partially paid childcare leave, and introEmployee Policies and Initiatives Children. Employers satisfying certain requirements, such as of the company, strengthen ties between them, and raise ducing a new leave program to support parents who have having a proper employer action plan in place and supporting the employees' enthusiasm towards their work. children entering elementary school. work-life balance of employees, are able to obtain certification ■ Programs to Support Employees' Return to Work ■ Childcare Support BTMU MUN from the directors general of prefectural labor departments. Going forward, the MUFG Group will continue to provide additional supBTMU has introduced an Internet-based educational program In FY 2010, MUN introduced a Return to Work Program comprising port to enable employees to balance work and family life. called wiwiw to help employees on childcare leave ease back into at-home learning and a class upon their return to work for employwork life. The company also offers diversity management training ees taking childcare or family care leave. This program helps these ■ Merihari Work & Life BTMU for heads of branches and offices to learn methods for developing employees maintain their skills and feel confident upon returning to BTMU is carrying out a program to further enhance the work-life and managing a diverse workforce that includes working mothers. work when their period of leave ends. In addition, to support balance of employees. Named the Merihari Work & Life (meaning diverse working styles, the scope of employees considered to be ■ Work-Life Balance 10 Personnel System MUTB Improve work efficiency and balance and Reduce working hours ) raising children was expanded to include an individual with a child Campaign, this program aims to promote lively working styles by adding To further promote a good work-life balance for its employees, MUTB up until the end of the fiscal year when the child is in the third grade tips and improvements to what are already highly-productive working has established a personnel system called Work-Life Balance 10. of elementary school. The half-day leave program was expanded to styles and efficient uses of time. Going home signs (Kaeru Fuda) were This system consists of ten components combined into one overall allow employees to take a half-day off up to 20 times per year. distributed to offices and branches that requested the signs, and using program: ■ Reduction of Working Hours MUN the signs, employees could announce the time that they planned to 1. Expanded childcare leave system (2 weeks of paid leave) finish work and go home. A number of offices are serving as model 2. Shorter work hours system (up to 3 hours) MUN promotes employees' work-life balance by reducing long working offices to show how work can be carried out more efficiently. 3. Hospital care leave system (one paid day of leave per month) hours, and encouraging employees to take consecutive days of paid 4. Subsidy for childcare expenses annual leave. In addition to promoting a No Overtime Day once each ■ Childcare Leave with Partial Pay BTMU MUTB 5. Interview on return from childcare leave week at all company offices, all employees are encouraged to leave In response to requests by male employees to take childcare 6. Voluntary flex-time system early on July 7 in conjunction with Cool Earth Day and on bonus leave and be involved in raising their children, BTMU allows male 7. Re-Challenge Plan (rehiring program) payment days, and to go home early all week long for the Japanese employees to take up to 10 days of paid childcare leave, while 8. Use of maiden name traditional annual Obon holidays before and after August 15, and two MUTB offers male employees up to two weeks of paid childcare 9. Training to increase knowledge and awareness (e-learning) weeks in November in association with Family Week. In addition, leave. These options encourage male employees to take child10. Implementation of knowledgeand awareness-raising programs MUN has established a system for employees to take five consecutive care leave, as part of the MUFG Group's efforts to create a corpoIn recognition of these efforts, under the Ministry of Health, Labour days of paid annual leave each year, as well as anniversary leave, rate culture conducive to realizing work-life balance. and Welfare's Corporate Achievement Awards for Supporting Gender which encourages employees take paid leave on private anniversaries. Equality and Work-Life Balance, in FY 2010 MUTB was given the In FY 2011, 97.9% of employees took five consecutive days of paid ■ Family Visit Day MUN Minister's Awards of Excellence for both promoting equality in the annual leave. As a result, 66.3% of overall annual leave days (12.5 days) In August 2011, MUN held Family Visit Day, an event where workplace, and for being a family-friendly company. were taken in FY 2011. MUFG CSR Report 2012 39 Employee Policies and Initiatives ■ Dialogue with Corporate Directors MUFG Offering an Open Workplace health. The MUFG Group creates opportunities for corporate directors MUTB has established the Employees Counselors Division, ■ Listening to Our Employees MUFG and employees to speak directly and work to incorporate employwhich works with medical advisors and counselors to promote In FY 2011, the MUFG Group in Japan again utilized intranet ees' opinions into company management. the physical and mental health of employees. The offices work to systems to gather opinions from employees and conduct At MUMSS, senior managers have posted To All Employees maintain employee health, for example, by launching counseling employee satisfaction surveys in order to ensure that employees' messages on the company intranet since April 2011. The intranet services, offering health advice based on routine medical exams, Employee Policies and Initiatives opinions are reflected in both operations and company systems. also serves as a tool for two-way communications, as employees and providing health-related information. BTMU has introduced a system on its intranet called OPEN are able to respond to these messages through the intranet. At the Health Promotion Division of MUMSS, medical doctors which provides a channel for employees to share their opinions and occupational health nurses provide healthcare support to ■ Customer Service Week MUN anonymously or using their real names. As part of employee and employees based on the results of routine medical exams, and staff satisfaction surveys, in principle, once each year an anonyMUN holds a Customer Service Week once a year. In FY 2011, also work to improve the working environment by meeting with mous survey of all employees in Japan is conducted for the each workplace engaged in a discussion about workplace comemployees about overwork, and managing the Health Commitpurpose of developing corporate culture. munication and ways to earn customer trust, making use of the tee. The Health Promotion Division also publishes a newsletter, MUTB conducts an annual employee satisfaction survey (ES activity to share personal thoughts and observations and encourlends audio CDs for relaxation and otherwise disseminates useful Survey) of all its employees in Japan. Survey results and employage the translation of ideas into action. As examples of activities, information about managing and improving one's health, as well ees' opinions are communicated to management and employees members of senior management strengthened communication as information on how to combat new influenza pandemics. With alike in order to build a shared understanding, and are also used to with employees by visiting offices to express their constant respect to mental health, professional counseling is provided by improve the working environment. appreciation for employees' work, and heads of branches and clinical psychologists who work closely with physicians, and MUTB plans to continually make improvements around issues offices delivered handwritten thank you cards. employees are encouraged to become more aware of mental that are raised by the survey. health issues through activities such as managerial-level trainings ■ Utilizing Customers' Compliments MUN MUMSS maintains an Opinion Box via the company intranet and seminars open to all employees. which gives employees a way to express their ideas and Since January 2011, MUN has been including compliments from At MUN, a full-time supervising medical advisor in the head office requests. The relevant departments consider these ideas and customers in monthly pay stubs to give employees the gratificaworks closely with part-time medical advisors in offices throughproposals, and management responses are communicated to tion that comes with satisfying customers and also to have out the country. Follow-up measures after medical exams, employees. In addition, an employee satisfaction survey is conemployees' families better understand and feel more familiar with mental healthcare, meetings with employees about overwork, ducted, with the results utilized by management and to improve the company and its services. MUN will continue making efforts and other measures are used to promote employee health manthe corporate culture. to increase the level of understanding and satisfaction of employagement. Through both a checklist that allows employees to MUN has been conducting an employee awareness survey ees and their family members. determine the degree of their accumulated fatigue, as well as (morale survey) that targets all employees, including part-time through the company bulletin, employees are educated about the ■ Employee Health Promotion MUFG and temporary staffers since FY 2008. A comparative analysis of importance of proactively managing their own health. the most recent survey with past surveys helps the company Four BTMU offices (the Marunouchi Head Office and the Otemamonitor changes in awareness. The survey also helps identify chi, Nagoya, and Osaka Buildings) are equipped with Health Conunresolved issues and shape future policy decisions, the results sultation Offices, where they work with doctors and counselors of which are shared with all managers and employees. to help employees with any mental health issues they face. The health consultation offices also send a monthly newsletter to employees containing information about physical and mental MUFG CSR Report 2012 40 Employee Policies and Initiatives Developing Human Resources Instructors manage the development of young employees on an based on the Job Challenge (an in-house recruitment system) for all ongoing basis from the hiring stage and across all divisions by providemployees who wish to change their careers in the company and the ■ Enhancing Training Programs MUFG ing mentorship and, when needed, on-the-job training support. Post Challenge system for managerial-level employees. As part of BTMU divides human resources development for all employees into Since FY 2011, MUN has been working to restructure its human the Job Challenge system, MUTB offers the Global Challenge two main categories, one being personal capacity, and the other skills resources development framework, an effort that led to the creation Course for employees to transfer to overseas offices and domestic and expertise. While human resources development is based on of an internal institute for the training of all MUN employees called offices that require foreign language ability. There have been cases of Employee Policies and Initiatives reinforcement through daily work, in order to bolster the personal MUN Academy. The academy helps employees change their awareemployees hired as area-specific employees transferring to overseas capacity of employees, training is implemented on a company-wide ness and behavior on their own by providing a variety of educational offices to take on new responsibilities at branches and offices. In FY basis according to rank. In addition, skills-training programs are programs focused on three key metrics: expertise, strategy, and 2010, as part of MUTB's efforts to help employees build their careers, provided for each division, with the aim of raising the level of employpersonal capacity. the Active Career Challenge System was established, putting in ees' skills and expertise, which are necessary in order to provide place a framework whereby employees can choose how they want to ■ Preparing Ourselves for Globalization BTMU superior financial services. Furthermore, a full palette of selfwork until the age of 65. Going forward, MUTB will continue to enrichment support systems is offered to all employees, providing BTMU organizes and implements a variety of training courses under develop systems in response to employees' own motivation and them with opportunities for self-directed learning. BTMU believes MUFG Global Academy to give employees the skills they need in order desire to challenge themselves. that enhancing these training programs helps employees think about to succeed on the global stage. For example, the Global Rotation TrainIn FY 2012, MUMSS established an Area-Specific Main Career Track, their own aptitude and orientation at each juncture in their careers, to ing Program provides locally hired staff in our overseas operations with in addition to the Specific-Track, for employees wanting to work in a blaze their own trail for their careers, to enhance their personal capaca year of on-the-job training in another country, while the MUFG broader capacity like Main Career Track employees. Every year, many ity, and to develop as individuals. Corporate Finance Seminar brings home staff and locally hired staff to employees at MUMSS take the test to switch from a regional track to MUTB provides training catered to each individual's position, rank, Hong Kong to study corporate finance. By increasing opportunities for an Area-Specific Main Career Track, or from an Area-Specific Main and occupation, and through its Personnel Development Program in more employees to acquire skills regardless of nationalities, geographic Career Track to a Main Career Track under the company's existing each field of business, conducts practical job rotation, carries out areas and cultures, BTMU aims to develop human resources that can system to allow changes in career track. training for the specific work responsibilities of each division, and meet customers' needs which have been globalized and diversified. MUN has a system that allows Regular Service to change to the Main supports employee efforts to attain job-related qualifications with the Career, and vice versa. In the four years since this system was ■ Changes in Career Track and In-house Recruiting MUFG aim of strengthening its human resources. In addition, the bank is launched, 42 employees have changed tracks and are now working expanding the range of educational opportunities for employees The MUFG Group has put in place systems that allow employees to with a new set of responsibilities and in new workplaces. Going seeking to independently develop their careers by offering classes change their particular occupation or career track, as well as in-house forward, we will actively hire talented employees with a desire to that cover such subjects as time management and logical thinking. job-posting systems that let employees apply for different jobs that change career tracks and aim to put in place systems that emphasize MUMSS provides both rank-specific and function-specific training to they want to try. As one example of this, BTMU has put in place a a work-life balance. all employees, from new hires to corporate directors. The company system that allows non-permanent staff (contract employees, etc.) to ■ Corporate Citizenship Project BTMU also supports employees' efforts to develop personal qualities and become regular employees. This is part of BTMU's pursuit of its CSR skills and attain work-related qualifications. To strengthen compligoals of allowing people opportunities to try new challenges, and of Since FY 2007, BTMU has included volunteer work in the training ance, monthly training sessions focusing on a common, companyrespecting the balance between work and personal lives of employprograms for new employees. By having them participate in volunwide topic are held in each division, and employees are tested on ees. At the same time, this system helps BTMU hire and retain teer activities in the local community, this program aims to help what they learned every six months. As a means to raise the basic talented personnel. Since the system was introduced in FY 2006, employees become aware of their roles as members of society skill level of young employees, since FY 2011 MUMSS has been over 500 non-permanent staff have become regular employees. and to have them adopt the basic attitude of serving society and promoting an instructor system within the Personnel Division. MUTB implements in-house recruiting two to four times per year proactively offering what they can to people and society in general. MUFG CSR Report 2012 41 Employee Policies and Initiatives This hands-on training program, called the Corporate Citizenship Projrelocation of a spouse or to provide care for family members. BTMU raising a child, and introduced a program to help employees on ect, consisted of two parts. In the first part, 736 new hires cleared also introduced a system giving employees shorter working hours for childcare or nursing care leave return to work. Currently, approxisnow from the grounds of two elementary schools in Yuzawa Town, maternity, child care, or family care. These measures enable certain mately 120 employees are utilizing these programs aimed at Niigata Prefecture, which had helped us greatly in carrying out our employees to continue their careers without interruption. building a more supportive work environment. introductory training program. In the second part of the project, new ■ Creating the Diversity & Inclusion Office from ■ Promoting Female Employment MUTB employees spent two days visiting a total of 211 residential facilities for BTMU Employee Policies and Initiatives the elderly and persons with disabilities, a program that was made the Activities of the Working Group on Diversity An active supporter of women in the workplace, MUTB holds possible with help from the Tokyo Voluntary Action Center and other Equal partnership activities originated from BTMU's initiatives to seminars for female college students where it takes an innovative volunteer centers in Tokyo. raise the level of customer satisfaction (CS), and began in 2005 approach to helping women paint a clear picture of the careers they The entire process, including the pre-visit orientation, doing the actual with the formation of the working group on diversity, tasked with could have after joining the company. One such approach is passing work, and post-activity reflection, gave the new employees a chance to thinking about new working styles for women. Through their out pamphlets that illustrate the day-to-day lives of female employrealize a lot about the role of the bank as a corporate citizen and their proposals to corporate directors, this working group comprising ees striving to balance work with personal or family life. Efforts like own role as an individual. At the conclusion of the training, the new eight female employees led to the establishment of the Equal this have led to an expansion in the roles of women hired, with hires discussed their experiences, with some commenting that the Partnership Office in 2006 and paved the way for the creation of women making up around 30% of those hired by the company program was a good opportunity to think about what they can do as a the Diversity & Inclusion Office in 2010. under its General Track, which sets no restrictions on work location. member of society and others saying that it helped them to underIn addition to actively promoting women in the workplace, the ■ Employing Persons with Disabilities MUFG stand the importance of thinking about things from someone else's Diversity & Inclusion Office also aims to create a corporate point of view. Just as importantly, the program allowed newly-hired culture that is receptive to diversity and allows every employee to Within the MUFG Group, employees with disabilities are actively workemployees to recognize their significance as members of society. further demonstrate his or her abilities. ing in various offices. The MUFG Group works closely with employees to match their duties to each individual's skills and aptitudes. Promoting Diversity ■ Project to Promote the Full use of Women's Abilities BTMU has two special subsidiaries, MU Business Aid Co., Ltd. and MU MUMSS in the Workplace Business Partner Co., Ltd., which promote the hiring of persons with ■ Supporting the Career Development of Female Employees BTMU In April 2011, MUMSS launched the project to promote the full disabilities. These companies are hiring many persons with disabilities to To support the career development of female employees, BTMU has use of women's abilities in the workplace. Under the project, the work on bank operations on an outsourcing basis. set numerical targets and actively recruits female workers. New Women's Abilities Promotion Newsletter was created in response MUTB works with special subsidiary Ryoshin Data Co., Ltd., which numerical targets were set in April 2011, and BTMU is working to to requests from female employees wanting to learn how to specializes in data entry operations, to create employment for persons develop female managers in domestic commercial banking offices, become a manager or build a career as a working mother. The with hearing and other disabilities. The company has hired a cumulative overseas branches and headquarters that have not had many female newsletter, which profiles successful working women and gives total of 120 persons with disabilities over the past 30 years, and as of managers over the past years. BTMU is also promoting its programs guidance on career development, is distributed to all employees, June 2012, 47 such employees were engaged in a wide range of operato allow employees to change their career track and support contract male included. The project aims to raise awareness across the tions, such as data entry and creating electronic versions of manuals. employees who want to become regular employees. company and create a workplace environment where female ■ Continuing Employment of Retirees MUFG In addition, the Main Career Track (specific) and Area Specific (AS) employees can better attain their full potential. Track Relocation Recruitment System allows Main Career Track To support workers who wish to remain active after passing the ■ Supporting Female Employees' Work-Life Balance MUN (specific) and AS Track employees, who would normally not be given mandatory retirement age, the MUFG Group has introduced a job transfer that requires them to change their place of residence, To help achieve a better work-life balance, MUN offers a longer systems for ongoing employment of qualified employees who to request a transfer to another area for reasons such as the work period of time during which they can work reduced hours when wish to remain employed with the company. MUFG CSR Report 2012 42 Human Rights Policies and Initiatives Office also carries out human rights awareness activities as part of efforts to create friendly workplaces. Human Rights Policies MUTB has established a Human Rights Awareness Promotion and Initiatives Office in the Personnel Division. All employees, including temporary staff, can consult the Human Rights Awareness Promotion Office about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses of power in a variety of ways, including in person, The MUFG Group recognizes respect over the phone, or via e-mail. The Human Rights Awareness ProHuman Rights Policies and Initiatives for basic human rights motion Office also carries out human rights awareness activities as an important management theme, as part of its efforts to create friendly workplaces. MUMSS has started hotlines both inside and outside of the comand has established the Principles of Ethics and pany to receive and handle consultations from employees about Conduct and compliance manuals. human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses ( The Principles of Ethics and Conduct are listed on page 18.) of power in the workplace. MUN has established a telephone consultation center in the Human Rights Initiatives Compliance Supervising Department and an external telephone consultation center as help lines to receive and handle consultaThe MUFG Group recognizes respect for basic human rights as tions from employees about human rights issues such as sexual an important management theme and has established the Prinharassment and abuse of authority in the workplace. ciples of Ethics and Conduct and compliance manuals as part of its efforts to eliminate discrimination and create friendly workplaces. We shall take the basic position of respecting humanity, and shall not discriminate against people or violate human rights on the basis of race, nationality, belief, religion, gender, or other grounds where legally protected. Through human rights training and human rights awareness activities, the MUFG Group is working to make sure that all employees properly understand human rights issues and that they increase their recognition of such issues. ■ Consultation Systems at the MUFG Group MUFG BTMU has established a Bank Employees' Consultation Office in its offices in Tokyo, Nagoya and Osaka. All employees, including temporary staff, can consult the Office about human rights issues such as sexual harassment and other abuses of power. The MUFG CSR Report 2012 43 Local Community Policies and Initiatives children opportunities for learning, discovery and action, by experienced what it would be like to work at MUFG, BTMU, helping them to know the wonder of the natural environment and MUTB, MUMSS, MUN, and MUL Head Offices, and later particiLocal Community Policies biodiversity, and to develop an interest in protecting the Earth's pated in a group discussion with other participants. Here are and Initiatives abundance for the benefit of future generations while also considering related issues. examples of their impressions of the program: It changed my image of what work is really like. I realized how important it is for http://www.unescoesd.jp/ (in Japanese) me to learn English and how to operate computers. We encourage a range of social contribution ■ Next Generation Leaders Training Program for ■ Hosting Internships MUFG activities based on employee participation, Asia and the Pacific MUFG The MUFG Group hosts opportunities for college students to Local Community Policies and Initiatives as a member of the communities Since FY 2008, the MUFG Group and a public interest incorpopursue internships while they undertake their academic studies. rated foundation, the Organization for Industrial, Spiritual and These internships provide students with work experiences that where we interact with many people, Cultural Advancement (OISCA) International, have jointly conallow them to make use of their talents, while providing them in Japan and around the world. ducted the Next Generation Leaders Program for Asia and the with a variety of insights. Pacific. This program brings youths from Asian developing counBasic Policies and Structures tries to OISCA's training center in Fukuoka City, Fukuoka Prefec■ Hosting the MUFG Graduation MUFG ture, where they receive one year of training in management and Memorial Cup Soccer Tournament We recognize that the very existence of the MUFG Group is susenvironmentally friendly organic farming techniques, to prepare Each year, the MUFG Group hosts the MUFG Cup, a youth tained by society as a whole and that we have a duty to consider them to serve as leaders in their home countries after their return. soccer tournament for sixth-grade students about to graduate the key issues facing society. We have therefore identified from elementary schools in Tokyo, Aichi, and Osaka. The concept Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing Society's ■ Economic/Financial Education Program for this tournament is to use sports as a way to foster friendships MUFG Next Generation as the two priority themes to be addressed by Let's Learn about Finance and Economy among soon-to-graduate students and to develop an appreciation the entire Group. We undertake our environmental and social conIn collaboration with Tsukuba University, the MUFG Group has of others. The Fifth MUFG Cup was held from January to March tribution efforts in keeping with this basic policy and philosophy. developed this educational support program to help students 2012, assisted by volunteers including MUFG Group employees. (The Group CSR Priority Themes are listed on page 5.) enjoy learning about the importance of money and the mechaA total of more than 7,000 children have participated since the nisms of finance. This program is used in elementary school first annual tournament. Major Initiatives classes throughout the country. The MUFG Group employees ■ MUFG Girls' Soccer Invitational Tournament MUFG host field trips to branch offices, where they use this program to ■ Environmental Education Project provide explanations to teachers and students. With the aim of providing a forum for children's healthy developMUFG Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth ment through sports, the MUFG Girls' Soccer Invitational Tourna■ Job Shadowing Work Experience Program MUFG Starting in FY 2008 and running through FY 2012, the MUFG ment was held at the Ajinomoto Stadium in Tokyo in October Group and the Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation, in Every year since FY 2007, we have conducted a Job Shadowing 2011. In all, 1,000 girls from 110 elementary and junior high school collaboration with the National Federation of UNESCO AssociaWork Experience Program, through which high school students teams participated. Many other activities were offered in addition tions in Japan, are engaged in a five-year educational project, pair up with employees to learn firsthand about the difficulties to the soccer matches themselves, such as mini-games and named Save Our Common Treasures of the Earth. The project's and joys of the work experience; this helps participating students soccer clinics offered by players originally from the professional aim is to help ensure that humanity's shared treasures are to think about their future careers and employment options. In the J-League, making it a fun day of soccer for all. passed on to future generations. This is a project designed to give FY 2011 program, 102 students from metropolitan high schools MUFG CSR Report 2012 44 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Gifts for the Future TV Program ■ Supporting the Activities of UNESCO Associated Schools MUFG BTMU announced that the bank was the founding sponsor of Operation The MUFG Group has been sponsoring the TV program Gifts for The basic view of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) HOPE's FIVE MILLION KIDS initiative. the Future (broadcast every Saturday from 10 p.m. to 10:54 p.m. is to foster each individual to take part in creating a sustainable on BS-TBS TV) since May 2009 as part of our CSR activities. This society. BTMU has been collaborating with a public interest incor■ Hosting Training Programs for MUMSS MUN documentary-style program introduces corporations and other porated association, the National Federation of UNESCO AssociaEducators at Private Companies organizations that address social issues through their business tions in Japan to support the activities of UNESCO Associated MUMSS takes part in the Securities Companies Lecture and activities; more than 80 companies and organizations have been Schools, which serve as centers for the promotion of ESD. In FY Tour, as part of the Japan Securities Dealers Association's profiled so far. Past episodes of the program are available online 2011, 67 schools received grants from the newly established Internship Program for Educators. through the MUFG website. UNESCO Associated Schools ESD Assistance Project. In FY MUN participates in the Training Program for Educators at Private Local Community Policies and Initiatives http://www.mufg.jp/csr/movies/ (in Japanese) 2011, the new ESD International Exchange Program was Companies of the Keizai Koho Center, which seeks to promote launched; this project sends high school students from UNESCO communication between members of the business and educa■ Peter Rabbit 'Forest for the Future' ® Associated Schools to Germany and France, providing them with tion sectors. MUN has hosted trainees a total of 10 times (about MUTB Environmental Conservation Activities ESD-related learning opportunities based on international 10 trainees participating each year); in July of 2011 MUN hosted MUTB signed the Saitama Prefecture Afforestation Agreement exchanges. (Conducted in July 2011 and March 2012.) participants from Tokyo's Nerima Ward Board of Education. with Nagatoro-cho in Saitama Prefecture in May 2009; based on ■ Fostering Environmental Leaders ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation MUMSS BTMU this, forest conservation activities were initiated for a community forest (about one hectare in size) on Hodo Mountain in NagatoroThe transition to a low-carbon society is essential to curb global Mitsubishi UFJ Foundation promotes international exchanges in cho. Because MUTB has been adopting Peter Rabbit as its ® warming and to realize a sustainable society. MUMSS particiAsian and other countries. To foster human resources developmascot since 1988, this forest on Hodo Mountain has been pated in the development of the Designing a Low-Carbon Sociment in Japan and overseas, the Foundation provides financial named the Peter Rabbit® 'Forest for the Future'. Employees and ety course offered since FY 2009 by Keio University's Graduate assistance to a variety of international exchange programs and their families participate in tree planting and weeding activities School (MUMSS was responsible for the Designing Environmenoffers scholarships to students in Japan and overseas. In FY every year. tal Business component). Starting with spring 2011, this course 2011, the Foundation paid scholarships for 16 graduate students has been updated and re-launched as the International Program and three university students from overseas to study in Japan, ■ Teaching as Part of for Environmental Innovators. This course aims to build a supand also for about 550 local students at 26 universities in eight MUTB MUMSS Industry-Academia Partnerships portive environment and foster the development of highly skilled Asian countries, including China, Thailand, and Vietnam. The Since April 2007, MUTB has participated in joint industryspecialists (environmental leaders) who will help build a lowFoundation also holds networking events for exchange students academia courses in cooperation with the Graduate School of carbon society. studying in Japan and employees several times a year. Engineering at the University of Tokyo. Employees provide ■ Financial Literacy Campaign UB lectures on subjects they are working on, sharing the latest information in their fields. In FY 2012, three sessions were held, startApril is designated as National Financial Literacy Month in the ing in June. United States and Union Bank employees donated 7,000 hours to Each year, MUMSS employees participate in special lectures the bank's annual financial literacy campaign. The bank launched organized by Nagoya University for graduate students. This or expanded a number of strategic partnerships to advance the lecture was intended not only to promote an appreciation of the cause of financial literacy with non-profit groups including Junior role played by mathematics in the financial sector, but also to Achievement, Operation HOPE, the Boys & Girls Clubs, and Big interest science and engineering students in the field of finance. Brothers Big Sisters. In addition, in January 2011 the bank MUFG CSR Report 2012 45 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation ■ Culture Support Project: Shiki Theatre Company's BTMU total of 31.8 million yen for 52 opera, orchestral and other perforBTMU The Mitsubishi UFJ Environment Foundation plays a key role in mances. Between the time it was established and FY 2011, the Kokorono Gekijou the MUFG Group's efforts to address environmental and social Foundation has provided a total of 1.5207 billion yen to 1,311 Since 2007, BTMU has cosponsored the Shiki Theatre Comconcerns, supporting a wide range of efforts. These include performances. pany's culture support project, Kokorono Gekijou, which seeks to activities to improve the natural environment, especially through share stories about the things that are important in human lives, ■ The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Cultural Foundation MUTB tree planting (a total of 1.02 million trees have been planted so such as instilling in children's hearts the value of life, caring for far), village forest conservation, and the creation of biotopes This Foundation was established in 1989 to support organizations others, and the joys of trusting in one another. In FY 2011, (natural habitat areas) at schools; organizing the Midori-no-e Conthat contribute to the promotion of local culture in the fields of 560,000 children attended these performances nationwide. cour (held in 2012 for the 37th time); offering sponsored lectures music, art, theatre, and traditional arts. It supports a wide range BTMU also donated 450 complimentary tickets to 36 children's Local Community Policies and Initiatives at universities and other environmental education events; and of causes, including ongoing amateur musical and theatre groups nursing facilities, so that children from these facilities could attend undertaking the Headwaters Forest project, which since 1997 active at the local level, exhibitions that present notable works of performances of productions including Yuta and Enchanted has involved participants in hands-on reforestation and nature art and opportunities for viewing by local communities, the presFriends. observation activities in the Tone River watershed. ervation and passing on of traditional arts, and performances to ■ Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa MUFG train people to carry on traditions. In FY 2011, the Foundation ■ The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation MUTB provided 18.6 million yen to 49 projects. Between the time it was Since 1990, the Mitsubishi Public Affairs Committee (MPAC), The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Scholarship Foundation was established established and FY 2011, it has provided a total of 577.1 million comprised of 39 Mitsubishi Group companies, has collaborated in 1953 to provide scholarships and funding to foster human yen to 1,100 performances and activities. with the Asian-Pacific Federation of UNESCO Clubs and Associaresources development and advance academic research. In FY tions and the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in ■ Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation BTMU 2011, the Foundation paid a total of 180.2 million yen in scholarJapan to organize an Asian children's illustrated diary festival ships for 343 students, including exchange students. Between The Mitsubishi UFJ Technology Development Foundation (known known as the Mitsubishi Asian Children's Enikki Festa. The festithe time it was established and FY 2011, it has paid out a total of as MU-TECH), created in 1983, has been a pioneer in providing val has drawn the participation of 24 Asian countries and 4.786 billion yen in scholarships to 5,437 students (including support for private sector ventures in Japan. To comprehensively regions—and the submission of 564,612 works of art so far. This exchange students). The number of designated universities for foster the development of the technology-oriented smalland festival seeks to deepen cultural exchange and mutual underthe scholarships increased by nine, from 37 schools until last year medium-sized enterprises (especially venture businesses) that standing among Asian countries and to support increased literacy to 46 universities in FY 2012. are so vital for Japan's economic development, the Foundation rates. Besides the scholarship programs, since the Foundation was provides a wide range of assistance, including research and ■ Sewing Volunteers BTMU MUTB established it has also been implementing a technology research development grants, information, and consulting services. In FY funding program, and by FY 2011 had provided 229 million yen to 2011, MU-TECH provided 8 million yen in grants for a total of To benefit children living in orphanages, BTMU and MUTB call on 44 organizations. eight projects, including projects making significant contributions their employees to serve as sewing volunteers, to make and in the environmental field. In April 2012, the Foundation became donate items that all Japanese students need at the start of each ■ The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts MUTB registered as a public interest incorporated foundation in Japan school year. In FY 2011, 524 kit bags and shoe bags were The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust Foundation for the Arts was established and at the same time began holding equity in small and mediumdonated (95 from BTMU and 429 from MUTB). in 1987 to support the advancement and dynamism of arts and sized enterprises that have received the Foundation's grant assisculture, and provides funding for performances by Japanese tance or loan guarantees. groups such as operas and orchestras that have attained a certain level of artistic standard. In FY 2011, the Foundation provided a MUFG CSR Report 2012 46 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Supporting Volunteer Activities by Employees MUFG disaster-prevention activities in the Akihabara district of Tokyo. To support the desire on the part of their employees to contribute Employees also participate in lifesaving training and firefighting to society in various ways, BTMU, MUTB and MUMSS all have exercises. In recognition of these efforts, in January 2009 MUN programs to provide employees with information about volunteerbecame certified under the Fire and Disaster Management ing, in addition to instituting volunteer leave systems (for up to Agency's Fire Brigade Support Business Certification System. three days per fiscal year) and volunteer grants programs. ■ Sponsorship of the JAL Honolulu Marathon MUN In order to support the social contribution activities undertaken by its employees, in June 2011 MUN introduced a volunteer leave Since 1994, MUN has been a co-sponsor of the JAL Honolulu system (for up to five days per fiscal year). A total of 113 employMarathon, the world's sixth largest city marathon. This is one of Local Community Policies and Initiatives ees used this system in FY 2011. the four top marathons in the United States, with about 22,000 runners participating in 2011 (including about 12,000 Japanese). ■ Sponsoring and Volunteering MUN offers a photo service and other assistance contributing to BTMU MUTB in the Special Olympics Nippon participants' fond memories of the event, as well as special BTMU and MUTB are sponsors of a public-interest incorporated founevents arranged for cardholders. dation, Special Olympics Nippon, an international sports organization ■ Participation in FIT For Charity Run 2011 MUFG that provides support for persons with mental and developmental disabilities to participate in society by creating opportunities to train for The MUFG Group helps to organize the Financial Industry in and compete in sports competitions. Since 2007, MUTB employees Tokyo (FIT) For Charity Run, through which sponsored runners have participated as volunteer staff in basketball competitions sponand walkers raise donations for charity. The seventh of these sored by the Special Olympics Nippon Tokyo. Employees and their events was held during FY 2011, with the participation of some families have also participated in the Special Olympics Nippon – 7,450 employees and their family members of 111 Tokyo-based Tokyo Walk & Run Festival, interacting with athletes with developfinancial sector companies. Approximately 750 runners and volunmental disabilities in activities including running around the Imperial teers participated from 14 companies of the MUFG Group, the Palace. largest number of both participating companies and participants. The donations collected were given to 10 organizations including ■ Supporting Neighborhood Cleanup Rally MUMSS non-profit ones in the Kanto district and those engaged in activiMUMSS supports the Furusato-seiso neighborhood cleanup ties to assist recovery in areas affected by the Great East Japan rally that engages workplaces and schools in efforts to beautify Earthquake of 2011. Japan; MUMSS has been calling on employees at all of its branch offices nationwide to participate since FY 2009. To date, 164 employees from 10 branch offices and headquarters departments participated in neighborhood cleanups. ■ Fire Brigade Support Business Certification MUN MUN employees have joined the Kanda Fire Station as volunteer firefighters, and participate in nighttime patrols and other fire and MUFG CSR Report 2012 47 Local Community Policies and Initiatives Local Community Involvement by Branch Employees Based on the recognition that the MUFG Group is supported by society and the people in local comIn FY 2011, employees played a key role at local branch offices of the Group, and were involved in a munities in which it operates, employees in local branches show appreciation by participating in local wide variety of activities, such as cleanup events, planting of flower beds in front of branches, tree community activities. planting, educational support, company visits, seminars, and charitable projects. BTMU Community Involvement Activities by BTMU Branches Branch Activities Branch Activities Local Community Policies and Initiatives Participated in community event hosted by the Wako City Volunteer Network and other organizations. Bangkok Branch Painted and repaired playground equipment at a local school; held a blood donation campaign. Wako Branch Volunteered in the Challenge Sports Meet for disabled athletes. Shimoakatsuka Branch, Labuan Branch, Taught finance and economics to elementary school students. Taught finance and economics to junior high school students. BTMU (Malaysia) Participated as support staff in a charity bazaar hosted by the Japan Club of Kuala Lumpur. Shimoakatsuka-Ekimae Branch, Participated in year-end charity drive with the Central Community Chest of Japan; collected plastic bottle caps as part of Nerima-Hikarigaoka Branch, Ecocap Movement. Shimoakatsuka Commercial Banking Office Jakarta Branch Hosted a Japan festival; hosted workplace tour for students of a local Japanese school. Nihonbashi-Chuo Branch, Helped out at a local zoo and botanical garden by volunteering as tour guides and held events for cleanup and repainting Nihonbashi-Chuo Commercial Banking Office, Manila Branch surfaces. Nihonbashi Commercial Banking Office Participated in Nihonbashi Bridge cleaning event; taught finance and economics to junior high school students. for Corporate Banking Promotion, Planted flowers as part of volunteer flower-planting event to beautify Tokyo's Chuo Ward. Joto Housing Loan Office, New Delhi Branch Taught an extracurricular class to junior high school-level students of a local Japanese school. Higashi-Tokyo Housing Loan Sub-Office Beijing Branch, Kaminarimon Branch, Asakusa Branch Taught finance and economics to elementary school students and gave workplace tour. Donated clothing and food to the New Day Foster Home for orphans and sick children. BTMU (China) Shibuya Branch Helped elderly eat lunch and provided other assistance at welfare facility; held neighborhood cleanup. Held tree-planting event; participated in a blood donation campaign; hosted workplace tour for junior high Eifukucho Branch, Hong Kong Branch Planted shrubs and trees with local neighborhood association; hosted junior high school students to give them experience school-level students of a local Japanese school. Eifukucho-Ekimae Branch, Higashi-Matsubara Sub-Branch in a workplace. Taipei Branch Helped clean and tidy up living and play areas at a child welfare facility; held cleanup event on an unpaved road. Tama Center Branch Planted flower seedlings along nearby major streets in cooperation with local residents. Sydney Branch Jiyugaoka Branch Volunteered for the Jiyugaoka Megami Festival; taught finance and economics to junior high school students. Held Morning Tea event to sell breakfast to employees from the branch kitchen and donated proceeds to the Red Cross. Melbourne Branch Chofu Branch Volunteered at a day service center for the physically disabled; participated in Chofu Yosakoi Dance Festival 2011. Düsseldorf Branch Participated in Dreck-Weg-Tag (Cleanup Day) held in the city. Imaike Branch Held neighborhood cleanup with local residents; splashed water on the streets to mitigate the summer heat. Planted 200 rhododendron seedlings in a nearby park; gave junior high school students workplace experience and Brussels Branch Participated as volunteers in a charity dinner; gave blood. Tokushige Branch learning opportunities. Madrid Branch Participated as helpers in a Obon Dance Festival; held a rice-cake pounding festival. Moriyama Branch Planted trees at a local kindergarten; held a neighborhood cleanup. Okazaki Branch, Visited a child welfare facility on Christmas; gave junior high and high school students workplace experience. Buenos Aires Branch Participated in a UNICEF charity marathon for education, Carrera por la Educacion (Race for Education). Okazaki Commercial Banking Office, Volunteered for the MUFG Graduation Memorial Cup Soccer Tournament. Okazaki Housing Loan Sub-Office BTMU (Mexico) S.A. Employees and their families planted about 100 seedlings. Kuwana Branch, Planted trees on Tado Mountain with local residents; participated as helpers in the Tadotaisha Shrine Lantern Festival. Houston Agency Participated as volunteers in Japan festival. Kuwana Commercial Banking Office Nishijin Branch Helped run a bazaar at a local child welfare facility; participated in a shopping arcade cleanup. Osaka-Ekimae Branch, Participated in the Takarazuka Half Marathon Kizuna to support reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake; held Osaka-Ekimae Commercial Banking Office, a blood donation campaign. Umeda-Chuo Housing Loan Sub-Office Noda Branch, Participated in Mission Uchimizu; held a neighborhood cleanup; provided junior high school students with workplace experience. Noda Commercial Banking Office Hanaten Branch, Participated in campaign to stop illegal bicycle parking; participated in Enomoto community festival. Hanaten Commercial Banking Office Toyonaka Branch Taught finance and economics to junior high school students; held a cleanup around a local train station. Hiroshima Branch, Volunteered at a blueberry festival; engaged in cultural exchange with a Japanese language class for foreigners. Hiroshima Commercial Banking Office, Volunteered in an event to help people with disabilities experience riding in a hot-air balloon; engaged in social exchange Hiroshima Housing Loan Sub-Office with a local social welfare facility. Nihonbashi-Chuo Branch Wako Branch Manila Branch MUFG CSR Report 2012 48 Local Community Policies and Initiatives MUTB MUMSS Community Involvement Activities by MUTB Branches Community Involvement Activities by MUSHD Group companies Branch Activities Activities by MUMSS Sapporo Branch Participated in forest conservation activities in the Fujinosawa National Forest. Branch Activities Ueno Branch Carried out street fundraising after the Great East Japan Earthquake. With Sapporo City, installed sand boxes at intersections and spread sand on roads to prevent road Sapporo Branch freezing in winter. Planted trees in parks. Gotanda Branch Held seminar on adult guardianship. Sendai Branch, Himeji Branch Cleanups near branch offices (participated in Furusato-seiso 2011 neighborhood cleanup rally). Kichijoji Branch Cleanup outside Kichijoji train station. Clean Energy Finance Division Held workplace tour for junior high school students and internship program for students studying abroad. Machida Branch Participated in Sakaigawa River cleanup operations. 24 Divisions/Offices in Head Office Cleanups near Head Office buildings (Mejirodai Building, Toyosu Building). Tsudanuma Branch, Funabashi Office Took first aid workshop taught by local firemen. All branch employees (approx. 50 people) participated twice a year in cleanup activities organized Local Community Policies and Initiatives Urawa Branch Conducted training course for people who support persons with dementia. Hiroshima Branch by a local non-profit organization at the Peace Memorial Park. Held workplace tours for local junior high school students. Takasaki Branch Cleanup at Oze National Park. Utsunomiya Branch Held sign language workshop. Activities by overseas MUSHD subsidiaries Mito Branch Cleanup around Mito train station. Nagano Branch Volunteered in Binzuru Festival. Subsidiary Activities 6 offices in Nagoya Area, Gifu Branch Invited children from an orphanage to attend an event. Co-hosted a Christmas party with BTMU and gave Christmas gifts to elderly persons who have no family. Tsu Branch Cleanup at Tsu Oshiro park and near branch office. Assisted a child education support group, Kids Company, throughout the year, and gave Nara Branch Volunteered to help run Nara Marathon 2011. Christmas gifts to underprivileged children. New hires co-hosted a Christmas party with an organization, Young Carers, and invited 40 Hiroshima Branch Sold to employees bread and other goods made at a welfare facility for the disabled. MUSI young people aged 8-18 who look after someone in their family due to various reasons. Conducted forest care activities at the MUTB Omoi wo tsunagu mori forest in Otoyo-cho, Provided monetary contribution to a Christmas lunch for homeless people in cooperation with Kochi Branch the Connection at St Martin-in-the-Fields. Kochi Prefecture. Collected a donation of 4,500 pounds (about 560,000 yen) in total at a Christmas raffle and London Branch Participated in a charity walk to raise donations for disaster relief. donated the money to charity organizations. Held a Christmas party for homeless children, and gave Christmas gifts to 144 children, who also enjoyed a slide show and meal. MUS (USA) Conducted a program to wear jeans to work on Fridays (donation of $5 per day) and donated the money to an educational program. MUS (Hong Kong) Participated in a charity walk activity held in Kowloon district of Hong Kong. MUN Community Involvement Activities by MUN Branches Sapporo Branch Urawa Branch London Branch Branch Activities Five branches of Akihabara, Hongo, Ikebukuro, Held blood donation campaigns in cooperation with the Japanese Red Cross Society. Higashi-Nihonbashi, and Yushima Tokyo Management Division Helped purchase vaccines for the world's children by collecting plastic bottle caps. MUFG CSR Report 2012 49 Local Community Policies and Initiatives Local Community Initiatives ■ Community Development Finance UB event aims to teach the public about Japanese culture and Union Bank helps to provide high-quality affordable housing for promote a deeper mutual understanding between Japanese and ■ March for Babies—New York MUFG lowand moderate-income individuals and families, as well as Spanish cultures. The MUFG Group participates in the March for Babies, an annual those with special needs such as seniors, farm workers, and the BTMU Holland volunteered at the cherry blossom festival hosted nationwide charity walk held by the March of Dimes, a non-profit formerly homeless. Working with non-profit developers and by the Embassy of Japan, the Japanese Chamber of Commerce organization that raises money to help prevent premature births public housing agencies, our Community Development Finance and Industry in the Netherlands, the Japan-Netherlands Institute, and protect the health of expectant mothers. (CDF) division provides comprehensive debt and equity financing and the Japan Women's Club. The event included an exhibition of In May 2011, employees from the MUFG Group participated in along with full consultation services throughout our areas of photographs documenting the Great East Japan Earthquake from the event in New York as a combined MUFG team of more than operation. the initial aftermath to reconstruction efforts, as well as a drum 220 people, including employees' family members and friends. In 2011, CDF provided $434 million in financing for 41 projects and flute performance by a music group from the Ugoku Tanabata Local Community Policies and Initiatives This is the largest charity event that the MUFG Group participates serving a total of 5,645 residents. Since its founding in 1995, CDF Festival, a traditional summer festival in Rikuzentakata City, Iwate in. The MUFG Group conducted various awareness-raising and has provided financing for more than 75,000 housing units that Prefecture. The event was an opportunity for Japanese people to charity activities in-house prior to the event, and a total of shelter approximately 200,000 people. show their appreciation towards people in the Netherlands who $28,578 was donated. Helping customers buy a house at a fair price is just another supported the disaster-affected area. reflection of our philosophy as a financial services provider. The Brussels Branch (Belgium) took part in volunteer activities for ■ Walk for Millions—Hong Kong MUFG a charity dinner organized by Paroisse Saint Gilles, a non-profit In January 2012, a total of 231 MUFG Group staff participated in ■ Economic Opportunity Mortgage UB organization that operates more than 10 supermarkets for lowthe Walk for Millions event organized by the Community Chest of Union Bank's Economic Opportunity Mortgage (EOM) offers income households. Proceeds collected from over 200 dinner Hong Kong. This was the largest group participating from the lower monthly payments with no fees, which translates into guests were donated to the supermarkets where it was used to Japanese corporate community, comparable in size to teams significant savings for borrowers on their monthly payments and purchase food and other daily living necessities. from Hong Kong companies and organizations. Walk for Millions helps ensure that they pay their debt on time. EOM loans are Employees and their family members (62 people) from the Düsis a major charity event held every year since 1971. It is wellretained in the portfolio, giving the bank maximum underwriting seldorf Branch (Germany) lent a hand in the city's annual Dreckattended, joined this time by the Chief Executive of the Hong flexibility. Weg-Tag (Cleanup Day) event, helping in the collection of 22 tons Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of In 2011, Union Bank helped EOM borrowers receive direct of trash. The Düsseldorf mayor awarded the branch the Golden China. In FY 2011, more than 14,000 people from over 170 orgadown-payment assistance for the first time. The bank secured Besen (Golden Broom) award in recognition of the branch's active nizations participated, collecting a total of over HK$1.4 million. $450,000 in funding from the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB). involvement every year since 2008. The MUFG Group donated HK$261,750, which included donaBorrowers can qualify for up to $15,000 in assistance from the tions from employees as well as significant contributions from funding, obtained under FHLB's WISH (Workforce Initiative Sub■ Participating in Charity Walk—London MUTB business partners. sidy for Homeownership) and IDEA (Individual Development and In May 2011, MUTB's London Branch employees participated in a Empowerment Account) programs. charity walk to support Oxfam International's disaster relief funds, ■ Community-related Loans UB which help reduce illness and death resulting from natural disasUnion Bank dedicated more than $3.6 billion to community■ Community Involvement Activities and ters, oppression, and conflict. A total of 42 employees and their related loans and activities, including loans to small businesses, Environmental Initiatives in Europe BTMU family members participated in the event, which gave them an financing for affordable housing, and supply sourcing from minorEmployees at BTMU's Madrid Branch (Spain) set up and supopportunity to enjoy nature while helping to raise money. ityand women-owned businesses. ported booths, which sold mochi (rice cakes) at the annual mochi pounding festival hosted by the local Japanese community. The MUFG CSR Report 2012 50 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Community Involvement Activities opportunity to both cities. School teachers and administrators and workplace tour to show them what banks and financial comin the United States BTMU expressed appreciation for BTMU's efforts to create a happy and panies do. The program provides opportunities for students to BTMU's employees in the United States volunteer their time and bright study environment for the children. think about their future careers and broaden their views as memenergy to a wide range of community involvement activities. In April 2012, BTMU joined the non-profit group Operation Hope bers of a globalized society. In May and June 2011, an art show by Japanese artist and elecin holding the Banking on Our Future financial education workEmployees at the Labuan Branch in Malaysia support the annual tronic composer Ryoji Ikeda, titled the transfinite, was held at the shop at BTMU New York. The workshop gathered 22 high school charity bazaar organized by the Japan Club of Kuala Lumpur by Park Avenue Armory, a historic building in Manhattan. BTMU, students from disadvantaged backgrounds to learn the basics of serving as members of the planning committee. Many employNew York City, and others sponsored the event, which attracted a banking, the various financial services banks provide, and the ees volunteered in the bazaar held in November 2011. They also large audience. In July, 51 employees from BTMU's New York risks and rewards of investing, with the goal of helping them gave monetary donations to social welfare organizations. and New Jersey offices volunteered to help run a camp operated increase their financial literacy and break the cycle of poverty. In February 2012, employees of the Manila Branch volunteered at Local Community Policies and Initiatives by the Fresh Air Fund. The camp gave children from disadvanIn 2011, the BTMU Foundation in the United States also donated the Manila Zoo, the first and oldest public zoo in Asia. They taged communities in New York a fun, safe, and supportive envi$552,000 to various non-profit civic activities. One recipient, served as tour guides to teach children about the importance of ronment in which to acquire environmental awareness, learn Midori & Friends, founded in 1992 by world-renowned Japanese caring for animals and their habitats, swept pathways and about cultural arts, and improve their physical fitness. violinist Midori Goto, has enhanced the lives of almost 200,000 repainted facilities, and also helped tend to the animals. Working In 2011, 150 campers participated in a variety of games and group underserved New York City children and their families by providwith a non-government organization in the Philippines, 75 projects that helped them build self-confidence and teamwork ing high-quality music education programs. employees also volunteered to help paint houses for the poor. skills—and make lots of friends in the process. BTMU employees Due to the critical flood situation in Thailand in 2011, the Thai Red also volunteered for Friendly Town, another program hosted by ■ Community Involvement Activities in Asia BTMU Cross Society and most hospitals in Thailand ran out of blood for the Fresh Air Fund. The program sends inner-city New York Every year, employees at BTMU's Beijing Branch visit New Day patients. Employees of the BTMU Bangkok Branch rose to the children, ages 6 to 12, to host families in rural and suburban comFoster Home, a home for orphans with special needs, bringing occasion by participating in a blood donation campaign in Novemmunities, where for one to two weeks they get to have a summer donations of food, clothes, and other items. Many employees and ber 2011 and calling on other companies to participate. As a experience not normally possible in the city. Employees themtheir family members also participate in tree-planting activities result, 300 people gave enough blood to save 792 lives. Employselves feel a sense of joy and self-fulfillment from helping children organized by the employee union to help protect Beijing's natural ees also donated money to help purchase medical equipment. through these volunteer activities. environment. When disaster strikes, employees organize their In August, 130 employees and their family members at BTMU own charity drives, as they did during the earthquake disasters in Mexico volunteered in a large tree-planting project, the ReforestaSichuan and Qinghai Yushu, China, and the Great East Japan tion Day, and learned about the ecosystem in an environmentally Earthquake. In an effort to connect with the local community, 102 protected area in Mexico City. A different group of employees employees and their family members from the Tianjin Branch joined the Mexico Banking Association in visiting schools to teach planted 84 willow seedlings in areas of Tianjin's suburbs that children to save money for the future, an important skill for leadneeded more vegetation. ing a life of opportunity. At the Hong Kong Branch, 72 employees participated in a blood At BTMU Cares Day in October, 34 employees at New York and donation campaign organized by the Hong Kong Red Cross in New Jersey offices and 11 of their family members and friends July 2011. volunteered to help clean, decorate, and plant gardens at public Every year, a Japanese school in Jakarta, Indonesia, sends its schools that serve low-income families in New York City and junior high school students to visit local Japanese companies. In Jersey City. This was the first time the bank opened up the January 2012, the Jakarta Branch took three students on a lecture MUFG CSR Report 2012 51 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Charitable Contribution and Philanthropy UB Local Community Policies and Initiatives FY 2011 (through June 2012), approximately 4,500 employees participated, contributing about 70 million yen for the year, includThe Union Bank Foundation, a non-profit public benefit corpora■ Social Contribution Credit Cards MUN ing the bank's matching contributions. tion, was founded in 1953 to help the bank meet the needs of the MUN issues credit cards designed to benefit society in a variety areas where we operate. Union Bank has set an ambitious goal of ■ Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund MUTB of ways. A percentage of purchases is donated to partner weldonating 2% of after-tax profits to benefit non-profit groups – a fareand health-related organizations. Examples of credit cards The Kakehashi-Shintaku Ai-no-Kikin Fund established in 1977 has higher percentage than many peer institutions. This target was that are helping more people participate in social welfare been collecting membership fees for over 30 years from MUTB proudly reached in 2011 with $11.1 million donated throughout programs are the Bone Marrow Bank Card, the Red Cross DC and affiliated company officers, employees, former employees, the West Coast by Union Bank and the Union Bank Foundation, Card, and the Japan Guide Dog Association DC Card. and their families to make donations to social welfare organizaup from $10.1 million in 2010. Local Community Policies and Initiatives tions nationwide. In FY 2011, a total of 9.9 million yen collected In order to maximize its impact, the Union Bank Foundation's ■ Emergency Disaster Assistance BTMU MUTB from 7,312 members was donated to 33 social welfare groups. work is focused on four strategic categories: Affordable Housing, BTMU and MUTB have a system in place to quickly provide supConsidering that disaster relief is one of the fund's objectives, in Community Economic Development, Education, and the Environport when a large natural disaster occurs in Japan or elsewhere in FY 2011 emphasis was given to organizations that provide postment. The Union Bank Foundation also has a goal of directing at the world. When an earthquake, flood or other disaster strikes, disaster relief or reconstruction assistance, with 3.3 million yen of least 60% of total contributions to lowand moderate-income we work with non-profit organizations and others to set up spethe total amount being donated to 11 disaster relief organizations. populations. cial bank accounts to collect donations for relief efforts. Union Bank employees also invested 53,000 hours of their time ■ Employee Donations Account MUMSS BTMU donated 50 million yen to aid victims of the Thai floods in for a variety of good causes as volunteers – a remarkable 180% October 2011, 150,000 Turkish liras (around 6.5 million yen) to In October 2007, MUMSS opened an account for collecting increase from 2010. victims of the earthquake that struck eastern Turkey's Van provemployee donations. MUMSS matches the funds donated by ■ The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money Museum BTMU ince in November, and 3 million yen to victims of the tropical employees each year (from July through June). From its estabstorm that made landfall on Mindanao island in the Philippines in lishment through July 2011, the account has donated a total of The highly-acclaimed The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Money December. roughly 2.12 million yen to two organizations. Museum (Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture) presents organized displays of roughly 10,000 rare items from the history of Japa■ Club for You Social Contribution Fund ■ Supporting Environmental Protection through BTMU nese and global currency from more than two thousand years MUN In August 2007, BTMU launched the Club for You social contriOISCA International ago to the present. It is Japan's largest private collection of monbution fund which gives money to organizations addressing social Since 2009, MUN has been donating a portion of expenses etary artifacts. Visitors can enjoy displays on the history of money issues, using funds donated by company executives and employsaved in the shift to paperless statements and a portion of the and ukiyo-e woodblock prints from the Edo period, including a ees through deductions from their salaries each month combined money used to convert ecopoints into gift cards to the Organizacollection of prints by Hiroshige Utagawa, famous for the Fiftywith matching contributions from the bank. tion for Industrial, Spiritual and Cultural Advancement (OISCA) Three Stages of the Tokaido. In FY 2011, the MUFG NFUAJ East Japan Earthquake Recovery International, a public interest incorporated foundation that and Scholarship Fund, a fund established jointly with the National promotes a wide variety of environmental protection initiatives. In Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan (NFUAJ), was FY 2011, approximately 17 million yen were donated to support added to the list of recipient organizations. As a new part of the school-managed forests, the Coastal Forest Restoration Project, program, five other plus group organizations were selected from and other projects promoted by OISCA International. organizations suggested by employees. With the new additions, employees can now choose from 18 recipient organizations. In MUFG CSR Report 2012 52 Local Community Policies and Initiatives ■ Card Gallery MUN MUN has a CSR display called Card Gallery on the theme of credit cards, placed in front of the company's head office reception desk on the sixteenth floor of the Akihabara UDX building in Tokyo. The gallery's history section presents the development of credit cards in Japan over the past 60 years, from the coupon system which was the predecessor to credit cards in Japan, to the dawn of credit cards, and onward to the present. It also includes examples of cards issued from the 1960s to today, Local Community Policies and Initiatives including co-branded cards. The line up of credit cards allows visitors to glimpse how credit cards in Japan have changed over the years since the beginning of the economic boom in the 1960s. ■ Expenditures for Social Contribution Activities BTMU MUTB MUMSS (Million yen) Categories FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Education & culture 250 179 199 Social welfare & 232 71 157 environmental conservation Community contributions, international exchange, others 881 819 2,221 Total* 1,363 1,069 2,576 (Combined totals for BTMU, MUTB, MUMSS) * Totals may not equal item sums, due to rounding. Also, figures do not include donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake. MUFG CSR Report 2012 53 Relations with Customers ■ Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction MUFG The MUN Customer Relations Office has also acquired this certifiTo help us offer products and services with a customer-first cation. The company is working to improve service work manuals Relations with Customers management approach, BTMU conducts various types of cusand working steadily to improve service quality and increase tomer satisfaction surveys and works to make improvements customer satisfaction. based on the findings. Manner Standards for appearance and service behavior, video teaching materials, and other tools help ■ Putting the Customer-First Approach We aim to satisfy our customers by providing BTMU MUTB MUN us make improvements. For elderly and disabled customers, we into Practice top-quality services that respond to also strive to continuously improve customer satisfaction levels Creating systems for service improvements that reflect the their input and expectations. by using the Japanese Bankers Association's handbook on opinions of customers and employees who interact with them is being barrier-free banks. an important management theme. We treat customers' input and requests as a valuable resource As a customer satisfaction policy, MUTB has adopted the BTMU's CSR Promotion Committee, attended by the company Relations with Customers that helps us to provide higher-quality services. slogan, All executives and employees constantly think about president and headquarters department heads, meets regularly We seriously confront the issues that are the root causes of cusand take action on ways to boost customer approval ratings, to discuss measures to continuously enhance customer and tomer feedback and requests, and we use this feedback to and is working to make improvements in each department, by employee satisfaction and creates systems to incorporate improve our products, services, business processes, and other developing new products based on customer input and by simoperational improvements in response to customer input and facets of our work. plifying procedures. complaints. MUMSS provides all employees a Business Manner Handbook MUTB holds meetings of its Customer Satisfaction Improvement ■ Our approach: Reflecting customer views MUFG summarizing the expected behavior when serving customers. It Committee, chaired by the president. The committee formulates also issues a monthly newsletter entitled Business Manner and discusses measures based on customer feedback. Monthly, with the aim of raising awareness about such things as At MUN, important management issues relating to customer Planning and speaking to customers and personal appearance. satisfaction are discussed at the CS Committee chaired by the Plan developing products and services that meet As a basic guide for customer satisfaction activities, MUN has president. MUN also holds regular meetings of its CS Promotion Working together customer needs to exceed customer adopted the slogan, Boosting customer satisfaction through Liaison Committee with the managers of each business as expectations continuous improvement of products and services, by listening promotion leaders, and incorporates customer opinions for the to customer feedback. We also have a customer satisfaction improvement of works, products and services. Improving code of conduct that encourages all employees to sincerely Act Do Service Quality listen to customers, then think for themselves and take action to Providing enhance customer satisfaction. higher-quality products and ■ ISO 9001 Certification BTMU MUN Evaluation by services customers Check As one initiative to boost customer satisfaction, BTMU has raised service levels by acquiring ISO 9001 certification under the International Standard for Quality Management Systems. BTMU has acquired ISO 9001 certification for all branch offices and related headquarters in Japan as a unified, company-wide framework that facilitates initiatives to enhance customer satisfaction. MUFG CSR Report 2012 54 Relations with Customers ■ Support for Visually Impaired Customers ■ Notification of Suspension of BTMU MUTB Protecting Customer Information MUN At BTMU and MUTB, customers who have difficulties using Card Transactions to Prevent Fraud ■ Information Security/Protecting Customer Information ATMs because of visual disabilities can send funds transfers MUN has introduced a system to detect fraudulent use of MUMSS MUN (ISO/IEC 27001 Certification) at bank teller counters for the same fees charged at ATMs. credit cards, to protect customers from malicious credit card MUMSS has acquired the internationally-recognized ISO/IEC For customers who have difficulty reading or filling out forms, crimes. The system monitors customer card use for unusual 27001 certification for information security management sysemployees will read and fill out forms on their behalf, with activity 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. With this system, tems at its call centers, and continues working to protect cusanother employee present as a witness. BTMU and MUTB transactions are sometimes suspended when cards are used, tomers' personal information. hold seminars at each office and branch, and are striving to until we can confirm the identit y of the cardholder. In MUN has acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for all operating provide comprehensive service. response to customer requests asking for advance notification divisions engaged in NICOS brand operations at the Ikebukuro that there are such cases, MUN now regularly prints informa■ Insurance Products BTMU MUTB Systems Center, to increase the security of customer information tion on efforts to prevent fraud in its members magazine and Relations with Customers and transaction settlement systems. All BTMU branches handle 17 annuity insurance products and on postcards explaining fees. nine single premium whole life insurance products, in ■ Internet Signup and Enhanced Website Information MUN Examples of Improvements and Services for response to requests from customers who want to consult Individual Customers about insurance along with asset management. Moreover, 14 MUN is working to upgrade and expand its website. Because additional products including equal-payment whole life insurance signing up for a credit card online requires the input of about 40 ■ Customer Opinion Cards and Branch Action BTMU MUTB and nursing care insurance products are being offered at 448 different items, MUN has introduced an input assistance funcCustomer opinion cards are distributed at all BTMU and MUTB BTMU branches to meet the wide-ranging needs of customers. tion, facilitating customer input. Efforts are also being made to branches to broadly solicit customer input and requests to (Numbers of products and branches are as of March 31, 2012.) improve the website usability. This includes a better search improve our products and services. Branches respond promptly All MUTB branches handle 15 annuity insurance, whole life function which lists items regarding common inquiries first, the to customer opinion card items that can be addressed at the insurance, and nursing care insurance products, and make opening of a dedicated site for a rapidly increasing number of office or branch level. The improvements being advanced at proposals to meet the needs of trust bank customers. (Number smartphone users, and other measures to improve the user each branch include providing loaner umbrellas for sudden of products as of May 31, 2012.) environment for a wide range of cardholders. downpours, furnishing special seats for senior citizens, and providing magnifying glasses and eyeglasses for customer use. ■ Installation of Computers for MUMSS Each branch is working to eliminate inconvenience by providing Internet Trading at Each Branch for customers that require special consideration. To respond to customers unfamiliar with Internet trading, MUMSS has installed computers for customers to experience ■ Efforts to Improve Quality of Operations MUN Internet trading at each branch and assigned staff to assist MUN is acting to improve the quality of operations as a cornerthem. With this staff support, even customers who are not stone for customer reliance and trust. The company has formed a accustomed to using computers can conduct Internet trading dedicated organization, verified the effectiveness of operations in with confidence through guided, hands-on use of the computaccordance with laws, reviewed operational processes at each ers stationed at each branch. This system has been well office and branch, provided education and guidance to employreceived by customers. ees, and otherwise goes beyond legal compliance requirements and strives to provide services that meet customer expectations. MUFG CSR Report 2012 55 Relations with Customers ■ Improvements to Branches and Facilities ■ Development of the Payment Meister MUFG Wills are an effective tool for succession planning and the MUN The MUFG Group is improving facilities to make it more accesSettlement Solution using the iPhone smooth disposal of assets, but they require expertise and sible to elderly customers and customers with disabilities. MUN jointly developed the Payment Meister settlement soluknow-how regarding laws, tax regulations and other diverse For example, BTMU and MUTB are improving in-branch tion – which uses the iPhone as a card settlement terminal – factors. signage with large letters in easy-to-see color contrast, installand began operations from August 2011. Because Payment The MUFG Group holds seminars where specialists use coning ramps, and changing the color and materials of steps to Meister safely and easily settles payments by just attaching a crete examples to provide explanations and advice on wills make them more noticeable. BTMU has installed automatic special card reader to the iPhone, it can be used to pay bills at and inheritance planning strategies. It also provides support doors and guide blocks for the visually impaired at the main the table in restaurants. in line with the individual conditions of each customer, for entrances of its branches. MUN has also added China UnionPay Card settlement smooth property succession. services to meet the needs of participating merchants that ■ POINT Meijin.com Service ■ Quality Life Club MUN BTMU expect Chinese tourists. MUN will continue working on develRelations with Customers MUN operates the POINT Meijin.com service that allows card opment and introduction of state-of-the-art settlement sysThe Quality Life Club is a membership organization operated members to automatically earn between two and 25 times the tems and on meeting the diversifying settlement needs of by BTMU which provides services around the themes of the regular points when they shop at a members-only online shopparticipating merchants. richness of the mind and heart, physical and mental health, ping site. In addition to promoting use by members, this service and economic affluence to help customers improve their contributes to increased sales by participating merchants, by ■ Guidelines for the Preparation of Customer quality of life. Members receive many benefits including inviMUFG giving them access to one of the largest membership networks Publications and Forms tations to seminars and events, and support services related in the market. The MUFG Group established Guidelines for the Preparation to travel, health and leisure. of Customer Publications and Forms in October 2010 to ■ MUFG CARD Services and Benefits ■ Health Care Consultation Services MUFG MUN ensure that our increasingly complex and diverse products and MUN provides MUFG CARD members with special services services are introduced to customers in ways that are easier to MUN provides services to support customers and their families and benefits from the companies of the MUFG Group. Specifiunderstand. While a wide variety of publications and forms is who require health care or nursing care. These services offer cally, these include the free use of BTMU's ATMs both day and viewed by customers, each one is an important communicahealth, medicine and nursing telephone consultations by dedinight along with free use of ATMs at convenience stores that tions tool between MUFG and our customers. The MUFG cated staff 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for MUFG Platinum are part of the BTMU network; point rewards for MUTB direct Group makes use of these Guidelines, undergoes external and Gold Prestige Card holders and other gold card members. membership registration and new housing loans and discounts checks by consumer groups for certain items, and is otherwise MUN also provides overseas medical treatment consultation, on fees for MUTB testamentary trusts; preferential rates on striving to provide customer publications and forms that are medical institution information and other services to certain card purchases of foreign currency through the World Currency easy to read, easy to understand, and easy to fill out from the members.* Shop run by Tokyo Credit Services; point rewards on real estate customer's perspective. * The services provided vary according to the type of card. transaction contracts through Mitsubishi UFJ Real Estate Services; and novelty gifts from MUMSS. The MUFG Group Response to Japan's Aging Population and offers services and benefits that card members can count on in Low Birth Rate their daily lives and during emergencies. ■ MUFG Property Succession Seminars MUFG The need for estate planning or succession planning is more common than many people think, and could arise for anyone. MUFG CSR Report 2012 56 Relations with Customers ■ Personal Trust, Kazoku Anshin Trust and Association of Japan. This product is designed for management MUTB Zutto Anshin Trust of the property of individuals (wards) under the guardian MUTB offers a range of property management and asset system. It conserves deposits and other property using the trust succession trust products, so customers and their families framework, based on instructions issued by family courts. In the can always feel secure. trust compensation, no management fees are charged. Personal Trust is a made-to-order trust product under which the funds management and payment methods of the entrusted funds can be freely set for customers and their families. For example, in combination with a testamentary trust, Personal Trust can be set up to begin funds management and investment for the family after inheritance. Kazoku Anshin Trust is a prodRelations with Customers uct that delivers valuable funds to families in portions, rather than all at once, after inheritance. In March 2012, MUTB also launched Zutto Anshin Trust which can protect the funds of customers and their families and provide planned payouts. This product is used for postretirement life planning and succession of assets to families. It provides three security functions as a set: (1) planned payment of funds for living expenses, (2) quick receipt of required funds by the family in the event of death, and (3) continuous receipt of funds by the family for living expenses after inheritance. ■ Specified Donation Trust MUTB Specified Donation Trust is an arrangement whereby the funds entrusted by a customer and their operating profits are donated over time to non-profit foundations or other recipients designated by the customer. As tax benefits, the operating profits from the trust are not taxed while the customer can take tax deductions on the portion of the donations that comes from the principal each year. ■ Guardianship System Support Trust MUTB In February 2012, MUTB launched Guardianship System Support Trust that is based on examinations by the Family Bureau of the General Secretariat of the Supreme Court, Civil Affairs Bureau at the Ministry of Justice, and the Trust Companies MUFG CSR Report 2012 57 Relations with Customers ■ Private Finance Initiatives (PFI) MUL Services for Corporate Customers ● SR NAVI SR NAVI, a system arising from the needs of individual shareMUL has been actively promoting Private Finance Initiatives ■ Hosting the Large-Scale Business Conferences holder satisfaction, converts information from a stockholder (PFI). PFIs are designed to provide the dual benefits of higher MUFG Business Link Shobai Hanjo register into a database that can be accessed online. It also quality service and lower project cost, by utilizing financing and The MUFG Group hosts a large business conference called allows for data analysis from a variety of angles, making it posknow-how from the private sector for the construction, mainteBusiness Link Shobai Hanjo, which brings together resources sible to analyze the composition of shareholders in terms of nance and operation of public buildings and facilities. MUL has to meet the diverse needs of participating customers. The ninth time series, shareholding period, and many other criteria. received orders for a total of 47 PFI projects so far, and has conference was held at the Nagoya Dome in January 2012, with ● Shareholder Surveys served as the lead company for 15 of these projects (as of about 2,000 companies participating and holding about 4,300 By making shareholder surveys and analysis of the results, March 31, 2012). business meetings seeking new business partners. Participants which allows for tracking the attributes of individual investors, showed their enthusiasm for the conference with comments we provide comprehensive support for investor relations Relations with Customers such as This is a great chance for people in other industries to strategies targeting individual shareholders. learn about our company's products and Since this business ● General Shareholders Meeting Visualization Support Serconference is sponsored by a bank, we can trust the partner vices companies, and we hope to establish ongoing trading relations. With the growing awareness of shareholder rights, an The MUFG Group will continue making use of our domestic and increasing number of individual shareholders wants to attend overseas networks to positively support customers' business general shareholders meetings, speak, and exercise voting development. rights. The Visualization Support Service assists with the preparation of easily understandable contents for business ■ CSR-related Businesses Plans Presentation Conference MUTB reports and other items required for reporting and explanaMUTB has been holding the CSR-related Business Plans Pretions at general shareholders meetings, employing graphs, sentation Conference since 2009 as one means of supporting tables, photographs, other visual images and professional the growth of enterprises engaged in CSR-related businesses. narration. We support our customers' aspirations to improve At the conference, presenters explain their business plans to shareholder understanding and boost their corporate images. venture capitalists and operating companies, and may find new ■ Trust Type Employee Incentive Plan ESOP Trust MUTB investors and business partners. Plans are being advanced to draw a greater number of participants in FY 2012. MUTB has been offering Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOP) Trusts, which apply an employee stock ownership ■ Shareholder Relation framework, since 2009, and began offering Stock Grant ESOP MUTB Support Services for Our Customers Trusts, which give employees gratis shares of their own compaUtilizing our wealth of experience in the provision of shareholder nies, from 2011. These are both products that boost the capital services, MUTB responds to the diverse investor strategy policies of corporate customers and employee incentives, while needs of customers. This includes providing tools and comalso contributing to better workplaces for customers by providprehensive support for shareholder relations (SR) strategies, ing systems that enhance employee welfare. which are designed to build relationships of trust with shareholders. MUFG CSR Report 2012 58 Relations with Customers Boosting Customer Satisfaction ● The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (corporate customers) BTMU conducts corporate customer satisfaction surveys, mostly targeting smalland medium■ Customer Satisfaction Surveys MUFG sized enterprises, once per year. The MUFG Group carries out surveys to further boost customer satisfaction and enhance its financial The bank is sharing customer opinions obtained by branch bankers from surveys and customer services. We are working to incorporate customer responses into our product development and interviews with all employees, discussing improvements, and working to boost customer satisfacservices, so that customers can enjoy a high level of satisfaction with our branches and services. tion at its commercial banking offices. BTMU ● The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (individual customers) Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) In a survey conducted in September 2011, nearly 70% of respondents indicated they were satisSatisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response fied or somewhat satisfied overall with BTMU. 0 20 40 60 80 100 % Development of new sales, suppliers, 15.1 23.9 43.1 10.3 5.7 and business partners 1.9 Relations with Customers Individual Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Risk reduction for interest rates, foreign exchanges and other financial risks 14.6 25.3 44.1 7.5 6.6 1.9 Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied/No response Respondents Individual customers selected at random 18.6 28.8 44.5 3.52.8 1.8 Improved efficiency of domestic settlements 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution method Mail % Preparation and 16.5 20.8 51.3 3.8 5.8 2.0 Quantity distributed 8,000 31.7 34.0 28.4 3.5 strengthening of financial strategies Cost reductions 7.9 14.8 61.6 6.6 6.9 2.2 Quantity of responses 2,500 2.4 Business succession strategies 16.6 26.4 47.7 3.5 3.0 2.9 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (BTMU) M&A strategies and other advice 6.7 16.3 63.0 7.3 5.7 1.0 Preparation and (%) strengthening of overseas strategies 14.8 26.0 47.8 4.8 4.3 2.5 90 High Acquisition, sale and effective use of land 13.0 17.6 54.2 7.9 5.6 1.7 80 Asset management matching risk profiles 8.6 18.1 60.4 4.9 6.7 1.3 Credibility as a financial institution Creation of new businesses, new products and new technologies 8.2 10.6 64.3 4.3 10.2 2.4 70 Sound management Transactions using Employee Improved efficiency of foreign trade and Employee attitude toward customers 17.0 25.3 47.9 3.3 4.2 2.4 Satisfaction with BTMU the Internet and cell phones appearance global settlements 60 Skill and accuracy in clerical procedures Drafting business strategies and Aesthetics and Ease of understanding preparing business plans 11.3 15.1 60.6 3.5 7.4 2.1 cleanliness at the branches employee explanations Diligent attitude toward compliance BCP preparation support 5.7 8.3 73.1 3.1 8.3 1.6 50 Employee approachability Employee product knowledge Aesthetics and cleanliness of ATM 9.2 10.5 66.0 4.2 8.0 2.1 ATM hours Debt management Employee understanding of customers Secure transactions, 40 (and their needs) including for cash cards, etc. Reduction of financial risk to weather Branch locations Waiting time at ATMs and earthquakes 4.3 7.4 73.9 3.2 9.6 1.6 Employee ability to offer suggestions 30 Environmental response 5.6 7.1 71.9 3.6 8.7 1.6 Social contribution efforts ATM locations Governance support for management, corporate financing policy support 8.9 9.9 68.5 2.8 7.5 2.3 20 Branch hours Waiting time at branches Response to IFRS 3.5 9.4 74.1 2.4 8.2 2.4 10 Revision of pension systems 8.0 9.0 69.3 4.7 7.1 1.9 Low 0 Corporate Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline (Conducted May-June 2012) Low Importance in bank selection High Respondents: Corporate customers selected at random Distribution method: Mail Quantity distributed: 21,500 companies (Conducted Sept. 2011) Quantity of responses: 4,743 companies MUFG CSR Report 2012 59 Relations with Customers MUTB MUMSS ● Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation ● Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities In a survey conducted in October 2011, over 60% of respondents indicated they were satisfied or A survey by MUMSS in September 2011 showed a 5.5-point rise in customer satisfaction overall, somewhat satisfied overall with MUTB. Among reasons customers emphasize for selecting a which had previously been on a declining trend. Scores for skill and accuracy in clerical procedures trust bank, MUTB received high scores for credibility as a financial institution, employee attitude and sound management were relatively high. towards customers, and prompt response to customer consultations. We recognize the need for However, scores for some items such as abundant asset management information and ease of greater efforts on items which received low ratings, and will continue striving to make further using Internet trading were low, so MUMSS will earnestly work at improvements toward becomimprovements. ing a securities company which customers will use throughout their lives. Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response Individual customers selected at random Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response Respondents Individual customers selected at random Respondents in five categories of managed assets 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Distribution method Mail % Distribution method Mail % Quantity distributed Approx. 7,000 20.8 40.7 32.1 4.3 19.4 33.8 30.7 9.5 5.1 Relations with Customers Quantity distributed 2,500 Quantity of responses Approx. 2,400 Quantity of responses 671 1.9 0.2 1.5 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUTB) Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUMSS) (%) Employee attitude toward customers Credibility as (%) 90 a financial institution 90 High High Prompt response to customer consultations Sound management Skill and accuracy in 80 clerical procedures 80 Aesthetics and cleanliness at the branches Ease of understanding Employee product knowledge employee explanations 70 70 Employee understanding of customers (and their needs) Satisfaction with MUTB Satisfaction with MUMSS Branch locations Sound management 60 60 Employee understanding Skill and accuracy in Employee ability to offer suggestions Waiting time at branches of customers (and their needs) Employee manners clerical procedures 50 50 Complete stance toward information Provision of information on management and other compliance Employee product knowledge products services and campaigns Prompt response to customer consultations Ease of understanding Preferential services employee explanations 40 40 Range of promotional goods Employee reliability Range of savings products and services Employee ability to offer suggestions 30 30 Provision of information on products, Range of investment trust products and services services and campaigns Website content Adequacy of information on economic and market conditions 20 20 Level of other fees Level of fees Ease of using Internet trading 10 10 Ease of using Abundant asset management information telephone trading Low 0 Low 0 Low Importance in trust bank selection High Low Importance in securities company selection High (Conducted Oct. 2011) (Conducted Sept. 2011) MUFG CSR Report 2012 60 Relations with Customers MUN ● Mitsubishi UFJ NICOS In a customer satisfaction survey conducted in FY 2011, over 60% of customers responded that they are satisfied or somewhat satisfied overall (up 2.1 percentage points year-on-year). MUN received high scores in ease of use, corporate image, call center response and other categories. For items where the company did not receive high ratings, MUN is taking the evaluations seriously and striving to improve products and services to satisfy customers. Customer Satisfaction Survey: Survey Outline Satisfied Somewhat satisfied Not sure Brand (non-affiliated) credit card users Somewhat dissatisfied Dissatisfied No response Respondents of MUFG CARD, DC, UFJ Card and NICOS 0 20 40 60 80 0.7 100 Distribution method Mail % Quantity distributed Approx. 9,000 18.9 44.8 28.9 Relations with Customers Quantity of responses 3,822 5.0 1.8 Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (MUN) (%) 90 High Good call center response Invoices sent by mail 80 Replete information Large credit limit for shopping Ease of use magazine contents inside Japan Feel no hesitation to display card for payment 70 Ease of Good corporate image using website Satisfaction with MUN 60 IC cards and other security functions Ease of use outside Japan 50 Compensation for illicit card use and damages Range of travel and shopping insurance 40 Range of payment options Discounts and privileges Low annual fee 30 at specified stores Low interest rates and fees for installment payments and revolving payments 20 Ease of cash withdrawals Range of point program Convenience of electronic money 10 Low 0 Low Importance in credit card company selection High (Conducted Oct. 2011) MUFG CSR Report 2012 61 Third Party Comment Even their CSR activities tend to look alike. This makes it harder to seen as responses to climate change and energy issues. This really grasp how CSR is reflected in the core business. ranking was due in part to the weakened financial standing of Third Party Comment This is why misconduct in the financial industry so quickly exposes Western financial sources, but it is also no doubt a testament to the the weak link between their business and CSR—and why it is rising confidence in Japan's technologies and financial institutions. more important for financial companies than manufacturers and The Japanese financial industry, including the MUFG Group, has other businesses to make sure their stakeholders really see the seen its fair share of scandals in the past. It too experienced a The CSR of financial institutions connection. financial crisis. But intentional falsification of information and illegal around the world may be at a turning I cannot be certain, how much this year's CSR report was written transactions involving entire organizations have been rare. In terms point. with the aforementioned scandals at Western financial companies of the trust upon which the financial industry depends, Japanese British financial institutions, once in mind, but an awareness of the connection between business companies can probably feel quite confident. pioneers in environmental, social, and and CSR is certainly a core element of this report. This is clear in Nonetheless, to become the world's most trusted financial group, corporate governance (ESG) considerthe expression that the Group's Corporate Vision acts as a guide the MUFG Group needs to go deeper and further in both its core ations, have been suspected of for its CSR activities. Past reports described the Group's CSR as business and CSR activities, not be too complacent in the trust it Third Party Comment manipulating international benchmark being guided by the Group's Management Philosophy, but until has earned in Japan. To be trusted by customers and markets the Prof. Yoshihiro Fujii interest rates for global financial this year more space was given to explaining the Management world over, it needs to further refine its financial capability to Graduate School of Global markets, laundering money, and Philosophy; it was not sufficiently clear why the MUFG Group function effectively wherever it goes, and reinforce its capacity to Environmental Studies, Sophia University engaging in other types of misconused the Management Philosophy to guide its CSR. attract the trust of diverse stakeholders. duct. Banks across Europe have faced Last April, the MUFG Group launched a new medium-term In this year's report, my attention was drawn to the practice of criticism for withholding credit during the European debt crisis. And business plan and also replaced its Management Philosophy with Community Development Finance by the Union Bank, a U.S. the sudden loss of confidence in U.S. investment banks following a Corporate Vision. Based on the new plan, MUFG aims to be the subsidiary. Expanding this approach elsewhere in the world would the collapse of Lehman Brothers is still a fresh memory. That world's most trusted financial group. These changes suggest that require cultivating workplaces where a diverse workforce can take Europe and the U.S. have been considered progressive in the area the MUFG Group has become more aware of the connection pride in being part of the MUFG Group. Fair employee evaluations of CSR has given even more reason to suspect that these compabetween business and CSR. In other words, it sees the connecand effective risk management systems are the foundation for nies are simply engaged in CSR-washing (a play on words, like tion between business and corporate responsibility as a means of building such workplaces. This is one area where the MUFG Group greenwashing ). creating shared value for company and society—that CSR is a might distinguish itself going forward. The connection between business and CSR is an important theme business strategy in itself. As the MUFG Group grows in the number of subsidiaries and in business management. For manufacturers and distributors of Reaffirming this point has shed light on the significance of the range of activities, compiling an effective report for the entire goods and services, efforts to improve one's products or services Group CSR Priority Themes. While the two priority themes Group will become a greater challenge. It will be tempting to try are also recognized as being good for society. Conversely, — Addressing Global Environmental Issues and Nurturing to include all of the information from each company, but if corporate CSR activities help strengthen trust in one's business. Society's Next Generation — have not changed from last year, the emphasis is to be given to the connection between business and As a result, these companies easily appreciate the relationship need for action on both themes, in running the company and in CSR, the MUFG Group should consider limiting the CSR Report between corporate value and social value (the shared value CSR, is now clear. to the strategic CSR activities it implements as a Group, and then propounded by American business scholar Michael Porter). Increased clarity of the challenges is not all that has improved; perhaps setting up separate linked websites for the activities of Financial institutions, meanwhile, provide services that are tough to positive outcomes of efforts have also appeared in this year's each company or for a select number of common themes. I hope differentiate. They all provide consumers and markets with the report. Last year, the MUFG Group was the world's largest to see the MUFG Group make well-executed, sustainable CSR same opportunities to use money (albeit under varying terms). provider of financing for renewable energy projects, which are efforts at this important turning point. MUFG CSR Report 2012 62 ( Issued December 2012 ) Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. CSR Promotion Division 2-7-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8330, Japan Tel: +81-3-3240-8111 Fax: +81-3-3240-6631 www.mufg.jp/english Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group's CSR Theme Song The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi UFJ This report has obtained Color Universal Design OrgaOur concept for corporate social responsibilit y is provides support for the various activities nization (CUD) certification. CUD is based on the “Hope, for tomorrow.” Our theme song was created to bring our message and passion for our initiatives to of the UNESCO Associated School to universal design approach, which aims to create publieven more people. promote Education for Sustainable cations that are easy to view and read by as many Title: Ima wo Ikite, by Aoi Teshima Development (ESD). persons as possible.
