2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2012 Summary Message from How we manufacture People who make the president 2 our products 19 Embraco 39 Research and innovation 20 Who we are 4 Manufacturing process 27 Private social Supplier parternship 31 investment 45 How we understand Customers 34 sustainability 10 Post-consumption 37 GRI Content 52 Management and Strategy 14 Corporate Governance 16 message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 2 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 A bridge to efficiency rate and renewable energy percentage in the global energy matrix by 2030. Since 2004, the future we have also been signatories of the UN’s Global Compact, which mobilizes companies to align their strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Every The year 2012 was marked by significant year, we reaffirm this commitment. challenges. The macroeconomic scenario remained We know that our business can contribute unstable due to the impacts of the crisis that positively to global efforts in reducing electrical began in 2008. However, if the economic agenda energy consumption. In over 40 years of existence, challenged political and business leaders, socialEmbraco has always guided itself by innovation and environmental discussions also gained relevance. technology leadership, focus on the customer and Twenty years after ECO-92, Brazil was, once pursuit of operational excellence. again, host of an important global meeting: Rio+20. In 2012, we reinforced one important triad for More than 30,000 people including heads of our company, which is comprised of shareholders, State and representatives from 100 countries customers and employees. Shareholders invest in participated in discussions on how to maintain the organization, and therefore we need to ensure human, social and economic development that is, an attractive return for them. We also managed to at the same time, sustainable. deepen the relationship with our customers which We also engaged in this debate. Besides is expressed in the special care taken with the participating in the event, we adhered to product we deliver to the market. The third point is Sustainable Energy for All, a United Nations people. We understand that this triad can only be initiative that aims to ensure universal access to sustained if we invest in valuing the professionals sustainable energy, as well as doubling the energy who work with us. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 3 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 “Our commitment to innovation which we are part of. In 2012, the Embraco Ecology Award environmental education program conducted in challenges us to always think of tomorrow, Brazil turned 20. This experience shows us that a long standing social project requires, besides commitment, a building a bridge to the future.” strong alliance between the private sector and society. Our products contribute to sustainability because they allow the end consumer to use less electrical — Roberto H. Campos, President of Embraco energy, preserve their food longer and have quieter refrigerators. Embraco has a history of commitment and dedication to innovation that enables us to deliver Bold goal we inaugurated a plant that follows Green Building to society what we do best: the cold that allows Our commitment to sustainability has driven us principles, designed to reduce energy and water people, in all corners of the world, to live a more to move forward in contributing to a more conscious consumption and waste generation. joyful, comfortable and healthy life, celebrating life. world. And, in our business, we do this in three ways: In our value chain, we influence our partners This mission can only become a reality through the in the production process, in the value chain and in through the Supplier Excellence program. In postengagement of our teams, which, even located in offering products with less environmental impact. consumption, we have the Top Green Program, which different parts of the world North America, Europe and In our production process, we seek to reduce recycles compressors at the end of their useful life. Asia share the same passions: cold and the future. energy and water consumption and waste generation. Finally, our social investment policy has contributed This is what unites us. Our commitment to innovation In 2012, we established a bold goal: to not send waste towards advances in the countries where our units are challenges us to always think of tomorrow, building a to landfills by the end of 2015. We completed the located. bridge to the future. All this is what makes Embraco a greenhouse gas emissions inventory of all our units, We’re a company that was born in Brazil and today unique company. following the GHG Protocol methodology. In China, has operations on four continents and customers in we launched compressors smaller than conventional over 80 countries. We’re aware of our responsibilities Roberto H. Campos ones and more efficient in terms of energy. In Mexico, to our stakeholders, especially the communities in President of Embraco message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 4 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Who we are message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 5 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Cold is our business Have you ever wondered how your life We’re global market would be without refrigeration? If we didn’t leaders in hermetic have the compressor, responsible for producing cold in refrigerators and refrigerated counters, compressors* for for example, we wouldn’t be able to keep foods refrigeration. The and drinks preserved and fresh. achieved position is We know that life with refrigeration is more comfortable, healthier and more a result of delivering dynamic. We see cold as a vital energy that intelligent solutions is present in most essential products in our and investing day to day, and that not only transforms, but makes our lives gain a new meaning (see in innovation, infographic on page 09). technology and We’re recognized for the quality of our people development. compressors. But we also know that just as important as producing cold with quality adopt practices aligned to sustainability and we policy, focused on education and the environment. is how we do this: we invest in compact monitor our operations through water and energy Through it we develop actions and projects that products that consume less raw materials and consumption as well as waste generation indicators. meet the needs of the communities where we energy. In this way, we reduce impacts on the Also, we follow trends and move quickly to bring operate. environment and ensure that our customers them to consumers. We also know our responsibility These are the actions that reinforce our global have the products that meet their needs. * In this model, the equipment is fully enclosed to the communities in which we are part of. presence and technology vocation, allowing us to by a sealed metal casing. Only a specialist can We engage our suppliers so that they open it and access components. Therefore, we’ve defined a global social investment deliver the best refrigeration for your day to day. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 6 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Global presence 2 EMBRACO IN NUMBERS (2012) 6 1 1,277 registered patents 5 7 3 42 years of history, completed in 2013 4 More than 40 R&D laboratories Global More than 30 thousand people benefited from presence Embraco’s social investment actions in Brazil, China, Italy, United States, Mexico and Slovakia More than 12,000 employees work in our factories 1 Embraco United States 4 Embraco Brazil 5 Embraco China 6 Embraco Slovakia Suwanne Joinville Beijing Spisska Nova Ves and offices. We’re present in seven countries, located Warehouse and sales office Headquarters, office, compressor Office and compressor on three continents. The physical structure consists factory, Foundry and Embraco Office and compressor factory More than 90% of suppliers factory of two distribution centers and nine factories: five of 2 Embraco Russia* Electronics Qingdao adhered to the Code of Moscow Itaiópolis 7 Embraco Italy compressors, one of components, two of electronics Warehouse and sales office Component and cooling Embraco Electronics Riva Presso Chieri Conduct and a foundry. From our units, products are distributed * Inaugurated in May 2013 systems factory Office and compressor to more than 80 countries. factory 3 Embraco Mexico 3% to 4% of annual revenue Apodaca, Monterrey invested in research and Compressor factory and office development message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 7 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Time line 1990 2010 Focus on international Technology leadership expansion Our story began in 1971, the year that Embraco was • Refinement of sustainability strategy • Operations in Italy begin founded, in the city of Joinville, Santa Catarina (Brazil), in the company • Industrial joint venture in China is created where the headquarters are located. Beginning in 2006, the • Operations in Mexico begin • Operations in Slovakia begin company, which had open capital, underwent a corporate • Launch of Embraco’s new brand reorganization and merged with the household appliance • Embraco Russia inauguration manufacturer Multibrás. The partnership created, in Brazil, Whirlpool SA, controlled by North American Whirlpool Corporation. Even being a subsidiary, we maintain our management independently. For this, we have a strong shield policy which ensures information confidentiality, protecting our customers and partners. Learn more about our main achievements in each decade. 1970 2000 Commitments and The beginning opportunities • Founding of Empresa Brasileira de • Sustainability becomes one of our 1980 Compressores S.A (Embraco) strategic pillars • Production exports begins • Embraco receives international Research and innovation consolidation certifications, such as ISO 14001 and • First technical cooperation QC 080.000 agreement with Federal University • Company signs UN Global Compact of Santa Catarina (UFSC) • Begins operating in Brazil with the • Development of proprietary corporate name Whirlpool S.A. technologies begins • Electronics unit inauguration • Embraco United States inauguration (Brazil and China) • Foundry inauguration • China factory inauguration • New Business area begins message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 8 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Embraco Slovakia team receives Awards and Responsible Large Company 2012 recognitions award. 2012 • Recognized as one of the 21 most sustainable comaward was recognition for the Embraco Volunteer panies in Brazil by Exame Sustainability Guide. Program (Prove). It’s the second consecutive time Embraco has received this award. 2013 •V  oted one of the Best Companies to Work for in • Embraco Slovakia won the award Responsible LarBrazil, according to Você S/A magazine’s guide. ge Company 2012, granted by the Pontis FounEmbraco ranked first in Various Industry Sector and dation through the Corporate Social Responsibility was highlighted in Best Leadership Practices. (CSR) National Award Program Via Bona Slovakia. It • Support Foundation for Research and Innovation was also recognized with first place in the Supporter in the State of Santa Catarina (Fapesc) granted of Volunteering and Good Partner for Community Embraco first place in the Stemmer Innovacategories. tion Award in the category Innovative Company •E  mbraco United States received honorable mention of Large and Medium Size. The cases submitted in the contest Metro Atlanta’s Top 100 Workplapresented three products that sought solutions to ces. The Journal-Constitution and its partner Worksize reduction and energy efficiency. place Dynamics surveyed 184 companies. The North • In 2012, Embraco was classified for the state level American unit was also voted one of the best comof SESI Quality in Work Award. Sesi’s initiative panies to work for (Atlanta’s Best and Brightest aims to strengthen social responsibility and Companies to Work For) by the National Associarecognize best practices in life quality at work. The tion for Business Resources (NABR). message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 9 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Embraco business In commerce We’re world leaders in producing hermetic* compressors for refrigeration. They’re The compressor can be found in many sections of the heart of refrigerators, freezers, wine cellars and other equipment responsible for the supermarket: in the freezer that keeps food preserving food and keeping drinks at the ideal temperature. Compressors, together with chilled and exposed to consumers, the refrigerated the cooling system, generate cold. islands in the center of the aisles that hold frozen foods and in the bakery’s showcases that conserve Our products are part of everyone’s daily life, in homes as well as in industry and cakes and sweets. In commerce, vertical and commerce. Through them, we guarantee that life will be more comfortable and have horizontal freezers ensure the ideal temperature of more quality. You may not realize it, but cold is present in important life moments, In celebrations drinks, ice cream and frozen foods. from the simplest meal to a memorable celebration among friends and family. See Who doesn’t like to enjoy a wine served below some of the main applications of our compressors. at the right temperature? Our products are in wine cellars, which help maintain the temperature of beverages such as wine perfect for drinking. Additionally, the food served at dinners and parties is also conserved through the compressor. At lunchtime Refrigeration is essential in professional kitchens of restaurants. The compressor is used in freezers and medium and large refrigerators, refrigerated drawers and the buffet tables themselves used for self-service. In convenience stores, companies and universities, the compressor is present in equipment that sells soft drinks, juices, water and ice cream. In the morning The refrigerator’s cold allows food conservation important for a good breakfast, keeping milk, eggs and butter fresh. Refrigerated drinking fountains provide chilled water and are essential for the * In this model, the equipment is fully enclosed by a sealed metal regions where it’s hot all year round. casing. Only a specialist can open it and access components. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 10 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 How we understand sustainability message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 11 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 “Sustainability guides our business and our actions as a global company.” Our strategy — Ursula Angeli, VP of Human Resources, EHS, Communication and Sustainability For us, sustainability is a dynamic journey which aims to discuss the company’s long term •E  ngagement of people We have a that challenges us constantly. It serves as an strategy. The council meets every two months private social investment policy that guides inspiration to our daily practices and guides us in and is composed of our president, Roberto us to permanently apply resources in the making decisions and in managing our business. Campos, the vice president of Human Resources, communities in which we operate, through We believe in the power of change and the Communication, Sustainability and EHS, Ursula educational and environmental projects; strength of our example. Angeli, and the board. Its coordination is shared • Sustainable value chain Our Delivering the benefit of refrigeration involves among the corporate areas of Sustainability, sustainability view extends to our value complex management of all phases present in our EHS and Strategic Planning. Furthermore, we chain, from supply to post-consumption. production process, from designing the product, also strengthened our directives, focusing on the In the supply chain, we work in partnership managing our supply chain, training our teams following aspects: with our suppliers to incorporate into their and environmental commitment to participating • Sustainable products Innovation plays daily practices sustainability requirements, in the community where we operate and the care a central role in our Sustainability strategy. promoting joint work on finding solutions. taken with our products’ post-consumption. Within this context, our products’ energy In post-consumption, we have a reverse In 2012, we initiated a review of our efficiency is a key aspect. We invest in compressor logistics program, ensuring the sustainability strategy. As a result of this process, developing innovative solutions and in product’s recycling after its disposal by the *EHS – in english, Environment, Heallth we created in 2013, the Sustainability Council, reducing the use of raw materials; final consumer. and Safety” message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 12 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Ideas that inspire Sustainable Energy for All Rio+20 In 2012, we became the first company based Aware that We participated in the panel on energy that’s GHG Protocol is a methodology that permits in Brazil to sign the Sustainable Energy for All sustainable part of the Corporate Sustainability Forum’s accounting for GHG emissions. In 2012, we global commitment. It’s a United Nations initiative, schedule, the main event held for companies conducted an inventory for 2011, with emissions launched in 2011, which aims to ensure universal development requires during Rio+20. We were also chosen to participate from Italy, Slovakia and Mexico along with Brazilian access to energy, increase global energy efficiency broad engagement in a debate on sustainable development with plants (Itaiópolis, Foundry and Headquarters), and, and increase the share of renewable sources in the of society’s various a select international group, formed by 50 in 2013, we published the global inventory relating energy matrix. To this end, it promotes mobilization executives and opinion makers. In the meeting, to 2012 (more information in GRI Content, EN16 of governments, business people and civil society. sectors, we join we discussed how the private sector can develop indicator, on pg. 60). The goal is to double energy production from external initiatives an objective and clear action plan for the next renewable sources by 2030. that drive effective five years. The event was named Brazil Dialogue Letter of Commitment for Sustainable Building a Roadmap for Sustainable Development. Solid Waste Management Global Compact change. We signed the document on World Environment For 10 years we’ve been signatories to the  ilver Medal in Brazilian S Day, on June 5, 2013. Embraco’s initiative on signing UN’s Global Compact. The initiative aims to GHG Protocol the Ethos Institute document seeks to strengthen engage the business community in adopting Embraco received in 2012, silver medal the private sector’s commitment to sustainable core and international values that include classification which certifies inventory of development and implementation of the National human rights, labor relations, environment and all direct and indirect emissions arising from Policy on Solid Waste. The commitment is inserted anti-corruption. In 2012, we strengthened our electrical energy consumption – in the GHG in Embraco’s sustainability strategy, which, among commitment to the program by joining the Global Protocol Brazil, an important classification, its global goals, aims to send zero waste to landfills Compact’s Letter of Commitment. The signing which demonstrates that Embraco is concerned by 2015 (more information in GRI Content chapter, was done during Rio+20. with its greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). The EN22 indicator, on pg. 61). message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 13 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 OUR CERTIFICATIONS ISO 9001 ISO 14001 (quality) (Environmental Management System) ZERO WASTE Foundry (Joinville), Brazil Compressors Foundry (Joinville), Brazil (Joinville), Brazil Components and Cooling Compressors (Joinville), Brazil Systems (Itaiópolis), Brazil Electronics, Components and Cooling Systems China Electronics (Qingdao), China (Itaiópolis), Brazil Electronics, Waste management is part of our sustainability Waste management is also present in our Compressors (Beijing), Slovakia, Italy China Electronics (Qingdao), China strategy and permeates the value chain, including Supplier Excellence Program, which promotes and Mexico. Compressors (Beijing), Slovakia and Italy. suppliers, production and post-consumption. Today, waste reduction in the supply chain. In 2012, we approximately 96% of the wastes we generate encouraged a supplier to send its rubber waste globally in our compressor factories are recycled. for recycling, avoiding disposal of 22 tons to OHSAS 18001 IECQ QC 080.000 Among our global goals, we have the challenge landfills. In 2013, nearly 100 tons were recycled. (occupational health and safety (hazardous substance environmental of sending zero waste to landfills by the end In post-consumption, the Top Green Program management system) management) and RoHS (Restriction of of 2015. In Brazil, for example, we’ve modified collected and recycled compressors discarded by Foundry (Joinville), Brazil Compressors Hazardous Substances) procedures, revitalized the structure of selective end users. In 2012, 500,000 units were recycled, (Joinville), Brazil Components and Foundry (Joinville), Brazil Compressors collection and developed actions such as recycling equivalent to more than 4,000 tons of steel and Cooling Systems (Itaiópolis), Brazil (Joinville), Brazil Components and garden, construction and powder paint wastes. 1,300 tons of iron. Electronics, China Electronics (Qingdao), Cooling Systems (Itaiópolis), Brazil China Compressors (Beijing), Slovakia Electronics, China Electronics (Qingdao), and Italy. China Compressors (Beijing) and Slovakia. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 14 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Management and Strategy message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 15 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Efficiency in “Embraco’s management model defines our operations common language. It’s the way we choose to operate daily and ensure delivery of results, Our strategic planning has helped us become maintaining synergy among our units.” a more efficient, agile and global company. — Janaína Weiss, Director of Corporate Management Model Through the Embraco Management Model – Embraco Way of Management (EWM) –, we’ve created a path for all of our units and we share our best practices. The global synergy enables us to improve the results we deliver to our stakeholders and build a common language, which The management model was redesigned in To align, communicate and share our goals, is materialized in global processes. 2009. Since then, several initiatives have been we organize events such as the Annual To evaluate application of our management created to internalize the EWM concept. As an Leadership Meeting and Strategic Dialogues, model in the units, since 1992, we’ve conducted example, we have the Leadership Academy, a which have the participation of directors who an annual learning cycle. Until 2012, the approach long-term global development program designed are part of the company’s staff. focused on interviews in the areas and used for leaders, managers, directors and vice We’ve developed our goals based on business only National Quality Award (NQA) criteria as a presidents. One of its modules provides specific prospects considering the shareholder, the reference. Starting in 2013, it began being done training on the discipline in execution concept. market, our processes, people and strategy. KPIs through an audit process, which also considers As for factory employees, an internal team, (key performance indicators) relevant to each requirements developed by Embraco itself, acting as an EWM multiplier, shares knowledge. of these perspectives are defined, which are without losing connection with market practices, Development and deployment of our strategy systematically monitored, to ensure achieving translated in NQA. are part of our Management Model. the results. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 16 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Global Leadership Meeting held Corporate in 2012. Governance The governance structure’s highest authority the committee monitors performance of the is the president’s staff. It consists of nine organization and executives. members, including the president, five viceAnother important staff function is defining presidents and three directors (Logistics, Legal what risks will be monitored from Enterprise and Procurement). The group meets weekly Risk Management (ERM) methodology. The work and is responsible for monitoring execution includes executing action plans and defining of the company’s strategy and for making key those responsible for monitoring. Another ERM decisions in Embraco’s economic, environmental objective is to identify business opportunities. and social aspects. It also ensures that results are delivered to shareholders in accordance with established goals. Through quarterly reviews, message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 17 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Our principles MISSION Offer innovative solutions for a better quality of life. New organizational structure We promoted, throughout 2012, some changes • t he sustainability area, which included the in the organizational structure, which, currently, has Vice Presidency of Operations, became part VALUES PILLARS five vice presidents: Research and Development; of the newly created Vice Presidency of • Diversity with Technology Operations; Business and Marketing; Finance, IT Human Resources, EHS, Communication and leadership and and Strategic Planning; Human Resources, EHS, Sustainability. Ursula Angeli is the current inclusion innovation Communication and Sustainability. vice president; • Spirit of winning • t he Vice Presidency of Research & • Integrity Last year, the following changes occurred in Development was reformulated, was leadership positions: renamed Vice-Presidency of Research • Respect Operational Revenue growth and value creation excellence Sustainability •E mbraco’s presidency was assumed by & Development & Innovation, and who • Teamwork Roberto H. Campos, who had occupied the assumed the area was Lainor Driessen. He People Vice-Presidency of Business and Marketing also took on the post of Vice President of along with Electronics. The executive Operations; replaced João Carlos Brega, who is now • Mário Ussyk continues as Vice President of responsible for the Presidency of Whirlpool Quality, Lean & Assets and now also leads Latin America; the Mexico Project Phase II. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 18 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability is Transparency and ethics one of Embraco’s We’ve adopted international management and corporate governance standards. We adhere strategic pillars. to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Our leadership (SOX) North American law, created to reduce the participates in risk of financial fraud and adopted, mainly, by training during the companies whose shares are listed on the stock Global Leadership Meeting which took exchange. We also conduct internal audits to assess the internal control environment. SUSTAINABILITY place in 2012. Our principles and values are brought together in Whirlpool Corporation’s Code of Ethics and Global Policies, Letter of STRUCTURE Organizational Values and Code of Conduct. All employees have access to these directives, and more than 90% of direct suppliers The structure is composed of the Vice President distributed throughout the Americas, Europe of Sustainability (Ursula Angeli), who also answers and Asia signed the document, which has for the areas of Human Resources, Communication, guidelines on the companies’ posture in Environment, Health and Safety. Below the VP, are relation to social-environmental issues. the director of Sustainability and Communication The Ethics Committee meets regularly and (Rosângela Coelho) and Corporate Sustainability is responsible for monitoring compliance of the Manager (Annelise Vendramini), who coordinates the code and maintenance of all communication local Sustainability teams in each country where we channels for requests or complaints. have operations. The area’s mission is to manage Complaints can be made directly in the Legal corporate social responsibility, in order to integrate and Human Resources departments. Also sustainability into Embraco’s strategic pillars and a specific line (hotline) is available, which promote engagement of the various stakeholders. guarantees anonymity (more information in GRI Content chapter, EN22 indicator, on pg. 68). message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 19 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 How we manufacture our products message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 20 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Research and innovation message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 21 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship “To develop products with less environmental impact and obtain more efficiency in costs and industrial processes, we’ve invested in various solutions that combine innovation with sustainability. For this, two workstreams are essential: close interaction with academia and regular surveys with large customers.” — Fábio Klein, director of Technology & Innovation message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 22 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Products board was made in 2012, through the joint efforts of our Electronics units from Brazil more efficient and China. The equipment concentrates in a single board the inverter’s performance (which controls the compressor) and the thermostat (which controls the refrigeration appliance). Until then, two boards were needed to control Innovation and technology are these two parts of the cooling system. fundamental to our business. Therefore, we invest 3% to 4% of annual revenue in Energy efficiency Research & Development (R&D). Commitment This is our main attribute in product to develop innovative solutions involves, development. Our compressors allow the necessarily, recognizing our teams’ talent refrigeration unit to produce the cold required and valuing diversity. Our researchers have to preserve food, but using the smallest compensation compatible to employees possible measure of energy. who hold administrative positions people When we think of energy efficiency, one of management model called Y career. This our highlights is variable speed technology strategy ensures that our professionals (VCC), which we call Fullmotion. With it, the have opportunities in areas related to their compressor runs with less speed oscillation and expertise. has its performance optimized. This generates As an example of our ongoing investment great electrical energy savings, and permits it in research and development, we’ve created to work on demand. That is, if the refrigerator is a device called Control Board. The electronic at its maximum capacity (with more food), the message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 23 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship compressor works harder and, if empty, works less. Thanks to Fullmotion technology present in products such as refrigerators and freezers – it’s Research and possible to save up to 40% on the electricity bill. development centers We also prioritize technologies that reduce Embraco representatives greenhouse gas emissions, which harm the Approximately 500 attend the Polo (UFSC) Knowledge generation planet. We follow the guideline of adhering each employees work in the study laboratory’s 30 year commemoration. We believe that one of the most efficient time more to using natural refrigerants. Natural of new solutions in the The university was ways to develop new technologies is to establish refrigerants’ great advantage is low Greenhouse the company’s first partnerships with private companies, universities, Warming Potential (GWP), measurement that five units in which we have partnership with research centers and government. We were expresses the contribution to global warming. operations. educational institutions. pioneers in establishing a partnership with the At the same time, we remain aligned to new Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) legislation on the subject. alliance that, in 2012, completed 30 years. Among the solutions adopted is the The Refrigeration and Thermophysics Research refrigerant gas R290 (propane), recognized by Laboratory (Polo), of the University’s Mechanical the European and Asian markets for providing Engineering department, was built with our very low impact on the ozone layer. Use of the sponsorship. technology gained further support beginning in We also participate in co-development 2011, when the gas was approved in the United projects with our customers. In some cases, we States. One of the most common applications is lend our laboratories so that companies can use in vending machines, for selling soft drinks. the equipment and make the necessary tests on Over the years, we’ve also reduced the use their products. of raw materials. Our products, which already Partnerships related to innovation are weighed 7.2 kilos, now weigh about 5.8 kilos. included in our strategy of being a global This means that we’re producing smaller, lighter company. We develop projects with governments, compressors with less material consumption. companies and research institutions in Brazil, the United States, Mexico, China and Germany. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 24 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship EMBRACO INNOVATION LESS ENERGY, AWARD GREATER WINE Two hundred million refrigeration equipment. This QUALITY is China’s reality, which received, in 2011, our first innovation award, the Embraco Innovation Award. The idea is to encourage students and researchers to develop In 2012, we developed an innovative solution refrigeration solutions with high energy efficiency. in partnership with the company Art des Caves, In the awards’ second edition, in 2012, we received NEW SOLUTIONS a leader of acclimatized wine cellars in Brazil. 57 projects from students and refrigeration market Our research investment resulted in producing a professionals. All were analyzed by a team of over In 2012, globally, 45 Embraco compressor when, placed in a wine cellar, allows 30 members, for innovation and originality; socialsolution protections were made. a 30% reduction in energy consumption. The environmental impact; marketing and application for the Among them are 39 applications technology enables that the optimum temperature market; technical quality; and energy efficiency. be reached with 25% more speed, remaining stable In addition to having a winner in each category, we for invention, two utility models and and with constant humidity. created the Innovation Fund Award, in which funds will four industrial designs. These are Besides quiet, the compressor rotates at a be divided among the next year’s six best projects. The ideas that will soon be converted into lower frequency, and this helps reduce vibration, goal is to apply the money in developing prototypes or preventing the bottles from being shaken, which improving research. even more efficient and sustainable can compromise the wine’s quality. products than those offered today. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 25 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship portfOlio Our VES product platform Every day, we work to optimize cooling material consumption reduction, noise Noise solutions for our customers and level reduction and energy efficiency gain, • Two decibels quieter* consumers, seeking to integrate new adding value to our products. Moreover, • New design, which eliminates noises innovation and technology concepts. the variable capacity technology makes That’s how the VES product platform Efficiency the VES line operate at a high speed, came about, which was developed with • 4% increase in energy efficiency* so the refrigerator reaches the desired Fullmotion variable capacity technology temperature more quickly. This ensures • Minimum speed to reach 1,200 rpm for household applications, today better preservation of the stored food, Vibration produced in the China unit. plus optimizes the refrigerator’s internal • 25% less* temperature control. To develop the platform, we improved • Optimized suspension the products that we already had, This means less noise in your refrigerator, without losing their functionality, with lower electricity bill and less food waste. *If compared to the VEM family, which preceded VES development. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 26 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship “We believe that self lubricating steel will revolutionize the way to think about mechanical engineering, because all the systems that need some lubrication to avoid ECO-EFFICIENCY IN THE friction can use our AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY technology and Self-lubricating steel Recently, we launched a high-strength steel with eliminate the use of lubricating potential. The solution was developed oil. It’s a sustainable by means of powder metallurgy – combining Plasma technology has been researched by standard that establishes a set of environmental powdered iron and carbon, sintered with solid Embraco, in partnership with the Federal University management guidelines. Since the technology alternative, which lubricants. The metal composition causes lubricating of Santa Catarina (UFSC), since 1992. It’s also was created, we’ve made several advances. Our will have great to occur throughout the part’s entire useful life. In applied in plasma reactor production equipment newest plasma reactor model has a dual function: application potential, 2012, pilot batches began being sent to industries used in the automotive industry to coat metal while the part is coated, it’s also cleaned, making and customers. Our goal is that in two years, the mechanical parts with layers of durable and the production cycle more efficient and eliminating especially in the technology is manufactured in large scale for the anticorrosive material. The coating using plasma waste generation. Furthermore, it brings ecoautomotive industry.” market. The solution benefits mainly the metaltechnology is faster, requires a smaller amount efficiency gains in the process. With one less step mechanical industry, like the automotive segment. of chemical products, doesn’t emit greenhouse in manufacturing the part, it’s possible to reduce — Marcos Fábio Lima, Embraco’s director of New It increases productivity and reduces environmental gases and complies with ISO 14000 international energy and water consumption. Business impact in production lines. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 27 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Manufacturing process message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 28 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Standardizing DO MORE processes WITH LESS We believe in the importance of working with Document Management System (DMS) Lean Thinking philosophy guides our way of from a single model, integrated into all units software, which makes it possible to interface thinking. The proposal is to make teams focused and countries where we operate. So, since 2011 with documents from all plants. Standardization on avoiding waste, eliminating rework and we’ve been developing the Management Routine has the benefit of simplifying and organizing the maintaining the factories’ production adjusted to project. Among the various ongoing actions is the routine, gaining productivity and quality as well We work with a single consumption, without excess inventories. pursuit to standardize procedures, activities and as reducing accidents. and integrated Our concern extends to transport indicators that measure our results. In 2012, we began a process of standardizing rationalization. We’ve avoided unnecessary Project implementation expected to be the manufacturing processes using the Methods model in all units movements and performed periodic equipment completed in 2014 has an impact on six Time Measurement (MTM) methodology. Using and countries maintenance so that we operate at full capacity. management systems: ELS System (Embraco this method allows deeper analysis of the where we operate. In this way, we’ve improved our productivity Lean System), EQS (Embraco Quality System), operations and increases the standardization while at the same time reduced costs. EHS System (Environment, Health and Safety level. In 2012, the work involved Brazil unit’s System) and Productivity for Growth (P4G, Cost areas. The outlook is that the action be expanded Reduction System). We also began working to other plants in 2013. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 29 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Technology and environment We manage our operations so that we can become a reference in environmental management. The factory has a special energy consumption and water temperature control system. All equipment “We want Reducing the environmental impact involves improving our production processes. Within our is highly energy efficient, and the structure was prepared to reuse water. The main energy source to advance sustainability factories, we manage waste generation and recycling as well as total consumption and that is natural gas. The building has thermal insulation and values the use of natural light and ventilation, concepts at every product relative to water and energy. Relative consumption has as a reference our production volume. In other reducing the need to use air conditioning. Accessibility for people with disabilities is ensured by manufacturing stage, from words, our environmental goals are a guideline for rational use of natural resources and waste control. access ramps, elevators and wide accesses. the compressors’ conception Monitoring our indicators counts on our employees’ participation, who are engaged to to post-consumption.” achieve each time better results in the operations’ eco-efficiency. — Lainor Driessen, VP of Operations and VP of Research and Development Embraco Mexico is our newest plant. Construction was completed in 2011 and complied with, from the beginning of the works, the green building concept. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 30 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Carbon inventory We reported 2011 emissions of our units in In 2012, we began to publish our greenhouse Brazil, Slovakia and Italy. Therefore, our report gas emission results in the Brazil GHG Protocol, was classified as a silver medal of the Brazil GHG a public database, elaborated by an international Protocol. This means that we account for direct organization, in partnership with Getulio Vargas greenhouse gas emissions in the production Foundation’s (FGV) Center for Sustainability process and indirect arising from electrical energy Studies and World Resources Institute (WRI). The consumption. In 2013, the inventory was extended goal is to encourage companies to publish their to Embraco’s other units, making it a global action greenhouse gas emission (GHG) inventories. (learn more in GRI Content chapter, EN16 indicator). ITALY’S EXAMPLE DIRECT IMPACTS In Embraco’s Italian unit, goals to reduce of energy spent per compressor) has fallen In 2012, we advanced in our operations’ energy consumption have not only been met over the years. This shows that we can grow management. Among the highlights* are: but exceeded. Thanks to investments in ecoand remain competitive while at the same time • Energy consumption per compressor: -3% efficiency and infrastructure, since 2005 control and reduce our environmental impact. (direct energy) and -5% (indirect energy); the total volume of energy consumed per For the period between 2013 and 2015, • Waste generation per compressor: 6%; compressor produced fell 58%. several projects are planned. The aim is to adopt • Volume of water reused: : 225,511 m³, In defining action plans, energy consumption more energy-efficient equipment or replace representing 31% of total consumption; is correlated with the production volume. these machines for solar energy. The expectation • Energy saved through investments in Thus, despite the growth in the number of is that we no longer consume over 2 million kWh modernization and efficiency: 65,492 GJ. compressors produced by the Italian unit, the per year and no longer emit more than 1,200 *The above information pertains to the global results concerning average consumption (which relates the amount tons of CO 2 equivalent. compressor production. Learn more in GRI Content chapter. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 31 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship SUPPLIER PARTNERSHIP message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 32 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Continuous “Innovation is the key for us to Improvement overcome the current social-environmental We’ve invested in a close relationship with our challenges. We’re the market leader in hermetic suppliers to contribute to the transformation of the companies that are by our side. Since 2012, we’ve compressors for refrigeration, seeking to guide been developing Embraco’s Supplier Excellence Program. The goal is to improve our supply chain’s the sector for excellence in energy efficiency. performance in aspects related to service, quality, costs and sustainability. Embraco’s first unit to Our suppliers have the capacity for research and implement the program was Brazil. From this experience, the work spread to Europe development and can contribute greatly so that and Asia. In 2012, the strategic processes were revised to improve supply chain management advances happen.” and integrate the areas that interface with these suppliers and partner companies. As part of the — André Vincent, Corporate Director of Materials processes, suppliers were prioritized in each region to develop workshops. Over a period of three to five weeks, a multidisciplinary team from Embraco joins a partner supplier’s team and develops actions for improvements, dividing the gains made at the end of the process. There were 11 workshops – five in Brazil, four in message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 33 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Europe and two in Asia. The main results were waste reduction, product redesigns, lower environmental More than 90% of risk, quality gain and greater delivery speed. suppliers follow our Integrating sustainability to the process was considered a practice highlighted by Guia Exame Code of Conduct. award in 2012. We were recognized as one of the most sustainable companies. WASTE IS RAW Guide for suppliers MATERIAL FOR The Supplier Code of Conduct guides our partners on which social-environmental criteria SYNTHETIC will permeate the relationship with Embraco. The document has already been signed by more than GRASS 90% of our suppliers around the world. We reinforce, therefore, the guideline that an important premise to contract a supplier requires passing through The Supplier Excellence Program has acceptance of the Code of Conduct’s criteria, a already reaped important benefits. In 2012, document that’s the base for supply chain trainings the work done with a partner, a producer and assessments. One of these evaluations is the of rubber products and precision gaskets, Social-Environmental Self-Assessment. Addressing stood out. With the expectation of reducing human rights, labor relations, environmental by up to 90% rubber waste sent to landfills, management and subcontracting, the action was a process was developed to recycle rubber developed with direct materials suppliers in Brazil, rejects, burrs and mats that were once Europe and Asia. discarded in landfills. This material can now In 2012, based on this self-assessment, we be shredded and resold to manufacture defined the priority suppliers to develop and synthetic grass, widely used in soccer fields. conduct trainings, visits and development meetings. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 34 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Customers message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 35 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship BESIDE THEM We’ve worked to strengthen the relationship with the companies with which we do business and with our customers’ customers. For this, we We have customers developed a series of actions aimed at this public. Every year, we conduct a satisfaction survey in over 80 countries. with customers in 33 countries. The survey To meet their Communication channels includes the household, commercial and needs, we seek to We receive questions, comments and other replacement markets. Based on this information, customer contacts via the link “Contact Us” we define the best service strategy. understand how available on our site (www.embraco.com). Contact Another highlight is our participation in they perform their is made by email. The channel was developed to events and meetings. We were in four major activities and quickly meet demands according to each public, such world business fairs, in China, the United States as students, contractors and retailers. We also and Germany. The initiative contributed to offer the best maintain a fan page on Facebook (EmbracoBR) strengthening our presence in the global market. solutions. and an account on Twitter (@embraco). message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 36 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Support to contractors In 2012, we conducted trainings for more than 1,800 technical contractors from various countries. They’re responsible for installing our products in equipment. We invest in qualifying these INFORMATION professionals so that they’re able to provide better service to Embraco’s product users. The work is done WITHIN EASY through a partnership with our customers. A team from Embraco goes to the company and conducts REACH the training with support materials, such as catalogs and manuals. In other cases, the training is done in our own facilities. The technical contractor plays a We’ve developed a Smartphone application key role in recommending our products to the final especially targeted at contractors professionals customer and needs to understand in detail how the day to day. Then, we elaborated a differentiated working with refrigeration equipment. The they should work. editorial, layout and visual identity project. Troubleshooting App is practical and easy to use and For 30 years we’ve also produced a magazine The result of this work is a clear and precise helps technicians solve problems in compressors. with content geared to contractors. The traditional publication, with appropriate guidelines for The application’s content displays a list of publication, which until 2012 was called Bola Preta contractors. The pages bring interviews, opinions possible mechanical and electrical equipment Magazine, was reformulated in 2013 and received the from recognized market professionals, technical failures, also indicating how to adjust them. In name Refrigeration Club. content and reports on courses, lectures, trade addition to making repairs faster, the contractor’s The new magazine was formatted from an fairs and sector books. Refrigeration Club service gains quality. The Troubleshooting App is extensive study with the target public. First, we magazine is free, quarterly and began circulating compatible with Android and iOS operating systems. conducted a survey with technicians, counter sales and in 2013. It’s also available on the internet (www. retail owners to understand what their real needs are in clubedarefrigeracao.com.br). message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 37 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship Post-consumption message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 38 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability ↳ research and → manufacturing → supplier → costumer → post-consumption Report 2012 innovation process parternship We collect Top GREEN REVERSE compressors Materials reused in 2012 after use, Steel: 4,093,692 kilos avoiding the LOGISTICS Iron: 1,330,450 kilos improper disposal of components Aluminum: 88,697 kilos and waste. Copper: 559,471 kilos Oil: 191,039 liters The Top Green Program systematizes all our We operate in actions related to the end of the products’ life all stages of the 547,321 cycle. The main objective is that compressors are collected after use, preventing components compressors’ life compressors were recycled and hazardous wastes from being discarded cycle. Even after the through the Top Green in common landfills. Since the program was program in 2012. product is discarded, created 12 years ago, more than 3 million used compressors have been collected and recycled. our responsibility Thanks to our investment in research, that continues. Recycled wood guides the choice of the best raw material to Throughout the year, we be used in the production process, much of the recycled and reused over compressor can be recycled. The first step is to 25% of wooden pallets separate each one of the components (copper, shipped to customers aluminum, steel, iron, and oil). Currently, 99% of in 2012. Therefore, we the materials are processed and reused. Most of avoided consumption of the materials generated are directly reused in approximately 57 thousand the company’s production cycle. The surplus is reforestation trees and forwarded to partner companies. generation of 21 tons of CO2. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 39 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 People that make Embraco message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 40 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Our teams’ value “Where there is diversity of thought it’s always a great challenge to make decisions Our people management policy prioritizes valuing, developing and retaining talent. We and do business. However, when these thoughts invest time, resources and research to be a global company.This positioning goes far do converge, the innovative power is much more beyond having international operations. We want that diversity be present in our day consistent, because they see solutions from several to day and that our teams be comprised of professionals from different nationalities, different lenses.” — Ursula Angeli, VP Human Resources, EHS, Communication genders, languages and cultures. That they and Sustainability have different ways of seeing the world and that they stimulate us to always innovate. This is a strong competitive differential. This strategy is consolidated from the entire team to follow our values and our vision Health and safety moment of attracting talent, either through of the world. We matured the Behavior-Based Safety the Trainee Program, Internship Program or We also value the technical career, (BBS) program, being developed since 2011, hiring people with disabilities, or through the promoting salaries for researchers equivalent with the goal to train our employees to Talents of Diversity Program. to those of management positions, we offer adopt safe behavior in their daily activities Our leadership training programs also play the Profit Sharing Program (PPR) and adopt in Embraco. The main tool for this stimulus a key role for the business. We’re committed strict controls in factories to ensure the safety is positive feedbacks made directly between to qualify inspiring leaders who engage the of all our employees. coworkers quick orientation conversations in message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 41 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 We invest in process safety in our plants and in training our employees to prevent accidents. order to develop safer behaviors. On average, To avoid accidents and increase safety of each of our employees received 2.2 feedbacks our manufacturing processes, in 2012 a global each month, in 2012, globally. evaluation project of all installed machines We also took an important step during the was initiated, in order to make processes year. In the program’s second phase called safer by identifying and executing necessary BBS Sustainability Project –coaching work improvements, as well as enabling exchange began, conducted by the leaders with their of best practices among plants to solve Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) teams, with the goal of continuously improving their problems. This project will continue in Program aims to the quality of conversations and feedbacks. In 2013 and 2014. Corporate procedures were encourage safe 2012, there were 2,223 coaching sessions in all also developed and/or revised, seeking to behavior. our plants. standardize best practices in EHS management. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 42 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 YOUNG TALENT One of those selected in the last edition of the Embraco Trainee Program was advertising professional Future leaders Julia Antipoff, 25. She was Through our Trainee Program, we intensify the FOCUS ON QUALITY selected to work in the strategy of being a global organization and create Information Technology area, conditions to attract and retain young professionals implementing a corporate focused on leadership. In 2012, we refined the collaboration network, Get program, which began prioritizing development of Looking to detect specific improvement in the compressors’ production process. Since the Connected. new ideas, reflection about Embraco’s day to day opportunities, we developed strategies such as Value QCC’s creation, Embraco has implemented more and consolidation of diversity in the company. Stream Map, a biannual planning that describes than 8,000 projects and turned the initiative into a For this, she did a diagnosis One of the most important practical changes what can be changed in our units. From this survey, national reference. Currently, 2,957 employees work of the tool’s necessity refers to the professional profile that we want to managers convene teams to exchange ideas, in in 496 QCCs, which have already developed 4,326 in several areas of the attract. Far beyond technical knowledge, the trainee which actions are proposed that can improve our projects. In 2012 alone, 12 QCC teams were formed. company, held benchmarks should have competence to be a good leader. routine. The meetings are called kaizens. Since the and coordinated the pilot Embraco Trainee goals have also been changed. work began in the company, 2,383 kaizens have project. “It was a very Instead of using the number of applications as an been performed with 421 just in 2012. good experience for my indicator of success, we drew up two long-term Another instrument that encourages collective career. Through the Trainee goals: retain 60% of the trainees in the company construction are the Quality Control Circles (QCC), Program, I had contact with within five years and ensure that 100% of the conducted for 15 years. Small groups meet, professionals from different talents become leaders in a period of up to four voluntarily, to discuss various topics, from simple areas and perfected skills years. In 2012, eight trainees entered the program solutions such as changes in lighting to changes such as leadership and in Brazil, 14 in China and 14 in Slovakia. teamwork”, she says. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 43 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity Since 2005, the Talents of Diversity program Our Diversity has developed people with disabilities (PWDs). In Policy was the first year, along with working in their respective We include our areas, these people receive training courses. reviewed to people with disabilities in Already 185 people have been through the ensure global different areas of program (39 in 2012 alone), and the hiring rate at alignment on the company. the end of the program is 70%. Currently, 5.2% of our workforce is made up of people with disabilities. the topic. The total number is 352 PWDs among them, are physically disabled, hearing impaired, visually impaired and intellectually disabled. Since 2008, we’ve invested in the safety of people with disabilities. The chemical laboratory business, culture and relationships and is seen as a team, for example, adapted the location by management model.This means more leadership pasting sign language stickers on countertops involvement and building a diverse environment, and equipment. The messages contain warnings accessible to all. We mapped our people about appropriate safety measures and procedures. management processes to identify opportunities Currently, two hearing impaired employees work for revision, adaptation and formalization of in the laboratory. This improvement is part of the procedures and tools in order to increasingly align accessibility projects, which include installation of our practices to our positioning. tactile floors in greater circulation areas, lowered Therefore, we created the document Diversity & curbs, ramps, wider doors and elevator. Inclusion Management, which brings the goals and In 2012, we revised our Diversity Policy, parameters that ensure global alignment on the established in 2005, looking to broaden its scope. subject, strengthening our culture and supporting Before, the focus was on social issues, and the the organization’s strategies. For 2013, the policy was seen as a program model. Now, with challenge is to improve the view of diversity on the the new guideline, diversity permeates our entire company’s management processes. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 44 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 INCENTIVE FOR TEAMWORK English Acceleration Program MOTHERS Language expertise is essential for the work CLOSE TO THEIR routine of various employees. For this, in 2012, CHILDREN In 2012, we celebrated the 25th edition of participated in sports such as pool, table tennis, we invited 30 high-performance professionals to To give special attention to Oliembraco, our internal Olympics. The games dominoes, deaf futsal and athletics. participate in a new English study format. Per week, employees who are mothers, feature 32 sport categories, female as well as Osmarino Huzar’s worked for 10 years each student does two 1.5 hour presential classes we have various benefits. male, and, in addition to encouraging sports as a technician in the Foundry and collects (which count as time worked), participates in two We’re part of the Brazilian activities, acts as an important integration Oliembraco medals. He makes a point to sign 15-minute phone conversations with the teacher federal government program moment. The main goal, however, is to strengthen up in different modalities. He competes from and completes an extracurricular activity. Once a Citizen Company, which Embraco’s values. Oliembraco reinforces the the more traditional sports such as soccer, month, the group takes part in an immersion with extends maternity leave importance of teamwork and is part of the actions volleyball and cycling, to tournaments such as eight-hours of classes, always on Saturdays. from 120 to 180 days. In of organizational climate management. Last year, truco and canasta. “We’re really encouraged We sponsor 70% of the costs, and the the Joinville unit, we also 5,516 athletes participated in the event the by our supervisors and by all leaders to take employee, 30%. Who improves their performance maintain a nursery inside largest number in our history. part in Oliembraco. It’s a great event for us”, in Toeic (proficiency exam) and has the required the factory, which can be In parallel, we also organize Paraoliembraco, he says. Although not an Embraco employee, minimum attendance receives full reimbursement used by mothers and fathers geared towards people with disabilities. In this his wife, Vanessa Machado Schatzmann, also of the amount invested. In the first year, 70% of (if there are openings) until sixth edition, 150 people participated almost joins the fight for the medals, and daughter Laís students progressed in the evaluation. From 2013 the child is one year and double from the previous year. Competitors accompanies her parents the whole time. on, the project should be expanded to all other three months old. company plants. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 45 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Private social investment message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 46 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 In all countries Local where we operate, our employees development are encouraged to participate in volunteer work. We’re willing to transform realities. Therefore, For 20 years we look to build strong and lasting relationships the Embraco with our partners, so that they achieve the best results. In 2012, we planned and executed social Ecology Award projects, contemplating ideas that, in some way, has disseminated improve people’s lives. environmental Among these actions, are the traditional Embraco Ecology Award and also unprecedented education in Joinville initiatives, such as the Olympics for Children, (SC) schools. 30,590 in Slovakia. In Europe, we began a permanent children and adolescents campaign for blood donation. As a global company, were benefited from we believe that our social actions must be present Embraco social investment in the local communities where we operate. actions in Brazil, China, Italy, United States and Slovakia, Education for sustainability in 2012. The Embraco Ecology Award celebrated its 20th edition in 2012, with the slogan “An invitation to 10,237 hours transform the world”. The date served as impetus to of services provided to implement some changes in the format and make it communities in all countries even better, in partnership with State and Municipal where we operate in 2012. Secretaries of Education. The program aims to disseminate environmental education among public message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 47 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 BLOGS FOR and private schools in the municipality of Joinville, ECOLOGY Santa Catarina (Brazil). In 2012, with Itaiópolis’ In registering the 2012 works (awarded in 2013), Secretary of Education, the Sustainable Educator Space methodology, we held the third edition developed by the Ministry of Education (MEC), was of the Ecology Network incorporated into the Award. Today, the directive project. The goal is to get is recognized as a public policy in Brazil and closer to students and encourages schools to have a balanced relationship elementary school projects can participate. In has had over 700 registered projects, 93 implemented encourage them to become with the environment. the Action category, the focus is on pedagogical and more than 100,000 people affected. It reached agents of change through The Embraco Ecology Award encourages and management aspects. In Transformation, its 20th edition included among the United Nations’ environmental education. development of projects related to environmental the idea is to encourage schools and teachers to Global Compact Best Practices (UN, 2012), recognized We train, orient and instruct education and invites schools to include the topic in develop projects that address three dimensions by the Eco, American Chamber of Commerce, and participants to be aware its political-pedagogical plan. comprehensively: pedagogical, management and Expression of Ecology awards, also inserted in the of sustainability issues. Discussion on sustainable practices involves infrastructure. presentation curriculum of environmental education Once aware, these youths principals, teachers and students. Besides the From these award changes, we contributed to the conferences inside and outside Brazil. stimulate and engage approach within the different disciplines, the school emergence of reference schools in Joinville, which In 2012, we created an exclusive blog for the others in transforming will be motivated to think of ways to consume less can serve as inspiration and example for the whole award (www.premioembracoecologia.wordpress. realities and developing energy, improve acoustic comfort and integrate the country. Besides promoting meetings with educators, com). With it, it’s possible to spread good ideas and communities. All work is environment with the school infrastructure. developing targeted communication and events, we encourage participation of learning institutions, disseminated through blogs With the new methodology, the Embraco Ecology offer a consultancy that tracks the projects’ progress showing sustainable practices developed in the units. that show what students Award began adopting two categories: Action and in participating learning institutions. Further information can be accessed by the site are doing and what results Transformation. In both categories, preschool and In its 20-year history, the Embraco Ecology Award www.embraco.com/ecologia. they’ve already achieved. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 48 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 ENVIRONMENT AND SEED-PAPER EDUCATION For two years we’ve conducted in PRODUCTION Itaiópolis (SC) – municipality where one of Embraco’s units is located an environmental education program that In Alegria de Viver Child Education Centre (CEI) in mobilizes the school community. The Joinville (SC), the paper used is not going to the trash. Embraco Environmental Gymkhana Once discarded, the material is planted on the school’s involves principals, teachers and students, property and turns into trees, fruits and vegetables. It’s not and has the support of the State and magic, but creativity. Thanks to the production of seedMunicipal Secretaries of Education. paper made by students and teachers themselves, what was waste becomes food. Eight schools participated in the The project was the winner of the Embraco Ecology Gymkhana in 2012. During the school Award 2012. It began after the school noticed the large year, students and teachers performed amount of paper that was used daily. The idea’s simple, seven tasks related to the themes nature, Ceremony but very effective. School personnel recycle paper and, education, inclusion and quality of life. commemorating in the mixture, insert good quality seeds. “It’s the second The actions involved volunteer work, the Embraco time, in three years, we’ve received the Embraco Ecology agroecology and thematic parade. Incentive to volunteer Ecology Award’s 20th anniversary Award. The first was in 2010. Recognition is important We’re committed to engaging our employees in 2012. because it gave credibility to obtain partnerships with The Environmental Gymkhana in volunteer work together with the community. the community. Also, monitoring with meetings and the opens space for discussion about One of the important actions is Global Volunteer company’s orientation helped to greatly improve the the environment and environmental Day a large event, held in coordination with all school’s structure”, states Rose Maria Felizari, principal of education more effectively in schools, plus units. The program encourages our employees Alegria de Viver CEI in Joinville (SC). strengthens actions already carried out to set aside one or two days a year to work in a by Embraco and enables the exchange of community. In 2012, 4,200 hours of volunteer experiences with the community. work involved 343 people. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 49 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 5 Miracle is time to work, join forces, to act collectively and explore what’s best in the community towards a For Global Volunteer Day, We share seven steps, involving all stages of common dream. the work and including aspects such as knowledge we use the Oasis methodology, of the community, organization and planning, 6 Celebration which helps us realize dreams by joining forces and collective work, celebration and time when participants gather to observe the results developing initiatives that address encouraging new actions. They are: and celebrate the good work. the communities’ demands 1 Gaze 7 Re-evolution more effectively. observe the community, people and site’s is the time to think about the future, to reap the characteristics. Know the situation well and what learnings and encourage the community to participate can be improved. in new projects. 2 Affection GLOBAL VOLUNTEER DAY live with people, listen, discuss and establish Learn about the main results of 2012 a relationship of trust and affection with the Unit Volunteers Hours worked Activities community. Made improvements in Morro do Meio Brazil 200 3,500 community, in Joinville. 3 Dream Actions in Santo Antonio Hospital, in Itaiópolis. build the image of what you want to have or Actions in Slovak Paradise National Park. Slovakia 90 720 Various activities, such as trash collection, were do. Go beyond simply identifying problems, but performed. connect the people’s individual dreams. Work with the Mulan Community, which supports China 40 320 migrant workers and their families. 4 Care Italy 40 280 Actions in an orphanage. Work done at Covenant House, a nonprofit organize, plan and seek resources to transform USA 10 40 organization dedicated to homeless people. the dream into reality. It’s the beginning of the Support to Mexican entity Unido, which develops Mexico 25 198 mobilization and of the changes. activities with disabled children. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 50 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Embraco volunteers help paint the school’s wall in the latest edition of Prove a Different Day. Community service their management, we invited our professionals Created almost ten years ago, the volunteer linked to the management model Embraco Way of project Prove stands out for bringing Embraco Management (EWM) to share technical knowledge employees closer to the community in a very with the team. practical way. The work is carried out in two lines of A plan to modernize the police’s administration action: Prove Management and Prove A Different Day. was prepared by Embraco’s team. With the In China, employees took advantage of Prove orientations, the institution increased inventory A Different Day to paint the outside of a school and made advances in managing the purchase of which provides support, mainly, for migrant workers’ materials and equipment through public bidding. children. In Itaiópolis, in Santa Catarina (Brazil), a HR professionals participated with the group from hospital also received new paint, and the parking lot Embraco, to show how we can use corporate was renovated. volunteering as a climate, integration and team Another 2012 highlight was Prove Management, engagement tool. The HR team’s monitoring was conducted together with the Environmental Police essential to the project, showing the benefits of of the State of Santa Catarina in Brazil. To optimize corporate volunteering. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 51 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Best practices involving sports such as running and long jump. About 70 children participated in our first edition The Business Leader Forum is one of the most of the event. important initiatives that we participate in Slovakia. Another important action in Slovakia was the The forum brings together various companies and incentive for our employees to donate blood. aims to disseminate best practices in the country. In Whoever qualifies to participate doesn’t need 2012, we were in three work group meetings: Active to go to the city’s hospital. It’s possible to make Aging, Eco-Efficiency and Responsible Supply Chain. a donation in their own area of the company. The main idea of these meetings was to understand In total, we were able to collect approximately the importance of each one of these topics and Our efforts earned us the Responsible 80 liters of blood. The idea is that the donation share activities with other members. Large Company Actions in Slovakia inside our company be held at least twice a year. We also participated in an international award, through Via In 2012, we were present in traditional All these efforts have helped us build a conference called Market of Best-Practices. In the Bona Slovakia, in activities carried out before the season opening consolidated image in Slovakia. And this enabled event, we presented our volunteer program and early 2013. of the zoo in Spišská Nová Ves. Embraco us to win public recognition. We were voted the showed our cooperation with a local project with volunteers helped clean paths and plant Country’s Most Responsible Company, in 2012. suppliers. Besides this, we were in other meetings trees. Another action was the partnership with The award was granted by the Pontis Foundation, that brought together all 25 forum participants. In fishermen to clean the Hornad river in Spišská through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) the meetings, we talked about our experience and Nová Ves. National Award Program Via Bona Slovakia. In received inspiration from ideas shared by other We also prepared a special event geared addition to winning the event’s main award, we Business Leader Forum member companies. towards children: the Olympic Games for were first in the category Company Philanthropy: Children. There were eight competitions, Supporter of Volunteering. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 52 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 gri CONTENT message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 53 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Methodology Application levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Embraco’s Sustainability Report 2012 is way, we ensure that the report is updated at the Respond to profile items: All profile and All profile and guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) moment it’s released. G3 Profile 1.1; 2.1 to 2.10; 3.1 to governance indicators: governance indicators: 3.8; 3.10 to 3.12; 4.1 to directives, a multi-stakeholder organization based According to our self-assessment, the 4.4; 4.14 to 4.15 1.1 to 4.17 1.1 to 4.17 With external verification With external verification With external verification in Amsterdam, Netherlands. report reached the level B on applying GRI 3.0 Information on the Report content Management Approach Information about G3 Management Approach Performance indicators cover the period from directives (see the illustration on the side), management approach Not required for each indicator disclosed for each indicator category. January 1 to December 31, 2012 and include all which determines reporting of all profile items, category Minimum of 10 Embraco units, in the seven countries where it has information on management approach and at Minimum of 20 performance indicators, Mandatory reporting of G3 Performance performance indicators, operations. The Mexico unit, recently inaugurated, least 20 performance indicators, including at least including at least sectoral indicators after Indicators & Sector including at least one one of each of the one year of release of is being reported for the first time. Another one indicator of the following areas: economic, Supplement of each dimension: following dimensions: the supplement’s final Performance Indicators social, economic and novelty is in the data presentation. In countries environmental, human rights, labor practices, social, economic and version environmental. environmental. where there is more than one unit Brazil and society and product responsibility. We report here China the information ceased to be consolidated 29 indicators (24 complete and 5 partial). into single data, showing more clearly each operation’s impact. The cases in which the division was made are highlighted in the report. In the content presented in other texts, we bring information that extends to 2013. In this message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 54 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality GRI Table MATERIAL THEME ● complete Eco-efficiency Since 2005, we’ve adopted GRI guidelines in Sustainable energy solutions ● partial preparing the sustainability report. The principles People development and training Ethics in business that guided the report’s design and development Minimizing environmental impact Profile information are: balance, comparability, accuracy, periodicity, Respect and valuing diversity Strategy and analysis Product quality and customer satisfaction indexes clarity and reliability of the information divulged. Item Description Reported Page 1.1 Message from the President ● 02 and 03 We also use a materiality matrix to define the 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities ● 02 and 03 report’s content and ensure that our reporting Contact data for questions regarding Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization ● 06 process has relevance for our stakeholders. the report’s content 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 05 and 06 The matrix was prepared in 2011, based on the If you have doubts, suggestions or comments, 2.3 Operational structure of the organization ● 06 guidelines of AA1000 Accountability Principles send them to: comunicacao@embraco.com 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters ● 07 Countries where the organization operates and where its Standard 2008 which focuses on consultation 2.5 main operations are located ● 06 and stakeholder engagement, developed Corporate Communication 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 07 2.7 Markets served ● 06 by AccountAbility, British non-governmental and Sustainability Office 2.8 Company’s size ● 06 organization specializing in these topics. The other Rua Rui Barbosa, 1,020, post office box 91 2.9 Main changes during the period covered by the report ● There were no significant changes in the organization’s size or the ownership structure. Changes in management structure are detailed in the body of the report. reference was GRI methodology itself. CEP 89219-901 – Joinville-SC – Brazil 2.10 Awards received during the period covered by the report ● 08 The process included analysis of internal Report parameters 3.1 Period covered by report ● January 1 to December 31, 2012 (exceptions are clearly indicated). documents, online consultation to the internal 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ● The previous report was published in 2012, with data relative to 2011. public and customer survey, as well as interviews 3.3 Reporting cycle ● Annual 3.4 Contact data regarding the report’s contents ● 54 with then president of Embraco (João Carlos 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 54 Brega), sustainability specialists and community All Embraco units that were in operation in 2012, the reporting period, were 3.6 Boundary of the report ● included. To know what these units are, see the map on page 06. representatives. The report’s scope covers the units: Brazil (Foundry, Compressors and Electronics), Statement of any specific limitations on the scope or In 2012, materiality was updated through 3.7 boundary of the report ● China (Compressors and Electronics), Slovakia, Italy, Mexico and the United States. Only in the SO3 indicator Russia unit data are reported. a query to some of our stakeholders. Material Whenever possible, the indicators cover all operations, and therefore there is no themes were kept in the 2012 reporting process. 3.8 Base for report elaboration ● risk of comparability being affected. The most significant change was the Mexico unit’s inclusion in the report, which had an impact on some indicators. These cases are clearly marked. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 55 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Item Description Reported Page Item Description Reported Page Answers to performance indicators follow GRI protocols with respect to Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Industry Association (Abinee); Brazilian Data measurement techniques and the bases of 3.9 ● measurement techniques and compiling data and are based on our internal Association of Advertisers (ABA); Brazilian Business Communication Association calculations monitoring systems. (Aberje); Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa); Brazilian Human Resources Reformulations of information provided in previous There were no data reformulations. However, the 2012 report corrects inaccurate Association (ABRH); Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation and 3.10 ● report information published in the previous report. Heating Association (Abrava); Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial Association Significant changes in scope, boundary or measurement The Mexico unit was included in the report. Changes in measurement techniques (ACII); Slovakia Electrical Equipment Industry Association; Brazilian Foreign Trade 3.11 ● Association (AEB); Occupational Health and Safety Professionals Association methods applied in the report are described in footnotes of tables and graphs. of Joinville and Region (APSSOJ); Joinville Business Association (ACIJ); Latin 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report ● GRI Table Participation in associations and / or national / 4.13 ● American Electrical and Electronic Industrial Association (Alainee); National Current policy and practice with regards to seeking international organisms 3.13 ● The information divulged wasn’t audited. Association of Manufacturers of Electro-electronic Products (Eletros); National external verification for the report Research, Development and Engineering Association of Innovative Companies Governance, commitments, and engagement (Anpei) Human Resource Development Association Slovakia; Business Leaders 4.1 Governance structure of the organization ● 18 Forum – Slovakia; American Chamber of Commerce Slovakia; Electricity Utility 4.2 Presidency of the highest governance body ● Roberto Campos. Company of Santa Catarina (Celesc); Center of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina (Ciesc); Joinville Architect and Engineer Center (Ceaj); Joinville – Spisská Independent or non-executive members of the highest 4.3 ● There are no independent or non-executive members. Nová Vês Sister City Committee; National Confederation of Industry / Brazilian governance body Business Coalition (CNI/CEB). Whirlpool SA, of which Embraco is a subsidiary, holds an annual meeting with its Our main stakeholders are customers, suppliers, employees and communities shareholders. It also has a permanent communication channel available, which 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide surrounding our operations. 4.4 ● can be accessed by the site, by phone and by email. Learn more at www.whirlpool. recommendations Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to Strategic importance to our business is the main criterion for defining the priority com.br/investidor.aspx. Further information is available in the Management and 4.15 ● Strategy chapter (page 14). be engaged public to be engaged. The variable remuneration systems are based on economic goals and ensure 4.16 Approaches for stakeholder engagement ● 11, 32-36, 41-51 Link between compensation and organizational Main issues and concerns raised through stakeholder 4.5 ● coherence between the evolution of the company’s performance and leadership’s 4.17 ● 54 performance (including social and environmental) engagement financial recognition. 4.6 Processes to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided ● 18 The evaluated competences of the members that compose the highest Qualifications of members of the highest governance 4.7 ● governance body are associated with the knowledge that the executive has of body Embraco business and his/her specific area of operation. Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct and 4.8 ● 17 and 18 internal relevant principles Responsibilities for implementation of economic, social 4.9 ● 18 and environmental policies Processes for performance self-assessment of the 4.10 ● 16 highest governance body We don’t fully adopt the Precautionary Principle, but we seek to act with Explanation of if and how the organization applies the 4.11 ● environmental responsibility by eliminating from products and processes Precautionary Principle substances proven harmful to the environment. Charters, principles or other initiatives developed 4.12 ● 12 externally message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 56 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicators Economic performance Market presence Indirect economic impacts Disclosure on Management Approach: consult pages 7, 14 and 15. EC7 Local hiring EC8 Impact of investments in infrastructure offered for public benefit Economic performance ● complete ● complete We don’t have any specific policies aimed at hiring locally. We carry out private social investment actions in all countries in EC3 Coverage of pension plan obligations Leadership positions are: president, vice president, administrative, which we operate. In some plants Brazil, Slovakia and Mexico the ● partial officers and leaders. actions also involve working with communities. Thus, it’s possible to Only plants in Brazil and Italy offer pension plans to their understand the population’s key needs, as well as raise awareness Local hiring (leadership positions) 2010 2011 2012 employees. There are no such benefits for units installed in China, Brazil 100% 100% 100% of employees and residents of these regions about the company’s Slovakia, Mexico and the United States. China (Compressors) 77% 79% 86% social responsibility activities. China (Electronics) 82% 85% 83% In Brazil, participation is voluntary and open to all positions. Italy 86% 86% 77% Unit Private social investment (US$) The contribution varies from 1% to 5.5% of the employee’s gross Slovakia 88% 88% 88% 2011 2012 Mexico N/A 2% 2% monthly salary in accordance with the salary range. We contribute Brazil 120,192 241,402 United States 66% 66% 66% United States 8,495 2,550 the same value. The plan provides coverage for normal or early N/A not applicable. Slovakia 36,200 52,198 retirement and for disability. The pension, in case of death, is China 5,642 7,103 Mexico N/A 1,500 paid to dependents. In Italy, joining the pension plan is also Italy N/A 91,228 voluntary and is provided in collective bargaining agreements. TOTAL 170,529 395,982 The contribution is 1.2% (employees) and 4% (managers). We N/A – not available. contribute with the same percentage. At the end of 2012, our cumulative amount was over US$ 450,000. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 57 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Learn about the main actions developed in 2012. Unit Project/activity Description Benefited Unit Project/activity Description Benefited Embraco Ecology Award Financing environmental education projects prepared by schools. 1,760 teachers and students. Global Volunteer Day 45 volunteers provided construction services for the Mulan community. 6,640 children and adolescents from Volunteer Program Various volunteer actions, including waste collection in Xiangshan Mountain. Volunteer Program In all, 302 volunteers provided 5,193 hours of community service in 2012. Itaiópolis and Joinville, Santa Catarina. Angelmom Taking care of babies with physical disabilities. Digital Knowledge Space Digital inclusion project carried out in Itaiópolis (SC). 317 children and adolescents. Environmental Education Environmental projects in Dandelion Middle School 800 children and adolescents from Support to Mulan community Donations and incentive to children’s development. Sports School Social inclusion through sport. Itaiópolis and Joinville, Santa Catarina. China¹ Work developed in partnership with the Guashi Fund. Volunteers create Support to NGO Rescue Monthly financial transfers to non-governmental organization, which is Great Friend project friendships with Dandelion Elementary School students, whose families are Brazil 264 children and adolescents. Project based in Joinville (SC) and focused on education. at social risk. Employees make presentations to the community. In 2012, eight volunteers Dandelion School Volunteer Volunteers offer safety training and support adolescents in career Embraco Theatre Group 3,800 children and adolescents. provided 132 hours of service. Program development. Itaiópolis Environmental Donation to Qinghai Lake Schools are invited to participate in a game with an environmental theme. 2,862 students were involved. Clothes donation. Games Primary School The choir, made up of 14 employees, performed 166 hours of community Soundscape Museum Donation of resources to the municipality that houses the museum. Embraco Choir 2,340 children and adolescents. service. Hesed Family (Homestay) Donation of resources to benefit children with social and family problems. In 2012, the award’s fifth edition was held. The four winning schools Italy Embraco Ecology Award 2,200 children and adolescents. U.G.I. (Union of Italian Parents) Parents Association to support research related to childhood cancer. received investments to develop environmental education projects. Poetry award Initiative to promote poetry in the local school. Nursery schools Financing of renovations and donations of school supplies and toys. 1,400 children and adolescents. Slovakia ¹ Most investments are characterized as pro bono. Support for three projects involving children with diabetes, blind children People with disabilities 200 children and adolescents. and people with disabilities. Hockey league in elementary Support in constructing a playground and creating a league in an More than 2,000 children and school elementary school in the city of Spisska Nova Ves, Slovakia. adolescents. Global Soap Project Recycling soap to be used by low-income and homeless people. Campaign to encourage Fundraising support to finance research on childhood cancer, developed in United donations St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, located in Memphis, United States. States GolfeWIE Tournament Fundraising to finance women’s studies in the electronics field. Mobilization against wasting energy and promoting a healthy environment Earth Day at work, at home and at school. Mexico Volunteer Program 304 hours of service 181 people message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 58 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental performance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Disclosure on Management Approach: consult pages 11, 13, 22, 23, ● complete 29 e 30. Energy consumption (GJ)¹ The Mexico and the United States units were included in 2012 in the report’s scope and therefore impacted Embraco Global Total Embraco’s environmental performance. Direct energy² 2011 2012 Natural gas 454,340 526,515 Methanol 387 367 Energy Propane 2,554 3,592 LPG 12,927 13,407 Diesel oil 3,946 5,663 EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary Gasoline 2,754 1,459 Subtotal 476,908 551,004 energy source Indirect energy ● complete Electricity 913,044 1,033,215 Refer to indicator EN4’s response. TOTAL 1,389,953 1,584,219 ¹ Starting in 2012, we began using the unit of measure GJ, replacing MJ. The data referring to 2011 were converted. ² In the previous report, environmental recycling was one of the items that comprised the data for the direct energy consumption in 2011. However, this isn’t an energy source, and therefore the data has been excluded. Energy consumption – (GJ) Energy consumption (GJ)¹ 2011 2012 COMPRESSOR UNITS China Italy Slovakia Brazil Mexico² Total Direct energy³ 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Natural gas 65,048 78,007 60,161 59,410 101,695 117,086 217,656 228,721 31,858 444,559 515,083 Direct 476,908 LPG 5,292 6,089 5,292 6,089 energy Diesel oil 238 399 28 2,006 1,531 1,702 1,845 59 3,946 3,862 551,004 Gasoline 1,324 1,318 1,329 101 140 2 2,754 1,459 Subtotal 66,609 79,724 60,161 59,438 105,030 118,617 224,751 236,794 31,920 456,551 526,493 Indirect energy Indirect 913,044 Electricity 103,326 118,718 50,903 53,675 110,256 127,707 392,609 410,855 48,135 657,094 759,091 energy 1,033,215 TOTAL 169,935 198,441 111,064 113,114 215,286 246,325 617,360 647,650 80,055 1,113,646 1,285,584 ¹ Starting in 2012, we began using the GJ unit of measure, replacing MJ. The data referring to 2011 were converted. ² Inclusion of the Mexico and United States units in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. 1,389,953 ³ In the previous report, environmental recycling was one of the items that comprised the data for the direct energy consumption in 2011. However, this isn’t an Total energy source, and therefore the data has been excluded. 1,584,219 message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 59 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Energy consumption (GJ)¹ OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States² Total Direct energy³ 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Natural gas 9,781 10,445 987 9,781 11,433 Methanol 387 367 387 367 Propane 2,554 3,264 328 2,554 3,592 Water LPG 3,878 3,687 3,758 3,631 7,635 7,318 Diesel oil 1,801 1,801 Subtotal 6,818 7,319 13,539 15,878 1,315 20,357 24,511 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Indirect energy ● complete Electricity 12,932 14,205 232,456 245,586 6,205 7,299 4,357 5,046 1,987 255,950 274,124 TOTAL 19,750 21,524 245,995 261,464 6,205 7,299 4,357 5,046 3,302 276,307 298,635 ¹ Starting in 2012, we began using the GJ unit of measure, replacing MJ. The data referring to 2011 were converted. Water consumption Embraco Global (m³) ² Inclusion of the Mexico and United States units in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. ³ In the previous report, environmental recycling was one of the items that comprised the data for the direct energy consumption in 2011. However, this isn’t an energy source, and therefore the data has been excluded. 728,811 Energy matrix China Italy Slovakia Mexico United States Brazil EN5 Energy savings due to improvements in conservation 601,819 Conventional thermal 79% 73% 24% 80% 70% 9% and efficiency Hydroelectric 18% 18% 21% 14% 6% 82% ● complete Other renewable sources 1% 9% 2% 4% 4% 6% Nuclear 2% 0% 53% 2% 20% 3% We invest in the modernization and efficiency of equipment and Source: World Energy Council – 2012 Sustainable Energy Index. 396,616 motors and installation of devices that regulate gas consumption. 332,195 Employees were also engaged to increase the number of 292,583 309,236 compressors manufactured while maintaining the same energy consumption. As a result, we saved 65,491 GJ of energy. Unit Energy saved (GJ)¹ Brazil (all units) 24,893 2011 2012 China (Compressors) 3,180 China (Electronics) 1,699 Slovakia 35,719 Wells Embraco Global Total 65,491 Water supply networks ¹ Starting in 2012, Embraco began using the GJ unit of measure, replacing MJ. Total message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 60 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Water recycled and reused – EMBRACO GLOBAL Water consumption (m³) China Brazil Mexico¹ Foundry Total EMBRACO GLOBAL 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011¹ 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Wells 292,583 332,195 Total volume (m³) 22,546 32,545 118,007 144,994 20,000 35,771 27,972 176,324 225,511 Water supply networks 309,236 396,616 Recirculation rate (%) 17% 24% 55% 59% 31% 38% 28% 29% 31% Total 601,819 728,811 ¹ A inclusão da unidade Mexico no escopo do indicador ocorreu em 2012. Water consumption (m³) – COMPRESSOR UNITS China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico¹ Total Emissions, effluents and waste 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Wells 147,692 176,391 37,443 40,382 185,135 216,773 Water supply 131,465 134,231 67,061 68,023 16,784 10,370 88,027 105,163 63,900 303,337 381,687 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions networks ● complete Total 131,465 134,231 214,753 244,414 54,227 50,752 88,027 105,163 63,900 488,472 598,460 ¹ Inclusion of the Mexico unit in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. GHG emissions (tCO2 )* – Embraco Global Direct 37,695 Water consumption (m³) – OTHER UNITS Indirect 71,128 Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States¹ Total Total 108,823 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 * The methodology used is the GHG Protocol. All direct and indirect emissions arising from electrical energy Wells 12,015 14,355 93,003 94,527 2,430 6,540 107,448 115,422 consumption were recorded. Water supply 2,662 2,509 1,131 5,265 2,106 3,324 3,831 5,899 14,929 networks Total 14,677 16,864 94,134 99,792 2,106 3,324 2,430 6,540 3,831 113,347 130,351 ¹ Inclusion of the United States unit in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. Direct 35% EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 37,695 ● complete The absolute volume of water recycled by Embraco increased GHG EMISSIONS from 29% in 2011 to 31% in 2012. Water is reused in production (tCO2)* processes, toilet flushing, cooling towers and floor washing. Altogether, in 2012, 225,511 m³ of water were reused. Indirect 65% 71,128 message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 61 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 GHG emissions (tCO2)* – COMPRESSOR UNITS Discharge of effluents (m³) – Embraco Global China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico Total 2011 2012 EN22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Direct 5,757 17,717 3,482 7,405 1,740 36,101 Return to collection point 278,552 337,155 ● complete Indirect 33,046 7,381 7,201 8,939 8,022 64,589 Public Sewage System 2,430 Total emissions Evaporation 30,065 50,254 38,803 25,098 10,683 16,344 9,762 100,690 direct + indirect Irrigation 10,152 219 GHG emissions (tCO2)* – OTHER UNITS Total 321,199 387,628 Generated waste Embraco Global (t) Brazil China United Components Foundry Total (Electronics) (Electronics) States Discharge of effluents (m³) – COMPRESSOR UNITS 2011 2012 Direct 490 969 62 73 1,594 Indirect 258 4,399 133 1,404 345 6,539 Brazil Italy Mexico Slovakia China Total Total emissions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Non-hazardous 113,848 748 5,368 195 1,404 418 8,133 direct + indirect Return to waste collection 66,573 75,768 N/A 48,214 N/A 82,964 83,396 69,854 63,227 219,391 270,605 127,482 * The methodology used is the GHG Protocol. All direct and indirect emissions arising from electrical energy consumption were recorded. point Public Sewage N/A N/A Hazardous 3,699 System waste 4,107 EN21: Total water discharge by quality and destination Evaporation 30,065 34,218 N/A 2,538 N/A 1,313 30,065 38,069 Irrigation N/A N/A 219 219 ● complete Total 96,638 109,986 N/A 50,752 N/A 1,532 82,964 83,396 69,854 63,227 249,456 308,893 117,547 Absolute water discharge increased by 20% in 2012, compared Total 131,589 to the previous year. Discharge of effluents (m³) – OTHER UNITS Brazil China Components¹ Foundry Total (Electronics) (Electronics) 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Return to In 2012, absolute waste generation increased 12% over the collection 7,164 13,660 49,891 52,890 2,106 N/A N/A 59,161 66,550 point previous year. Embraco Compressors Brazil unit is the largest Total discharge of effluents (m³) Public Sewage N/A 2,430 N/A 2,430 generator of waste, representing 52% of the global total. The System Foundry Unit is responsible for sending the largest volume of waste Evaporation 3,204 8,981 N/A N/A 12,185 Irrigation 1,680 8,472 N/A N/A 10,152 going to landfills, 77% of the amount. Total 8,844 16,864 58,363 61,871 2,106 N/A 2,430 N/A 71,743 78,735 The destination for recycling and sanitary landfills remained 387,628 N /A not available. 321,199 stable 85% and 15%, respectively. For economic recycling (sale of ¹ The unit that manufactures electronic components in Brazil is in a transition process from its own Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) to one from the condominium, which, until now, has no hydrometer for material for reuse by another organization) steel, paper and plastic measurement. Meanwhile, the discharge data of the unit that manufactures electronic components in China weren’t available for the year 2012. scraps were sent. As for environmental recycling (sale of material for 2011 2012 reuse by another organization), lamps and industrial towels are sent. For incineration, Sludge oil and contaminated solids are sent. And, message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 62 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 TOTAL WASTE – COMPRESSOR UNITS for landfills, foundry sand, biological sludge from sewage treatment China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico² Total Non-hazardous waste (t)¹ plant (STP) and physico-chemical sludge from STP. 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011² 2012 2011 2012 Economic recycling 9,945 12,708 63,460 65,270 61 5,590 16,569 19,852 N/A 3,666 90,035 107,086 WASTE TOTAL – EMBRACO GLOBAL Environmental recycling 8 5,857 1,027 3 N/A 5,857 1,038 Non-hazardous waste (t)¹ 2011 2012 Landfill 926 957 1,092 1,466 140 672 819 N/A 128 2,830 3,370 Economic recycling 90,857 107,894 Construction/remedial 167 N/A 167 0 Environmental recycling 5,873 1,040 waste Landfill 16,951 18,548 Total 10,871 13,665 64,719 66,744 6,058 6,617 17,241 20,674 0 3,794 98,889 111,494 Construction/remedial waste 167 Hazardous waste (t)¹ 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011² 2012 2011 2012 Subtotal 113,848 127,482 Economic recycling 21 25 193 241 32 32 N/A 246 298 Hazardous waste (t)¹ 2011 2012 Environmental recycling 1 62 70 133 1,780 1,912 N/A 2 1,975 1,985 Economic recycling 255 305 Incineration 50 39 808 683 N/A 92 858 814 Environmental recycling 1,985 1,991 Landfill 90 401 288 195 147 281 N/A 45 548 899 Incineration 879 845 Total 71 155 1,464 1,282 133 195 1,959 2,225 N/A 139 3,627 3,996 Landfill 580 966 ¹ Data from the previous report were reported in kilograms, and not tons, as indicated in the report. Subtotal 3,699 4,107 This information was adjusted this year. Information on method of waste disposal is provided by the TOTAL 117,547 131,589 contractors responsible for their destination. ¹ Data from the previous report were reported in kilograms, and not tons, as indicated in the report. This ² Inclusion of the Mexico unit in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. information was adjusted this year. Information on waste disposal method is provided by the contractors N/A – not available. responsible for their destination. TOTAL WASTE – OTHER UNITS Components Foundry Brazil (Electronics) China (Electronics) United States² Total Non-hazardous waste (t)¹ 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Economic recycling 534 597 183 107 78 76 27 28 N/A 822 808 Environmental recycling 2 16 0 N/A 16 2 Landfill 35 69 14,084 15,065 2 6 N/A 38 14,121 15,178 Total 569 668 14,283 15,172 78 76 29 34 N/A 38 14,959 15,988 Hazardous waste (t)¹ 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Economic recycling 5 4 4 1 2 N/A 9 7 Environmental recycling 6 3 1 3 2 0 1 N/A 10 6 Incineration 8 21 22 0 N/A 1 21 31 Landfill 5 8 27 58 1 N/A 32 67 Total 16 23 53 84 2 3 1 0 N/A 1 72 111 ¹ Data from the previous report were reported in kilograms, and not tons, as indicated in the report. This information was adjusted this year. Information on method of waste disposal is provided by the contractors responsible for their destination. ² Inclusion of the Mexico and United States units in the indicator’s scope occurred in 2012. N /A not available. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 63 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Social performance – labor practices Number of employees and decent work Employees Brazil China Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Total 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 For indefinite period 5,427 6,740 1,915 2,232 599 606 1,933 1,995 58 57 N/A 654 9,932 12,284 Disclosure on Management Approach: consult pages 40, 41, 42, Temporaries 831 45 94 122 1 9 289 0 1 0 N/A 53 1,216 229 43 and 44. Subtotal 6,258 6,785 2,009 2,354 600 615 2,222 1,995 59 57 N/A 707 11,148 12,513 Outsourced 643 2,120 167 693 24 14 129 456 0 0 N/A 0 963 3,283 Employment TOTAL 6,901 8,905 2,176 3,047 624 629 2,351 2,451 59 57 N/A 707 12,111 15,796 N/A – not available. LA1:Total number of employees by employment type, employment contract and region LA2: Total number and rate of employee terminations by age group, gender, and region ● partial ● complete Between 2010 and 2012, Embraco increased by 30% the total Number of terminations – Embraco Global number of employees considering direct, temporary and outsourced. 2011 2012 Total 1,937 2,489 Number of employees – Embraco Global Number of terminations Employees 2011 2012 For indefinite period 9.932 12.284 Brazil China Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Total By gender Temporaries 1.216 229 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Subtotal 11.148 12.513 Men 1,078 1,220 399 215 21 7 58 45 6 2 N/A 277 1,562 1,766 Outsourced Women 253 398 91 117 3 4 26 28 2 0 N/A 176 375 723 963 3.283 By age group TOTAL 12.111 15.796 <30 years 697 1,090 425 215 0 1 28 20 1 0 N/A 153 1,151 1,479 From 30 to 50 years 560 482 65 89 24 8 40 37 6 1 N/A 297 695 914 >50 years 74 46 0 28 0 2 16 16 1 1 N/A 3 91 96 Total 1,331 1,618 490 332 24 11 84 73 8 2 N/A 453 1,937 2,489 Rate of terminations (%) – 2012 By gender Brazil China Italy Slovakia United States Mexico Total Men 18 9.1 1.1 2.3 3.5 39.2 14 Women 5.9 5 0.7 1.4 0 24.9 6 By age group <30 years 16.1 9.1 0.2 1 0 21.6 11 From 30 to 50 years 7.1 3.8 1.3 1.9 1.8 42 7 >50 years 0.7 1.2 0.3 0.8 1.8 0.4 1 Total 23.8 14.1 1.8 3.7 3.5 64.1 20 message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 64 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Health and safety* Relationship between workers and governance Occupational Training and education Injury rate (%) Total days lost illnesses rate (%) 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 LA4: Percentage of employees covered by collective Brazil (Compressors) 1.07 1.16 0.03 0.02 5.77 6.71 LA10: Average hours of training per year, per employee, broken bargaining agreements China (Compressors) 0.79 0.70 0 0 4.68 0.57 down by functional category China (Electronics) 0.50 0.63 0 0 0 29.17 ● complete ● complete Italy (Compressors) 2.99 2.31 0 0 35.1 11.6 Because of a change in Slovakia’s government, the percentage Slovakia (Compressors) 0.40 0.53 0 0 13.8 1.87 United States 0 0 0 0 0 0 Average training (h)* of employees affiliated with unions rose from 8% to 14%. In Brazil, United China China Mexico (Compressors) N/AV 1.34 N/AV 0 N/AV 6.05 Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico¹ most employees are covered by collective bargaining. The United Brazil (Electronics) N/AV 1.5 N/AV 0 N/AV 0 States (Compressors) (Electronics) Executives 0 185.5 5.86 0 81.5 6.96 0 States doesn’t have this type of agreement. Components N/AV 0.52 N/AV 0 N/AV 0 Middle Foundry N/AV 1.35 N/AV 0.45 N/AV 0.45 0.92 1,405.5 5.38 4 91.3 60.72 56 management Brazil China Italy Slovakia Mexico Total Embraco Global 0.94 1.02 0.03 0.03 7.53 4.6 Team 17.54 5,509 1.47 10 54.8 182.46 35 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 * In 2012, there were no deaths recorded in Embraco’s units. Average per Affiliated with N/AV not available. 18.46 12 3.13 13 70.1 52.59 8 19¹ 19 89 100 33 35 8 14 N/AV 67 employee unions (%) Absenteeism rates of the following units were divulged starting in 2012: China Electronics (1.26%), Brazil Electronics (0%), Components (0%), Foundry (0%) and Embraco Global Total (8.34%). 1 The Mexico unit has few hours of training, because it’s a new plant. Collective * In 2012, data from the China units (Electronics) and Mexico became part of this indicator’s scope. Brazil bargaining 98 98 N/A 100 100 100 100 100 N/AV 67 plants’ data are consolidated. agreement (%) ¹ Adjusted value. Absenteeism rate (%) N/A – not applicable. N/AV – not available. 2011 2012 2.42 Work health and safety Italy 2.92 LA7: Rate of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, 2.36 Slovakia and work-related fatalities by region 1.8 ● partial 0.64 Health and safety* – Total Embraco Global China 2011 2012 0.66 Injury rate 0.94 1.02 Occupational illnesses rate 0.03 0.03 2.92 Total days lost 7.53 4.6 Brazil * In 2012, there were no deaths recorded in Embraco’s units. 2.13 message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 65 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity and equal opportunity Average hours of training per employee* LA13 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance 2011 2012 bodies and breakdown of employees by category according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators Brazil¹ 10 ● complete 18 Italy 2 12 Age distribution of workforce (%) Slovakia 32 over 50 years 3 between 30 and 50 years Up to 30 years United 8 States 13 china Brazil china Electronics Italy Slovakia United States Mexico1 6 6 6 10 13 3 China 65 16 14 19 14 23 70 34 36 64 69 60 44 72 1 There is no monitoring by plant. 88 86 68 65 68 *The Mexico unit was included in the indicator´s scope only in 2012; therefore there is no historical data. 70 60 58 34 40 36 31 25 18 16 17 2 1 7 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2012 1 Data relating to 2011, when the unit went into operation, aren’t available. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 66 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 People with disabilities (%)* Brazil China (Compressors) Italy Slovakia Social performance – human rights Child and forced labor or compulsory labor 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Disclosure on Management Approach: consult pages 28 and 29. Executives 2.3 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Middle management 1.1 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Procurement process incidents of child labor and measures taken to abolish child labor Teams 5.2 5 0.3¹ 0.2 2 2.6 1 2 ● complete ¹ The percentage refers only to people who have a medical examination to prove disability. The number is higher than the official data shows. HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Refer to indicator HR7’s response. * United States, China (Electronics) and Mexico units don’t have people with disabilities among employees. In the previous report, supervisors were included in the middle management category. In 2012, only agreements that include human rights clauses or that were HR7 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk leader positions are considered in middle management. subjected to human rights screening for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken to Participation of women in the workforce (%) ● complete contribute to eliminate forced or compulsory labor Executives Middle management Teams Refer to indicator HR2’s response. ● complete 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Brazil 7 8 9 18 24 26 HR2 Percentage of contractors, significant suppliers and other We don’t have operations with significant risk for incidents of China (Compressors) 29 50 32 40 19 23 significant business partners that have undergone screening on child labor and slave or forced labor. However, we’re aware that China (Electronics) 0 0 33 29 87 84 human rights and the measures taken. hiring suppliers involves this type of risk. A control tool used is Italy 0 11 17 26 32 32 Slovakia 13 13 28 32 34 35 ● complete the Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses the human rights United States 0 0 0 30 43 47 We have a specific code of conduct for suppliers, in which human issue and must be followed by all units. In Brazil Electronics and Mexico N/A 0 N/A 16 N/A 37.2 N/A not applicable. rights issues are addressed. From 91% to 100% of suppliers are China Electronics, the supplier qualification process includes subjected to this document, depending on the unit. In most of audits and visits. LA14 Proportion of base-salary between men and women by them, they’re considered significant contracts that have a value over functional category R$ 1 million. ● complete Foundry conducted, in 2012, an evaluation with 48 suppliers. Of Salary variations in the same category may occur due to different these, 12.5% were audited in person. In 2013, a new survey will be levels of professional experience. made, with the aim of evaluating the suppliers’ evolution. Also there will be a training meeting focused on items with lower scores. Salary ratio between men / women Brazil United China China Brazil Italy Slovakia Mexico (Compressors) States (Compressors) (Electronics) (Electronics) Executives 85% 71% 98,32% N/A 114% N/A 0% N/A Middle 101% 90% 79,93% 82% 91% 76% 88% 97% management Teams 73% 90% 86% 94% 103% 41% 39% 68% N/A not applicable. message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 67 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 SOX processes evaluated Social performance society Brazil Italy Slovakia United States tools, including the Code of Ethics, the Supplier Code of Conduct 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Disclosure on Management Approach: consult page 18. and compliance training. Anonymous complaints about corruption Total 12 13 9 9 9 9 6 6 Percentage can be made through a free hotline, which is available to employees, of unit’s 33% 45% 17% 24% 25% 24% 25% 16% processes customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. A specific committee Corruption checks, confidentially, all complaints received. The contact numbers SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption are disclosed in the Management and Strategy chapter. SO2 Units submitted to risk assessments related to corruption policies and procedures Channels for reporting ● complete ● partial Brazil: 0800 891 4247 Italy: 800 788 476 As Embraco is a subsidiary of Whirlpool Corporation, it must Our Code of Ethics covers topics such as corruption, money Slovakia: 800 961 2419 adopt the same practices with regard to the control of risks related laundering and antitrust actions. It’s distributed and properly China: 11 800 711 0475 Mexico: 001 800 961 4262 to corruption and therefore complies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act explained in new employee integration training. Additionally, we (SOX) requirements. have 15 global internal policies that address the theme. In 2012, All internal controls over significant financial reporting are we trained 1,180 people, including managers, administrative documented. Our internal audit area is responsible for testing and interns. Public policies internal SOX controls in the areas related to design, performance and Employees trained in anti-corruption efficiency. The information is validated and certified by an external procedures – EMBRACO GLOBAL SO5 Positions regarding public policies audit on an annual basis. In 2012, 228 controls were audited, in 40% 2011 2012 ● complete Brazil 21% 59% of Embraco’s plants. China 9% 8% We actively participate in articulating public policies that In 2013, SOX controls will also be implemented in China Italy 26% 28% contribute to the refrigeration sector’s development. Our focus Slovakia 13% 33% (Compressors and Electronics). Therefore, 60% of our units will be in United States 80% 91% is on formulating guidelines for innovation, energy efficiency and accordance with the North American law. Rússia N/A 80% regulation. The company’s work is primarily done through senior Mexico N/A 98% Another important control tool is operational audits. Currently, management’s actions in class entities and trade associations. Total 17% 47% 100% of the units are subject to periodic review processes. In 2012, N/A – not applicable. In the list of organizations that count on our cooperation, there were six operational audits in order to verify the internal are the National Association of Research and Development of control environment. SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption Innovative Companies (Anpei), Brazilian Association of Electrical ● complete and Electronic Industry (Abinee), Brazilian Association of Technical Just as in the last two years, in 2012 there were no cases of Standards (ABNT), Federation of Industries of the States of Santa corruption identified. We’ve adopted a number of anticorruption Catarina and São Paulo (Fiesc and Fiesp), National Council of message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 68 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) and International external partners, which ensure greater transparency and quality. Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Association for Electrical, Electronic & Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). During the compressors’ development and manufacturing, we Information Technologies (VDE), Instituto Argentino de Normalización make a series of simulations. With the tests, we can detect potential y Certificación (Iram), Rheinland – Technischer UberwachungsEssential positions taken by these entities improvement opportunities and avoid failures when the products are Verein Rheinland (TUV) and China Quality Certification Centre (CQC). in the market. This evaluation is performed on 100% of compressor Compressors that contain outsourced components, have a label with We lead a large group of companies that operates in a coordinated manner to create, in Brazil, an environment conducive to innovation. The idea is to discuss families, following a representative Statistical sampling. different encoding, indicating this special situation. Innovation and formulate claims on topics such as laws to encourage innovation, the patent system and partnerships between universities and businesses. We work with major energy sector companies (Cemig and Celesc). The focus of PR5: Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Energy efficiency these partnerships is to structure research and development along with energy efficiency projects in refrigeration systems. Products and services labeling survey results Through representative entities, we monitor policy decisions and bills that impact ● partial Regulations the refrigeration market. PR3: Type of information about products and services required by Since 2012, we’ve conducted a satisfaction survey with our labeling procedures subject to such requirements customers. Through phone calls or email, partners located in ● complete more than 30 countries respond to a complete questionnaire, Social performance product responsibility Concern with harmful substances involves post-consumption. which includes aspects such as purchasing decision, customer Disclosure on Management Approach: consult pages 35 and 36. We developed, 12 years ago, the Top Green program, which aims recommendation, product quality and performance in addition to to collect used compressors. Since 2000, we’ve already removed technical assistance quality. Customer safety and health more than 3 million products from the market. The material is disassembled, and the components are sent for recycling, reuse or PR1 Evaluation of impacts on health and safety during the life cycle proper disposal, preventing damage to the environment. Today, we’re of products and services able to send for recycling 99% of the total weight of each compressor. ● complete To improve the safety of consumers and customers, we publish From the new product development’s initial stages, we work the compressor application manual. It includes information about to reduce health and safety risks of employees and customers. electrical installation, mounting, handling, and storage as well as We have a list of harmful substances, which must be avoided in solutions to the main technical problems that may occur. The content, our processes and products. Altogether, there are 632 controlled available on the company website, also provides guidelines on the substances. Until 2012, there were 546. Some have already been proper use of the equipment. banned, and others are being eliminated. The process is certified by We disclose on labels certifications obtained from the regulatory the QC080000 standard. Tests are also conducted internally and by bodies which attests to the models’ safety. This is the case of seals: message from who how we understand management how we manufacture people who private social GRI 69 the president we are sustainability and strategy our products make Embraco investment content Sustainability Report 2012 Credits General coordination Embraco – Corporate Communication and Sustainability Office GRI consultancy, writing and editing Report Sustentabilidade Revision Assertiva Produções Editoriais English version Spin Traduções Graphic design and layout Report Sustentabilidade Images Embraco Image Bank and Thinkstock Typeface family Embraco Beau Sans
