Communication on Progress 2013 Report STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Hinopak is committed to serving each of our diverse stakeholder groups be it customers, employees, business partners, shareholders or international and local communities. This statement forms as an introduction to the 2013 Communication on Progress report which shows areas of development and implementation of the Global Compact principles and outcomes. I am pleased to confirm that Hinopak Motors Limited reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Moreover, I would like to thank our employees and other stakeholders whose untiring efforts again made this sixth year of proud reporting possible. KEIICHIRO UTSUMI Managing Director & CEO June 21, 2013 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2013 Organizational Profile GRI Ref. No. 2.1 Name of the Organization Hinopak Motors Limited Assembly, manufacturing and sales of Hino Trucks and 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Buses and Sales of Hino Genuine Parts. Operational structure of the organization, Hinopak is a subsidiary concern of Hino Motors Limited 2.3 including main divisions, operating Japan and Toyota Tsusho Corporation. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Karachi, Pakistan Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically One (Pakistan) relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Public Limited Company The company serves markets of Pakistan and some of the Middle East & African countries. Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Types of customers include: customers/beneficiaries). 1. Institutional customers 2. Commercial customers Number of Employees as on May 31, 2013 = 318 (997 including contract and contractor’s employees) Net sales (2012-13) = Rs. 7.53 billion Total capitalization = Rs. 2.07 billion (24% Debt, 76% Scale of the organization Equity) 2.8 Quantity of Products Produced (2012-13): Hino chassis (including export): 1,262 Bus and other specialized bodies (including export): 363 Hilux Frame: 4,126 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or None ownership. ‘Triple Crown Award’ conferred by our principal Hino Awards / citations received during the 2.10 Motors Ltd., Japan for being the market leader in reporting period Pakistan for 10 consecutive years. ISO 14001:2004 Certified Management Systems ISO 9001:2008 Certified OHSAS 18001:2007 Certified 1 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2013 Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce & Industry (OICCI) Federation of Pakistan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) Affiliations / Memberships Management Association of Pakistan (MAP) Pakistan Automotive Manufacturers Association (PAMA) S.I.T.E. Association Pakistan Japan Business Forum (PJBF) Pakistan Society for Training & Development (PSTD) Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 June 2012 ~ 31 May 2013 1. UNGC Communication on Progress (COP): 21 June 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous report/s 2. Hinopak Environmental & Social Report 2009-10 3. Annual Report 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual Muhammad Akram General Manager HR & Administration Muhammad-Akram@hinopak.com Contact point for questions regarding the Nabila Mujahid Faisal 3.4 Health, Safety & Environment Manager report or its contents Nabila-Mujahid@hinopak.com Maria Azher Human Resource Development Executive Maria-Azhar@hinopak.com Governance, Commitments and Engagement Board of Directors (Highest Governance Body) Board Committees: The Audit Committee is responsible for: a. Determination of appropriate measures to Governance structure of the organization, safeguard company’s assets; including committees under the highest b. Review of quarterly, half-yearly and annual 4.1 governance body responsible for specific financial statements of the Company, prior to tasks, such as setting strategy or the approval of the Board of Directors; organizational oversight. c. Review of management letter issued by external auditors and management’s response thereto and monitor the action plan to improve the control environment; d. Review of the scope and extent of internal audit and ensuring that the internal audit function has adequate resources and is appropriately placed 2 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Hinopak Motors Limited UNGC Communication on Progress 2013 within the Company; e. Ascertaining that the internal control system including financial and operational controls, accounting system and reporting structure are adequate and effective; f. Instituting special projects, other investigations on any matter specified by the Board of Directors, and to refer any matter to the external auditors or to any other external body; g. Monitoring compliance with relevant statutes and best practices of corporate governance. The Human Resource & Remuneration Committee is responsible for: a. Recommending human resource management policies to the board; b. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) and succession planning of the CEO; c. Recommending to the board the selection, evaluation, compensation (including retirement benefits) of CFO, Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit; and d. Considering and approving on recommendations of CEO on such matters for key management positions who report directly to CEO. Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 for details on the BOD and the Audit Committee. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Chairman (Non-Executive Director) For organizations that have a unitary board Refer to performance indicator ref. no. LA13 structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body The Board of Directors has 7 members; where 3 are that are independent and/or non-executive non-executive directors. members. Shareholders: Mechanisms for shareholders and Annual General Meeting (AGM) 4.4 employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Employees: Suggestion Boxes (located at conspicuous places around the company premises) 3 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Commitment: Hinopak Motors Limited is committed to respecting and Principle 2: make sure that they protecting the dignity of people in all its areas of operations. All stakeholders are not complicit in human rights are assured of sincere efforts to uplift conditions with regard to health and abuses. safety, provide sound labour-management relations and participate in human resource/community development. Furthermore, Hinopak is committed to avoiding complicity of human rights abuses in all its areas of operation. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the Human Rights principles: A. HEALTH & SAFETY SYSTEMS Picture 1: ERP Team’s Training  Healthy & Safe Working Environment Revitalization of the Emergency Response Plan/Team with regular review and trainings of the team members to ensure the plan’s effectiveness at the time of emergency (ref. pictures 1, 2 and 4). Announced Mock Drills held for both manufacturing facilities and the head office staff to assess organizational readiness to cope with emergencies. ERP Teams include Rescue, Firefighting, Spill, etc. 1,780 training man-hours achieved under staff training on Picture 2: ERP Team’s Training occupational HSE (health, safety and environment). Rs. 748,159 (USD 7634) invested on new equipment which was added to our firefighting systems during the reporting year.  Monitoring & Awareness Daily safety monitoring/patrolling around the assembly and manufacturing facilities being done through the Safety Administration Team (SAT). Company-wide awareness sessions held to prevent reoccurrence of major/minor accidents. Regular meetings related to occupational health and safety held and measures thus taken are reviewed and assessed. Picture 3: Occupational Accident Trend 50% and 20% reduction in major and minor accidents respectively (ref. picture 3) Complete Check Complete Find-out Activity (CCCF-α) introduced at shop floor level to mitigate occupational safety risks. 4 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights B. TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT  Continuous Improvement Kaizen initiatives, involving manufacturing and non-manufacturing functions, being implemented and monitored and are also participated by top management. Kaizen meetings are held periodically. Recertification of Quality Management System ISO 9001:2008 Picture 4: ERP Team's Training successfully completed in February 2013. 12 cross functional employees underwent training of ISO 9001:2008 Internal Auditor and other employees sensitized on quality standards and processes through shop floor training and awareness programs (ref. picture 5). C. EMPLOYEES  Labour-Management Relations Picture 5: QMS Internal Auditor Course Under the Labour Agreement signed in March 2012, 6 workmen were given desktop computers. A lucky draw was done to identify the workmen who received the computers (ref. picture 6). Eight employees (7 workers and 1 executive) were sponsored ($2,585/each; 90% of the total amount) for their religious pilgrimage (Hajj) in 2013. Identification of the recipient workmen under this scheme was also through lucky draw. No strike or cessation in work or loss of work hours due to strike, go-slow or lockout reported during the reporting year. Picture 6: Computers Distribution  Security Security measures around the company (for all local and foreign employees) tightened owing to the security concerns confronting the city. A complete ‘Security Guidelines’ document is being prepared detailing step by step guidance on security management. D. STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION & ENGAGEMENT Picture 7: Vendor Skill Development Program  Supplier/Contractor/Vendor Engagement The Multi-Sourcing Department (MSD) this year initiated a ‘Vendors’ Skill Development Program’ where a total of 45 participants representing various Hinopak vendors and suppliers were given training on various topics such as Kaizen, Lean Manufacturing and Tool & Die development (ref. picture 7). During the environment month, an awareness program on ‘Health, Safety & Environment’ was conducted at the premises of one of Hinopak’s key vendor company, representatives of the vendor Picture 8: Hinopak and vendor's company and Hinopak jointly performed a tree plantation activity representative jointly planting a tree also. (ref. picture 8) 5 Hinopak Motors Limited Human Rights  Education / Community Development & Welfare This year 73 workers’ children were recognized for their academic achievement through scholarships and a certain amount for course books. The children ranged from grade three to graduation level (ref. picture 9). The CEDF1 Mobile school Bus was repaired by Hinopak on 50% cost sharing basis. The bus is equipped with teaching aids (e.g. desks, seats, black board, teaching staff) to make education available for the less privileged children of Karachi at their door step (ref. Picture 9: Scholarship Distribution pictures 10 and 11). Ceremony The SITE Model School (which was renovated by Hinopak in 2008) children were continued to be given assistance from Hinopak. A new batch of 10 NED University scholars (belonging to Mechanical, Industrial and Automotive technologies) were given scholarships after graduation of the first batch of 10 scholars after completion if B.E (Bachelor of Engineering) degree. E. CODE OF CONDUCT  Code of Conduct Adherence Picture 10: CEDF Mobile School Bus This year also employee’s commitment to the COC was sought Renovation through email confirmations. The same has been translated into Urdu (local language) for easy understanding of the workmen. The Whistle Blowing Committee regularly meets to check compliance to the code of conduct through the whistle blowing procedure. The J-SOX Audit was successfully completed for this year ensuring fair and transparent corporate governance. Newly inducted employees oriented to the code of conduct during the company-wide orientation program. Picture 11: Inside the Mobile School  Credo, Mission, Values, Practice 45 new Hinopak employees (who had joined the company in the last couple of years) were trained on the company’s corporate values – the Hino Spirit during the reporting year (ref. picture 12). Planned Initiatives for the Coming Years (under principles 1 and 2):  Kaizen, Quality Circle, Housekeeping trophies and challenges;  Review of the Code of Conduct to make it more detailed and comprehensive. Picture 12: Hino Spirit Training  Complete/comprehensive documented security guidelines covering all aspects to mitigate security related risks. 1 Children’s Education Development Foundation (CEDF) is a welfare organization in Pakistan which works for the enhancement of literacy among underprivileged children, and the Mobile School Bus is one of the initiatives CDEF has taken to propagate functional literacy for the less privileged. More details on http://www.cedfpakistan.com/. 6 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Commitment:  We uphold freedom of association and the right of workers to Principle 4: the elimination collective bargaining. of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour in all areas of our or business partners' operations. Principle 5: the effective  We prohibit engagement, in any form, of child labour in all areas of abolition of child labour; and our business operations or our business partners' operations. Principle 6: the elimination of  We advocate equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusion discrimination in respect of in employment and occupation and prohibit any form of employment and occupation. discrimination in employment terms and conditions. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Labour’: A. INDUSTRIAL & EMPLOYEE RELATIONS  Freedom of Association Hinopak workers are represented by a registered Labor Union, namely Hinopak Motors Limited Employees Union, existing since the company's pre-Japanese ownership from 1969. Current membership to-date is 146, represented by the Collective Bargaining Agent. CBA (Collective Bargaining Agent) office bearers assumed office after free and fair elections in May 2012. The CBA has been elected for 2 years (ref. picture 13). Picture 13: CBA Oath-taking Ceremony  Collective Bargaining as a Tool for Addressing Working Conditions, Terms and Employment and Relations Five (5) trust building meetings were held during the reporting year which were attended by representatives from the labour union (mostly CBA officials) and representatives from the management.  Engagement & Participation During the reporting year 8,687 training man-hours were achieved for training and awareness activities of workers (technical & nontechnical courses). Picture 14: Cricket Tournament Participation in the 2013 Hinopak Tape Ball Cricket Tournament saw enthusiastic participation from the workers side (ref. picture 14). 7 Hinopak Motors Limited Labour B. ERADICATION OF CHILD LABOUR  Underage Hiring Prevention Process We continue to follow the under-age employment clause of the Factories Act 1934 for our workers and apprentices. We have no record of underage employee/apprentice; youngest apprentice on board is 18 years old (minimum age is 14 years old according to Apprenticeship Rules 1966 (Sindh).  Vendor / Contractor Evaluation and Engagement Non-employment of child labor is ensured/checked through our ‘Internal Vendor Evaluation Report’ (refer pictures 15 / 16). Hinopak employees interacting with vendors/contractors and visiting their premises are to report any observation of engaging Picture 15: Front Page of the Vendor child labor. Evaluation Report C. EMPLOYEES  Workforce Diversity Refer to GRI Indicator LA1 for Workforce profile (including workers). Planned Initiatives for the Coming Years (under principles 3, 4, 5 & 6):  Gender Harassment Program and Policy implementation. Picture 16: Page 5 of the Vendor Evaluation Report including the area of 'Welfare / Environment' 8 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Business should Commitment: undertake initiatives to promote  We take precautionary approach in meeting environmental challenges greater environmental in all areas of operations; we are committed to avoiding and mitigating responsibility; and negative impact of all our activities on the environment. Principle 9: Business should  Guided by our mission and social responsibility principles, we are encourage the development and committed to promoting environmentally responsible thinking within diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the Hinopak family, marked by sincere demonstration of better environmental-friendly practices. We strive to increase our sphere of influence beyond our company by including all other stakeholders and ensure greater positive impact.  We are committed to the adoption of environment-friendly technologies that reduce environment impact from our products and day-to-day operations. We ensure effective environment risk management and compliance across all our business activities, from product design/development to product sale. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the three principles on ‘Environment’: A. Environment Management Systems  Leadership Guidance & Legal Compliance Top management commitment can be seen by their participation in Health, Safety & Environment Management Committee and attendance in subsequent meetings. Systems are reviewed and decisions are taken to improve and enhance our management systems. Under National Environmental Quality Standard, we are monitoring our Waste Water Effluents, Air Emissions, Motor Vehicles Exhaust, Ambient Air, Noise, and Drinking Water as required by S.R.O. 49(1)/2000, S.R.O 722(1)/93, S.R.O. 1062 (1)/ 2010, S.R.O. 1063(1)/ 2010, S.R.O. 1064(1)/2010 and S.R.O. 72(KE)/2009. Key parameters (energy consumption, material discard, and water conservation) were reported to Hino Motors, Japan every month. Compliance in all aspects has ensured a clean, green record (no warnings, no penalties) for Hinopak. Water release and air release were both within compliance levels. Our local and international legal compliance have enabled us to enter the export market. 9 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment  Maintenance & Monitoring Company-wide risk assessment is conducted , to identify the associated hazards and their severity. The same is communicated to concerned employees and displayed at their locations. Environmental Impact Assessment program is in place, ensuring alignment with procedures for identifying, recording and mitigating the environmental impacts of Hinopak operations. Analysis of Air Emissions from combustion stacks, generators, engines, exhaust emissions, noise monitoring and ambient air are done on predefined intervals.  Auditing, Certifications & Awards Two days Internal EMS 14001 Audit training has been given to 16 employees by Bureau Veritas Pakistan. EMS recertification Audit is due in end of July 2013. Since 2011, we have participated in three South East Asia (SEA) Environmental Conferences which are held annually in Jakarta, Indonesia and Bangkok, Thailand. Hinopak’s initiatives on environmental conservation / reporting are shared with other delegates.  Hazardous Substance Control It is one of our objectives to ensure that every chemical passes through Chlorinated Organic Compound (COC) assessment before entering Hinopak premises. Any chemical containing this substance is carcinogenic in nature and is included in TOYOTA Banned Material List. To date, we have identified 92 new chemicals, which have been checked against COC Compliance. Picture 17: Mr. Keiichiro Utsumi (MD/CEO, Hinopak) plants a tree during the June Environment Month  Communication, Awareness, Training Tree Plantation activity The environmental performance of our plants is reported on an annual basis through our annual report. We celebrate June as Environment Month and submit comprehensive report to Hino Motors Limited, Environmental Division in mid July. Key parameters are monitored and reported to Hino Motors Ltd., Japan Environmental Division on monthly basis. (ref. pictures 17/18) B. Environmental Responsibility Guidelines  Hino Credo – Corporate Mission, CSR Charter, Hino Spirit Picture 18: A group picture of the Top Management after the tree plantation Hino Motors' mission statement explicitly indicates environmental activity responsibility: To make the world a better place to live in by helping people and goods get where they need to gosafely, 10 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment economically and with environmental responsibilitywhile focusing on sustainable development. Hino's CSR Chapter reiterates this commitment… we strive to provide products that are safe and environmentally-friendly, pursuing a responsible balance with the environment in all of our corporate activities. Hino Spirit enjoins all employees to practice the Spirit of Contribution – where it further elaborates that With a deep respect for all people, we approach our work with openness and honesty, and a true dedication to fulfilling our social responsibilities. Our employees are trained on the Hino Spirit principles.  Stop Global Warming Hinopak has set targets for energy conservation against the reference year of 2008 and we are continuously decreasing our energy usage by adopting several strategies regarding energy conservation. These include, o Controlling of unnecessary light at offices and plants. o Maintaining temperature up to 26ºC for air conditioners (ref. picture 20). o Replacement of mercury bulbs and search lights with energy Savers. o We have totally replaced 229 mercury bulbs with the energy savers which resulted in 66% reduction in energy Consumption and CO² emissions. o Utilization of sunlight where possible to maintain the Picture 19: These boards have been placed at conspicuous locations where appropriate light levels. air conditions are installed (these o Minimization of energy consumption of compressor by boards have been made in-house). removing air leakages. o Installation of energy meters to monitor the energy consumption reading in different areas of plant. o Installation of separate small compressor of 11KVA in different departments, so that in case of special working in one department the main centralized compressor (55KVA) would remain off. Every year, we conduct Air and Water leakage inspections to identify seepages and take appropriate actions to mitigate the problems. Moreover, equipment and machineries are constantly checked / maintained via Preventive Maintenance to ensure efficiency. 11 Hinopak Motors Limited Environment C. Environment-friendly Technology  Manufacturing Vehicles that Burn Cleaner Fuels and Emit Less Fuel Euro-II engine technology fitted in some Hino products, despite the absence of local regulations on the same mainly because of absence of clean fuel.  Testing and Development We strictly follow Hino's green product development procedures. All products undergo smoke belch tests to ensure quality of emission.  Use of Environment-Friendly Parts / Raw Material Use of environment-friendly gas R-134a & R-404a for air conditioning of buses and refrigeration of trucks is ensured. We monitored and reduced use of diesel in our generator sets and other machinery used for production processes. Picture 20: A destroyed house after the Quality of fuel, lubricants and other components are being checked earthquake by standard specification.  Environmental-friendly Processes Production/Manufacturing processes reviewed regularly. For proper maintenance of vehicles, Hinopak provides authorized service stations/workshops. Paint sludge, FRP and glass wool incineration are done by third party to reduce hazardous waste. D. Disaster Recovery Management and Capability Enhancement Picture 21: A bag of relief goods being  Disaster Management and Recovery given to an affectee A complete risk assessment was performed this year to assess human and capital risks associated natural calamities especially earthquake followed by a comprehensive emergency response plan in case of natural disaster.  Disaster Recovery Management / Relief Activities A 4x4 cargo truck was donated to the Edhi Foundation2 to help enhance disaster recovery capabilities in Pakistan. A donation of PKR 775,000/(USD 8,700/-) was made for the earthquake victims of Mashkel (a remote village in the province of Picture 22: The smile is Back!! A man Baluchistan, Pakistan) which was severely destroyed in the March looks happy after receiving a bag of 2013 earthquake. The donation was made through distribution of relief goods dry food items to the affectees. (ref. pictures 21/22/23) 2 The Edhi Foundation is a non-profit social welfare program in Pakistan, founded by Abdul Sattar Edhi in 1951. The Edhi Foundation provides 24-hour emergency assistance across Pakistan and abroad. More on: www.edhi.org. 12 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should Anti-Corruption work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment:  We support the anti-corruption principle and are committed to continue our 'no-tolerance' policy to any corruption practice. Policies, Systems, Processes and Programs Besides the policies and processes detailed in previous COP documents (published since 2006) the following actions were initiated/emphasized on during the reporting year under each process/system with respect to the four principles on ‘Anti-Corruption’: A. Ethical Guidelines  UNGC Subscription Hinopak is very vocal about its UNGC subscription and commitment to all 10 principles. This commitment is communicated through publications, press releases, presentations, displays, annual report, COP report etc.  Hinopak Code of Conduct Our basic Code of Conduct is still under revision to make it more comprehensive and explicit, as per the observation of the board of directors. However, Principles 2, 3, 8 and 11 are clear on our pledge to work against anti-corruption practices. The Code of Conduct was circulated again among all management Picture 23: Whistle Blowing Procedure employees to reiterate the standards of ethics presented in the Code. 282 acknowledgements received from management staff for this reporting year. Orientation of new hires includes briefing on basic Code of Conduct, Whistle Blowing procedure and the UNGC's principles. The code of conduct is displayed on conspicuous places (e.g. notice boards) for our non-management staff. Same has been translated in Urdu for better comprehension and understanding of workers.  Hinopak Whistle Blowing System The Whistle Blowing Committee (WBC), leading in the oversight of our anti-corruption commitment, meets monthly as minimum requirement (ref. pictures 23/24/25). Similar to the previous years, during 2012-13 employees sent in their suggestions/grievances through the Whistle Blowing Picture 24: Whistle Blowing Form procedure and/or suggestion box. Accordingly, our MD/Chairman Whistle Blowing Committee addressed our employees' concerns. 13 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Hino Credo, Mission, CSR Charter Trust is invoked twice in the Hino Credo containing overall company mission, core principle and CSR charter, whereby complying with laws and regulations and maintaining high ethical standards is a major focus. As indicated by our CSR charter which forms a part of the Hino Credo reflects on our commitment to good corporate citizenship, comply with laws and regulations and maintain high ethical standards.  Hino Spirit Hino Spirit is a set of 6 key corporate values emanated from our principal Hino Motors, Japan. 45 new Hinopak family members were trained on Hino Spirit (corporate values) achieving 180 man-hours during the reporting year (refer pictures 26 / 27). B. Risk Assessment System Picture 25: Suggestion box located at the Head Office entrance  J-SOX Internal Control Framework guides Hinopak in following the J-SOX (Japan's version of Sarbanes-Oxley Act). Six (6) internal audits were conducted within period April 2012 to May 2013 as compared to four audits conducted in the previous corresponding period. For this reporting year, internal controls / value additions were provided in the following areas: Loans to Hinopak employees Fleet management Control over inventory (both plants) Changes in Code of Corporate Governance Picture 26: Participants learning Price negotiations of Vendorized parts and supply items experientially during the Hino Spirit Dealers’ commission and incentive Training Scrap generation and disposal (body manufacturing plant) Information Technology general controls. For the reporting year, Hinopak's MD/CEO again declared compliance with the J-SOX requirements in a report sent to our principal in Japan.  Audit Committee An independent Audit Committee ensures monitoring of compliance activities. Three out of four members of the Committee are non-executive directors. Picture 27: Hino Spirit Training The independent audit committee reports directly to the Board of underway Directors. 14 Hinopak Motors Limited Anti-Corruption  Corporate Governance / Compliance External auditors publicly attested Hinopak's financial reporting integrity as contained in our Annual Report 20133. Hinopak's MD/CEO publicly affirmed compliance with corporate governance regulations as indicated in our Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2013. Other compliances: SECP’s Code of Corporate Governance, Stock Exchange regulations, International Accounting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, Companies Ordinance 1984 and other taxation laws, etc. Recently appointed Deputy Managing Director – Manufacturing trained on ‘Corporate Governance Leadership Skills’ and received a completion certificate in May 2013.  Process Improvement Continuous process improvement activity is underway through ‘Business Process Reengineering’ objective mostly driven by automation of various processes to minimize human error and risks. Some processes which have already beeen reengineered include payroll, leave application, attendance management, purchase requisition, stationary issuance, bills payment, bill of material, material gate pass, and complaint management system. Through the implementation of Oracle R12 (replaced with previous version R11i), following main improvements are expected: Back and front office products will be enhanced and easy to use which will lead to improved business processes; Integration of financial information will be conceptually shifted to Sub-Ledger Accounting – a centralize repository to manage financial data; Separate module will be introduced to handle and manage tax setups.  Vendor Pre-qualification Our vendors are subjected to a pre-qualification assessment through the Initial Vendor Evaluation Report before they are inducted as business partners. 3 Available on our website http://www.hinopak.com/finance.htm 15 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators GRI G3.1 Performance Indicators Human Rights Ref. Number Performance Indicator Performance HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All significant vendors and contractors undergo contractors and other business partners that Human Rights screening (both at the time of induction have undergone human rights screening, and during the service tenure) and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination None and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers None identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Suppliers: None* identified as having significant risk for Vendors: 100%** incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of * Due to the nature of the procurement process child labor. through suppliers currently in effect ** Vendors are assessed through the ‘vendor evaluation report’; ensuring no significant risks for incidents of child labour which is evaluated / ensured by regular visits by our team to the vendor’s premises. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations None involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations 100% company processes confirm with the human that have been subject to human rights rights requirements and the standards set forth by The reviews and/or impact assessments. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Note: Comprehensive internal and third party external audits of company systems (e.g. J-SOX, ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) all endorse compliance with the set standards, including human rights. HR11 Number of grievances related to human None rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Note: The grievances reported / filed through the formal grievance mechanism relate to other areas of operations but not human rights. Labour LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Health, Safety & Environment Systems Steering in formal joint management–worker health Committee: and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and General Secretary of CBA is a member of this safety programs. committee and the General Secretary represents 100% workers (contractor’s workers/permanent workers) to review compliance with the company policies relating to occupational HSE. 16 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 1,780 OHS training man-hours were achieved during and risk-control programs in place to assist the reporting year. workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Training and education of the workforce on serious diseases. diseases and occupational health and safety practices is an on-going process. Some of the programs include: Awareness program on Hazards of Tobacco, 4 5 Paan , Gutka etc. Eye diseases awareness program Counseling of employees / workers with low or high BMI, diabetes, cardiac problems, cholesterol, high blood pressure etc. Flyers / informative e-mails are circulated to educate employees on health and safety related matters Medical tests are conducted for canteen cooks/waiters, drivers, chemical handlers (e.g. Workers from Paint & Primer, PTED, FRP, CO2 Welders). Fire fighting / fire prevention training, flyers circulated among teachers, students and other stakeholders. The HSE department has a comprehensive program where risks relating to OHS are identified, documented and minimized/eradicated. CCCF(Complete Check Complete Find-out Activity) initiated this year. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, and Total workforce: 997* employment contract, broken down by Non-management contract / contractor’s employees: gender 554 (all males) Non-management permanent: 146 (all males) Apprentices: 37 (all males) Management contract: 88 (males= 82, females= 6) Management permanent**: 172 (males= 163, females= 9) Pakistani Nationals: 991 (females=15, males=976) Japanese Expats: 6 (all males) * As on May 31, 2013 ** Including top management 4 Preparation of betel leaf combined with areca nut and/or cured tobacco. More details on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paan 5 Gutka is a preparation of crushed areca nut (also called betel nut) tobacco, catechu, paraffin, slaked lime and sweet or savory flavorings. It is consumed much like chewing tobacco, it is considered responsible for oral cancer and other severe negative health effects (source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gutka). 17 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators LA2 Total number and rate of new employee 2011-12 * hires and employee turnover by age group, Total Hires: 51 where females= 3, males= 48 gender, and region. Total Separations: 16 where female= 1, males= 15 2012-13 * Total Hires: 01 where females= 0, male= 1 Total Separations: 21 where female= 2, males= 15 *Data for management staff only. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Males*= 100%, Females*= 100% parental leave, by gender. *Reporting period: April 2012 ~ May 2013 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 14.64% collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Followed as per the requirement of applicable laws and operational changes, including whether it is terms of employment specified in collective agreements. LA10 Average hours of training per year per Management Employees: 66.8 (males and females) employee by gender, and by employee Non-management Employees: 11.6 (all males) category. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Board of Directors: All males (between 43 ~ 79 years); 6 breakdown of employees per employee Japanese, 1 Pakistani national. category according to gender, age group, Management Committee: All males (between 41 ~ 57 minority group membership, and other years), 6 Japanese, 7 Pakistani nationals (all indicators of diversity. Management Employees) Audit Committee: All males (between 27 ~ 79 years), 2 Japanese, 2 Pakistani nationals Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, The following practices relating to customer satisfaction including results of surveys measuring are in place: customer satisfaction. 1. Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) Survey; done annually. 2. “Knocking the Door Project”; done monthly to visit customers at their door step. Economic EC4 Significant financial assistance received from None government. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure The following amount was expanded by the Company investments and services provided primarily (since 2008) for public benefit: for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or probono engagement. Year Actual Spending (PKR) 2008-09 7,164,000 2009-10 1,024,000 2010-11 838,000 2011-12 1,023,000 2012-13 2,855,000 Details on impact assessment mentioned in Human Rights-Stakeholders Participation & Engagement. 18 Hinopak Motors Limited GRI Performance Indicators Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8900 kg approx. per unit (for our standard Gb Rapidliner Bus) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 1971 kg energy consumption during for production energy source. process. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% Divisions (currently nine) have been assessed for units analyzed for risks related to risks related to corruption. corruption. The Audit Committee, headed by the BOD chairman, is responsible for periodic reporting on such risks to the Board of Directors. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents of corruption have been reported to date. corruption. SO8 Monetary values of significant fines and None total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 19
