Sustainability Report 2012 Company Corporate performance indicators The companies of ALTANA AG develop, manufacture, and distribute high-quality, specialty chemical products and provide the associated services. 2012 2011 ALTANA is a globally active corporation headquarNumber of employees 5,363 5,313 tered in Wesel, Germany, with an international sales share of approximately 85 percent. Its four divisions, Sales € 1,705 million € 1,617 million BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Effect Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA Coatings & EBITDA € 323 million € 308 million Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target EBITDA margin 19.0 % 19.1 % markets with respect to quality, product solution expertise, innovation, and service. Research and development expenses € 102 million € 88 million Investments € 90 million € 94 million ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally compatible solutions with the matching specialty Total production 518,172 t 547,451 t**** products for coatings manufacturers, paint and Gross value added € 601 million € 593 million**** plastics processors, for the printing and cosmetics industries, as well as for the electrical and elecFinal products 407,411 t 422,450 t**** tronics industry. The product range includes additWAI 1* 7.29 7.43 ives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigments, sealants and compounds, impregnating WAI 3** 76 69 resins and varnishes, and testing and measuring Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2)*** 141,423 t 138,325 t**** instruments. Drinking water 632,914 m³ 647,583 m³**** The ALTANA Group, which belongs to SKion GmbH, an investment company owned by Susanne Klatten, Non-hazardous waste 7,347 t 7,504 t**** who is also the Deputy Chairwoman of ALTANA’s Hazardous waste 19,071 t 20,404 t**** Supervisory Board, currently includes 42 production sites and more than 50 service and research lab* Work Accident Indicator 1 (Number of occupational accidents with one or more days of lost work time per million working hours) oratories worldwide. With a workforce of around ** Work Accident Indicator 3 (Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents 5,300 employees throughout the group, ALTANA per million working hours) *** Scope 1: direct emissions; Scope 2: indirect emissions posted sales exceeding € 1.7 billion in the business **** Projection for 12 months (calendar year) year 2012. Its impressive earning power and high growth rate make ALTANA one of the most successful and innovative chemical groups worldwide. About this report The Sustainability Report 2012 was written by ALTANA AG to provide of the ALTANA Group in 2012. The report follows the international the public, the company‘s employees and business partners, authorities, G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We performed non-governmental organizations, and all other stakeholders with inan in-house assessment of our compliance with GRI indicators and have formation about the implementation of sustainability in the strategy concluded that the report meets the requirements of application level B. of ALTANA in terms of ecology and corporate social responsibility. The company‘s economic development is discussed in detail in its For further information on the topics presented in this report, please 2012 Annual Report. visit www.altana.com/sustainability. The Sustainability Report 2011 was published in October 2012 and is still available for download The facts and key ﬁgures presented in this report refer to the business at our website, where you may also order a print copy. The annually year 2012; environmental performance indicators refer to the period published report also serves as a progress report on ALTANA‘s from October 1, to September 30. Unless otherwise noted, our stateimplementation of the principles of the Global Compact. The report ments apply to all divisions and worldwide subsidiaries that were part is available in both German and English. At a glance 1 Europe 34 sites North America 13 sites Asia 37 sites Central America 2 sites Latin America 2 sites 2012 sales: € 1,705 million EBITDA 2012: € 323 million Employees: 5,363 EBITDA margin: 19 % 2012 sales: € 618 million 2012 sales: € 341 million 2012 sales: € 413 million 2012 sales: € 334 million Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines • Paint additives • Coatings and plastics • Primary insulation • Converting specialties • Plastic additives • Graphic arts • Secondary insulation • Graphic arts • Industrial applications • Cosmetics and personal care • Electronic and engineering • Measuring and testing • Functional applications materials instruments 2 Sustainability Report 2012 Contents 1 At a glance 4 Prefaces Management Products Safety Signs of change A light closure saves a weighty Safety pays off ALTANA sent a signal through its top management resource The risk of accidents occurring cannot be avoided that it is willing to change. At the end of 2012, Resource protection and material efficiency protect completely. Safety at the workplace is extremely each of the four division presidents took over the the environment and improve the profitability of important at ALTANA. All of the company’s new helm of another division. The reason for the extraproduction processes. For example, with a special building and refurbishment measures reduce the ordinary measure was to strengthen ALTANA’s sealant enabling lighter crown caps to be manurisk of accidents. An example is ACTEGA Rhenacoat’s knowhow transfer and innovative ability by factured. new warehouse complex, which offers greater means of greater transparency regarding personnel fire and soil protection and makes many transport and ideas. drives superfluous. 6 Change 16 Resource efficiency 26 Operational safety 9 Company 20 Energy efficiency 29 Occupational safety 9 Acquisitions and divestments 20 Solvent reduction 32 Damage incidents 9 Management 22 Safety and health 34 Health protection 11 Compliance 23 Guidelines 12 Guiding Principles 25 Nanotechnology 13 Audits 13 Stakeholders 14 Memberships 15 Awards Contents 3 Environment Human resources Social responsibility Working in an award-winning Creating values playfully A class act of support building The ALTANA Group supports its employees in diverse Social commitment is a matter of course for Energy efficiency is one of the most important ways. To be able to contribute to a long-term the ALTANA Group and its staff. We continucontributors to sustainability. Two new ALTANA increase in the company’s economic value, staff ally support social projects for children and youth buildings distinguish themselves by their efficient members need to be able to think entrepreas well as scientific and technical training at use of energy. The architects attached special neurially and understand financial mechanisms. To schools and universities in different countries. Of importance to low primary energy consumption, this end, ALTANA relies on value management and particular importance is helping people in need, as well as to sustainable construction materials the so-called value creation indicator AVA (ALTANA such as school children in Cancún, Mexico. and a natural room climate. Value Added). 36 Sustainable construction 46 Corporate value 54 Volunteer help 39 Energy efficiency 49 Personnel recruitment 55 Campaigns / donations / sponsoring 40 Emissions 50 Employee survey 42 Raw materials 51 Employee profit participation 42 Water 51 Suggestion system 43 Wastewater 51 Diversity 59 Key performance indicators 43 Waste / contaminated soil 66 Highlights and lowlights 45 Biodiversity 68 Programs / goals 45 Transport and logistics 70 GRI index 72 Global Compact 4 Sustainability Report 2012 Dear Readers, Sometimes you need only a little to achieve more. Sometimes all that’s needed is a change of perOur researchers prove this time and again, for exspective. ample, when they develop new additives for coat­ ings. The dose may be small, but it makes a deciWe brought about such a change of perspective, sive contribution to optimizing the properties of for example, by rotating our division presidents in the product. Often, it is precisely these properties November 2012. On the reporting date of Novemthat give our clients an edge over their competiber 1, not only the presidents’ areas of responsitors. This is our understanding of specialty chemisbility changed. Rather, this impulse aims to spawn try and customer orientation. And it is with this more cross-divisional exchange and to strengthen mindset that we have occupied leading positions our innovativeness, in our target markets with respect to quality, thus creating new product solution expertise, innovation, and service, perspectives for all based on our aspiration that “We want to be leadof our employees in ing in everything we do.” the long run. But you can only be a leader in the long run when Invariably, a key preyou recognize different interests and needs and requisite for susbring them into harmony. On a corporate level, tainable and thus this means social responsibility, environmental prosuccessful developtection, safety, and profitability have to go hand in ments is the willhand. Ultimately, it is the interplay between them ingness of each inthat creates sustainable value – for our clients, staff, dividual to accept owner, and the environment in which ALTANA change and act reoperates. This is exactly why we fully support the sponsibly. I would objectives of the UN Global Compact initiative. like to thank all of our staff for their In this year’s Sustainability Report, we focus on commitment and what this means in concrete terms. We do not only dedication, which has made the ALTANA Group a want to talk about sustainability, but to create sustainable employer, business partner, and neighfacts. In the process, it becomes apparent that not bor. Each and every day, they help us achieve more only on the product level but in many respects offor ALTANA and our environment – even if only ten a small impulse suffices to achieve a big effect. through a small impulse. The result is always more than the sum of the individual parts. Yet the individual plays a key role. I wish you pleasurable reading. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber Chief Executive Officer Prefaces 5 Dear Readers, It is my pleasure to present the third ALTANA of our operational processes. Working hand in Sustainability Report to you. It is important to us to hand only functions when everyone has the same take responsibility and actively shape the future. goal: generating sustainable growth. The ALTANA A key aspect of this is environmental protection. Added Value (AVA) seminar gives non-specialist But the wellbeing of our staff and social commitstaff insight into business management approachment are also close to our heart. This year’s Suses. On the basis of sound knowledge, these emtainability Report gives you insight into our underployees can scrutinize processes and make suggesstanding of sustainability. Learn how we create tions for improvement. ALTANA creates values social, economic, and environmentally related for long-term success buttressed by the entire values in this frameworkforce. work. We focus on solutions and it is particularly imporAt a time when retant to us that our solutions are sustainable in the sources are becomlong run. When we design a new building, for ing ever scarcer, example, we do not only think about short-term we place particular expenses. Rather, we want to provide relief to emphasis on effithe environment. By equipping our buildings cient use of matewith state-of-the-art technology, we can make rial. A special seala long-term contribution to climate protection. ant for crown corks This is not only good for the environment but that helps compaalso cuts costs. nies produce them using less raw maOur values and standards apply at all of our sites terial is just one worldwide. As a result, our clients everywhere can of many examples. rest assured that the ALTANA Group stands with At first glance, this its name for sustainable business and managemay seem to be ment. In dialogue with our customers, we want only little. But with lighter crown corks alone one to continue the trusting cooperation. Our partners of the world’s largest brewery groups can save can depend on us as a company representing longseveral thousand tons of steel a year, protecting term and value-oriented growth. This includes resources and making production more efficient. thinking about a shared future. We are striving ALTANA can make big things happen even with for solutions today that concern the challenges of little innovations. tomorrow. ALTANA’s success largely depends on competent staff. For entrepreneurial action to pervade all levels, our employees have to understand all steps Dr. Andreas Diez Vice President Environment, Health and Safety 750.00 6 Sustainability Report 2012 63 3 > 5,000 375 1 x4 42.070 rotation division presidents employees with new perspectives 6535 40.000 983 700 11 Signs of change When the decision was announced, most of those present were surprised. During the annual Global Management Meeting, Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, CEO of ALTANA, announced that all four of ALTANA’s divisions would have new presidents. The heads of each of the four divisions – BYK, ECKART, ELANTAS, and ACTEGA – took over the helm of another respective division on November 1, 2012. It was an extraordinary measure serving one main goal: We want to be leading in everything we do. With the rotation at divisional president level, ALTANA sent a signal through its top management that it is willing to change. ALTANA stands for innovation and flexibility. Change has always characterized the company's history and made a key contribution to its success. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 7 75 Strengthening knowhow transfer and innovativeness The rotation of the division presidents is also intended to lead to an increased willingness to change on other levels. The company’s ability to change must be coupled with a willingness to change on the part of every single employee, so that we can continue down our successful path. “This realignment of the divisions' presidents will provide ALTANA with new growth prospects and help further enhance the use of potential synergies,” said Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, CEO of ALTANA, after the announcement was made. “And we are firmly convinced that great transparency with respect to personnel and ideas will strengthen the knowhow transfer and ALTANA’s innovative ability.” 8 Sustainability Report 2012 Areas of responsibility passed on (clockwise from top left to right): Dr. Wolfgang Schütt to Dr. Guido Forstbach, Dr. Guido Forstbach to Dr. Roland Peter, Dr. Christoph Schlünken to Dr. Wolfgang Schütt, Dr. Roland Peter to Dr. Christoph Schlünken. What does the rotation mean in concrete terms? The former of BYK. Changes in the responsibilities of managers have division president of BYK, Dr. Roland Peter, became the preslong been commonplace, an important element of every orident of ACTEGA, formerly headed by Dr. Guido Forstbach, ganizational and managerial development. But it is unusual who in turn switched to ELANTAS. From ELANTAS, Dr. Wolffor all of the presidents of a company’s divisions to swap gang Schütt went to ECKART, while the latter’s previous their posts at the same time. president, Dr. Christoph Schlünken, took over the leadership Only those who change stay true to themselves In spite of all the changes taking place, ALTANA has retained Keyword: rotation that which has proven itself – the decentralized positioning of (Job) rotation is usually a temporary, planned change of jobs to promote the divisions. It is this market-oriented structure, not least, that the employee’s personal development and provide diversified training has made us flexible enough to react quickly to changes. With and experience. The aim of this on-the-job training method (which was all of the transformations, which initially involve personnel introduced in the 1950s) is for everyone involved to gain new knowledge changes exclusively, we aim to preserve the continuity that is and skills. The rotating employee passes on the knowledge he or she has acquired to the new department, and, conversely the employees of the needed in the field of specialty chemicals and that has made us new department pass their knowledge on to the person rotating. the global market leader in many areas. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 9 Company ALTANA develops, produces, and distributes high-quality innoAcquisitions and divestments vative specialty chemical products for coatings manufacturers, In May 2012, we acquired the casting resins business of the Italpaint and plastics processors, for the printing and cosmetics inian Marbo Group, thus strengthening the electronic and engidustries, as well as for the electrical and electronics industry. The neering materials areas of ELANTAS. In December 2012, we globally active corporation is headquartered in Wesel, Germany. continued to expand BYK in the U.S., acquiring the wax addiALTANA is composed of four business divisions: BYK Additives & tives business of Chemical Corporation of America (ChemCor). Instruments, ECKART Effect Pigments, ELANTAS Electrical InsuThe latter’s wax products are waterbased and thus support our lation, and ACTEGA Coatings & Sealants. strategy of reducing VOC emissions. BYK-Cera products can be manufactured at ChemChor's Chester site, reducing transports. For ALTANA, innovation is the most important key to further Moreover, ALTANA purchased a new technology for encapsulatgrowth. With a disproportionately high share of research and deing enzymes to develop environmentally friendly additives. velopment expenditure of around six percent of sales, ALTANA ensures itself a technological edge and offers its clients unique As regards divestments, ECKART sold its pearlescent pigments products and services. New developments are realized together business for cosmetics based on natural mica to Sudarshan with clients and in proximity to them. More than 50 laboraChemical Industries, India. The business includes all products untory and research sites worldwide offer customers innovative der the brand names Prestige and Flonac-C produced by ECKART solutions in the fields of surface protection and surface rein Pori, Finland. In the future, the products will be produced finement at their respective locations. More than every fifth based on synthetic mica, which will replace a raw material exALTANA employee worldwide works in research and applicatracted in surface mining in India. The new raw materials will tion technology. significantly reduce water consumption in Pori. The sale affected 55 employees, whom we supported in their search for new jobs. ALTANA has a dual management and supervisory structure. The In addition, a social plan was drawn up. 15 employees were afManagement Board has two members, who are appointed by fected by the closing of our ACTEGA Colorchemie site in Bonn. the Supervisory Board for a term of ﬁve years. The Management Board members manage the Group independently and are fully ELANTAS Deatech and ELANTAS Camattini merged. They committed to the interests of the company. Together with the have operated under the name ELANTAS Italia since January presidents of the divisions and selected heads of central func2012. Within the framework of the Dolomiti project, protional areas, the Management Board forms the advisory Execucesses and methods were analyzed with the goal of optimiztive Management Team. ing workflows and making them leaner. At the same time, SAP was implemented and the environmental management The Supervisory Board of ALTANA has twelve members, half of system was certified (see Management section). whom are elected by German Group employees in accordance with the German Codetermination Act. The other six members are elected by the Annual General Meeting. The new Chairman Management of the Supervisory Board is Dr. Klaus-Jürgen Schmieder, who With the help of the central function Corporate Environment, took over the post from Dr. Fritz Fröhlich. Supervisory Board Health & Safety (EH&S), ALTANA ensures that occupational safety, members serve terms of ﬁve years. The Supervisory Board monienvironmental and health protection, as well as the key perfortors and advises the Management Board on its management mance indicators and goals defined by the Executive Manageactivities. With the exception of the Deputy Chairwoman of the ment, are achieved. The head of Corporate EH&S reports directly Supervisory Board, Susanne Klatten, and the employee repreto the Chief Executive Officer. Corporate Communications is in sentatives, all Supervisory Board members who are elected by charge of social responsibility matters (sponsoring, donations, the Annual General Meeting, along with the Chairman of the etc.), while the Human Resources department (HR) is responSupervisory Board, are independent. For more information on sible for other social issues. These functions also report directly the company, please visit www.altana.com. to the CEO. 10 Sustainability Report 2012 2012 sales: € 1,705 million Employees: 5,363 BYK-Chemie GmbH ECKART GmbH ELANTAS GmbH ACTEGA GmbH BYK Asia Pacific ECKART America ELANTAS Beck ACTEGA Artística BYK-Cera ECKART Asia ELANTAS Beck India ACTEGA Colorchemie BYK Chemie de Mexico ECKART Benelux ELANTAS Isolantes ACTEGA DS Elétricos do Brasil BYK-Gardner ECKART France ACTEGA Foshan ELANTAS Italia BYK Gardner USA ECKART Italia ACTEGA Kelstar ELANTAS PDG BYK Japan ECKART Mexico ACTEGA Rhenacoat ELANTAS Tongling BYK Kometra ECKART Pigments ACTEGA Rhenania ELANTAS Zhuhai BYK Solutions ECKART Suisse ACTEGA Terra BYK Tongling ECKART UK ACTEGA WIT BYK USA ECKART Zhuhai 48 operative companies with 42 production sites and more than 50 laboratories worldwide Via the Supervisory Board, employee representatives and the ship, or truck, as well as impacts on biodiversity. Opportunisole shareholder of ALTANA have the possibility of exerting ties primarily arise from new pro­ducts which reduce environinfluence on the company’s sustainability management. The mental impacts in the supply chain. shareholder also has this possibility via the annual general meeting. The qualification of employees and committees at ALTANA’s first energy management system (EMS) certified in ALTANA responsible for sustainability issues is ensured by accordance with the international standard ISO 50001 was training programs, professional experience, seminars, and set up at ECKART (see also page 13). The introduction was conferences. Environmental and safety targets are among supported by a so-called energy team consisting of experts the personal targets to be achieved by division presidents from the different departments headed by energy manager and other executives at ALTANA. They are taken into account Siegfried Kreuzer. Thanks to energy savings measures, the in the determination of variable compensation components CO2 emissions of the Güntersthal site were reduced by apeach year. proximately 500 tons in 2012. Like ECKART, BYK also has an energy manager, who in 2012 began implementing an energy The companies of the ALTANA Group record essential envimanagement system fulfilling the requirements for certificaronmental impacts within the scope of their environmental tion. This included participation in the pilot project “Modular and energy management systems. These include resource Energy Efficiency Model” of the Energy Agency NRW (the and water consumption as well as waste volumes, VOC and service provider to the German state of North Rhine-WestCO2 emissions, minor chemical-specific emissions below the phalia in all energy-related matters), which supports the applicable limit values in the wastewater at some locations, introduction of EMS. In the meantime, the implementation transports of raw materials and finished products by rail, has been completed. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 11 Basic elements of ALTANA’s Compliance Management System • Monitoring • Culture • Goals • Risks • Program The advantages of an EMS, apart from cutting energy costs • Organization and reducing CO2 emissions, include the reimbursement of ecotax and limited apportionment according to the German • Communications Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG). Not least, it gives rise to a competitive advantage, as clients pay attention to their suppliers’ energy efficiency. the system. With its CMS, ALTANA also covers the topics of corruption, environment and safety, as well as discrimination, Compliance child labor, and collective agreements. ALTANA introduced a Compliance Management System (CMS) in 2008. A manager was assigned to each area. These compliSince 2002, a Code of Conduct has existed at ALTANA that ance managers, together with the Head of Internal Audit, form sets binding standards for the conduct of all managers and a so-called Compliance Committee, chaired by ALTANA’s Genemployees groupwide. At the end of 2011 and beginning eral Counsel, who in turn reports to the Chief Financial Officer. of 2012, around 650 of the employees who have joined The Compliance Committee deals at the ALTANA AG level with ALTANA since 2010 in Germanand English-speaking counvarious topics that are important for compliance. tries learned about the Code of Conduct and Compliance via e-learning. Starting in August 2012, 450 Chinese colleagues followed suit. The program is also planned for all employees in Italy. Furthermore, 1,100 employees have received training Compliance-relevant topics at ALTANA in antitrust matters through e-learning. • Corruption and fraud • Antitrust legislation Additional training took place regarding the topic of corruption, e.g. during ELANTAS and ACTEGA management meet• Financial reporting ings. Issues such as active and passive corruption, granting of • Environment and safety undue advantages, fraud, and antitrust law were discussed. • Human resources (HR) Within the framework of ALTANA’s global procurement • Customs and foreign trade training, 70 purchasers received training in compliance• Data protection related matters. BYK Korea introduced annual compliance • Information technology (IT) control by the HR manager (internal) and auditors (external). • Tax In addition to sensitizing employees, control is important. Within the framework of internal auditing, matters such as assigning contracts to third parties and commission agreements were audited. In 19 internal audits in 2012, some poThe compliance organization helps avoid conflicts of interest. tential for improvement was identified, for which we took the Internal audits are carried out to check whether the compliappropriate organizational measures. No cases of corruption ance guidelines have been adhered to. In 2012, the Compliance were registered via hotlines or other channels. In the periCommittee formulated targets for the company’s compliance odical inquiry made in March /April 2012 in all companies, no culture, risk assessment, and compliance program and improved compliance violations in the form of discrimination and child 12 Sustainability Report 2012 Guiding Principles labor were registered. According to the estimates of local HR ALTANA's Guiding Principles, introduced in 2011, describe what managers, adherence to legal and ALTANA specific rules and the company stands for and – together with the Code of Conregulations is ensured everywhere. In regular visits to all sites, duct – provide orientation for responsible corporate action. To managerial staff also look into possible violations due to child anchor the “ALTANA Identity” in the minds of all staff members, labor, among other things. we held so-called Identity Workshops in 2011 and 2012. Among other things, various aspects of our corporate culture were disFemale employees at the Wesel site have established an cussed. On the Intranet, the lively discussion has been taken up ALTANA wide women’s network. By the end of 2012, possiin a section provided especially for this purpose and questions, ble goals and activities had been developed. The project is which are combined under specific subjects, are answered. being sponsored by the company. In the future, the women’s Here, questions such as “What is the precise importance of the network could deal with possible disadvantages encountered individual values and management guidelines?”, “How can the by women. Guiding Principles be lived out interculturally?”, and “How are the Guiding Principles seen from the outside?” are asked. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 13 Audits All sites certified in accordance with ISO 140001 (environmental management system) and ISO 50001 (energy manCertification of ACTEGA agement system) are subject to annual internal and external audits. Cross-audits, for which auditors from an ALTANA Colorchemie company investigate other sites, supplement our high standards. In 2012, ECKART’s energy management system ACTEGA Colorchemie started 2012 with the successful cerwas certified for the first time according to ISO 50001 (see also tification of its environmental management and quality manpage 10). ECKART, which as a result is the first company agement system. The audit organization Dekra’s preparation in the ALTANA Group to have a certified EMS, is the division for the audits in compliance with ISO standards 14001 and with the highest energy consumption. For this reason, we 9001 at five sites had begun back in April 2011. As a first have to deal with the resource energy in an especially susmeasure, the Integrated Management Systems Working Group was founded and Gerhard Kasper, the Head of Environment, tainable way, in order to minimize the associated negative Health and Safety of the site in Neuhofen, Austria, was effects on the environment and to cut costs. The new EMS appointed to lead the group. Kasper was assisted by an exwas incorporated in the existing integrated management perienced external consultant. Thanks to the support of the system, certified in accordance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001, management representatives of the other four sites, Alicja and OHSAS 18001. With the implementation, the processDyrdowska and Monika Witkowska (Poland), Claudia Klampfl es of the environmental management system were also (Germany), Eva Hiery and Bruno Dehnhardt (France), and adapted and modernized. Richard Mayrhofer (Germany), work began after the size of the project, the costs, and the timetable had been defined. ELANTAS Italia set up an integrated management system for Until then, the individual sites had had different experiences quality, safety, and the environment (see also page 9). In with management systems. November 2012, an audit was performed at its three sites by the Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems (SQS), which undertook the certification of the entire company with respect to the international standard ISO 900114001. By achieving this goal, the Ascoli Piceno and QuatStakeholders tordio sites, as well as Collechio, which has been certified for To strengthen public trust in the safety of our plants and some time, additionally managed to certify their environmental products, ALTANA maintains close dialogue with neighbors, management systems. local politicians and media, associations, investors, customers, suppliers, authorities, and all other interest groups that BYK in Wesel also has an integrated management system. are directly or indirectly affected by our activities. This is The first-time certification of the occupational health and achieved in direct exchange, with our annual reports and safety management system based on the OHSAS 18001 the annual sustainability reports, through participation in standard by the German Social Accident Insurance Instituassociation meetings, and open house activities held every tion for the Raw Materials and Chemical Industry (BG RCI), three years. was carried out in 2012. The auditors, who particularly praised the commitment to risk assessment and the good The essential stakeholders are determined on the basis of working climate, awarded BYK the “Systematic Safety” seal many years of experience and the recognizable need for comof approval. munication. But they are also defined based on knowledge 14 Sustainability Report 2012 ALTANA materiality matrix Innovative and sustainable product solutions Social commitment Sustainable value creation for Climate protection in production company and society Resource efficiency/waste Human rights Renewable resources Biodiversity VOC reduction Sustainability in the supply chain Occupational safety Significance for our stakeholders Health protection Employer attractiveness Staff development Staff satisfaction Significance for ALTANA regarding expectations and concerns vis-à-vis the chemical protection, environmental protection, transport safety, and industry. In this report, we display the results of our continuopen communication. In this context, all of ALTANA’s German ous dialogue in a so-called materiality matrix (see graphic companies report to the German Chemical Industry Asabove). It lists the most important sustainability topics and sociation (VCI). The VCI prepares its annual Responsible Care their significance for ALTANA, on the one hand, and for our report based on this data. Responsible Care covers part of stakeholders on the other. The same topics are the focal points the Global Compact commitments. Therefore, ALTANA also of this sustainability report. Although we deem all action reports significant incidents according to the VCI definition, areas important, we focus particularly on the topics in the this year related to working hours for the first time (see also right field of the matrix. page 32). As a contribution to the reduction of land use and biodiversity conservation, ALTANA supports the AAV NRW (Association for Remediation Services for the state of North Memberships Rhine-Westphalia). ALTANA is a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact program. We view this as a voluntary commitment to conALTANA’s German companies are members of the VCI, of the tinual improvement in the areas of human rights, occupaumbrella organization of the 17 European professional assotional standards, environmental protection, and anti-corrupciations for coatings, printing inks, and artists’ colors (CEPE), tion. This sustainability report also serves as our Global as well as the Association of the German Coatings Industry Compact progress report. In addition, ALTANA supports the (VdL). In addition, some of our affiliates are members of the chemical industry’s Responsible Care initiative, a voluntary German Verband der Mineralfarbenindustrie (association of commitment to continual improvement in the areas of producers of pigments, fillers, functional additives, food colproduct stewardship, plant safety, work safety and health orants and others, VdMi), the German Association of Plastic Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 15 Awards Films (IVK), and TEGEWA (association representing manufacALTANA’s treasury won the Treasury of the Year 2012 award. turers of textile, paper, leather, and fur auxiliaries and colorThe team was presented the prize at the 8th Structured FINANCE ants, surfactants, complexing agents, antimicrobial agents, congress. The jury gave the award to the treasury for carrying polymeric flocculants, cosmetic base materials, pharmaceutical out different capital market transactions in parallel and introexcipients, and allied products). ducing a treasury management system, a platform for derivatives trading, a deal confirmation platform, and a multi-cash system in tandem. Implementation of the Global Compact principles in the During the China Composite Expo 2012 in Shanghai, BYK was ALTANA supply chain: given the CCE JEC Innovation Award in the Raw Materials category for the two additives BYK-P 9065 and BYK-P 9051. Thirty-two comMeasures in 2012 posite materials of 30 manufacturers were nominated for the prize. 1. Communication of ALTANA’s commitment through the presentation of a Supplier Code of Conduct pertaining to visits to suppliers and supplier audits (ongoing). 2. Examination of adherence to principles during visits to suppliers and supplier audits (ongoing). In 2012, 34 visits to suppliers and supplier audits were made in India, China, Taiwan, Poland, Italy, and the U.S. 3. Communication of the ALTANA Supplier Code of Conduct within the framework of the ALTANA Corporate Procurement Intranet site (ongoing). 4. Communication and voluntary commitment of ALTANA on the websites of ALTANA’s purchasing network. The web pages have been online since November 2011. In 2012, 118 suppliers contacted ALTANA via the respective pages and committed themselves to adhering to the Global Compact guidelines. 5. Training of all purchasing employees (Raw Materials, Technical Purchasing, IT, and Logistics) regarding compliance taking special account of the Global Compact principles. 6. Development of a risk management system for raw materials and preliminary raw material sources of ALTANA subsidiaries. In the evaluation, criteria for evaluating the institutional anchoring of the adherence to human rights and of sustainability and anti-corruption measures were explicitly recorded. As the only company from North Rhine-Westphalia, BYK was Outlook for 2013 additionally awarded for its special commitment to students 1. Continuation of the communication of ALTANA’s requirements in their transition phase between school and job. Under the regarding cooperation with suppliers within the framework of slogan “Mein Engagement macht Schule,” the Bundesarbeits­ visits to suppliers and supplier audits. gemeinschaft Schulewirtschaft (Germany's national working 2. Systematic increase in the number of suppliers who commit to group on schools and business) honored companies for their adhering to the Global Compact guidelines through ongoing meaexemplary cooperation with schools. BYK received the 3rd surement of supplier registrations on the procurement website. prize in the Medium-sized Businesses category. In addition, the 3. Systematic analysis of the results of country risk evaluations inBYK innovation team received the internal ALTANA Innovation cluding derivation of concrete measures. Award 2012 for high-performance wetting and dispersing agents for surface coatings. Within the framework of the For further information, please visit: ALTANA Innovation Conference, we have given awards to our www.altana.com/company/global-purchasing-network.html best product innovations, which boast outstanding technology and are successful on the market, since 2009. 16 Sustainability Report 2012 6535 42,070 63 375 750,000 35 42,000,000,000 1 crown corks x 175 40,000 mg sealant = 10,000 t less steel 9837 Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 17 A light closure saves a weighty resource Not consuming something is the most sustainable way to save it. For example, efficient use of materials in production makes an important contribution to conserving natural resources and relieving the environment, as well as to enhancing the profitability of production processes. According to the German Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology, expenditure for material in Germany comprises by far the largest cost pool of the manufacturing and processing industries, at around 40 percent. The situation is similar in other countries. Resource efficiency is one of the key issues in the worldwide sustainability debate. An example shows the impressive effect just a few tenths of a millimeter of thin steel sheeting can have. The three closure manufacturers Pelliconi, Packaging Products del Perú, and Coleus produce crown corks for SABMiller, the world’s second-largest brewery group. The latter’s characteristic bottle tops are up to 0.07 millimeters thinner and 0.3 grams lighter than standard crown corks. The enormous potential for conserving material and cutting costs is apparent alone from the number of serrated bottle caps SABMiller needs each year for its bottles: 42 billion. With the lighter crown corks, the British-South African company consumes about ten percent, or 10,000 tons, less steel. That is as much as the volume of material used to build the new Wembley Stadium. The equivalent value: almost € 10 million. 18 Sustainability Report 2012 No light crown corks without special sealant This potential prompted other beverage companies to take Today, ACTEGA DS sells sealant material in over 100 counaction. In the future, a few soft drink manufacturers intend tries worldwide; more than every second crown cork used in to use the light bottle tops too, and more will surely follow. the U.S. is equipped with high-tech plastic from Bremen. But the innovative step was not as easy as it sounds. Similar Every day, five to six truckloads of granulate are produced to metal vacuum twist-off tops for jars, the thickness of the which has to be melted down by the closure manufacturers metal of crown corks can only be reduced with the help of before processing. One truckload suffices for the bottles in special sealants. “The sealant has to take over some of the 6,000 fully loaded beverage delivery vehicles. This success properties of the metal,” says Wilfried Lassek, Managing Distory required close cooperation between all of the comparector of ACTEGA DS in Bremen. “This can only be achieved nies involved. “It took almost two years to develop the new with an extremely flexible and soft plastic.” ACTEGA is an sealant. Without the excellent cooperation with the three expert in meeting such special requirements. The sealant closure manufacturers and with SABMiller, this would have SVELON 830 LG for lighter crown corks, which weighs only been extremely difficult,” says Wilfried Lassek. “But as we 175 milligrams, is comparable with PROVALIN. It also consists talk about new developments and possible cooperation of so-called thermoplastic elastomers, is free of PVCs and with nearly all of our clients during sales negotiations, we plasticizers, and is delivered to closure manufacturers in are able to implement new ideas in concrete projects and granulate form. products.” Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 19 Chemical products that have only slight effects on the enviThe issue of recycling does not play a significant role at ronment and can be used safely have competitive advanALTANA because as a rule our products cannot be recycled tages and hence good sales opportunities on the market. At or reprocessed, or only with difficulty. Therefore, we make an ALTANA and with our clients, such products make a key effort to use raw materials optimally already during product contribution to corporate sustainability. Central issues of our manufacturing, assisted by additives, for example, used to product responsibility are resource and energy efficiency, make powder coatings and so-called high solid coatings, emissions of volatile substances (VOCs), as well as the safety whose primary aim, however, is to reduce VOC emissions. and health of our clients and staff. Alternatives to fossil raw materials Resource protection The use of renewable, biogenic raw materials makes an imporCareful use of resources is becoming more and more important. On tant contribution to climate protection. When crude oil based the one hand, certain raw materials, such as crude oil, for example, products are burned at the end of their lifecycle, additional CO2 are not infinitely available. On the other hand, there is growing is emitted. Regenerative raw materials, on the other hand, are wealth worldwide and with it a need for more resources. Most of the almost climate neutral, as by far the largest share of the resultraw materials required by ALTANA are based on crude oil. As this fiing CO2 emissions are in a natural cycle. nite raw material is becoming more and more expensive, it is imperative that we act now. Around five percent of the raw materials used by ALTANA are renewable. This is relatively little compared to the average in the chemical industry (13 percent). But since we are not a primary industry we only have access to regenerative resources offered Contributions to resource efficiency by suppliers. Nevertheless, our research and development deals intensively with the potential of renewable raw materials. And • Recycling and reuse the issue of “Green Chemistry” was discussed in workshops at • High level of conversion of raw materials into products the last two ALTANA Innovation Conferences. In addition, within • Material efficiency the framework of a so-called “Innovation Challenge” on the In• Use of renewable raw materials tranet (ALTANA Innovation Portal), we asked our worldwide re• Long-lasting products search community about their current state of knowledge: • Which renewable raw materials do we use today? • How can we increase this share? • What kinds of renewable resources have potential for us or should be analyzed in more depth? Unnecessary losses of water are prevented by a new develop• Where do we get these raw materials and who could be ment of ELANTAS Italia which can be used to seal porous our partners? water pipes. With Cured in Place Pipes (CIPPs), a hose impregnated with thermoplastic synthetic resin is fed under This initiative broadened our knowledge and generated pressure into the pipes, becoming the new inner wall. The many ideas for the future that are being pursued further. In resin is molded and hardened using hot water or water vaprinciple, one can observe that when it comes to renewable por. An advancement of the product even shows the exact raw materials, the chemical industry faces the same problem degree of hardening through changing colors. as energy suppliers do with so-called first-generation biofuels: There is a need for more agricultural land; more fertilizer is 20 Sustainability Report 2012 Energy efficiency used, which, moreover, emits climate-damaging nitrous oxide; Impregnated resins for modern electric motors, generators, and the plants might be produced in competition with food. and transformers give the components mechanical stability, In chemistry, however, there is the advantage that chemical protect against environmental influences, and improve the companies do not have to perform the energy-intensive synheat transfer between individual components. These synthesis, which has already been achieved by the plants, as is thetic resins from ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg are in liquid the case with fossil raw materials. form and hardened by means of heating, with quickly curing resins preferred for shorter production times, saving Second-generation biogenic raw materials based on bioenergy and increasing production output. ELANTAS Beck waste can be given a much more positive evaluation. While achieved significantly improved curing through the use of there is also competition with recycling for energy purposes, optimized systems. in our opinion optimum material utilization should be given priority. Alternatively, the sun, wind, and water can be used For printing inks cured by means of UV radiation, UV lamps to generate energy. With material utilization, the CO2 remains are being used increasingly instead of mercury lamps. Usualbound that is environmentally friendly, and thus for reasons ly, three to six mercury lamps are needed to cure the printing of climate protection a higher degree of recycling should ink and another top coat, whereas only one UV lamp is needgenerally be striven for rather than thermal utilization. ed. But this requires an adaptation of the protective coating and the printing ink. By changing its coating systems, ACTEGA Another raw material even surpasses the life cycle assessKelstar was able to offer suitable products for this and conment of biogenic sustainable raw materials: water. Related to tribute to considerable energy savings by refraining from using the finished product, ALTANA currently uses ten percent wamercury lamps. ter as solvent, and the proportion continues to increase. While searching for alternative raw materials, ECKART disSolvent reduction covered a mineral substrate that is coated with metal oxA substantial proportion of emissions of volatile organic comides (ilmenites) for the development of a synthetic pigment pounds (VOCs) comes from the coatings sector. Due to degwith the visual properties of aluminum (metallic effect). radation processes, these solvents lead to ground-level ozone These pigments are not nearly as reactive as aluminum, formation and thus contribute to so-called summer smog, have high chemical resistance and are therefore ideal for which can cause health problems. In addition, the emissions water-based coatings. But they are also suitable for other are partially responsible for climate change. applications in which aluminum is not desired, e.g. in cosmetics or when electromagnetic fields should not be shielded. At the beginning of 2012, ECKART brought the first synthetic pearlescent pigment (SYMIC) onto the market. VOC climate effect More are to follow. Solvents consist of different hydrocarbons some of whose degradation products have significantly higher greenhouse gas Much more efficient than coating paper or foils with metal is potential to change the climate than CO2. When 1 kg of VOCs the use of printing inks, which ACTEGA manufactures for diis burned, approximately 2.7 kg of CO2 are emitted. verse applications. This requires less material and reduces the amount of waste. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 21 For many years, the coatings industry has worked continBYK is producing new additives for water, powder, high solid, uously and successfully on various technologies to reduce and UV coatings, and thus promoting the development of VOCs: emission-reduced coating systems. The basis of a group of new • Water-based coatings (water is used to replace organic wetting and dispersing additives, including BYKJET-9151, solvents) consists entirely of a so-called active substance containing no • High solid coatings (with a reduced share of solvent) solvent. Another new additive is an emission-free wetting • Powder coatings (without solvent, greater energy needs) and dispersing agent that has very good storage stability, • UV-cured coatings contains no solvent or other volatile components, and meets the stringent requirements of the health evaluation of VOC ALTANA, too, has long contributed to the development of emissions from building products (AgBB) as well as French these technologies. At ACTEGA, for instance, the range of VOC standards. water-based and UV-cured coatings is continually increased. The TerraRich matt coating Magic Touch, for example, which Other newly developed additives for water-based coating gives packaging materials a soft feel, can be used for every systems improve the adhesion of metals and glass, and on printing machine with a coating unit. As a result, its areas the basis of a special wax mix technology ensure high scratch of application are more variable than those of the usual resistance as well as good sliding properties on surfaces, or UV-cured products. The TerraCross coating combines the are responsible for improved air release of powder coatings positive properties of water-based and UV-cured coatings, on porous substrates. Additionally, we offer emissionand namely extraordinary mechanical characteristics and flexisilicone-free defoamers that can be used for coatings conbility. The limits of existing coating technologies for the taining solvents as well as for solvent-free, high solid, and graphics industry have been surpassed by the new hybrid UV-cured systems. technology from TerraCross. The coating is first dried by means of hot air and then cured by UV radiation. ConseRadiation curable systems are used increasingly with wood quently, there are very good chances of improving the and industrial coatings. They are impressive mainly due to production process and the printed articles. ECKART has their flexibility, adhesion, and hardness as well as fast curing. further developed aluminum pigments for water-based These advantages coupled with the absence of solvents are coatings and in the process varied the composition and creating strong demand, also for the right additives. BYK amount of grinding and stabilizing additives, improving the has developed a number of new additives that can be used adhesion and stabilization of the coating. in different coating systems with different cleanability and anti-slip properties. 22 Sustainability Report 2012 Safety and health A company has particularly great responsibility when its prodACTEGA Rhenania is therefore already adapting to requireucts come into contact with foods. ACTEGA manufactures ments today that we could face in the future. We develop a number of coatings, pigments, and sealants for container and test coating systems for different applications on the closures and for use in or on food packaging. The sealant three alternatively pre-treated metals. In cooperation with PROVALIN, which ACTEGA developed over a period of five a sheet-metal manufacturer, excellent results have been years, for glass jar lids is free of PVC and so-called plasticizers achieved with such systems. (phthalates). The sealant is based on thermoplastic elastomers, among other things, and is now also sold as PROVAMED for We try to replace substances assessed as being critical in medical-technology and pharmaceutical applications as well terms of their toxicity or ecotoxicity. The number of such as for the cosmetics industry. With PROVALIN, a big step has substances, which include e.g. the solvent N-Methyl-2been taken towards food safety. Pyrrolidon (NMP), has increased due to more extensive investigation under REACH. NMP was classified as being toxic to ECKART has brought the first sheet-fed offset metallic ink reproduction and fertility and put on the list of substances series with low migration and sensory neutral properties onto that are to be subject to the REACH authorization regime. the market: the METALSTAR FPG 11 series. It is suitable for Since around 1984, ACTEGA had used NMP as a solvent for use on premium food packaging. The formulation of the the interior finish of spray cans. Together with ELANTAS, a metallic paint, produced under the conditions of Good coating devoid of NMP has been developed that contains Manufacturing Practice, a guideline for quality assurance of ELANTAS resin systems based on other binding agents. The production processes and environments, is based on carefully first compatibility tests were positive. selected raw materials monitored using cutting-edge analytical methods. In 2012, ACTEGA Rhenania presented pigAt ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg, a safe alternative was develmented coatings for direct contact with food, PVC-free oped for organic peroxides used in certain polymerizations. sealing waxes for aluminum and plastic foils, laminating Usage of these readily decomposing substances is very risky adhesives and coating systems free of synthetic resin, as well and subject to strict regulations. Larger trial quantities of as coatings for twist-off bottle caps without bisphenol A, the alternative substance are currently being manufactured a substance currently being discussed as possibly having in a new testing facility. hormone-like effects. Due to the huge responsibility it carries in the food packaging segment, ALTANA founded the EHS working group Food Contact, which discusses, for example, legal framework conditions. Current topics include the new European plastics regulation (EU) 10/2011 ( PIM ), the draft of a German printing ink ordinance, and the ban on bisphenol A which has already been implemented or planned in some countries. The EU regulation on chemicals, REACH, sees products containing chromium (VI) as being a health concern (see also page 23). This affects the manufacture of sheet metal, electrolytic chromium coated steel (ECCS), and aluminum. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 23 Guidelines ALTANA follows discussions about legal changes primarily by working in associations in the countries in which we are active. When legislative procedures affect us strongly, we evaluate the consequences and where appropriate take part in political discussions. ALTANA’s contributions to political discourse • Bring our own position into that of associations However, we believe that communication in the form of • Participation in Internet consultations, e.g. in the EU several hundred-page-long safety data sheets, particularly • Direct talks with politicians for mixtures, has become unnecessarily elaborate. The data sheets have to be reworked often and thus bind personnel Regulations and legislative procedures relevant for resources. In addition, the benefits of the comprehensive ALTANA material for subsequent users (so-called downstream users) are very questionable. Translation of the sheets into the many • REACH review (EU) EU languages is also tedious. The Reach review probably • Global Product Strategy as a voluntary commitment began too early to recognize this problem. (International Council of Chemical Associations) • Globally Harmonized System (UN) In 2012, ALTANA prepared the registration of eleven sub• Definition and regulation of nanomaterial in the EU stances to meet the deadline in 2013. We would like to • Reform of the U.S. Chemicals Act TSCA publish information on safe handling of these substances on the Internet, based on the guidelines of the voluntary commitment Global Product Strategy (GPS) of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA), which we support. However, this is not possible with additives for reasons of confidentiality, because ALTANA manufactures an “effect” Safe handling of chemicals and not a specific chemical substance. The chemical associaIn 2012, the legally prescribed evaluation of REACH (Registions have not found a solution for this special case yet. tration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) began in the European Union. ALTANA took a stance on The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) is an effort on the REACH via the German Chemical Industry Association. In our part of the United Nations to develop uniform guidelines opinion, the legislation should remain as unchanged as posfor classification and transport of chemical substances. GHS sible in order to use and strengthen processes already estabis being legally anchored in more and more countries. lished in the companies. We particularly welcome the current The companies in the EU have already implemented the regulations on polymers, which are exempt from registration guidelines or will do so before the deadline. In 2012, in the as soon as their individual components (monomers) are regU.S., too, a law went into effect based on GHS guidelines. istered. When monomers are converted into polymers, their ALTANA’s U.S. plants will together push forward the implepotential to cause harm is reduced. mentation in 2013. 24 Sustainability Report 2012 NANOBYK: More UV protection and less abrasion According to the “Precautionary Strategy for Nanomaterials,” a study conducted by the German Advisory Council on the Environment, it is hard to find examples of the use of nanomaterials that solve environmental problems in reality. But NANOBYK products are a very real example of such solutions, as they contribute, for instance, to resource efficiency due to the long life of products – a specialty of chemistry. For example, coatings, with their corrosion protection, increase the durability of cars, bridges, and wind turbines. Additives increase the life of coatings and thus save an enormous amount of resources in the long run. NANOBYK additives make a substantial contribution to enhancing the durability of coatings. They improve their UV protection and scratch resistance. Fewer scratches on coatings: Nano-based BYK additives improve scratch resistance. Coatings weather due to outer influences such as UV radiation, cold, heat, moisture, and mechanical factors, which lead to scratches and abrasion. Today, BYK offers eight nano additives on the basis of cerium dioxide and zinc oxide, which act as UV absorbers without being depleted by the rays. They convert UV light into harmless oscillations and heat. For safe handling of the nanotechnology, coatings manufacturers receive so-called highly filled dispersions so that they do not have to work with nanoparticles in powder form. When used properly, there is no danger that the tiny particles will be inhaled. And not much of them is needed. Even with a very small percentage of nanoparticles (0.5 to 2 percent, related to the solid content of the coating), the additives provide outstanding UV protection. A higher concentration of the alternative microparticles is needed, though. Furthermore, BYK markets ten additives that improve the scratch and abrasion resistance of coatings and thus their durability. Scratches such as those found on cars, wooden floors, or furniture not only impair the appearance, but also the surface protection provided by the coating. As harder coatings offer more protection, the surface of silicon dioxide nanoparticles has a so-called acrylic functionality. During hardening the cross-linking density of the molecules is increased, which means less abrasion and improved scratch resistance. The same can be achieved with nano additives, which offer e.g. optimum surface protection when a surface is scratched by returning immediately to their initial state (reflow) and closing the scratch. This outcome is attained with two seemingly contradictory properties: hardness and elasticity. The silicon nanoparticles are distributed evenly in the coating and thus act as a shock absorber. NANOBYK products can be assessed as being safe, because during manufacture they remain in a closed unit, existing as dispersions for further processing. The material is later firmly embedded in a coating matrix, and so consumers and the environment cannot come into contact with free nanoparticles. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 25 Volume distribution The entire volume distribution of the pigment sample in the picture is 64d³ + 64d³ + 64d³ = 192d³ 64 cubes with 8 cubes with 1 cube with side length d side length 2d side length 4d Nanotechnology Volume 64d3 Volume 8 x (2d)3 = 64d3 Volume 1 x (4d)3 = 64d3 For quite a while, there have been debates worldwide about the legal regulation of nanomaterials. This leads to the following percentages of volume distribution: We share the view of the chemical associations Small particles: 33 % that REACH sufficiently regulates nanomaterials, Medium-sized particles: 33 % but believe it would make sense to make further Large particles: 33 % clarifications in the course of evaluation. It is important that concerns about possible risks of this This can be depicted in the following histogram: promising technology be adequately addressed in legal regulations. A continual point of criticism 33 % 33 % 33 % in public discussions is that nanotechnology has not lived up to expectations thus far. For this reason, we have brought the positive effects of our NANOBYK products, including their environmental d 2d 4d merits, into the debate. Number distribution The European Union’s definition of nanoparticles, The total number of parts in the pigment sample is: 64 + 8 + 1 = 73 explained below, is subject to criticism. The sugThis leads to the following percentages in the total number distribution of gestion provides for a particle size distribution all particles: based on number rather than volume. Normally, Small particles: 88 % volumes or mass distributions are measured. Medium-sized particles: 11 % Large particles: 1 % The difference is considerable and can be understood based on the example provided on the right. This results in the following histogram: It may reasonably be doubted whether the EU definition makes sense. So far, no suggestion has been made for a suitable measuring method. And the definition may not even be able to be imple88 % mented for measurements. Should a measurement be possible, then it is to be feared that nearly all powdery substances can be seen as nanomaterial. 11 % A component of the EU’s definition is the limit 1% for the specific surface. This is easy to measure and appropriate and would be completely sufficient as d 2d 4d a definition. We are also closely observing the reform of the This example shows that the same initial conditions can lead to comAmerican Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA), pletely different results. Naturally, this would also apply e.g. to a realistic which has been part of the political debate for powder sample containing very small particles: A relatively small percensome time now. If necessary, we would bring our tage of small particles (1/3) of the total volume and thus the total amount experiences with REACH into this discussion. will lead to a very high percentage in the number distribution. 26 Sustainability Report 2012 Safety pays off The development of cities never ceases. Many commercial and industrial areas which were a good distance away from residential areas when they were established are sooner or later “caught up with” by growing settlement. Things were no different with today’s ACTEGA Rhenacoat site in Sedan, France. But back then there were no special safety regulations for residents or the environment. When ACTEGA acquired the paintings and coatings factory from the former owner in 2001, the modernization began. This included not only the implementation of ALTANA standards, but also new regulatory requirements. An accident in a fertilizer factory in Toulouse led starting in 2002 to more stringent regulations for resident and environmental protection in France. Fire protection was a special priority. “We had to reduce the amount of combustible substances on our factory grounds immediately,” says Thierry Tabeaud, Managing Director of ACTEGA Rhenacoat. The company has specialized in coatings systems for metal packaging since 2004. “Due to the regulations we were leasing an external warehouse,” adds Tabeaud. “Every day, a truck shuttle drove the raw material 125 kilometers to our factory.” By 2011, the annual costs for this safety measure had risen to € 260,000. In addition, there were the exhaust fumes and about 30 tons of CO2 a year from the many transport drives. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 27 98375 1 10 years +2,200,000 € 35 =0 domino effects 40,000 Rotation 375 700 750,000 63 2,070 535 28 Sustainability Report 2012 Opening of ACTEGA Rhenacoat’s plant extension for greater soil and fire protection. The same safety standards with lower costs In 2005, the management presented a construction plan to plots separated from one another, to prevent a domino effect the authorities for a new warehouse, an extinguishing water from occurring in the case of fire, as the fire cannot spread to catch basin, and a new tank farm for synthetic resin. Everyanother area. There is 800 m2 of space in the warehouse for thing was supposed to be built on the factory grounds and the 1,300 tons of raw materials and end products which is covered residents were to be protected with fire protection walls. Also, a completely by a roof. The extinguishing water capacity was hazard study was presented. But the construction work for the increased from 90 m3 to 120 m3 and the covered catch basin new warehouse, which began in July 2005, was stopped after a offers sufficient volume (760 m3) to contain the extinguishing little over a year. “The costs for the first concept would have water. Furthermore, there is an emergency control center in a been too high,” says Thierry Tabeaud. “We needed a new soluprotected place. The entire project, which was completed in tion that guaranteed the same amount of safety for residents and mid-2012, cost € 2.2 million. that adhered to environmental protection requirements, but cost less.“ In mid-2010, the authorities granted approval of the new The new warehouse complex, which meets all of the dewarehouse concept. In addition, the old tanks were replaced as mands of the French environmental authority DREAL and they were not compatible with the new safety system. Moreover, will be certified at the end of 2013 to ISO 14001, enables two of the old tanks had leaks. So € 300,000 were spent to ACTEGA Rhenacoat not only to serve the market even more clean all of the soil and € 400,000 to replace the tanks. efficiently and to secure profitable growth, but also means much greater safety for residents. On top of that, daily transThe new solution now meets all requirements. The new buildports are no longer needed, reducing the environmental ings were distributed over a total area of 2,500 m2 on several burdens from CO2 and noise. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 29 Occupational safety “Safety on the job” is a measure that was initiated to improve results are discussed at the annual EH&S meeting. The second ALTANA’s occupational safety. The project was launched in method provides for an evaluation of a factory’s operational 2011 within the framework of the Management Developsafety culture by external experts. For this purpose, employment Program (MDP). The project team, with members from ees, superiors (foremen, and so on) and the management are Germany, China, and the U.S., sought out best practice exsurveyed (see information box). The advantages: More topics amples internally and externally, as well as the most successare covered, the survey is more objective, and it provides ful methods and systems. To this end, a questionnaire, among important results due to a direct comparison of the different other things, was developed and distributed to the managers hierarchy levels. responsible for Environment, Health & Safety (EH&S) in order to find best practice examples. The questionnaire included questions about management and leadership, about jobs, training programs, and safe handling of hazards and hazardContent of the survey on safety culture ous substances. • Significance / value of safety • Quality of daily management and leadership Self-evaluation method • Quality of risk management Management and leadership and staff participation • Information and communication • Development of safe conduct 80 78 76 • Development of safety competence 74 72 70 68 66 64 Safety and health 62 60 Workplace analysis training ECKART launched a comparable safety culture project involving external evaluations. In this project, too, safety-relevant organization and the regulations were examined; interviews were conducted with the management, department heads, and employees; and questions were asked about safety policy, management and leadership, and the use of classic tools Danger prevention and control such as training programs, inspections, causal analysis, and risk evaluations. The results show that ECKART is on the right track, but there is considerable room for improvement, e.g. The goal was to develop a globally implementable tool that, regarding correct behavior, which is influenced significantly among other things, takes into account the cultural particuby the managers. larities of the different regions. To achieve this aim, interviews were conducted in Europe, China and the U.S. In the end, two methods were selected that were tested in pilot projects Less exposure to chemicals at several sites on three continents. As of 2013, all ALTANA ALTANA has introduced manifold technical measures to decompanies are required to conduct annual self-assessments. crease employees’ contact with chemicals, e.g. with closed The Group's EH&S department coordinates the survey, whose metering systems for solvents. In 2012, the company invested 30 Sustainability Report 2012 in new tanks at ELANTAS in Hamburg, in Ankleshwar, India, Similar measurements were performed at BYK in the lab, in Zhuhai, China, and at ACTEGA in Sedan, France. And where work with nanomaterial is done in so-called fume to protect employees of ACTEGA Rhenania from dust from hoods, in an effort to limit exposure to nanoparticles in the nanomaterial, a closed production facility was built. laboratory’s air. According to the measurements, the background concentration in the lab tested is comparably low. In open facilities, the air quality at the workplace is meaThe main reason for this is probably the high air exchange sured, for example, to gauge the amount of nano dust at rate with filtered air. But even with a significant increase in ECKART. Whether this material is actually a nanomaterial particles in the room air (highest measured value: 1,400 P/ depends on the definition and measuring methods. As the cm³), the base level of particle concentration was achieved European Union has not made a definitive decision on this in just a few minutes due to the high air exchange rate and matter yet, it cannot be assessed conclusively. Only one dithe suction power of the fume hoods. mension of the ECKART pigments in question is in the nano range. As a result, it cannot be concluded that there will be a migration through biological membranes, e.g. the skin, Using more harmless substances and the toxicological risks can be assessed as low. Wherever possible, we refrain from using hazardous substances or replace them with less dangerous ones. Examples are the sealants PROVALIN and PROVAMED (see also page 22), which do not need plasticizers. Consequently, a hazardous Measurement of nanoparticles substance has been eliminated at our production sites and The following methods were used for the complex our clients no longer have cause for concern when using our measurement of nanoparticles: substances for their applications. • Condensation particle counter (CPC) • Scanning mobility particle sizer (SMPS) We also seek to replace organic solvents, most of which are highly flammable and detrimental to health, with alternative • Welas optical particle counter (scattered light substances such as water. This aim is primarily driven by the measurement) desire to reduce ozone pollution or so-called summer smog. • Scanning electron microscopy Among the causes are volatile organic compounds (VOCs), emitted, for example, from coatings containing solvents. In 2012, ACTEGA produced around 117,000 tons of coatings containing approximately 37,000 tons of water as a Measurements using four different methods (see information replacement for solvent. ALTANA plans to replace even more box) were carried out at ECKART at nine different places in solvent with water in the future. production and in the laboratory. In such measurements, the fact that nanoparticles naturally exist in air is taken into account. To achieve valid evaluations, the natural proportion of nanoparticles is measured first. The values lie between 10,000 and 20,000 nanoparticles (P) per cm³ of air. A significant increase at the workplaces could not be observed. By comparison, the nanoparticle pollution in road traffic is approximately 40,000 P/cm³ and in a smoking room as high as 100,000 P/cm³. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 31 E-learning enables individualized learning Training and education are important ways to improve safety, as only through such measures can employees learn and internalize appropriate safety-relevant modes of behavior. Theoretical procedural guidelines alone are not sufficient. E-learning has already proven successful in compliance training (see also page 11). A big advantage of learning on the computer is the flexibility, as each participant can study individually, based on the time available to them and their learning speed. In addition, several employees do not have to take off work at the same time, which can lead to problems, e.g. in production. Another benefit of e-learning is that the person studying keeps on taking the concluding test until he or she has understood all of the subject matter. ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg has used e-learning since 2012 for safety Liability Insurance Association for Raw Materials and Chemical briefings. If the results are positive, this will surely become a Industry (BG RCI) devoted to safe driving and minimizing best practice example for other ALTANA companies. transport risks. They received information about how to recognize and deal with dangers, what constitutes good safety Also in 2012, ELANTAS Beck introduced the Behavior Based training, vision and visibility, and corresponding best practice Safety (BBS) program to improve occupational safety. In BBS, examples. In addition, employees were advised about what qualified employees observe the behavior of their colleagues kind of safety boots and goggles to wear, as well as about with an eye to safety and immediately give them positive respiratory and hearing protection. Explosion protection trainor negative feedback. The results are statistically evaluated, ing will be offered next. thus showing where action needs to be taken. ACTEGA Rhenania has made great progress in occupational safety with BBS and other measures, including closer scrutiny of Technical occupational safety safe behavior by foremen. The excellent result: 22 accidentALTANA also applies on technical measures to minimize incidents free months. causing damage and their consequences. For example, ELANTAS Beck uses an infrared camera to detect possible weaknesses in the electricity grid that could lead to overheating. ELANTAS Beck The target is zero India built a new firewater basin with a volume of 25,000 m³ ELANTAS Beck India also has a positive safety record. This is that contains a unit for dispensing fire-extinguishing foam. due not least to the annual National Safety Day, in which At ELANTAS PDG, a CO2 extinguisher in an existing producmany of the plant’s employees take part. Under the motto tion plant that poses risks to people was replaced by a water“zero accidents,” fire drills, a safety quiz, and written combased sprinkler system including a catch basin. Furtherpetitions are organized, and information stands inform the more, fall protection when employees climb onto tankers workforce about how to avoid accidents at their workplace. was improved. ACTEGA DS installed a blasting cubicle for safe cleaning of extruder screws and began operating a new testIn 2012, ECKART organized safety days under the motto “no risk ing facility with explosion protection that is significantly safer allowed.” The employees in Güntersthal had the opportunity to than the previous system. At ACTEGA Rhenania, steel platvisit a mobile exhibition mounted by the German Employers' forms were reinforced to improve earthquake protection and 32 Sustainability Report 2012 Number of incidents according to process safety incident (PSI) for 2010 / 2011/ 2012 related to one million working hours 0.72 0.50 0.46 2010 2011 2012 Number of incidents in absolute terms for 2010 / 2011/ 2012 differentiated according to fire and release of chemicals 2 2 2 4 2 2 2010 2011 2012 Release of chemicals footpaths were labeled to protect pedestrians from forklift Fire traffic. ACTEGA Foshan erected a new pumping station for its tank farm at a suitable distance from the tanks. Damage incidents Incidents such as fires, explosions, and release of chemicals 1. In the ACTEGA DS plant in Bremen, there was a fire with can affect the company and its neighbors. For this reason, smoke formation in a control cabinet. Three affected emALTANA records all incidents worldwide it considers signifiployees were observed for one day in the hospital. There cant and reports on them. As to the definition, we follow were no consequences for their health. All of the old the guidelines of the VCI: control cabinets were replaced by new ones. Number of incidents categorized as a “process safety incident” 2. At BYK USA in Wallingford, 200 liters of liquid were re(PSI): leased due to foaming, but the liquid was caught in conRelease of substances or energy if one or more criteria are fulfilled: tainers provided for this purpose. No harm was done to • Injuries leading to a hospital stay (≥ 24 hours) or lost people or the environment. works days of employees or third parties • Damages > € 25,000 3. There was a deflagration at the ELANTAS PDG site in • Exceeding 5, 100 or 2,000 kg depending on the GHS St. Louis. Regrettably, one employee suffered severe burns. classification regarding release of substances As a consequence of this accident, technical changes were made to avoid such accidents in the future. Number of PSIs related to working hours: The number of incidents is related to one million working 4. At ECKART in Güntersthal, 400 liters of liquid spilled out hours based on VCI guidelines. due to a leaky filter. But thanks to constructional installations, all of the material was caught. To avoid renewed After six incidents in 2011, ALTANA recorded four cases in 2012: leakage, technical changes were made to the filter. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 33 Occupational safety success rate targets for 2012 We did not reach our targets for Work Accident Indicators WAI 1 and 2, but almost reached WAI 3. WAI 1 WAI 2 WAI 3 2006 14.92 2006 10.33 2006 185.68 2007 12.26 2007 8.00 2007 176.29 2008 11.68 2008 7.52 2008 158.81 2009 8.15 2009 5.57 2009 103.62 2010 7.73 2010 6.23 2010 98.56 2011 7.43 2011 4.92 2011 68.83 2012 7.29 2012 4.67 2012 76.25 Target for 2012: 4 Target for 2012: 2,8 Target for 2012: 65 Achieved in 2006-2012: 51.14 % Achieved in 2006-2012: 54.79 % Achieved in 2006-2012: 54.79 % Fewer incidents due to “safety on the job” We generally assume that the MDP “safety on the job” project potential for improvement were analyzed with experts from will make a considerable contribution to reducing incidents the Düsseldorf district government and the regulatory agency (see also page 29). While our principle is “every incident can be of the district of Viersen. Another fire drill was performed at avoided,” we cannot rule them out completely. Thus, a profesACTEGA Rhenania in Grevenbroich to test alarm and communisional approach to each incident is all the more important to keep cations plans under real conditions. A total of 120 firemen and consequential damage to a minimum. For example, BYK and exrescue workers trained on the company grounds. Seventy-five ternal accident experts developed a crisis management system percent of the workforce volunteered to take part in the drill. (CMS) that is being introduced in 2013. The new CMS supplements the existing preventive safety measures of the emergency Since 2006, we have measured the occupational safety sucresponse planning. In addition, it provides detailed information cess rate at ALTANA based on uniform and binding internaabout what should be done in the case of an incident. tional indicators: • WAI 1 (Work Accident Indicator): Number of occupational accidents with one or more days of lost work time per million working hours • WAI 2: Number of occupational accidents with more than three days of lost work time per million working hours • WAI 3: Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours As the graphic at the top shows, we improved all of the indicators significantly from 2006 to 2012. Based on statistics compiled by the German Employers’ Liability Insurance Association, the chemical industry in Germany is one of the safest sectors. The average WAI 2 for 2011 according to the association was 9.5 (at ALTANA, by comparison: 4.7). In In addition to crisis management, fire drills are very important 2012, as in the two previous years, there were no fatal occupaat ALTANA. At BYK in Kempen, a drill was carried out involving tional accidents at ALTANA. a leaking tanker carrying chemicals. The goal of the exercise was to help BYK employees prevent the danger from spreadNor did we have any work-related illnesses acknowledged ing. A total of 75 firemen and 14 vehicles were deployed. After by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association as so-called the drill was completed, the course of the incident and the occupational illnesses in 2012. 34 Sustainability Report 2012 Health protection In 2008, ALTANA signed the European Union’s Luxembourg Sports offers at ELANTAS Beck Declaration and since then has promoted health protection. • Rowing course On the one hand, this is a clear sign of our appreciation of our • Soccer group employees. On the other, the greater efficiency of healthy employees benefits our company. • Tennis group • Participation in the Hamburg rackleton tournament Lost work time due to illness is much higher than lost work time consisting of table tennis, badminton, squash, and tennis due to occupational accidents. The ALTANA Group seeks to competitions heighten the wellbeing and availability of its staff in so far as • Participation of three ELANTAS teams in the Hamburg possible. To understand the effect of the activities carried out to MOPO Relay Race achieve this aim, the company’s executive management decided • Fitness room with cross trainers, bicycle ergometers, wall bars, to record illness at all ALTANA companies as a key performance punching bags, dumbbells, expanders, and gymnastic mats indicator. The result is reported to the Management Board. • Massage offers • Vital Compact back training course 600,000 steps from Hamburg to Wesel ALTANA’s health-related activities continue to focus on ergonomics, sports, and nutrition, as well as mental health. In the different companies, there are many offers and great support ELANTAS. On the whole, the employees of the ALTANA comfor sports activities. To motivate people to exercise who otherpanies did very well, finishing in 1st, 3rd, 5th, 6th, and 7th wise do not do sports, there are different ideas for sports complace in the company relay race. Needless to say, ALTANA petitions in our company. One of them was the virtual walking plans to participate again in 2013. In 2012, BYK employees competition “From Hamburg to Wesel” organized by ELANTAS also had the opportunity to take part in various internal and Beck in Hamburg. The competition was virtual because the external sports events and courses, such as the Lichterlauf destination was not really Wesel, but rather employees were race, the Additives Cup, a running group, and a dragon boat supposed to take 10,000 steps a day – at home, at their workrace on Auesee Lake in Wesel. place, and during their free time – for 60 days. All participants were given a pedometer and could follow their virtual routes on an online map. For the target of 600,000 steps, the emFighting mental overload ployees could even convert other sports activities into steps. Mental health is another issue addressed at ALTANA. PsychoThe fastest group covered twice the distance in the time allotlogical disorders are now the second most common employted – from Hamburg to Wesel and back, you could say. ee illness. Mental overload and addictions of all kinds need to be dealt with sensitively and require a special trusting At ACTEGA DS, 23 employees including managers took relationship between the management, the works council, part in the “PROVALIN Triathlon.” The disciplines of the and staff. At ALTANA and BYK in Wesel, every employee has triathlon, which is actually called the Silberseetriathlon, were since 2011 been entitled to five anonymous psychological a 500-meter swimming competition, followed by a 20-kiloconsultations a year free of charge. If patients need longermeter bicycle race, and finally a 5-kilometer run. Those who term therapy, they are referred to cooperating counseling took part received support from the management, which services. In addition, various relaxation programs have proven strongly advocated participation, and from colleagues from to be very effective. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 35 of employees who actually attend the courses, and so the conditions for participation were changed. Moreover, in the Psychological counseling in demand future the health examination for employees at BYK will be considerably more extensive than the required checkups. In 2012, 40 colleagues made use of the psychological counseling offer in 148 consultations. The total cost was approximately The costs are expected to be partially covered by the health € 40,000. Seven staff members are currently in therapy. insurance companies. The health examination could serve as a best practice example for other ALTANA companies. BYK also has a work group called Addiction & Psychological Burdens. Volunteer helpers from different departments who can be reached by phone or e-mail at any time view themselves primarily as listeners and mediators for clarifying sensitive issues. Respectful treatment of the colleagues in question and their respective problem is a matter of course. BYK-Gardner also offers psycho-social consultations, which have been very well received by employees thus far. The talks take place in an external psychologist’s office, guaranteeing anonymity. At ELANTAS Italia, a special questionnaire for determining whether employees are suffering from psychological stress was used for the first time. In November 2012, a workshop was held on best pracNearly all of the sites now organize their own health days fotice examples at all German sites, enabling participants cusing on health club visits, cycling, health circles, and yoga. to exchange ideas about different health measures. Mental Between 50 and 70 percent of the company’s staff take part. health was a focal point here too. A first step towards an At one site, the share of employees participating increased analysis has already been taken, with a survey on employee from 30 to 70 percent thanks to the commitment of the works satisfaction. In it, questions are asked about mental overload council. In addition to participating in health days, employees and underload, and about cooperation with superiors and in Pune, India, devoted themselves to a special campaign against colleagues. In addition, employees always have the opportuchewing tobacco. The use of carcinogenic chewing tobacco is nity to talk about special burdens at the mandatory annual widespread in India. ECKART contributed 50 percent of the Compass Dialogue. ALTANA will examine whether BYK's financing for the Weight Watchers At Work diet program, counseling model can also be offered at its other locations. with which 76 employees lost 484 kilograms body weight in 13 weeks. The success speaks for itself. Participants are now continuing with the course at their own expense. Numerous courses devoted to health BYK in Wesel now offers many courses designed to help employees remain healthy, ranging from sports and consulting to courses that help people quit smoking. Normally, however, the number of registrations is higher than the number 36 Sustainability Report 2012 Working in an award-winning building Anyone who designs a new building today should think about tomorrow. Saving at the wrong end can quickly lead to a need for renovation due to higher energy costs or a poor building structure. But a lack of energy efficiency is not only detrimental in economic terms; it also has an adverse effect on the ecobalance. Sustainable, resource-efficient construction is gaining in importance worldwide, as “green” building saves energy and protects the environment. The BYK division in Wesel faced this challenge with its new laboratory building. And passed the test with flying colors. The building, which was occupied in 2012, was planned and built in such an environmentally friendly way that it became the first building in Germany to receive the LEED Platinum label from the U.S. Green Building Council. LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification is the standard for high-quality ecological buildings. The award was given not only for the building’s energy efficiency, but also for factors pertaining to ecological construction, e.g. the building material, the room climate, and the comfort of users. 30 percent energy savings During a construction period of two years, BYK created 9,000 square meters of laboratory space for around 130 workplaces distributed on five levels. “This state-of-the-art laboratory building is a further component of our comprehensive Greenability concept,” says Albert von Hebel, BYK’s Managing Director Finance. “We not only develop additives enabling our clients to bring environment-friendlier products onto the market, but we are looking for ways of acting in a more environmentally aware way right here at our home base. This Platinum status gives us excellent confirmation and spurs us on to continue down this path.” Even in the planning stage, the architects Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 37 98375 35 750,000 40,000 375 63 m2 535 9,000 building space +130 workplaces = 30 % 2,070 energy savings 38 Sustainability Report 2012 Award-winning buildings: The new BYK laboratory was certified by the Green Building Council. ELANTAS’ new administrative building in India relies on natural cooling. Natural ventilation supports the air-conditioning attached special importance to efficient use of energy. Thanks The energy consumption of the new property was also imto geothermal energy, heat pumps, and heat recovery, the proved. The overall concept is so sophisticated and comprehenprimary energy consumption is 30 percent lower than that of sive that the architects, who specialize in environmentally standard buildings. In addition, sufficient daylight in the buildconscious building, received the AESA (Architects Engineers ing was ensured by the targeted use of transparent partition Surveyors Association) Award 2013. The V-shaped building is made walls. As a result, less artificial light and thus cooling capacity of recycled concrete. And the air-conditioning, including the is needed. The construction materials used consist partly of speed-controlled ventilators, which keep the room temperature renewable raw materials or can be recycled easily. The thermal at about 24 degrees Celsius via a presence sensor, is supported insulation and the entire ventilation system also meet the strinby natural cooling, the so-called Venturi effect, through an open gent energy requirements of the Green Building Council. roof over a glazed atrium and roof overhangs providing shade. ELANTAS Beck India’s new administrative building is another The ponds that enclose three sides of the building make a key new building that ALTANA erected according to environmencontribution to the cool microclimate. The water for these tally friendly principles. The employees, who had previously bodies of water comes from the plant’s own sewage system. worked in downtown Pune, moved to the grounds of the Rotatable blinds also prevent the interior from heating up too production site in the suburb of Pimpri. This change alone has much. They let in sufficient daylight, reducing the need for brought lasting advantages. First, the time-consuming drives artificial light. Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber, the CEO of ALTANA, between production and administration are no longer neceswas enthusiastic about the advanced building at the opening sary. And second, internal work processes and communication ceremony. He congratulated the staff on their new workspace were accelerated. Work at the Pimpri site has since become and encouraged them to derive inspiration from the refreshmuch more efficient. ing green environment. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 39 Energy efficiency One of the key tasks of our age is to replace fossil resources Small measures with long-term effects with sustainable alternatives and to find solutions to global ACTEGA DS has already replaced an energy-intensive pumpclimate change. More economical usage of energy is part of ing device (extruder) with a device that saves significantly this. Higher energy efficiency is possible particularly by means more electricity, and another replacement is planned. In adof advanced technology and low-emission management. At dition, a hall for forklifts was equipped with two energyBYK in Wesel, following an energy-efficiency analysis the heatsaving fast-action doors. ELANTAS PDG replaced a steam ing and ventilation systems were adapted to the operating boiler from 1981 with a more efficient device, and at ELANTAS hours, the emergency lighting was improved, and in one buildZhuhai raw materials are preheated in a new thermal chaming a ventilation system with heat recovery was installed. By ber that makes use of waste heat from production. ECKART merging the two-part cooling system from production, which Zhuhai replaced nine old sieves for “screening” pigments cost almost € 2 million, its load and efficiency could be inwith modern ones which not only consume 50 percent less creased and the number of pumps reduced. The remaining electricity but also are considerably quieter. The replacement pumps have variable frequency drives. That means lower of more sieves is planned. energy consumption as well as fewer maintenance and repair measures and lower costs and reduced use of chemicals for The optimization of the TNV at ACTEGA Rhenania provides fighting algae. In parallel, the base temperature of the heat more noise protection as well as greater energy efficiency. transfer oil was reduced by 50 degrees Celsius. When more In addition, employee rooms were modernized with regard heat is needed, electric heaters are used according to demand. to energy efficiency. Among other things, a new ventilation system with heat recovery was installed. The heating in the administration was also optimized and the boiler replaced. 1,300 tons of CO2 saved ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg is now utilizing the waste heat The measure, which will be amortized already in four years due from a further air compressor. to the lower energy consumption, decreased CO2 emissions by around 1,300 tons, equivalent to 12 percent of BYK’s entire emissions in Wesel. We are currently investigating whether an additional combined heat and power system is economically viable. A decision will be made in the course of 2013. A prerequisite is an alternative technology for exhaust air purification. The usual thermal afterburning process (TNV) is still being used with heat recovery. In conjunction with the modernized cooling water system, it would then be possible to reduce CO2 by 18 percent. Other feasibility studies on energy efficiency are currently being conducted by ELANTAS Beck in Hamburg. They concern various measures, including optimization of the TNV, exhaust purification, and a possible combined heat and power system. 40 Sustainability Report 2012 Emissions The development at our two sites in India does not seem quite The predominant part of ALTANA’s climate-relevant emissions as successful at first glance. The last targets set were not come from direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) energy conreached. A closer look, however, reveals that this is not due to sumption (see left column). They are calculated based on a lack of commitment, but to the fact that energy efficiency the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, an instrument measures were implemented there at a very early stage. Befor quantifying and managing greenhouse gas emissions, and tween 1998 and 2012, we reduced the energy consumption the factors of the International Energy Agency. For electricity, by 50 percent. But with that kind of success rate, it will be we have considered the values of the national network in each harder and harder to improve the efficiency even more. case and not the values of a special electricity provider. Since 2007, the energy consumption of ALTANA’s producOther relevant greenhouse gases from production processes ing sites (including administration, labs, warehouses, etc.) etc. are not emitted in significant amounts, nitrogen oxides has been recorded as a binding environmental key perfor(NOx) and sulphur dioxide (SO2) arise solely from energy mance indicator. This includes direct energy consumption consumption, and are calculated accordingly. Ozone-depleting (Scope 1 – natural gas / crude oil) and indirect energy consubstances are not contained in any raw materials used by sumption (Scope 2 – electricity). During the reporting period, ALTANA, are not used in manufacturing processes, and do not the energy savings amounted to 9.58 percent (Scope 1), and exist in products. Several ALTANA companies emit volatile 26.39 percent (Scope 2), related to the gross value added. organic compounds (VOCs – see also page 20). The companies do not continuously measure VOCs, but estimate them from ALTANA CO2 from oil and gas consumption (Scope 1) random samples instead. Based on these estimates, the amount Related to gross value added (in g / Euros) is around 200 tons worldwide. The permitted emission volumes are defined by law in the countries in which we produce. 2007 0.095 We keep within these limits at all of our sites, usually with the 2009 0.094 help of waste air purification by means of thermal afterburning. 2012 0.086 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gases 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 We significantly surpassed our target of reducing our CO2 emissions between 2007 and 2012 (related to gross added value) by 10 percent, cutting them by 21 percent. By 2020, we ALTANA CO2 from electricity consumption (Scope 2) seek a decrease by about 30 percent. In this context, we would Related to gross value added (in g / Euros) like to make mention of our new cogeneration or combined heat and power plant (CHP) in the ELANTAS factory in Ascoli, 2007 0.20 Italy (see also Sustainability Report 2011). The CHP improves 2009 0.19 our CO2 balance not solely due to the more efficient energy conversion, but also through the use of biogenic fuels. 2012 0.15 As expected, the plant provided around 900 megawatt hours 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16 0.18 0.20 (MWh) of electricity and some 300 MWh of heat. But the Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 41 information is not complete, as the CHP has only been operated continuously since June 2012. Since the costs for vegetable oil exceeded the original cost estimate by 30 percent, the amortization period was extended from two-and-a-half to eight years. As a result, less expensive alternative fuels are currently being looked into. The photovoltaic unit in Ascoli, however, lagged around 10 percent behind expectations, with an energy yield of around 900 MWh of CO2neutral electricity. We will reduce other CO2 emissions by switching from oil to natural gas at ECKART in Güntersthal. The plant is expected to go into operation in the fall of 2013 and to cut the amount of CO2 by about 1,500 tons. A conversion to gas is also being prepared at ELANTAS Zhuhai. But there is still no municipal gas pipeline because so far not enough other customers have been found. Projects to reduce VOC emissions Emissions of solvents (VOCs) can be reduced through the use of exhaust air purification units. Another measure is the use of material and product tanks. The filling of the tanks through vapor recovery pipelines, which are used to feed solvent vapor back into the tanker, and the dosing of the raw material into the production container, occur via closed pipelines. Hence no VOC emissions can leak out in either process, as opposed to usage of barrels where this cannot Efforts are being made to further reduce VOC emissions at be avoided. ELANTAS PDG as well. While the factory has had raw material tanks for years, there has been no pipeline dosing. So We invested in tanks at several sites. At ELANTAS Tongling, it far, the raw materials have been dosed from the tanks into is primarily intermediate products containing cresol that are barrels and from there into the vessels – in other words, stored in tanks. As a result, the smell of cresol is no longer as openly. Furthermore, in 2010, following an accident in the strong in the surrounding air. In addition, ACTEGA Rhenacoat exhaust air purification unit, a new facility with better safety set up a new tank farm as part of the refurbishment of the equipment went into operation and the production process entire site (see also page 26). ELANTAS Beck India installed that caused the accident was altered. The old unit is now eight and ELANTAS Zhuhai six new tanks. ELANTAS Beck in being kept only for emergencies. ACTEGA Foshan signifiHamburg also expanded its tank farm in 2012. cantly reduced the limit of its total VOC emissions, particularly hydrocarbons and xylene, thanks to a new exhaust air purification system with active carbon filters. 42 Sustainability Report 2012 Raw materials Water In 2012, ALTANA consumed about 335,000 tons of raw maALTANA generally uses drinking water for its production, and terials, primarily chemical substances from fossil sources. At at some sites groundwater. For cooling, ECKART in Günthers­ ECKART, mainly metals such as aluminum, copper, and zinc thal uses river water that flows back without additional conare used to manufacture pigments. As a rule, recycled raw tamination. materials cannot be processed. However, the manufacturers mix aluminum with recycled aluminum. Solvents are used several times, sometimes after distillation. Measures for conserving water The share of renewable raw materials at ALTANA is around 5 percent. Usually they are biogenic first-generation raw • Optimization and change of production at ECKART in Finland. materials obtained from the fruit of the plants. The advan• Unusually high water consumption was stopped by pipeline tage: Nature has already carried out some production steps. repairs at three sites. However, with some plants there is competition with food • ELANTAS Beck and ACTEGA Rhenania received new cooling production. Much less critical is the use of water as a raw towers and cycles, ELANTAS Beck for the new pilot plant and material. ALTANA uses more than 40,000 tons of water in for tank cooling. production (not contained in the above-mentioned quantity as a raw material). The percentage of water used several times cannot be known Advantages of water as a raw material exactly, as in the cooling cycle it is often fed via cooling towers. The amount is not measured; the water that evaporates • Water reduces consumption of fossil raw materials for solvents. in cooling towers is replaced. Overall, we far surpassed our • Water as solvent evaporates when used, i.e. it remains in the targets for reduction of drinking water consumption. natural cycle. • Water flows through the existing water pipes. This obviates the need for transport and storage. ALTANA: Drinking water consumption Related to gross value added (in g / Euro) • Waterborne coatings reduce possible health dangers that could be caused by solvents. • Safety tests and communication in the supply chain are not needed. 1.53 2007 • Neither protective clothing nor ventilation systems are required. 1.64 2009 • With water-based coatings, active fire-prevention and fire-fight1.05 2012 ing measures are usually not required and the soil does not have to be protected. 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 • Streamlining the raw material range: Water replaces different solvents. Target for 2012: 1.45 • There are fewer effects on the environment when water is treated than in solvent production. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 43 ALTANA: Groundwater consumption Waste and contaminated soil Related to gross value added (in g / Euro) Thanks to various measures, we surpassed our waste reduction targets for the period from 2007 to 2012. We continually 2007 0.87 strive to reduce our total waste, and particularly waste for dis2009 1.09 posal through more thermal utilization or reprocessing. Where 2012 1.07 it makes sense economically, we favor reprocessing over thermal utilization. In this way, the carbon bound in raw materials 0.8 0.85 0.9 0.95 1.0 1.05 is not emitted as CO2. We had very little waste for disposal related to the production volume – around 1 percent hazardous and 0.7 percent nonhazardous waste. The total amount of waste was 3.6 percent (hazardous) and 1.4 percent (non-hazardous). Conversely, Wastewater this means that around 95 percent of the raw materials we used were converted into products. At 18 ALTANA sites, there is no chemically contaminated wastewater. In a few cases, highly contaminated effluent Most of our products are sold in 20or 200-liter barrels and is disposed of as waste and recorded in the corresponding in diverse smaller containers. Depending on the regulations environmental key performance indicators (KPIs). Twelve of of the respective country, these containers are passed on by 31 sites that have to report KPIs indicated there were emisour customers for reuse or recycling. Some of our products sions in wastewater. Emissions amounted to approximately are delivered to our clients in tankers or multiuse containers. 100 tons and so they did not have a significant impact on Thus, the packaging is in a cycle. But the cycles are not the environment. statistically recorded by ALTANA. At all sites, the amount of wastewater is beProjects to reduce waste low the legal limits. One of the most effective measures for reducing waste is raw We operate wastewamaterial transport in tankers. When raw materials are stored ter treatment systems in tanks, there is no leftover packaging waste or residue in exclusively at our two containers, which can be substantial with viscous raw mateIndian sites. At ELANTAS rials. For this reason, ALTANA invests continuously in new Beck India, the quality tank farms (see also page 41). of the purified water is so good that it is ACTEGA Rhenacoat reduced its hazardous waste significantly used to water the facby optimizing processes and converting to water-based coattory’s green areas. At ings (20112012: minus 16.5 percent; 20072012: minus 28 perELANTAS Italia in Ascoli, cent). ELANTAS Beck India, for its part, recovers cresol through the water from production processes is partially treated via distillation and was thus able to reduce hazardous waste membrane filtration and reused. related to production by around 22 percent. 44 Sustainability Report 2012 ALTANA: Hazardous waste ALTANA: Non-hazardous waste Related to gross value added (in g / Euro) Related to gross value added (in g / Euro) 2007 37.33 2007 18.09 2009 34.29 2009 14.86 2012 31.75 2012 12.23 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 5 10 15 20 25 Target for 2012: 34.47 Target for 2012: 17.19 At ELANTAS PDG, purification of water from a distillation process via phase separation and active carbon filters was pushed further forward (see also Sustainability Report 2011). The process optimization, which is to be implemented in 2013, proved to be effective in laboratory conditions. In addition, new tanks ensure lower waste generation as they do not have to be cleaned as often and their filters do not have to be changed as frequently. Contaminated waste and soil In 2012, there was no soil contamination due to released chemicals at ALTANA. While at BYK USA 200 kg and at ECKART approximately 400 kg of chemicals were released (with both cases reported as a significant incident), no harm was done to the environment as the material was caught. New chemical plants in the countries in which we produce are generally equipped with appropriate receptacles for production units (tanks), for tank farms (catch basins), or for tanker loading areas (sumps). The measures are supplementNaturally, in the construction of all new tank farm buildings ed by sealed courtyard areas, closable wastewater systems, soil protection is taken into account. On the one hand, the and firewater retention basins. tanks stand in basins or are double walled and have leakage alert. In addition, there are sumps at the unloading points Our relatively new plants in China are particularly well for the tankers which can collect almost the entire content equipped. For example, all sites there have suitable firewater of the tanks if need be. retention basins. At ACTEGA Foshan, the new warehouses are equipped with a tank construct to catch leaking liquid. Furthermore, the separation of production and storage has ALTANA supports the AAV improved the fire protection. In addition, a firewater retenA big social problem is remediation of contaminated sites tion basin was installed. and recycling of fallow land with no responsible previous owner. Such cases bring into play the association for remeELANTAS Zhuhai also installed a firewater retention basin with diation and recycling of contaminated sites in North-Rhine a volume of 500 m3 during the construction of a new producWestphalia, AAV, which ALTANA supports. This is an examtion hall with tank construct. These measures were rounded ple of cooperation between the public and private sectors. out by a modern fire-extinguishing system making use of The AAV makes an important contribution towards fighting water and foam additives. Fire protection and environmental new soil sealing and preserving biodiversity. ALTANA ensafety were also greatly improved at ACTEGA Rhenacoat due courages all companies to lend their support to this sensible to relevant construction measures (see also page 26). initiative. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 45 Biodiversity Transport and logistics ALTANA’s production sites are primarily located in industrial or As a rule, ALTANA has finished products transported by truck commercial areas. No site directly borders on a nature reserve, and on (ocean-going) ships. Due to the relatively small india landscape protection area or areas with high biodiversity. vidual quantities and longer delivery times, rail traffic plays As a result, the company does not need to carry out special only a subordinate role. We make use of air transport only in activities aimed at curtailing effects on biodiversity or to proexceptional cases. vide information on protected or restored habitats. Nor does it have to furnish information on species on Red Lists. As the logistics for finished goods are carried out by forwarding agents, we have no influence on their transport emissions. However, we make a concerted effort to choose service providers with certified environmental management systems and Strategies and measures regarding biodiversity to optimize transports via an Internet-based logistics platform. • Support of AAV: land recycling • Reduction of climate-relevant emissions, such as VOCs Other transport emissions, e.g. from business trips, are not recorded at ALTANA as this procedure is disproportionately • No new sites in or directly on protection areas costly and complex. Moreover, we assess the environmental • Optimization of logistics burdens as being very low compared to those stemming from production. The situation is similar with emissions from employees’ travel to and from work. To reduce the number of business trips, many companies in the ALTANA Group have ALTANA’s achievements in individual spheres of activity relating videoconference systems. to biodiversity in 2012 Factors of influence Spheres of activity Page Site and property 9, 10, 36 40 Diverse measures to avoid traffic Habitat change • Modernized production at BYK USA in Wallingford reduces Supply chain, raw materials imports from Germany. 10 and materials • BYK USA in Chester produces wax additives from BYK-Cera Climate change for the U.S. market – no imports are needed. Products 16 25 • New warehouse at ACTEGA Rhenacoat replaces daily truck Non-native species shuttle traveling 125 km. Products and processing • ECKART supports employee car pools via the Intranet. Land 9 Emissions / imissions 36 43 Overexploitation Transport and logistics 45 Emissions / imissions Personnel 45 46 Sustainability Report 2012 Creating values playfully Motivated and qualified employees play a key role in the success of a company. But that is only half the truth. Staff who additionally think entrepreneurially and understand the financial mechanisms of a company are the basis for long-term success. ALTANA relies on value management and the so-called value creation indicator AVA (ALTANA Value Added). For ALTANA, successful business means sustainable growth, having leading positions in its target markets, as well as high profitability and capital efficiency. These goals can be reached through the company’s value management, an integrated corporate concept introduced in 2002. But not every employee is familiar with business management practices. For this reason, until the end of 2012 around 340 managerial staff from all ALTANA divisions were trained in matters pertaining to AVA in two-day seminars. In the end, 600 employees will receive AVA training, 250 of them at non-German sites. In addition, a brochure entitled “Value Management” was published. “Value management is a very complex issue. We wanted to avoid dry chalkand-talk teaching at all costs,” says Dr. Paul Reuter, AVA project manager at ALTANA. “Therefore, we opted for a business simulation game. This type of approach worked well when dealing with such requirements in the past.” In a business game, the participants are motivated to use their newly acquired skills and develop concrete measures to enhance their own business success. But before the game began under the guidance of business consultants, terms such as operating earnings, return on capital, and net current assets had to be explained first. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 47 375 40,0 750,000 340 employees x2 98375 days 63 = 20,000 € 65 for a good cause 42,07 48 Sustainability Report 2012 Three fictive years of management The game simulates a company and the levers it uses to imdifferent outcomes had one thing in common: All of the prove its profitability. For a fictive period of three years, each groups achieved the initial goal of increasing AVA. Due to the team took over the management of a company and thus was great success, the AVA seminar is expected to be a regular called upon to make corporate decisions, to analyze the ecooffer in the training catalogue. ALTANA honored the increase nomic repercussions, and to optimize the business processes. in value created by the different groups by donating € 20,000 As in a real company, a management board with different for social causes. departments such as finance, production, and development was established. Each staff member had their own area of responsibility. This kind of impartation of knowledge enhances employees’ practical orientation and learning success and, not least, is fun. “We became acquainted with the interplay Two days for more value between the different components that determine AVA in a The two-day training to increase ALTANA Added Value (AVA) was game,” says Thomas Kröller, Business Line Manager at BYK. successful, because the employees had a very positive assessment “In everyday work, we normally only have an influence on of it. The following two opinions are representative: a few individual factors.” “Great training program. I learned a lot about AVA, about improvements and implementations such as the use of appropriate Thus, new access was created to business administration in resources at the right time.” a very playful way. The business game, in which different groups played against each other, was interrupted by presen“I very much liked the fact that what is actually a dry topic was presented in such an exciting and vivid way.” tations of different best-practice examples. At the end, each group presented their results in a fictive press conference. The Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 49 Personnel recruitment With around 100,000 staff members, the chemical industry is one of the most labor-intensive sectors in the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The employees’ level of education is among the best in the world, as the companies attach a great deal of importance to continuous education and further training. Qualified and motivated staff are the most important basis for ALTANA’s success. Therefore, we promote and support our workforce with a number of offers and services which aim to advance their careers and enhance their wellbeing. With the goal of becoming one of the most attractive employers, we seek to obtain personnel best suited to our company and give them the greatest possible job security. Due to demographic changes and the shortage of skilled labor, fierce competition has broken out for the best talents and most qualified workers in Germany. While for a long time it was the companies that selected the most suitable candidates, it is now increasingly the applicants who choose their interested people who do not find a suitable job offer there employer. This is a new challenge facing ALTANA. Aside from can submit unsolicited applications to the ALTANA Group in our extensive job portal on the Internet, an appreciative and a more targeted way than before. A user account makes it open attitude to applicants is important to us, in keeping with easier to apply more than once and to update documents our Guiding Principles. Apart from swift and direct commuand personal information. In addition, a job letter providing nication, ALTANA always makes an effort to deal fairly with regular information about new job offers can be subscribed applicants throughout the application process. After all, the to, based on individual preferences. process of selecting new employees is like a business card that has a decisive influence on a company’s reputation. ALTANA awarded Career’s Best Recruiter With its job portal, ALTANA is now one of Germany’s best E-recruiting facilitates application companies in terms of recruitment. This was confirmed by the After an intensive test phase, our new uniform e-recruiting sysstudy Career’s Best Recruiters 2012 / 2013. ALTANA finished in tem went online in our job portal. This cross-divisional, global first place in the rating of chemical companies and in fifth applicant management system aims at simplifying and accelerplace in the overall rating of Germany’s top 500 employers. ating the entire hiring process. The advantage: fewer paper Career’s Best Recruiters cooperates with Fachhochschule Koband e-mail job applications and less maintenance. This not only lenz University of Applied Sciences for Human Resources and saves time and money, but also ensures better communication Education and, by its own account, is the largest recruitment with the applicants and is user-friendlier. study in Germany-speaking countries. The analysis came to the conclusion that we successfully implement our measures and Moreover, e-recruiting enables an exchange of job applications processes in the areas of recruiting, university marketing, and between ALTANA companies, thus increasing the applicants’ employer branding, which applicants greatly appreciate. Apart chances of finding an appropriate position. Via the job portal, from providing feedback on our application processes, the 50 Sustainability Report 2012 Employee survey In 2011, ALTANA conducted a worldwide employee survey. The study found that our employees show above-average commitment but that there is room for improvement in different companies and functional units (see also Sustainability Report 2011). As a result, the company needs to continue to deal intensively with the fields of action analyzed and to implement appropriate improvement measures. To understand employees’ expectations better, we held staff meetings and workshops in the different departments and functional units of ALTANA companies. The most important fields of action are recognition and appreciation. As a consequence of this criticism, suggestions were made that were initially directed to managers and project leaders. The goal was to honor success appropriately. In the future, we aim to study also discusses improvement potential. The steady admake completed projects and achieved objectives even more vancement of our internal processes and instruments will visible. Possible types of recognition, e.g. openly addressing continue to characterize our recruitment activities in the employees or expressing thanks, celebrating together, and years to come. awards, were discussed with the managers and agreements were reached. Some companies also offer more social activities to imAttractive employer prove teamwork. In The chances of attracting the best employees depend in cases where devellarge part on the attractiveness of the location. The appeal opment measures of Wesel was improved by the fact that FOM, a private uniwere not assessed versity for employees, located there. In the future, some sufficiently, in the ALTANA employees will study at FOM alongside their work. future the annual BYK USA’s new program Seek Opportunities Achieve Results progress dialogue (SOAR), which specializes in innovation, sales growth, and between employthe positioning of the company, is providing our staff with ees and superiors new creative resources. So far, more than 15 SOAR teams will focus more on have been formed and several projects successfully carried individual training out. A so-called i-Team supports SOAR projects and proneeds. In the next motes a culture of innovation and creativity. For example, employee survey the “StarBYK’s Innovation Station” was set up, a creative in 2014, we will space for everyone with a relaxed atmosphere conducive to explore whether communication, Internet access, audiovisual equipment, and to what extent these and other measures have led to and a giant wall area for brainstorming. positive changes in an effort to improve our company further. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 51 Award-winning idea By means of a small pre-heater in an atomizer, the temperature in a melting furnace in production can be reduced by approximately 30 degrees Celsius. With this improvement suggestion, around 75,600 kWh of energy can be saved every year, which of course also means lower CO2 emissions. Employee profit participation An idea from Alfred Gierl, Wolfgang Müller, and Markus Schreiber (ECKART employees in Wackersdorf). In 2010, we issued ALTANA Profit Participation Rights (APPR) in Germany for the first time, thus enabling employees to participate in the company’s future success. With the APPR, which have been offered annually since 2010, employees can participate in the company by investing between € 300 Big Ideas Wanted and € 5,000 a year. ALTANA provides tax-free subsidies for In 2012, we launched the “Big Ideas Wanted” campaign so the investment of up to € 360 per year and employee. Apart that we can exploit the great idea potential of all of our staff from the basic interest, ALTANA grants an additional bonus and receive even more suggestions. Usually, employees have interest based on the company’s success. For 2012, the interthe best ideas in connection with optimization of internal est rate was 7.2 percent. In recent years, roughly every third processes or procedures. The potential for improvement employee accepted the offer, and the total sum amounted to lies in details, and that is exactly what “Big Ideas Wanted” € 6.38 million. In the meantime, programs comparable to the stands for: a small idea with which everyone can make German one have been initiated in China, India, Japan, Korea, a contribution. Posters with different motifs on plant safety Switzerland, and Singapore. An implementation is being exand optimized work processes were hung up companyamined in other countries as well. wide. Each idea submitted paves the way for improved workflows and a stronger focus on aspects relevant to safety. Suggestion system Diversity In 2011, a worldwide employee suggestion system was introduced at ALTANA. Since then, the employees at all of our A key characteristic of ALTANA is its diversity. But a “quota sites have been encouraged to submit suggestions for imfor women” is not an option for us, because the key criteria provement. The current suggestion system contact person for professional development are exclusively expertise and not only receives the suggestions, but also commissions exsocial competence, regardless of origins, age, gender, or perts to evaluate them (usually internally). If an idea is implebeliefs. At present, about 30 percent of our workforce mented, the person who made the suggestion receives a in Germany is female. However, the share of women in cash award. The focus is not always on cutting costs, but management positions in our German companies has so also on occupational and plant safety or health and environfar been only around 19 percent, and in top management mental protection. Further goals include optimum exploitapositions just eight percent. To remedy the situation, in tion or saving of manufacturing resources, as well as quality, 2012 twelve women employees established the initiative customer orientation, and product improvement. To honor “LEADINGWOMEN@ALTANA” in Wesel with the approval of employees’ commitment, in some cases a prize is paid even the executive management. Initially, they exchanged their when the idea is not implemented. own experiences and developed a concept to anchor the topic of “women in leading positions” in the company’s philosophy of diversity in the long run. The result: In 2013, the initiative began with concrete measures at the Wesel site. 750,0 63 52 Sustainability Report 2012 375 42,070 50 6535 employees x3 40,000 hours 98 = 90 8 700 11 happy children 4 375 A class act of support Management Products Safety Environment Human resources When Hurricane Wilma reached the Yucatán Peninsula, it possessed its full destructive power. With wind speeds of more than 155 mph (250 km/h), the tropical storm raced toward the Mexican peninsula in October 2005, devastating everything in its path. Only a few weeks after Hurricane Katrina had flooded New Orleans and large parts of the southwestern U.S., Wilma, the strongest cyclone ever recorded in Social responsibility 53 the Atlantic Basin, destroyed numerous buildings in the Mexican vacation paradise, uprooted trees, and flooded streets, through which rubble and debris subsequently floated. After a tidal wave hit the vacation spot Cancún, the water rose to heights of several yards in the hotel district. But while tourists were evacuated after spending a few days in emergency accommodation, the local population had to deal with the aftermath on its own. The Mexican government provided aid only hesitantly. The top priority was to rehabilitate hotels and beaches so that tourists would return quickly. But other facilities were not so fortunate. Yalahau elementary school in Cancún, for example, remained scarred by the disaster. 54 Sustainability Report 2012 Graveling, painting, planting: 90 Mexican children are delighted about their renovated school. The helpers received gifts the children made themselves. Absence of professional support “Almost three quarters of the classroom furniture fell victim second grade are taught, cannot repair damage on this to the hurricane,” says Lindsay Oddo, the marketing coordiscale,” says Oddo. nator of BYK USA. “And the sanitary facilities, the library, the music room with the instruments, the kitchen, the techSo it was a godsend that 50 BYK staff members from Gernical equipment, and the computer of the school’s adminismany, Canada, Mexico, and particularly the U.S. attending a tration were destroyed.” The schoolyard and many windows BYK NAFTA sales meeting in Cancún in 2012 volunteered to and doors were also affected by the hurricane. But the help renovate the school and made donations for new furschool, which was founded in 1987, was not given any proniture. “In three hours, we painted fences and facades, fessional support during the clearing and renovation work. planted green areas, and regravelled the schoolyard,” Only teachers and parents of schoolchildren lent a hand, recounts Lindsay Oddo. “So much solidarity elicits a great doing everything they could to enable classes to be held feeling.” In gratitude for all the help, the students sang for again as soon as possible. “But without outside assistance the assiduous helpers and gave them presents they made a small school, where 90 children from preschool age to themselves. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 55 Campaigns, donations, and sponsoring As a good corporate citizen ALTANA considers itself responsiALTANA not only participates regularly in the “Campus ble for the support of social projects. We particularly promote meets Company university event but also promotes espeinitiatives focusing on education, science, and research and cially talented young chemistry students by providing ten are making an effort to arouse interest in the so-called MINT students with scholarships within the framework of the subjects (mathematics, information technology, natural sciences, Hochschule Niederrhein's Federal State of North Rhineand technology). With our efforts, we aim to make a compreWestphalia Scholarship Program. hensive impact on education from preschool to university and to strengthen the local environment. All demographic analyIn addition, BYK had a booth at the annual Chemistry Action ses show that the future will see a lack of experts in the chemDay staged by Unternehmerschaft Niederrhein, a socialical industry. To help remedy the situation, we actively seek policy association, located in the Lower Rhine region. At out so-called school ambassadors, i.e. employees who adthe event, students from eighth grade on could gather vertise ALTANA at institutions of information about various jobs higher learning. in the field of chemistry. The young people could ask quesFor many years ALTANA has tions and were given advice been a member of the sponsor regarding job applications and association for the Rhine-Waal job interviews. BYK USA enUniversity of Applied Sciences abled three American interns (HRW) in Kleve, Germany. As to gain valuable experience for part of a series of events titled their future professional life. And “Insiders – Companies Introduce there was a special surprise: All Themselves,” Dr. Matthias L. three had the opportunity to Wolfgruber, the CEO of ALTANA have dinner with the compaand the president of the sponsor ny's President Dirk Plas and association, gave a lecture to learn more about BYK USA. around 60 students and teachers. The idea behind the series is The KIS project, promoting cofor entrepreneurs and managers Students experiment in a KIS project. operation between the chemifrom the region to report on cal industry and schools, is also the processes and challenges of very popular. With experiments, their everyday work and to give students insight into possible group work, and laboratory visits, KIS aims to get students career paths and tips about the best way to find a job. Apart excited about chemistry. On the side, young people can gain from regular visits to companies and speed dating for interns, insight into the work, say, of coatings laboratory technicians. the series of events is also intended to intensify exchange beFor example, students at two secondary schools in Wesel had tween companies from the region and students. the chance to manufacture additives with the support of BYK staff. As in real production, they produced defoamers themALTANA has successfully cooperated with the chemistry deselves in a BYK lab, started up agitators and used substrates partment of the Hochschule Niederrhein University of Apfor later application. The KIS program also included applicaplied Sciences in Krefeld, Germany, for many years. Today, tion training. 56 Sustainability Report 2012 ALTANA continues to support the Passo Fundo scholarship program in Brazil. The organization, founded by Professor Werner Wittkowski in 1988, enables gifted Brazilians from poor segments of the population to study at a university. ALTANA contributed € 7,500 used for four scholarships. And the Howard Park Center in Ellisville (U.S.) can also still rely on our help. ALTANA donated more than € 11,000 for a so-called Early Intensive Behavior Intervention Classroom. Howard Park Center, which was established in 1971, caters to the needs of developmentally delayed children and their families and is funded exclusively from charity campaigns and donations. Fostering the abilities of elementary school students ALTANA continues to sponsor the Junior Academy of the North Rhine-Westphalian Moyland Castle Museum, a program developed to promote the cultural education of elementary school children. The art education that ALTANA sponsors is geared to the curriculum of individual age groups and takes place in the castle under the leadership of a museum educator. For example, the second grade of an elementary school in Bedburg-Hau had a two-hour art class there once a week for a period of six months. Another academy ALTANA supports is the junior engineer academy of the Deutsche Telekom Foundation, whose goal is to get young people interested in the profession of engineers at an early age. To this end, 13and 14-year-old students work intensively with local companies such as BYKChemie and universities, among others, for two years. Junior engineer academy The Deutsche Telekom Foundation’s junior engineer academy is a model project for students in secondary education designed to kindle enthusiasm in young people for the natural sciences and technology. The aim is to provide young people with information about the profession of engineers and scientists early on, to make the transition from school to university easier for them, and to consistently foster their individual competencies at an early stage. Management Products Safety Environment Human resources Social responsibility 57 Partner of the region After appealing to first and second graders’ desire to experiOur involvement in the illumination of the Rhine Bridge in Wesel ment at two elementary schools within the framework of the reflects our strong commitment to the Lower Rhine region. The House of Junior Researchers concept the year before, BYK bridge, which is known for its characteristic pylon, has lit up at staff again visited the Adventure Land daycare center in 2012. night in the ALTANA colors of blue and cyan since March 2012. During the first visit, there was not enough time to explore all ALTANA covered the costs of around € 210,000 for the nearly facets of the topic of “air,” so this subject was dealt with 100 high-power spotlights and floodlights. Today, the architecfurther in 2012. The BYK experts like to support this week tural gem, which was illuminated for the first time in the presdevoted to science to give preschool staff a different perspecence of Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber and other invited guests, is a tive on research. symbol and landmark in the region. BYK also helped finance a For these activibronze bust unveiled in 2012 honoring the chemist Ida Noddack, ties, BYK has been who was born in Wesel in 1896. The famous daughter of Wesel, awarded a partwho discovered the chemical element Rhenium, was nominated ner prize by the several times for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. House of Junior Researchers Foundation. Another campaign also demonstrates where children’s enthusiasm can lead. Industrial mechanic apprentices in the second year of their apprenticeship at BYK picked up on an idea of preschool children to invent an apple peeling machine and developed it further into an apple sauce and apple juice machine. Needy children In 2012, ALTANA staff in the human resources departments of in the U.S. had the pleasure of engaging in a completely difALTANA and BYK were again involved in the International ferent activity at Christmastime. During team-building activiPeace Village in Oberhausen. On a day in the summer, eight ties at ECKART America’s management meeting, employees colleagues tidied up the children’s playground and the garden. built eight playhouses together. Each team had only four hours And aid was also provided in a sporting framework. Employees to construct a colorful house out of a stack of wood, plastic of BYK, ELANTAS, and ACTEGA participated in a golf tournasheets, paint, brushes, and stencils. Despite the challenge, all ment at Weselerwald Golf Club for a good cause. The entire of the teams finished on time and gave “their” child a nice sum of the entry fees amounting to € 3,500 was donated to Christmas present. the Historisches Rathaus Wesel citizens’ initiative to restore the historic Wesel town hall. 8 58 Sustainability Report 2012 0 65350 42,070 7 573 36 000,057 Key performance indicators 59 11 98375 On the key performance indicators The following pages provide an overview of our corporate activities in the period from 2006 or 2007 to 2012 on the basis of various key performance indicators, which are grouped into the areas environment, economy, transport, safety, and human resources. In some areas, we check to see whether the recording of key performance indicators needs to be expanded. The environmental key performance indicators apply to the period from October 1, 2011, to September 30, 2012. More information and explanations about the key performance indicators provided here on the environment, economy, safety, and human resources can be found at www.altana.com/sustainability/key-performance-indicators. On the environmental performance indicators Energy consumption Oil Oil (in kWh / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.08 2007 MWh 39,588 0.07 2008 MWh 30,275 2010 MWh 35,529 0.06 2012 MWh 28,060 2007 2008 2010 2012 Natural gas Natural gas (in kWh / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.40 2007 MWh 169,035 0.35 2008 MWh 182,739 2010 MWh 185,227 0.30 2012 MWh 204,280 2007 2008 2010 2012 60 Sustainability Report 2012 Electricity Electricity (in kWh / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.45 2007 MWh 198,416 0.40 2008 MWh 191,733 2010 MWh 198,598 0.35 2012 MWh 196,370 2007 2008 2010 2012 Emissions Total CO2 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) Total CO2 (in kg / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.3 Target for 2012: 0.27 2007 t 143,633 0.2 2008 t 127,938 2010 t 135,901 0.1 2012 t 141,422 2007 2008 2010 2012 CO2 (Scope 1) CO2 (Scope 1) (in kg / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.10 2007 t 45,758 Target for 2012: 0.09 0.09 2008 t 45,475 2010 t 51,192 0.08 2012 t 51,605 2007 2008 2010 2012 The orange line indicates the goal set for 2012. Key performance indicators 61 CO2 (Scope 2) CO2 (Scope 2) (in kg / Euro) Year ALTANA 0.20 Target for 2012: 0.18 2007 t 97,875 0.15 2008 t 82,462 2010 t 84,709 0.10 2012 t 89,816 2007 2008 2010 2012 Water Drinking water (not including use of raw materials) Drinking water (in liter / Euro) Year ALTANA 2.25 2007 m 3 737,126 1.50 Target for 2012: 1.45 2008 m3 709,739 2010 m3 559,685 0.75 2012 m 3 632,913 2007 2008 2010 2012 Surface / groundwater Surface/groundwater (in liter / Euro) Year ALTANA 2.25 2007 m 3 419,805 1.50 2008 m3 419,259 2010 m3 644,685 0.75 2012 m 3 644,582 2007 2008 2010 2012 The orange line indicates the goal set for 2012. 62 Sustainability Report 2012 Waste Hazardous waste Hazardous waste (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 45 2007 t 17,988 Target for 2012: 35.47 30 2008 t 16,615 2010 t 18,323 15 2012 t 19,071 2007 2008 2010 2012 Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 30 2007 t 8,717 20 Target for 2012: 17.19 2008 t 8,555 2010 t 6,057 10 2012 t 7,348 2007 2008 2010 2012 Hazardous waste for disposal Hazardous waste for disposal (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 15 Target for 2012: 12.10 2007 t 6,480 10 2008 t 5,012 2010 t 4,275 5 2012 t 5,134 2007 2008 2010 2012 Non-hazardous waste for disposal Non-hazardous waste for disposal (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 15 2007 t 4,935 10 Target for 2012: 9.22 2008 t 4,738 2010 t 3,361 5 2012 t 3,371 2007 2008 2010 2012 The orange line indicates the goal set for 2012. Key performance indicators 63 Recyclable hazardous waste Recyclable hazardous waste (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 9 2007 t 3,248 6 2008 t 3,437 2010 t 2,865 3 2012 t 4,228 2007 2008 2010 2012 Recyclable non-hazardous waste Recyclable non-hazardous waste (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 9 2007 t 2,934 6 2008 t 3,480 2010 t 2,064 3 2012 t 2,348 2007 2008 2010 2012 Hazardous waste for thermal processing Hazardous waste for thermal processing (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 30 2007 t 8,260 20 2008 t 8,166 2010 t 11,183 10 2012 t 9,707 2007 2008 2010 2012 Non-hazardous waste for thermal processing Non-hazardous waste for thermal processing (in g / Euro) Year ALTANA 3 2007 t 848 2 2008 t 337 2010 t 632 1 2012 t 1,628 2007 2008 2010 2012 64 Sustainability Report 2012 On the economic performance indicators Gross value added Gross value added (in € million ) Year ALTANA 600 2007 t h sd € 481,814 400 2008 t h sd € 455,621 2010 t h sd € 566,690 200 2012 t h sd € 600,726 2007 2008 2010 2012 Finished products Year ALTANA 2007 t 350,797 2008 t 307,590 2010 t 374,591 2012 t 407,411 Transport ALTANA distribution channels for finished products Year Water Road Air Rail 2007 t 83,742 291,193 9,687 2,723 2008 t 77,491 227,594 1,477 2,773 2010 t 98,404 323,883 2,405 1,422 2012 t 101,439 304,218 3,693 1,724 Key performance indicators 65 On the safety performance indicators WAI 3 WAI 1 (Number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million (Number of occupational accidents with lost work time of more than one day working hours) per million working hours) 147.83 6.07 150.60 7.83 BYK 57.14 BYK 5.33 86.10 5.08 38.68 4.99 236.32 18.67 101.18 13.23 ECKART 313.16 ECKART 17.73 104.23 8.66 75.60 6.24 94.33 8.98 142.28 12.29 ELANTAS 89.74 ELANTAS 10.12 63.23 5.75 123.24 7.32 233.78 27.99 476.74 18.25 ACTEGA 89.19 ACTEGA 12.24 155.21 12.93 91.17 12.86 185.68 14.92 176.29 12.26 ALTANA 158.81 ALTANA 11.68 98.56 7.73 76.25 7.29 0 100 200 300 400 500 0 10 20 30 2012 2010 2008 2007 2006 2012 2010 2008 2007 2006 On the human resource performance indicators Share of employees with access to company retirement plans or company-funded pension Share of part-time employees (in %) Share of women in management positions (in %) plans (in %) 7.2 16.5 81.7 8.1 18 81.8 8.4 18.7 82.7 20 40 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 20 40 60 80 100 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 66 Sustainability Report 2012 Highlights • In 2012, BYK reported less than 1.7 occupational accidents with lost work time of three days or more per million working hours (WAI 2) and thus remained below its target (2.8 accidents). With 39 lost work days per million working hours, the company also was well below its target for WAI 3 (65 days). • Following six major incidents in 2011, ALTANA recorded only four incidents in 2012, with only one injured person. • The presidents of BYK, ECKART, ELANTAS, and ACTEGA took over the leadership of a different division as of November 1, 2012. The aim of the move was to open up new growth perspectives and exploit synergy potentials better. • The anonymous counseling center in Wesel for employees with psychological problems went down well in its first year. • In 2012, ALTANA reached all of the environmental key performance indicator targets it had set, and in most cases far exceeded them. • The environmental management systems of ELANTAS Italia and ACTEGA Colorchemie were certified in accordance with ISO 14001 for the first time. • ECKART became the first ALTANA company to receive a certificate in compliance with ISO 50001 for its energy management system. • The audit of the new BYK chemical laboratory based on the guidelines of the Green Building Council was successfully completed. The lab received a LEED Platinum certificate for ecological construction in 2013. • ELANTAS Beck India’s new energy-efficient administrative building in Pimpri went into operation. The architects, who specialize in environmentally compatible construction, received the AESA (Architects Engineers Surveyor Association) Award for 2013. • Renovation of ELANTAS PDG’s administrative building and laboratory began with several measures to improve energy efficiency. • ALTANA’s information and communications technology was made more energy and resource efficient. Highlights and lowlights 67 • ECKART decided to convert production operations in Günthersthal from oil to natural gas. • New construction measures at ACTEGA Rhenacoat led to improved soil and fire protection. • ALTANA developed numerous products that help its clients work in a safer and more environmentally friendly way. • With an especially flexible sealant material for weight-reduced crown caps ACTEGA DS makes an important contribution to resource efficiency. • ACTEGA increased the proportion of water in its raw materials to 34 percent. Lowlights • In 2012, ALTANA reported four significant incidents, with one employee suffering burns in one of the accidents. • With 7.3 occupational accidents, we did not achieve our target for 2012 of a maximum of four occupational accidents with lost work time of one day or more per million working hours (WAI 1). • There are still not enough women in leading positions at ALTANA. • Due to violations of environmental and chemicals law, ALTANA had to pay fines amounting to € 38,660. • CO2 emissions from logistics could not be recorded yet (see page 45). • The product “IReflex” did not achieve the expected market success yet. • Nor did benzpinacol, a safe alternative to peroxides for polymerization, attain the desired success on the market. 68 Sustainability Report 2012 Programs / goals Core management tools for increasing performance include come components of executive managers. The list below the measurement of performance indicators, the deﬁnition shows our goals for performance indicators and various of goals, the development and implementation of action measures. The individual ALTANA companies also have plans, and the review of goal attainment. The latter is part detailed action plans in the context of their respective manof the target evaluation that determines the variable inagement systems. Management Certiﬁcation of three companies in accordance with ISO 14001 or similar standards End of 2013 Certiﬁcation of additional non-certiﬁed companies in accordance with ISO 14001 or similar standards Ongoing Certiﬁcation of BYK’s energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2014 Certification of further companies in Germany in accordance with ISO 50001 End of 2015 Implementation of a crisis management system at BYK End of 2013 Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2014 Safety summaries for the substances to be registered in 2013 to support the Global Product Strategy End of 2013 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for cooperation with suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits (Global Compact) Ongoing Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA Ongoing Use of renewable raw materials (without quantification) Ongoing Additional lifecycle assessments (LCA) Ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for waterborne coatings Ongoing Development of products for resource efﬁciency Ongoing Development of products for energy efﬁciency Ongoing Development of additional products with FoodSafe seal Ongoing Safety WAI 1 below 3 or WAI 2 below 2.1 occupational accidents per million working hours By 2013 WAI 3 below 50 lost work days per million working hours End of 2013 Reduction of signiﬁcant incidents; no signiﬁcant incidents in the long run Ongoing Programs /goals 69 Safety improvement measures from best practice example End of 2013 Implementation of Management Development Program (MDP) “Safety on the Job” End of 2013 Training to avoid and communicate significant incidents End of 2013 Definition of new occupational safety goals for the period after 2013 End of 2013 Environment Reduction of specific environmental impact (in terms of gross value added): CO2 emissions 30 % 2007 2020 CO2 emissions 9% 2012 2020 Drinking water 5% 2012 2017 Hazardous waste 5% 2012 2017 Non-hazardous waste 5% 2012 2017 Hazardous waste for disposal 5% 2012 2017 Non-hazardous waste for disposal 5% 2012 2017 Various measures to conserve water Ongoing Various measures to reduce waste Ongoing Switch from crude oil to natural gas for heating and process heat at ECKART in Güntersthal End of 2013 Various measures for energy efficiency and using renewable energies Ongoing Energy generation with a combined heat and power plant at ELANTAS Italia in Ascoli: regular operation and profitability End of 2013 Energy generation with a combined heat and power plant at BYK in Wesel End of 2014 Result of the ﬁnished-product logistics project in Germany End of 2014 Human resources Increase in percentage of women managers Ongoing Sickness absence recording for preventive health care End of 2013 Additional measures to further establish new Guiding Principles Ongoing Definition of further HR key figures End of 2013 70 Sustainability Report 2012 GRI index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2012 follows the G3 guidethese indicators in this report. ALTANA takes a stance on lines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The index below further indicators on its website at provides an overview of all GRI indicators that were applied www.altana.com/sustainability. and their status, i.e. the extent to which ALTANA covered GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Preface of the CEO 4 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conflicts of interest 11, 12 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, 4.7 Qualification of executive bodies for and opportunities 9 -12 sustainability 10, 11 4.8 Guiding principles, company values and 2 Organizational profile codes of conduct 11, 12 2.1 Name of the organization C, 9 4.9 Procedures of the executive / supervisory 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or services C, 9 board level for overseeing the organization's sustainability performance 9, 10 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C, 1, 9, 10 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters C, 9 performance of the executive board 9, 10 2.5 Countries with major operations AR 4.11 Implementation of precautionary approach 10, 11, 15, 1725 2.6 Ownership structure C 4.12 Support for external initiatives 4, 14, 15, 44 2.7 Markets served 1, 10 4.13 Memberships in associations and interest groups 14, 15 2.8 Scale of the organization C, 1, AR 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 9 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 13, 15 4.15 Stakeholder selection 14 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 13 3 Report parameters 4.17 Key topics of stakeholders 14 3.1 Reporting period C 3.2 Date of last report October 2012 5 Performance indicators 3.3 Reporting cycle C 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Economic the report C Management approach 9, 10 3.5 Process for defining report content 11, 13, 14 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1, AR 3.6 Boundary of the report C, Internet EC2 Financial implications of climate change Internet 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report Internet EC3 Benefit plan obligations Internet 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourcing Internet EC4 Financial assistance received from government Internet 3.9 Data measurement Internet EC6 Spending on local suppliers Internet 3.10 Changes to the statement of information EC7 Proportion of managers hired from the provided in earlier reports C local community 51 3.11 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement EC8 Investments in infrastructure and services methods Internet provided for public benefit 44, 45, 53 57 3.12 GRI Content index 70, 71 Environmental 3.13 External assurance of the report Internet Management approach 9, 10 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 42 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Internet 4.1 Governance structure 9, AR EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 4.2 Independence of supervisory board chairman 9, AR energy source 59 4.3 Supervisory board or independent members of EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary the executive board 9, AR energy source 60 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees EN5 Energy savings 36 40, 59, 60 to provide recommendations or direction to the executive / supervisory board AR EN6 Energy-efficient products and services 17,18, 20 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 42, 61 and company performance AR EN11 Use of protected areas Internet GRI index 71 Status legend Completely covered C = Cover Partly covered AR = Annual Report 2012 Not covered Internet = www.altana.com/sustainability GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status EN12 Impact of company activity on biodiversity Human rights in protected areas Internet Management approach 11, 12 EN14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity 10, 45 HR1 Investment agreements with review EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 60, 61 or human rights clauses Internet HR2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone EN17 Additional relevant greenhouse gas emissions screening on human rights and actions taken 15 (e.g. due to business travel) 45 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 11 EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 10, 36 41, 60, 61 HR5 Operations in which the right to exercise EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances freedom of association and collective by weight Internet bargaining may be at risk Internet EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions HR6 Operations at risk of incidents of child labor 11,12 by weight 20, 21, 40 HR7 Operations at risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labor Internet EN21 Water discharges 43 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 43, 44, 62, 63 Society Management approach 9 -11 EN23 Number and volume of significant spills 32 SO1 Impacts of operations on communities EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental and society Internet impacts of products and services 1725 SO2 Business units screened for risk related EN27 Percentage of products and their packaging to corruption 11 materials that were reclaimed by category Internet SO3 Percentage of employee trained in EN28 Fines / sanctions for non-compliance with anti-corruption policies 11 environmental laws and regulations 67 SO4 Actions taken after incidents of corruption 11 SO5 Policy positions and participation in public Social policy development and lobbying 14, 15, 22, 23, 25 Labor practices and decent work SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Internet SO8 Fines / sanctions for non-compliance with Management approach 9, 11, 34, 35 laws and regulations Internet LA1 Workforce by employment type and region Internet Product responsibility LA2 Employee turnover by age group, gender, Management approach 19 23 and region Internet PR1 Lifecycle stages of products in which safety LA4 Percentage of employees covered by and health effects were assessed Internet collective bargaining agreements Internet PR3 Principles / processes for product identification 22, 23 LA5 Notice periods regarding significant PR6 Programs for adherence to laws and voluntary operational changes Internet codes in advertising Internet LA7 Injuries, absenteeism, and fatalities 32, 33, 65 PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the use LA8 Risk-control and programs regarding of products and services Internet serious diseases 22, 23, 25, 29 35 LA10 Average hours of training by employee category Internet LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning Internet LA12 Performance and career development reviews Internet LA13 Composition of senior management and employee structure (e.g. age / gender / culture) 51, 65 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Internet 72 Sustainability Report 2012 Progress notes on the Global Compact By participating in the U.N. Global Compact, we commit to respecting human rights, creating socially compatible working conditions, promoting environmental protection, and fighting corruption. Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protec29 35, 51, 65 Health management, occupational safety, tion of internationally proclaimed human rights employee suggestion system Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human 15 Search for suppliers, supplier agreements, rights abuses audits, Global Compact on the Internet Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 15 Supplier agreements and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulN/A sory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 11, 12, 55 Compliance management system, support of education initiatives, fair payment Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of 11, 12, 49, 51 Fair treatment, compliance management employment and occupation system, training, investigations, surveys, diversity Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach 13, 68, 69 Energy and environmental management to environmental challenges system, goals Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environ37 45, 68, 69 Process optimizations, technical updates, mental responsibility programs and goals Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 17 25 Management, product innovations, use of environmentally friendly technologies renewable sources and water Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its 11 Training, audits forms, including extortion and bribery Imprint Published by ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel Germany Tel + 49 281 670 8 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 info@altana.com www.altana.com Responsible for the content: ALTANA AG Contact Corporate Communications Andrea Neumann Tel + 49 281 670 -10900 Fax + 49 281 670 -10999 Andrea.Neumann@altana.com Environment, Health & Safety Dr. Andreas Diez Tel + 49 281 670 -10600 Fax + 49 281 670 -10649 Andreas.Diez@altana.com Design, editing, and layout crossrelations brandworks GmbH, Düsseldorf Heike Dimkos, ALTANA AG Images ALTANA AG gettyimages iStockphoto Print Eberl Print, Immenstadt Printed with products manufactured by ALTANA TerraGreen® matt coating, G5/100 silky matt by ACTEGA Terra; formulated with BYK additives Date of publication: October 2013 ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel Germany Tel +49 281 670 8 Fax +49 281 670 -10999 info@altana.com www.altana.com
