United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Our annual Global Compact Communication on Progress is published on our website as part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Progress Report for 2011. Unilever Sustainable Living Plan In November 2010 we launched our Sustainable Living Plan, committing to a ten-year journey towards sustainable growth. It outlines our goal to grow our business while reducing our environmental footprint and increasing the positive contribution which we make to society. Our vision is to create a better future in which billions of people can increase their quality of life without increasing their environmental footprint. What makes our Plan different is that it applies right across the value chain. We are taking responsibility not just for our own direct operations but for our suppliers, distributors and crucially for how our consumers use our brands. The Plan commits us to three significant outcomes by 2020: to help more than one billion people take action to improve their health and well-being; to halve the environmental footprint of the making and use of our products; and to source 100% of our agricultural raw materials sustainably. The Plan sets out a range of targets to achieve by 2020. In April 2012 we published our first report on progress against these targets. Our principal means of reporting is through our website, via our online Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Progress Report for 2011. As well as a wealth of information on our Plan, our website details our support for the Global Compact and how we live out its principles in our business operations. Our Chairman’s and CEO’s statement is replicated overleaf. We have also published a 44-page summary of progress against our Sustainable Living Plan targets this is available as hard copy and pdf. Online Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Progress Report for 2011 and summary of our targets http://www.unilever.com/sustainable-living/uslp/ Introduction to our Plan from our CEO http://www.unilever.com/sustainable-living/ourapproach/messageceo/ How we support the Global Compact, including our UNGC Index which cross-references the Compact’s principles to our policies and operations http://www.unilever.com/sustainable-living/ourapproach/oursustainabilitystrategy/ http://www.unilever.com/sustainable-living/assurancedataandcommentary/ungc/ Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Progress Report 2011 (pdf) http://www.unilever.com/images/uslpUnilever_Sustainable_Living_Plan_Progress_Report_2011_tcm13-284779.pdf United Nations Global Compact Message from our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Unilever supports the principles of the UN Global Compact, and welcomes its recognition of the positive contribution that business can make to a more prosperous and sustainable world. Development and poverty reduction depend on economic prosperity. International trade and investment creates new employment, raises skill levels and generates local economic activity. In short, the very business of ‘doing business’ extends prosperity and creates new opportunities. At the same time, companies have a duty to manage all aspects of business in a responsible and sustainable way. We have set out clear principles of corporate behaviour in our Code of Business Principles, which we uphold wherever we operate. We expect our suppliers to uphold Unilever’s Supplier Code. We have ambitious plans to grow our company. But we recognise that growth at any cost is not viable in our increasingly resource-constrained world. We have to develop new ways of doing business which will decouple our growth from our environmental impacts, while at the same time increasing the positive social benefits arising from Unilever’s activities. The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, launched in 2010, is our blueprint for doing this. The Plan will result in three significant outcomes by 2020. We will help more than a billion people take action to improve their health and well-being; we will halve the environmental impact of the making and use of our products; and we will enhance the livelihoods of thousands of people in our supply chain. The UN Global Compact is a symbol of leadership in a complex world and of the potential for mutual understanding. It provides a forward-looking forum in which the United Nations, companies and civil society organisations can come together in open and transparent dialogue. It offers the opportunity to define practical ways of working together to create a more prosperous and sustainable world. We are playing our part to contribute to these goals by: Living out the Compact’s principles in our everyday business operations* Accepting the Global Compact’s invitation to join the Board and LEAD to help shape a more sustainable future Continuing to advocate the Global Compact and its principles in our annual Communication on Progress, on our websites, in our senior executives’ speeches and through local networks. Michael Treschow Paul Polman Chairman Chief Executive Officer 2012 * See our Global Compact Index
