Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Treedom adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all its activities and relationships with third parties associated, such as companies, local cooperatives and NGOs. The respect of human rights is guaranteed in all our internal activities and in all our external operations. Internally, Treedom respects the rights of its employees. Externally, our activities are developed with NGOs, as COSPE and AVSI. COSPE plans and implements the following programmes: • protection of human rights • promotion of women's rights and equal opportunities • support for refugee populations and victims of war • antiracism training and support of equal-opportunity policies for citizens from ethnic minorities • right to education and intercultural awareness AVSIʼs main activity areas are education and social development, urban upgrading, healthcare, labour, agriculture, food security and water, energy and environment, humanitarian emergency and migrants and refugees. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Treedom gives great attention to respecting human rights in all its operations, choosing the fair partner for its activities. This issue is strategic for establishing new relationships with business parties, NGOs and State entities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Treedom has not received any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to human rights violations. Furthermore, Treedom promotes human rights within the activities of our business partners and clients by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote human rights. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees, an external audit on human rights performance is not required. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Treedom conducts business in accordance with the Italian law, including nondiscrimination and equal opportunities, freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well employment conditions and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc). In addition, Treedom develops its projects in the South of the world respecting the labour rights as indicated in the ILO Core Conventions, rejecting child labour and employment discrimination. Treedom adheres to the Global Compact Labour principles for achieving its goals. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Internally, the health and safety of all employees is ensured in accordance to the Italian law requirements. Externally, in our projects across the world, Treedom operates through NGOs that involve local communities respecting human and labour rights and giving them a fair income. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Treedomʼs team is composed of about 50% women and all the employees are very young (below 35 years). Treedomʼs staff holds weekly meetings to discuss its activities and verifies the state of its initiatives and new ideas are proposed during the meetings. Regularly, Treedom supervises how its partners carry on the projects and if there are any irregularities regarding the respect of communitiesʼ rights. Treedom has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to labor rights violations. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees, an external audit on labor rights performance is not required. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Treedom gets office supplies, being a company. However, working in the field of environmental consultancy, we know how to significantly reduce our environmental impact. We have an environmental policy based on the principles of green procurement and energy savings. The annual CO2 emissions of Treedom are calculated by same methodology used to calculate the carbon footprint of its customers. The online CO2 calculator, by which people can calculate their emissions, is based on reference protocols and international standards, as: UNI ISO 14064-1 The Greenhousegas Protocol (World Research Institute & World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Appropriate bins, provided by the city municipality for the collection of paper, plastic, glass, cans are present in our office in order to reduce the environmental impact of our activities. Furthermore, we also adopt the following measures: the usage of only recycled paper, all members of the staff go to the office by bicycle, recycling 100% of the waste we produce, using energysaving lights. We also pay great attention to food products that are consumed in the office. We preferably buy kilometer zero or fairtrade products. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We annually consume: • 10 reams of 100% recycled paper (A4 size); • electricity (4000 kw / h). We annually produce 50kg of waste, all of which flows into recycling. The total amount of ton CO2 per year is 8,38. Being an environmental consulting company which offers the opportunity to offset the emissions, we give a good example and annually cancel firsthand our carbon footprint through the planting of 20 trees. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. The organization does not engage with business partners and clients with a track record of corruption. Treedomʼs team does not accept any form of corruption. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. The organization only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no cases of corruption over the course of the Treedomʼs existence.
