HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Content Content......................................................................................................................................1 CEO’s statement of support for the UN Global Compact.......................................................3 The Global Compact 10 Universally Accepted Principles: Human Rights Principle One.............................................................................................................................5 Principle Two.............................................................................................................................5 Labour Standards Principle Three...........................................................................................................................7 Principle Four.............................................................................................................................9 Principle Five............................................................................................................................10 Principle Six..............................................................................................................................12 Environment Principle Seven....................................................................................................................... 17 Principle Eight.........................................................................................................................19 Principle Nine..........................................................................................................................21 Anti-Corruption Principle Ten............................................................................................................................23 Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 1 Hikma Pharmaceuticals This is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2012 and includes a reiteration of commitment from Hikma’s CEO to the principles and incorporates sections of Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility Report, Hikma’s policies, Code of Conduct, and GRI indicators. The report will demonstrate how Hikma is addressing each of the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and continues to actively engage in and improve these practices over the years. We welcome feedback on its contents. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 2 Hikma Pharmaceuticals CEO’s statement of support for the UN Global Compact It is my pleasure to present to you Hikma Pharmaceuticals’ 2012 Communication on Progress report. Hikma has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2008. We continue to remain committed to its ten principles and to promoting the Global Compact wherever we operate. As CEO of Hikma, I am proud to reaffirm our continued commitment and support to this essential initiative. Despite the challenging economic and geopolitical environment in 2012, we continued to grow strongly, surpassing the $1 billion milestone in revenues. As Hikma’s operations grow and evolve, so does its role as a UNGC member taking on greater responsibility for the development, implementation, and disclosure of environmental, social, and governance policies and practices. The Communication on Progress report signifies Hikma’s commitment to aligning its operations with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It also demonstrates Hikma’s business stewardship and dedication to bringing about positive change. Our continued commitment to those principles is demonstrated in several initiatives which we undertook in 2012. We adopted and published our enhanced Code of Conduct to reflect the UN Guiding Principles and created new training programs to further promote ethical and responsible practices and sales. Through our work with the International Finance Corporation, we received the 2012 IFC Client Leadership Award for our sustainable development initiatives, excellence in corporate governance and commitment to local communities. Our mission is not only to ensure the vitality and growth of our business, but to also improve the health of our local and global communities while safeguarding our environment. We will remain diligent in moving towards a more sustainable business by continuously supporting the UNGC and implementing its principles in all aspects of our business. Said Darwazah CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 3 Hikma Pharmaceuticals THE GLOBAL COMPACT 10 UNIVERSALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 4 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle One: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Commitment Hikma Pharmaceuticals has always Principle Two: been committed to maintaining high standards of ethical conduct. Businesses should make sure that they are not Hikma respects human rights as a core value and makes sure to instil complicit in human rights abuses high ethical standards in the way it does its business. ‘Improving lives’ is Hikma’s main mission, “Hikma is committed to providing of our global team is entrusted to through providing high quality for its employees a safe and secure uphold and abide by the principles affordable medication to patients working environment.” and standards the Code sets out. and ‘Improving lives’ of its local communities and its employees. Proclaimed human rights are Implementation of the Code upheld across the Group and The global pharmaceutical Group, perpetrated to employees of The Compliance, Responsibility which has manufacturing facilities different functions and levels in and Ethics Committee (CREC) is in 11 countries, and offices the Group’s entities. It covers the responsible for overseeing the worldwide, upholds internationally entire workforce through the development of the Group’s Code. proclaimed human rights by Employees Human Resources The CREC consists of several board applying uniform ethical standards Bylaws. members including the Executive across its different locations, Vice Chairman of the Board. in compliance with local laws, Hikma applies Human Rights thereby maintaining a unified standards along its supply chain. Each year Hikma employees are Hikma culture. Hikma will not deal with any required to confirm that they have supplier who does not honour read the Code, have understood it Hikma’s support of Human Rights international labour standards. As and will abide by its terms. Protection is reflected on a mentioned in the Code of Conduct: strategic level through the Code of Conduct.1 “Hikma seeks to engage with The Dignity and Respect Principle customers and suppliers whose employment practices respect Improving lives from Hikma’s Code states the human rights and whose ethical following: standards meet the standards set by Hikma.” “Hikma respects the dignity and human rights of its employees and others… Hikma is not is Hikma’s discriminatory and offers equal opportunities to all.” Systems, Processes and mission Programs As with any manufacturing company, the operators’ right Code of Conduct to health and safety is an Employees also confirm that they integral part of the company’s Hikma’s Code of Conduct provides understand their obligations to responsibility towards them. Hikma all Hikma employees, and others report events of suspected nonhas a well developed health and who act for it, with a clear compliance with the Code. safety mandate, and begins at the understanding of the principles top level commitment through the of business conduct, standards, The Code falls within the Code of Conduct: and ethical behaviour that are responsibilities of the Head of expected of them. Every member Compliance, who reports directly 1 The Code is available on the corporate website: Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 5 http://www.hikma.com/en/corporate-responsibility/code-of-conduct Hikma Pharmaceuticals In 2012 over 2000 significant suppliers and contractors were audited by Hikma, specifically in both manufacturing facilities in Jordan, the three company sites in the USA and in Hikma’s company in Italy. to the CREC on compliance matters Ethical Suppliers Performance and is supported by a group Compliance Manager. Hikma audits all its main suppliers Employees also confirm that they in regards to their employment understand their obligations to The heads of each business practices, through a corporate report events of suspected nondivision have taken responsibility responsibility supplier audit compliance with the Code. This to be the compliance champion procedure. The practice was was performed in 2012 using the for their division. They set the initiated in 2007 whereby the new Code, covering 64% of the tone for business integrity in significant suppliers in addition to employees of the business. their operations. This aligns the the contractors that have dealings ownership of good compliance with Hikma were identified, The percentage of significant behaviours with the day-to-day and underwent human rights suppliers and contractors that have business operations. screening. undergone screening on human rights in 2010 was 27%. In 2011 People We also utilise a Supplier Audit the audited increased to 43% Questionnaire that pertains to all of the significant suppliers and The Employees Human Resources the UNGC principles as it relates contractors. In 2012 throughout Bylaws are part of the employees’ to the environment, Human the group over 2000 significant responsibilities and makes up part Rights, child labour, anti-bribery suppliers and contractors were of their work contract. The Bylaws measures and other relevant audited, reaching in the USA and supporting policies meet, and issues to help with assessing the around 90% of the total suppliers where possible, exceed labour laws suppliers’ practices and increase and contractors. and regulations in the countries in their awareness of responsible which Hikma operates. operations and business ethics. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: Employees’ well-being at work is looked after. Individuals are Actions LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost trained to understand the hazards days, absenteeism Our updated Code of Conduct was associated with their work, so published in the fourth quarter of that risks can be appropriately LA10: average hours of training 2012. The Code and supporting managed. Health and safety laws per employee per category policies require that Hikma’s and regulations are understood employees maintain the highest and complied with to protect both HR2: percentage of suppliers/ ethical standards of employment workers and visitors in various contractors undergone human and reflect our commitment facilities. rights screening to human rights. The Code of Conduct was sent out across Employees enjoy a work the Group and was translated environment that is free from into five main languages of substance abuse, and benefit from Hikma’s locations: English, Arabic, a worldwide “no smoking” policy Portuguese, French and German across all factories and office and has been uploaded to the buildings. website. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 6 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Commitment these activities are not undertaken Hikma continues to find ways to on behalf of Hikma. deepen its ties further with the As a fast growing multinational labour unions and encourage and company, Hikma Pharmaceuticals is assist workers, plus increase their required to meet employees’ needs awareness about their rights, the and requirements in different Systems, Processes and benefits of unionization and their roles. countries and cultures. Hence it is imperative that Hikma secures the Programs freedom of association necessary The subjects covered by collective for a fair representation of its In light of the Arab Spring, bargaining with trade unions employees wherever they may be. matters of human rights, and/or employee representatives including workers’ rights was include health and safety; The employment matters standard at the forefront, and required remuneration, specifically, salary in the Code of Conduct states the special attention and effort to increases and bonuses; and following: ensure that this sensitive current medical insurance, in addition to topic was dealt with throughout undergoing if needed professional “Employees’ right to free 2012 without incident. Hikma and negotiations training. association and collective corporate HR, supervisors and bargaining are recognised union representatives have open and respected. There is a clear, channels of communication and work together to ensure transparent process for receiving that employees’ benefits are Actions employee suggestions, requests and complaints. comparable throughout Hikma In 2012, union matters were companies in the MENA region. going smoothly. The changes that Effective communication Notably Hikma works hard to unions had undergone in 2011 with employees is promoted, ensure that employees’ benefits at the wake of the Arab Spring so that issues arising from and compensation are higher were reaching maturity, especially business decisions are addressed than the industry average, making with the labour unions that appropriately and in a timely Hikma an employer of choice in were established in 2011 in Arab fashion.” the region. Pharmaceutical Manufacturing company (APM) in Jordan, and in The Code of Conduct includes a As for the Hikma sites in Europe Hikma Egypt. There were further public affairs and government and the US, labour unions abide by efforts in Tunisia and Morocco interaction policy which covers the labour laws which have clear to develop the unions that were lobbying practices: and extensive union directives already at maturity. that are implemented in full and All public affairs activities overseen by specialized Hikma The previous year, unions in undertaken by or on behalf personnel. Unions are treated Hikma’s MENA companies of Hikma must be conducted fairly and are reported as being were integrated and involved ethically; must align with satisfied with the treatment and in the related policies made relevant local law requirements provisions given to them and there by the company. The union and applicable industry codes weren’t any incidents reported representatives and the company of practice and be approved in this year with the labour unions in labour representatives underwent accordance with internal policies. Europe and the US. thorough negotiations specifically in the issue of the bonus Hikma employees will: In every country where a Hikma scheme. In 2012, the channels of union is found, employees are communications between Hikma’s Have the right to be involved in covered by collective negotiation HR, operators and supervisors political and lobbying processes in agreements signed by the General continued to be maintained and their own time as private citizens, Manager of that site and the strengthened. Open dialogue was but must be clear at all times that Union leader. encouraged. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 7 Hikma Pharmaceuticals We fulfilled the planned meeting with International Labour Organization (ILO) for 2012. The ILO held a special meeting with representatives of the leading pharmaceutical manufacturers in Jordan. During the meeting they discussed matters of collective bargaining and trade union the MENA, unions are found in liberties of this sector’s labourers. Morocco, Tunisia and Jordan. This is a total of 7 locations out of 11 Hikma was invited to join as the countries, equivalent to 63% of leading pharmaceutical company Hikma Pharmaceuticals worldwide. in Jordan. This study was on a In the remaining sites, employees national level and the ILO focused are represented by members of the on Jordan, since it is a leader in the HR department. MENA region in the development of labour legislation and policies. Hikma measures the following GRI As part of the international efforts indicators: in this regard, it was decided to host this meeting in Amman. EC1: direct economic value, It presented a platform for the including employee wages and achievements of Jordan and for benefits the exchange of expertise on the latest developments. Participants LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost discussed opportunities to raise days, absenteeism the level of labour through pharmaceutical sector leaders’ LA10: average hours of training participation. per employee per category The ILO forum was done in collaboration with the Jordan Chamber of Industry. Through this forum, participating companies defined challenges and discussed the ILO methods to raise awareness among the labourers to the consequent development of the sector at the local, regional and international levels. Performance There is labour employee representation in the form of Unions in all our European sites: Portugal, Italy and Germany; as well as in the US facility. In Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 8 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Four: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Commitment Systems, Processes and Employee bylaws are distributed to new employees and explained Labour Standards Programs during the induction process. Hikma Pharmaceuticals has Administration Programs Any grievances received by always adopted standards that managers were processed to HR The cornerstone of Hikma’s social are consistent with established and dealt with in a timely manner, responsibility is that it cares for and globally accepted labour and appropriate measures were its employees and their families. requirements and this is evident in taken. Hikma provides decent income and all of Hikma’s subsidiaries. Ensuring benefits including but not limited The labour laws of the countries our employees are properly taken to special child care assistance that Hikma facilities are located care of is one of the core values programs to working mothers in are put into effect and and principles that Hikma was built and employment of handicapped communicated to managers within on. persons. their anti-corruption training Hikma’s Code of Conduct to ensure fair dealings among Hikma believes and invests specifically states that: employees. in educating its people and “Employee rights are safeguarded supporting them in their continued Our updated Code of Conduct was and employment laws and professional growth. Programmes published in the fourth quarter of regulations are complied with.” such as Hikma’s Continuing 2012. The Code and supporting Education Scheme offer full policies require that Hikma’s Employment matters standard in funding for eligible qualified employees uphold the highest the Code of Conduct states the employees to pursue higher ethical standards of employment following: education. Through management and reflect our commitment rotation plans, employees are to human rights. The Code of “Effective communication offered exposure to different parts Conduct was sent out across with employees is promoted, of business and the opportunity to the Group and was translated so that issues arising from build a diverse range of skills and into five main languages of business decisions are addressed experience. Hikma’s locations: English, Arabic, appropriately and in a timely fashion.” The administration respects Portuguese, French and German employees’ rights in line with the and has been uploaded to the Hikma applies ethical labour website. UNGC human rights principle. It standards along its supply chain. upholds the employees’ right to The supplier audit procedure Hikma will not deal with any privacy, and protects confidential continued and the results were supplier who does not honor employee information within processed back to the Corporate international labour standards. legal and regulatory frameworks. Responsibility department. As mentioned in the Code of Employment security is also protected through safeguarding Conduct: employment and employability. Performance “Hikma seeks to engage with Hikma measures the following GRI customers and suppliers whose indicators: employment practices respect human rights and whose ethical Actions SO3: percentage of employees standards meet the standards set trained in anti-corruption policies by Hikma.” Human Resources ensured that employee bylaws, which comply HR2: percentage of suppliers/ with local labour laws, are strictly contractors undergone human followed by every employee and rights screening necessary disciplinary action would take place if any of these laws were not abided by. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 9 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Five: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Commitment employees to notify HR instantly take place if any of these laws of any labour grievances they were broken. In line with international labour experience and HR immediately standards and ethical conduct , take measures to remedy the Employee bylaws are distributed the employment of children is issues in a responsible manner. to new employees and explained not tolerated at Hikma. Hikma These procedures maintain during the induction process. commits itself, at a minimum, Hikma’s high ethical standards The labour laws of the countries to abiding by the local labour and cover any mistreatments that that Hikma facilities are located laws in each of its locations and might occur between employees. in are put into effect and in some cases, exceeding them. Hikma applies accountability communicated to managers within The labour laws in the countries throughout its operations and their anti-corruption training Hikma operates in prohibit the has very open communication to ensure fair dealings among employment of minors under the whereby any employee can employees. age of eighteen. communicate the grievance to the CEO personally and expect that Our updated Code of Conduct was Hikma’s Code of Conduct states the steps will be taken to rectify it. Any published in the fourth quarter following: grievance is treated with utmost of 2012. It was sent out across confidentiality. the Group and was translated “Hikma is opposed to all forms of forced or child labour.” into five main languages of Suppliers Hikma’s locations: English, Arabic, This is applied throughout The supply chain process at Portuguese, French and German the group by the HR policy of Hikma’s manufacturing facilities and has been uploaded to the employment which covers full time chooses significant suppliers that website. and part time employees alike. uphold ethical practices and do The supplier audit procedure not break with internationally Hikma applies ethical labour continued and in 2012 over proclaimed integrity measures. standards along its supply chain. 2000 significant suppliers and Our suppliers follow Good Hikma will not deal with any contractors were audited by Hikma Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and supplier who does not honor mainly in Italy, Jordan and the US. our significant suppliers are ISO international labour standards. 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified As mentioned in the Code of or their equivalent. Conduct: To ensure all Hikma employees “Hikma seeks to engage with are aware of these standards customers and suppliers whose and abide by them, working employment practices respect with preferred suppliers was human rights and whose ethical incorporated in the Code. Hikma standards meet the standards set utilises the Suppliers Audit by Hikma.” procedure to ensure that suppliers conform to international labour laws, including refraining from child, forced and compulsory Systems, Processes and labour. Programs Actions Hikma follows strict accountability Human Resources ensured that the procedures that entail actions employee bylaws, which comply for rapid reporting of any labour with local labour laws, are strictly mistreatments. The actions entail followed by every employee and a Grievance Procedure that allows necessary disciplinary action would Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 10 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Performance suppliers and contractors. female employment, community efforts and youth employment. Our updated Code of Conduct, Recognition We were chosen for the Arabian which was published in the fourth Business Healthcare company Recognition was received in quarter of 2012, was signed of 2012 Award for our leading 2012 for Hikma’s excellence in by 2913 employees worldwide position in the MENA. implementing ethical standards, in 2012, covering 64% of the transparency measures and Hikma measures the following GRI employees of the business. high human rights and labour indicators: In 2012, the significant suppliers standards in its facilities in all its and contractors that were audited locations. Hikma was nominated SO3: percentage of employees group-wide for human rights, for “Best Investor Communications trained in anti-corruption policies labour and environmental issues Award.” It was selected for the International Finance Corporation HR2: percentage of suppliers/ was over 2000; respondents (IFC) Award for being an contractors undergone human reached in Hikma’s US operations exemplary company in terms of CR, rights screening to around 90% of the total pool of Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Six: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment it is a priority that employees and regulations with regards to are comfortable in their work workplace Health and Safety. Hikma is committed to providing environment. employees with an environment We aim to prevent accidents and free of all sorts of discrimination Hikma prides itself on being an cases of work-related ill health at and this is within Hikma’s equal opportunity employer Hikma. overarching principles. and is dedicated to eliminating discrimination with the company. We require our contractors and Hikma commits itself to ethical The Equal Treatment of Employees visitors to also comply with all standards in the Code of Conduct and Harassments Policy and site health, safety requirements. as follows: Procedure states the following: “Hikma operates a discrimination[At Hikma we believe in] “equal free working environment and treatment of employees and Systems, Processes and is committed to promoting a do not condone favouritism or Programs culture of respect, dignity and inequality in any shape or form. equal opportunity in which Hikma does not discriminate Matters pertaining to employees’ individual rights are based on a person’s race, colour, discrimination in respect of protected. Hikma believes that the religious creed, age, sex, marital employment and occupation are diversity of its workforce is highly status, national origin, present or covered in Hikma’s Recruitment valuable. Hikma is committed past history of mental or physical Policy worldwide. The Policy to providing an environment in disability and any other factors states the necessity for “equal which individuals can flourish not related to a person’s ability to employment opportunity in hiring” based on talent, experience, and perform a job.” in the globally acknowledged performance and where potential standards of equal opportunity. is recognised and encouraged. Health & Safety We provide an outlet for At Hikma: People are the single most employees to discuss their important factor for a successful grievances with HR through a Discrimination is not tolerated and business. Appreciating and Grievance Procedure and have an equal employment opportunities nurturing our employees is open door policy that ensures that are provided to all essential in every step of our they are heard and that actions work. Hikma is committed to its are taken to respect their human No forms of violence, bullying or employees’ health and safety. rights. harassment are tolerated. In addition, there is a dedicated This is an active process which Employee rights are safeguarded Health, Safety and Environment is made clear to all managers. and employment laws and (HSE) Policy, which is endorsed Any mistreatment or harassment regulations are complied with. by top management. It is a global is covered by the Grievance policy and applies to Hikma’s units Procedure. Hikma’s open door The need for training and worldwide. The policy states the policy translates into a completely development is recognised following in regards to Health and transparent process whereby as central to the on-going Safety: employees can express their development of our people, and grievance even to the CEO. There their skills and knowledge.” Hikma expects all its units to are in place many HR personnel comply with its high standards Equal opportunities who handle these situations of Health and Safety to ensure quickly and professionally, all the the utmost well being of its We believe in the equal treatment while ensuring the employee’s employees. of employees, respect for labour privacy and secrecy to ensure that standards, and a workplace free We ensure that Hikma complies there aren’t any repercussions from discrimination, favouritism or with and exceeds, where from voicing their concern. inequality in any form. At Hikma, possible… all the labour laws The labour laws in place in the US Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 12 Hikma Pharmaceuticals facility are in accordance with the The health and safety processes Learning and Development: Americans with Disabilities Act of are: 1990 (ADA). It makes it unlawful Assist employees in developing to discriminate in employment Employee Health: skills and knowledge. This against a qualified individual with encompasses a continuing All employees of Hikma will be education scheme for Hikma a disability. The ADA also outlaws provided with Health Insurance discrimination against individuals employees, which entails for both them and their providing scholarships to with disabilities in State and immediate family. local government services, public employees who qualify. accommodations, transportation It is the responsibility of the Create employment and telecommunications. This employee to inform his or her opportunities that enhance booklet explains the part of manager / supervisor of any human development. the ADA that prohibits job health condition or illness which discrimination. This part of will affect the safe performance Monitoring Health and Safety at the law is enforced by the U.S. of his or her job. Hikma Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and State and local Health and safety of employees are civil rights enforcement agencies Accident Prevention: monitored at every level of Hikma that work with the Commission. across its businesses. Safety rules are posted Health & Safety throughout the plant and VP of Operations: administration buildings, for We comply with workplace safety the protection of all employees. The group-wide overall Health standards OHSAS 18001 standards Managers and supervisors are and Safety function at Hikma or their equivalents – in our expected to enforce these globally is overseen by the manufacturing facilities. OHSAS rules. Employees who disregard VP of Operations who sets 18001 was aligned with ISO 14001 safety rules will be warned and annual strategic goals for the management systems. Hikma’s disciplined Hikma group with the General corporate Healthy, Safety and Managers of every company. Environment department manages General Manager: the environment management Health and Safety Training: requirements from ISO 14001 Training is provided regularly to The HS directive is overseen by and manages health and safety all employees. It is provided to the General Manager of each risks by continuing to abide by new employees at the beginning unit, who takes responsibility for the standard requirements for of their employment. Specialized ensuring the implementation of maintaining the OHSAS 18001 training for specific equipment the Health and Safety Policy. certification by renewing it is mandatory for operators annually. Health and Safety Supervisor: whose work entails using this Implementation of Hikma HSE equipment. An HS Supervisor is appointed Policy in each manufacturing unit to Monitoring, Reporting and take responsibility for ensuring The global HSE policy is developed Communicating: the implementation of the further into detailed health and Any injury that occurs during policy and compliance with local safety processes for each unit working hours should be regulations. and function. The responsibility reported immediately by of their implementation lies with If so required, the HS supervisor managers. A report should be may allocate appropriate the General Manager in each unit. completed as soon as possible These policies are consistently resources at each level of the and forwarded to Human organization to ensure the applied, enforced and updated to Resources, the HSE Supervisor protect employees from avoidable necessary compliance. This may and General Manager. include roles for a Fire Officer injuries. and a First Aid officer. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Health, Safety and Environment Committee: Each manufacturing unit also has a dedicated HSE Committee to oversee that operations are in line with the HSE policy. Corporate Responsibility Champions: governance and ensures the government’s mandate to lift fuel fulfilment of compliance subsidies. A CR champion in each requirements in all areas of the unit will also work with the Group’s business, which includes In 2012, mandatory occupational representatives appointed the elimination of discrimination training was conducted for all to ensure the day to day in respect of employment and manufacturing operators. implementation and occupation. communication of the HSE policy New employees learned about is fulfilled. As evidence of its commitment to Hikma’s Health and Safety Policy as providing a discrimination free part of their induction. The requirements of health and environment, Hikma has in place safety such as GRI are reported an “Equal Treatment of Employees Awareness sessions on healthy by the HS supervisor to the CR & Harassment” policy. living and stress reduction champion. continued to be conducted to The Equal Treatment of Employees To sustain a healthy work Hikma employees periodically. and Harassments policy was sent to environment for our people, all managers across the Group who Hikma is a member of the Global This year, Hikma played an active in turn were asked to circulate Smoke-free Partnership (GSP), role in promoting smoke-free the policy to their employees and promoting effective smoke-free air environments in the private update their policies manual. environments since 1994. sector by inviting major Jordanian During the hiring process, businesses to a session with the We conduct our annual recruiters are instructed and King Hussein Cancer Centre’s employee welfare week, the expected to eliminate any kind of Cancer Control Office to discuss ‘You Are Hikma’ campaign. discrimination and abide by the the dangers of smoking in the A global initiative staged at equal treatment of employees workplace. As a follow up to this Hikma locations worldwide, stated within the policy. event, an informal coalition of ‘You Are Hikma’ celebrates the smoke-free Jordanian businesses company’s core values by raising Orientation of the employees is was established. awareness among its staff of the first measure that Hikma fulfils health, safety and environmental to ensure that its employees are In 2012 the induction process was issues. It emphasizes personal knowledgeable of the rules and rolled out formally throughout empowerment, encouraging laws that protect them. the Hikma Group’s companies responsible corporate citizenship worldwide by standardizing the among Hikma staff and improving Actions stage two of the employees’ their well being and quality of orientation process in order to be life through positive and valuable In Jordan, Hikma announced distributed and copied across the educational activities. that it will be covering the costs Group during the coming year. The of the government’s monetary process was modified and refined Implementation of Equal compensation of fuel, by providing according to best practices and Treatment of Employees cash payments to Hikma employees HR’s experience, and has been who meet the compensation adopted by the various companies The CREC implements the requirements set forth by the in almost identical formats. principles of good corporate Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 14 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Under its continuing development and education scheme, Hikma held around 180 specialized training sessions in 2011, for the employees at Hikma corporate in Jordan. This includes training in technical matters such as oncology and biosimilars, soft skills such as leadership empowerment, following the appointment of new investigating how companies and quality assurance such as champions in Sudan and Tunisia. in emerging markets are Pharmacovigilance. investing in sustainability and We held our annual HR and CR how they are achieving business Hikma provides scholarships for training workshops for employees success, as a way of promoting continuing education under its globally in October to touch base good environment, social and continuing development and on main issues and introduce the governance practices in the private education scheme. We sent seven latest global trends in sustainable sector. employees last year to continue development and further train our their education from Jordan, GCC CR champions in GRI. As a result of this study, Hikma and Egypt. was awarded the IFC Client Employee Benefits Leadership Award announced All new employees took a medical examination covered by the during the World Bank-IMF Annual Hikma’s full time employees are Meeting in Tokyo in October. company. Additional periodic offered several benefits, including examinations may be required Hikma was presented this award class A medical insurance, for its success in helping to treat from time to time, also at the maternity leave, retirement expense of the company. patients in more than 50 countries provision through social security, through providing vital affordable and a provident fund. There are medicines. It was also recognized The supplier audit procedure different benefits provided to for its commitment to local continued and the significant employees of different countries communities – as an employer suppliers and contractors were according to local regulations and of more than 6,500 people, for audited group-wide for human job requirements. its support for female workers, rights, labour and environmental issues. for its commitment to applying The health and safety of our sales high environmental standards in force is covered by training and The CR Champions carried out production and for its commitment they are provided with class A several campaigns: “You are to education and training, medical insurance. Hikma provides Hikma” general employee health especially through the offering high quality safe cars to medical day, first aid training, fire drill internships for young people. representatives, as medical practice, anti-obesity campaign representatives require a lot of within the company and in the local community, breast cancer trips to doctors. Performance day in line with the world breast IFC Client Leadership Award We are an equal opportunity cancer initiative and world heart employer, promoting diversity and day. This year, we hosted a team inclusion. In a region characterized of fellows from Massachusetts by high unemployment, Hikma Through collaboration with HR, Institute of Technology (MIT) employs more than 6,500 CR responsibilities have been Sloan Business School and the employees, 83% of which are in officially added to CR champions’ International Finance Corporation the MENA countries. A quarter of KPIs. These responsibilities now (IFC) at our headquarters in our employees are female, which is represent 30% of their overall Jordan for an in-depth study double the regional average in the job responsibilities. We now have of the company. They were MENA. Females also make up 75% 15 champions across the group, Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals of Portugal’s workforce, and they EC1: direct economic value, occupy strategic top managerial including employee wages and positions across the Group. benefits We invest in the communities in LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost which we are located, hiring local days, absenteeism talent and developing the skills of the community’s youth. 60% of LA10: average hours of training employees were below the age of per employee per category 30 in 2012. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Seven: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Commitment Hikma expects all its units requirements and will work with to … maintain an operation our suppliers and contractors, This commitment is reflected in that minimizes all negative to bring our… environmental the Code of Conduct within the environmental and climate change standards into alignment. Citizenship Principle which states impacts associated with our the following: activities. We will ensure that this policy is periodically reviewed and “Hikma recognises the role it As a Pharmaceutical Company, applied to all of our processes can play in its communities and we recognize that our operations and operations. believes in giving back to those have an effect on the local and communities. Hikma will promote global environment and we seek economic and social development, the engagement of our staff at all environmental responsibility, levels to ensure implementing and maintaining the standards we set. Systems, Processes and and supports diversity and social integration.” Programs Hikma recognizes and Hikma stands by its environmental accepts its…environmental The Hikma environmental policy principle, which is mentioned in responsibilities and has is a framework for integrating the Code of Conduct as follows: established the following environmental and social policy…to minimize its impact on factors into the management Hikma strives to protect the the environment where possible. of Hikma’s supply chain. It natural environment in which it includes compliance with the operates, and sees sustainable We ensure that Hikma environmental legislations, development as a key element of complies with and exceeds, prevention of pollution, and the its role as a responsible business. where possible, the relevant continuous improvement of the environmental legislation. Environmental Management Hikma continues to work System, all the related Standard to reduce its impact on the We aim to minimize our impact Operating Procedures (SOPs), and environment, focusing in particular on climate change, water environmental programs. on minimising waste, analysing pollution, land contamination, carbon emissions, monitoring energy use, etc. Hikma is applying the and reducing energy usage, and environmental policy in every unit minimising demands for water We commit to the continuous in order to improve operations consumption. improvement of our... from an environmental point environmental performance and of view. Hikma is keen on Health, Safety and Environment will be setting targets and goals improving on all fronts including policy to ensure that we make progress minimizing our impact on climate The clauses that relate to on our performance in these change, water pollution, land environmental matters in the HSE areas and will transparently contamination, and energy use, policy are as follows: report our performance goals by setting goals specific to the and metrics. environment and working hard We are working towards limiting to achieve them. Responsibility that impact by educating our We will listen to the … for Environment is held by the staff and encouraging them to environmental concerns of our General Manager in each unit and think about their effect on the stakeholders and we will openly each business unit is responsible environment in everything they communicate on our policies and for implementing the company’s do. We are also actively exploring management process. Health, Safety and Environment ways in which we can reduce policy at its location. carbon emissions across the group We require our contractors and visitors to also comply Along these lines, Hikma is and reduce waste, particularly with all site… environmental committed to fulfilling the harmful waste. International Organization of Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 17 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Standardization (ISO) 14001 requirements or its equivalent in all the productions facilities worldwide. ISO 14001 management systems were aligned with the OHSAS 18001. Hikma’s Health, Safety and Environment department added the environment management to participate in Hikma’s This facility was also granted the requirements from ISO 14001 environmental activities. ISO 9001 certificate for quality in addition to managing health management, valid until 2015. and safety risks from OHSAS Training employees on the environmental policies and all We also continued to monitor 18001. These standards related the related SOPs, to demonstrate our performance against to environmental management the impact of the business on environmental Key Performance help Hikma (a) minimize how the environment and ways to Indicators (KPIs). These KPIs are the operations (processes etc.) minimise this impact. aligned with the Carbon Disclosure negatively affect the environment Project (CDP) and the global (i.e. cause adverse changes to air, Periodic internal audits reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting water, or land); (b) comply with guidelines, which we have been applicable laws, regulations, and Management review meetings reporting against for three years. other environmentally oriented Carbon emissions were analyzed requirements, and (c) continually Promoting sustainable in our operations and this year we improve its practices to achieve development through on-going supplied information on the six annual re-certification. initiatives to reduce waste, greenhouse gases. Hikma is also required to submit increase recycling and reduce reports and data to environmental energy consumption. associations such as ministry of environment and ministry of Continuity for the ISO 14001 Performance labour and Civil Defence in Jordan. certification or its equivalent Our environmental impact is Hikma is keen to do its utmost Interacting with key stakeholders assessed on yearly basis through for the prevention and to resolve issues and help our Global Reporting Initiative. management of environmental improve environmental We have continued with our accidents. There are Standards performance. commitment to achieve the Operating Procedures (SOPs) for target and goals of ISO 14001 prevention and management of or its equivalent to reduce the environmental accidents within the environmental impact produced Health, Safety and Environment Actions by energy consumption, hazardous Management function. waste, water usage and electrical We are increasingly working to consumption. Procedures taken to ensure monitor our environmental impact. the optimal results for Hikma’s In 2012, an ISO 14001 surveillance Hikma measures the following GRI environmental policy include: audit was conducted at the main indicators: plant in Jordan by SGS Jordan Communicating the HSE policy auditors. EN3: direct energy consumption to employees through awareness sessions, team meetings, This was successfully completed, EN8: total water withdrawal newsletters and posters. resulting in re-certification. ISO 14001 certification was also Encouraging employees renewed in our plant in Egypt. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 18 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Eight: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Commitment The oversight of these initiatives Programs to benefit the local lays with the CREC committee community Hikma upholds environmental and which reports to the Board of social consciousness by promoting Directors and is responsible for Employee programs training, sustainable development in areas sustainable development of health, safety where Hikma is present or has a healthcare systems within its Sustainability Reporting commercial interest. Corporate Responsibility function (CR), and the implementation Hikma deployed reporting This commitment can be seen in takes place through a network of systems that aim to reduce energy several official documents such as CR champions across the group. consumption, waste, greenhouse the Code, Environmental Policy, gas emissions and water and the company’s Annual Report. The Supplier Audit Questionnaire consumption: Global Reporting “Hikma strives to protect the Hikma utilises Suppliers Audit Initiative, the Carbon Disclosure natural environment in which it Questionnaires that relate to Project (CDP). It also produces an operates, and sees sustainable the environment to help with Annual Monitoring Report to the development as a key element of assessing the suppliers’ practices International Finance Corporation its role as a responsible business.” and increase their awareness (IFC) as part of its long-standing (Environmental Principle, Code of of responsible operations and partnership agreement. Hikma Conduct). business ethics. is committed to fulfilling the ISO 14001 requirements or its Through the Community Impact With regards to environmental equivalent. and Support principle in the Code matters, the questionnaire asks of Conduct, Hikma is “committed whether suppliers have: to benefitting the communities in which it works through charitable Obtained certification for Actions donations, volunteering and environmental, social and or the operation of its social and health and safety management Since desertification is an issue environmental policies.” system(s). in the MENA region, we try to focus on opportunities where we Published an environment/ can enhance the local natural sustainability or a corporate environment. This year we hosted Systems, Processes and social responsibility report (please send copy or provide web an Arbour Day event, encouraging the local community to plant trees Programs link) and become aware of their natural Promotion of sustainable habitat. We also collaborated with Established formal and development in healthcare several organizations that promote regular consultation with systems planting trees. local community and other stakeholders In 2011, we were invited to As a leading healthcare company, Hikma is well placed to lead on collaborate with the International Decreased use of resources, important issues in the markets Standards Organization (ISO), increased emission controls, or in which it operates and in turn the Jordan Standards and increased by-product recycling strong leadership enables Hikma to Metrology Organization (JSMO) differentiate itself from its peers. Marketing of products or and the Swedish International services that are specifically Development Cooperation Agency These can be in the form of environmentally friendly (SIDA) on a project about the environmental awareness use and implementation of the campaigns, disaster relief support, Worked to improve local supplier ISO 26000 certification for Social education campaigns and relationships or provided responsibility within the MENA. partnerships with national health technical assistance to suppliers In 2012, we took part in a related bodies. developing country workshop, Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 19 Hikma Pharmaceuticals where we presented our Performance experiences and joined a panel on social responsibility best practices. In 2012 over 2000 significant suppliers and contractors were Initiatives have been put in audited by Hikma, reaching in place to promote the recycling some countries up to around 90% of old computers, printers and (in the USA). furniture. These are redistributed across business units or donated Hikma measures the following GRI externally to charitable indicators: organizations. EN3: direct energy consumption EN8: total water withdrawal EN22: total weight of waste Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Nine: Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Systems, Processes and the all environment impact and aspects in our facilities such as Hikma strives to ensure the Programs air emission, dust, disposal water, adaptation of environmentally The information system for electrical consumption, diesel friendly processes in all its plants reporting environmental impact, consumption, pharmaceutical across the Group whenever which inevitably leads to waste (hazardous and non possible. improving on technologies and hazardous) and used oil by third processes, is a standard that is approved party as per Jordan and All of Hikma’s new buildings will international regulations. be built in an environmentally mentioned in the Code of Conduct friendly manner. Hikma is as follows: Hikma’s consideration of serious in its commitment to the COMMUNICATIONS, DISCLOSURES the environment is reflected environment as an integral part of AND RECORDS throughout its processes, and its corporate strategy. this is evident in its purchasing Maintain information policy, which was updated to This commitment is stated in management systems to ensure state that Hikma is required to several official documents such that our records are maintained install environmentally conscious as the Code, the Environmental in compliance with applicable equipment in its production units. Policy, and the company’s Annual legal, regulatory, environmental, Report. tax, employment, and trade The improvement on the requirements. environmental front for all Hikma stands by its environmental processes is an ongoing effort. principle, which is mentioned in Environmental and Social the Code of Conduct as follows: Hikma Group is seeking to Performance, Annual Monitoring reduce energy costs and increase Hikma strives to protect the Report (AMR) sustainability throughout all of its natural environment in which it Hikma prepares a comprehensive facilities by implementing Energy operates, and sees sustainable Annual Monitoring Report Conservation Measures (ECMs). development as a key element of (AMR) for Hikma’s facilities and its role as a responsible business. There are three specific objectives operations for the IFC part of the surrounding this vision: Hikma continues to work World Bank Group. This document to reduce its impact on the displays the environmental and 1) Minimize energy costs environment, focusing in particular social state and enables Hikma to ensure that its operations meet 2) Maximize sustainability through on minimising waste, analysing all the requirements of the local reduction of carbon emissions carbon emissions, monitoring and reducing energy usage, and regulatory agencies and applicable World Bank Group (WBG)/IFC 3) Reduce reliance on the electricity minimising demands for water supply from the public supply consumption policies and Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines. Systems network Green Buildings must be put in place to ensure that ECMs consist of two groups of environmental externalities stay technologies that enable the All of Hikma’s new buildings will beneath WBG/IFC Maximum Levels above objectives to be achieved: be built in an environmentally and host country maximum Levels. friendly manner. Hikma is Energy Efficiency technologies serious in its commitment to the Hikma personnel are required enable the energy (both electrical environment as an integral part to monitor, record, and report and thermal energy) that is of its corporate responsibility environmental monitoring data procured to be utilised more strategy. throughout the reporting period. effectively within the facility. By As a part of its environmental improving energy efficiency, the efforts Hikma initiated a procedure user does not need to use as much to measure, monitor and record energy to deliver the same tasks or processes. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 21 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Decentralised Energy technologies enable energy to be produced at or near the point of use, generally from renewable energy sources. This is in contrast to the traditional, wasteful and increasingly costly method of buying energy that is generated in a centralised power station Hikma’s state-of-the-art lyophilised that may be many hundreds of plant in Portugal that was kilometres from the point at which inaugurated in 2011 became the energy is needed. fully operational during this We strive to protect the natural year. It is a fully environmentally environment focusing in particular friendly building, in accordance to on minimising waste, analysing international standards. carbon emissions, monitoring and reducing energy usage and minimising demands for water consumption. Performance Hikma’s operations were able to reduce Diesel consumption by 14.6% and decrease hazardous Actions waste by 10%. Across the group, we aim to Hikma measures the following GRI minimize our environmental indicators: impact by integrating environmental policies and EN3: direct energy consumption activities into our day-toEN8: total water withdrawal day business. New machinery installed in two of our facilities EN22: total weight of waste in Jordan will help lower energy consumption and reduce carbon emissions. While providing a clear environmental benefit, this project will also drive cost savings, through reductions in electric, fuel and water consumption. Hikma partnered with Self Energy and Nakhil Jordanian Investment and Trading Company to explore optimal ways to reduce energy costs, carbon emissions and our reliance on electricity. The project included energy and power utilization assessment of our facilities in six markets, including Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Algeria. Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 22 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Principle Ten: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment and other individuals working in compliance with the Combined for Hikma and joint ventures in Code and Markets Law. BUSINESS ETHICS which it has an equity control are prohibited from offering or The key functions of the Our commitment to business Committee are to oversee the giving, either directly or indirectly, integrity is crucial to sustain a Group’s approach to compliancemoney or anything else of value, trusted and responsible image related issues including Hikma’s as a bribe or inducement: to among our stakeholders. Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC). make, (or as a reward for making Our business ethics are central or not making), a decision that is The ABC report in the corporate to the way we do business. As favourable to Hikma’s interests; or Annual Report states the a leading healthcare company, to seek to gain an unfair business following: we strive to overcome today’s advantage or otherwise influence social and economic challenges business activities; or which Quality and excellence have by staying focused on upholding compromises their judgement or been the heart of Hikma since its the highest ethical conduct in their ability to act objectively. foundation, and Hikma has always everything we do. been committed to the highest This standard applies to standards of integrity and ethics in Hikma does not tolerate interactions with to all individuals the conduct of its business. Hikma corruption in any shape or form and corporate bodies with whom has a zero tolerance of bribery and and has undertaken strict measures Hikma does business – healthcare corruption. Hikma will not penalize to ensure the compliance of all professionals, customers, suppliers, any individual for complying with employees with these standards. professional bodies, regulatory the principles enshrined in the As Hikma is a public listed authorities, and NGOs – regardless Code or in our ABC policies, even company in the London Stock of where they are located at the cost of forgoing a business Exchange, it must abide by the geographically. opportunity, losing revenue or UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and profit or disobeying a superior’s At Hikma we will: implement the Share Dealing Code instructions. Hikma will discipline and Disclosure policies that follow Act honestly, ethically and staff for ethical breaches in order strict guidelines regarding share with integrity in all company to maintain its high standards of dealing and prohibit the use of interactions integrity. internal information for personal gain or insider trading. Not engage in or condone bribery Hikma is committed to engage or any other form(s) of corruption employees in transparent Hikma’s core Integrity Principle in communications. The Code of the Code of Conduct states: Not give or receive gifts or Conduct has a Speaking Up hospitality where this could give Hikma does not condone or standard as follows: rise to a perception of a corrupt participate in any form of purpose Hikma wishes to encourage an corruption and refrains from doing environment in which full, free, business with those who do not Compliance, Responsibility and and frank discussions can be meet its standards. Ethics Committee “CREC” held on issues that concern our The Code of Conduct discusses In light of the UK Bribery employees. Therefore, Hikma has anti-bribery and corruption in Act, there is a Compliance, always had an open door policy detail. Employees are expected to Responsibility and Ethics regarding communication. abide by the following standards Committee “CREC” that reports to the Board of Directors Furthermore, we must hear from of behaviour in the way that they those who have any concerns conduct business: whose main focus has been on formalising Hikma’s existing strong about the ethics and integrity Hikma has a zero tolerance of commitment to business integrity, of our business. As part of your bribery and corruption. in accordance with the principles commitment to this Code, you of good corporate governance and have a duty to report to the All directors, officers, employees, Company as soon as possible any Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 23 Hikma Pharmaceuticals suspected violations of the Code, that it operates adequately and He is supported by a group its supporting policies or any effectively. Compliance Manager. applicable law or regulations of which you become aware. The CREC reviews group policy in The heads of each business the area of CR at a Board level and division have taken responsibility Hikma commits to a number is supported in this work by the CR to be the compliance champion of Global Initiatives pertaining Committee. for their division. They set the to anti-corruption. Being a tone for business integrity in signatory to the United Nations The CREC is responsible for their operations. This aligns the Global Compact signifies overseeing the development of the ownership of good compliance Hikma’s commitment to aligning group’s Code of Conduct. behaviours with the day-to-day operations with the UNGC’s ten The CREC also oversees Hikma’s business operations. universally accepted principles, Speak-Up process for employees including anti-corruption, and ABC Risk Assessment to raise ethical concerns, and, Hikma continues to propagate where relevant, oversees their As reported in last year’s Annual its commitment for the fifth investigation. report, in 2011 Hikma undertook consecutive year by submitting a full ABC risk assessment. This this Communication on Progress was performed by the good report. Our business Corporation, an independent body who have specialized in business ethics and integrity for Systems, Processes and ethics are over a decade. Good Corporation visited each of our major areas Programs central to the of operation to perform this risk assessment. The Compliance, Responsibility way we do and Ethics Committee (CREC) As reported, a significant conclusion from the exercise was The Compliance, Responsibility and that Hikma has a strong ethical Ethics Committee (CREC) consists of several board members including business culture that is deeply embedded within its operations. the Executive Vice Chairman. Code of Conduct Within the Company, the Executive Compliance Architecture Vice Chairman champions Hikma’s In conjunction with undertaking Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) The group has created a the development of our ABC and Corporate responsibility (CR) framework that sets out the policies, we undertook a full programs. structure of leadership, delegated review of Hikma’s existing code authority and ownership for of conduct. We benchmarked The CREC sets the overall strategy Hikma’s ABC compliance program. this code against good industry for the group’s response to Operational responsibility and practice and a peer group of bribery and corruption risks and oversight for compliance is international companies. We is responsible for approving the assigned by the Board to the also undertook a full internal contents of all of the business’s Executive vice Chairman, who consultation, encompassing policies in areas where ethical then delegates responsibility to a broad cross-section of judgments are important. his management team. The Head management – and benefitted of Compliance reports directly to from the input of our external The CREC therefore oversees Compliance Consultant. the CREC on compliance matters the group’s ABC Compliance and his leadership of ABC issues is The updated Code was reviewed Program and is responsible for the overseen by the CREC Chairman by the CREC and proposed to framework of the ABC compliance and the Executive Vice Chairman. the Board, where it was fully within the group and to ensure Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals supported. The new Code has now been translated into the major functional languages of Hikma: English, Arabic, French, German and Portuguese. Each year Hikma employees are required to confirm that they have read the Code, have understood it and will abide by its terms. Department and the Compliance able to raise concerns on issues Champions for 2013 will be of integrity without retribution Employees also confirm that they to finalize these policies and and that appropriate methods of understand their obligations to commence their implementation voicing such concerns be available report events of suspected nonacross the group. to them. compliance with the Code. Training Hikma has always encouraged ABC Policies and Procedures an environment in which full, The development of our free, and frank discussions can Using the information gained policies has been undertaken be held on issues that concern its from the ABC risk assessment, our in conjunction with our onemployees. primary focus in 2012 has been going focus on education and the design and development of dissemination of ABC compliance Therefore, Hikma has an new ABC policies, aimed to link information across the business. open door policy regarding our ethical culture to more formal communication so that it can processes. During the year, our employee hear from those who have any induction programs have been questions or concerns about the We engaged an external updated to ensure that each new ethics and integrity of the business. Compliance Consultant to assist employee can clearly understand with thought leadership for the the group’s ethical expectations. As part of their commitment to development of our framework In addition, increasing awareness the Code employees understand and policies. has been built within the business that they have a duty to report for the processes and issues of ABC any suspected violations of the During the year, the Compliance compliance, with training given Code, of Hikma’s policies or any Consultant worked with the to functional and geographical applicable law or regulations. compliance function to produce teams across the group, with a a full suite of ABC policies, Hikma encourages employees to particular focus on the MENA together with a framework for report these concerns, and where region. Formal board training their operation and procedures employees believe that it is not on ABC compliance issues was for their implementation. A possible or appropriate to report also performed during the year. full consultation with executive to line management, they may This training and communication management is on-going, make reports confidentially to continues to enhance employees’ encompassing the advice and any senior manager within the understanding of bribery and support of the Compliance business. corruption risks, and increases the Champions, and senior functional penetration of compliance issues Hikma investigates all reports and line management within into the decision-making process of non-compliance and takes each business division and each for business departments as they appropriate action. We continue significant geography. This process consider existing and new business to encourage all our employees has been undertaken in order to structures. to improve our business by taking ensure that the policies can and will be applied consistently at Speak-up advantage of our desire for an every level throughout Hikma. open and constructive dialogue. The Board understands that it The focus of the Compliance is critical for employees to be Corporate Responsibility Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 25 Hikma Pharmaceuticals The Executive vice Chairman be launched before the end of of an external consultant with champions Hikma’s Corporate the year upon which all sales and significant industry experience in Responsibility program within marketing teams in the MENA this area. the Company and is Chairman of region will be adequately trained Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility to comply with to be integrated in Further steps were taken in the Committee. The Director of their induction training program. training and education of our Communications is responsible for employees enhancing both their CR at an operational level. The program focuses on the MENA understanding of ABC matters and sales team where pharmaceutical our processes for the discussion of The CREC Chairman, Director of sales mainly depend on direct concerns. Communications, divisional and contact between the business functional heads, and Company and doctors through the medical Our oversight of and input into Secretary are members of the CR representatives. Hikma boasts a Hikma’s CR program has moved to Committee. The CR Committee strong sales force of over 1700 another level over the course of reviews, supports and promotes medical representative in the the year. Hikma’s CR activities and reports region. We formalized the reporting directly to the CREC. relationship for the Corporate The CR team, led by the Director Responsibility Committee to the CREC. of Communications, regularly Actions presents developments to the The Corporate responsibility team’s CREC. Compliance, Responsibility and undergoes regular presentation Ethics Partnering against Corruption of developments in Corporate Initiatives (PACI) This has been the second full Responsibility initiatives to the year of operation for the CREC. Hikma’s commitment is also Compliance, Responsibility and evidenced by being a founding In 2013, the CREC will be focused Ethics Committee. Over the year member of Partnering against on the on-going development we have continued to develop Corruption Initiatives (PACI), an of our compliance program, and our program for Anti-Bribery and off-shoot of the World Economic further training and education Anti-Corruption (ABC) compliance Forum. PACI is a business driven of our employees to build and formalized our oversight of global initiative that seeks to understanding of compliance Hikma’s Corporate Responsibility fight bribery and corruption. issues across the group. (CR) program. The CREC met seven Participants commit to zero times during the year. The CREC This will continue to give our tolerance of bribery and the first met in November 2010. people the tools and information successful implementation of a they need to make good decisions program to fight bribery and Progress has made towards when they are faced with ethical corruption. linking Hikma’s strong culture of issues. ethics with formal processes and Responsible Sales procedures to help ensure ABC Speak Up compliance and strengthen our We actively seek to ensure that In 2012 we implemented a marketplace activities. Our ABC responsible sales are maintained. dedicated and anonymous Program moved on significantly In addition to being an integral telephone reporting line in during the year, following the part of our code of conduct the US, and added to this with completion of the risk assessment which is regularly communicated additional telephone and online in 2011. to all Hikma’s employees, we reporting processes in the EU at are currently finalizing a set A full suite of ABC policies has the beginning of 2013. We also of compliance policies and been drafted that are designed to tested a MENA region reporting procedures covering all sales and meet the requirements identified line, which we are assessing for marketing aspects. These policies by our risk assessment. This was roll out over the course of this and procedures are expected to undertaken with the assistance year. Reports coming through Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals these lines are reviewed by a management Compliance Committee established for this purpose and by the Chairman of CREC for potential consideration by the full Committee. Transparency Measures Our image as a responsible and Ethical Suppliers Performance trusted organization is important to us. Communication standards The supply chain process at Our updated Code of Conduct, were formalized in 2012 to Hikma’s manufacturing facilities which was published in the fourth maintain a unified image across chooses significant suppliers that quarter of 2012, was signed our platforms, which encompass uphold ethical practices and do by 2913 employees worldwide the virtual online platform as not break with internationally in 2012, covering 64% of the well. An extensive social media proclaimed integrity measures. employees of the business policy was distributed to Hikma’s Our suppliers follow Good including managers and nonemployees worldwide and has Manufacturing Practices (GMP) and managers. become part of their employment our significant suppliers are ISO contract to ensure responsible and 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified In 2012 throughout the group ethical participation in both Hikma or their equivalent. over 2000 significant suppliers and endorsed and other social media contractors were audited with Responsible Sales varying degrees of responsiveness platforms. We also created formal Hikma accounts in the main and in each country, at the most the Training of the employees is the relevant social media outlets. response rate in the US operations first measure that Hikma fulfils reached around 90%. to ensure that its employees are We welcome external stakeholder knowledgeable of the rules and Recognition engagement and are transparent laws that protect them. 2012 in our business activities. Our sense Recognition was received in saw the formalization of the of responsibility and transparency 2012 for Hikma’s excellence in sales training program refined was displayed in our cooperation implementing ethical standards, according to best practices and and openly responding to ethical transparency measures and HR’s experience. A complete audit organizations, which in turn high human rights and labour assessment was done to the helped our ethical investment standards in its facilities in all its sales force comprising medical opportunities making Hikma locations. Hikma nominated for representatives and supervisors. a more attractive prospect for “Best Investor Communications The HAP assessment measured ‘green’ investors. Award.” It was selected for the their technical and sales abilities As a founding member of PACI, we as well as the coaching and International Finance Corporation continued to work with businesses supervisory skills of supervisors. (IFC) Award for being an around the globe to combat exemplary company in terms of CR, The training program was female employment, community bribery and corruption, as this established in 80% Hikma’s efforts and youth employment. initiative requires a commitment companies in the MENA region. We were chosen for the Arabian to zero tolerance of bribery in all The program focuses on the MENA Business Healthcare company its forms. sales team where Hikma has a of 2012 Award for our leading In April 2012, the CR Department strong sales force of over 1700 position in the MENA. of Hikma’s Saudi Arabian facility, medical representative in the JPI, was registered in the Chamber region. Hikma measures the following GRI of Commerce in Riyadh as one of indicators: the pioneers in this field. SO3: percentage of employees Communication on Progress Report 2012 | 27 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
