linda b | w e simp l i fy c o n s t r u c t i o n Lindab Life Sustainability Report 2012 Extracted from Lindab’s Annual Report 2012 lindab | a w o rd fro m t h e c e o A word from the CEO Anders Berg, newly-appointed President and CEO We are in a strong position Shortly after I agreed to become Lindab’s plentiful but we must not wait for the economy non-residential buildings as well as extensive President, I visited the head office in Grevie and in order to realise them fully. Instead, we will renovations of existing property. Our initiatives our operations in Hungary. The moment I walked continue, in a prudent and cost-conscious way, to create a comprehensive distribution network through the doors at both places, I experienced to strengthen our distribution and develop new in this region focusing on the Lindab brand will the very thing I had heard so much about – the leading-edge products and solutions within ultimately pay off. The acquisition of the Polish Lindab spirit! This is something that has been all our business areas that live up to Lindab’s ventilation distributor Centrum Klima and newly built around strong core values such as Cusambition and business concept – to simplify adopted measures to streamline production tomer Success, Down-to-Earth and Neatness construction along with our customers – more further strengthen our position. and Order. It felt as though it was in the very clearly than ever before. But most importantly – walls. And it has probably been there ever since every one of us who drives this Group forward The right offering for Lage Lindh, over 50 years ago, started what must understand that we should be proud of tomorrow’s buildings has today evolved into a successful Group with where we work. We are part of a company with Another important trend, which in the first operations in more than 30 countries. It is now a long history of entrepreneurship. We live and phase will mainly benefit the Western European my duty and that of my colleagues to continue breathe the Lindab brand! construction market, is the need for energy writing this story. efficient buildings – driven by legislation and Strong geographical exposure the quest for lower housing costs. Through A solid foundation In a situation where the forecasts for a revarious subsidies, we are already seeing many In a European construction market at historicovery in the European construction market governments stimulating energy efficient concally low levels, Lindab has performed relatively are numerous and contradictory, I can say that struction and renovation of both residential and well. The operating margin and profit have Lindab is well positioned geographically but non-residential buildings. This type of initiative been continually strengthened over the last naturally there is room for continued expansion, will increase as 2020 approaches and new three years, helping to make us resilient in bad in existing regions as well as new ones. Our EU regulations are introduced. The slogan times and give us strong leverage in better largest market is the Nordic region. We operate “Build tight – ventilate right” highlights two of times. This development is primarily built upon throughout CEE and our business in Russia the most important components for energy intensive efforts regarding cost reductions and is strong. In Western Europe, we are mainly efficient buildings – quality construction and operational efficiencies. exposed towards the more stable economies in efficient ventilation. Lindab is well positioned the central and northern parts of the region and in this regard as one of the leading European Many competitive advantages have only limited sales in the weaker Southern suppliers to the ventilation and construction The cost reductions have been necessary and European markets. Lindab’s position in the east markets. We will simplify construction for our effective, but merely enacting “cost measures” is particularly interesting. In Russia, the demand customers by offering them the most efficient is not enough to create a sustainable successful for new industrial buildings is poised for further products from a life cycle perspective. Some business with a focus on profitable growth. We strong growth and we have an advantage by recent and good examples of this include a need to be more proactive. Lindab is a market having our own efficient production in place new series of indoor climate solutions, a new leader and has the muscles needed to increase that can be utilised for further initiatives. The concept for residential ventilation, several new its market share further. Lindab has a strong and market in CEE, however, has fallen significantly roofing solutions, and the new platform for respected brand, an efficient and comprehensive in recent years, barring one or two exceptions. smaller buildings that we are launching in early distribution network plus the best products in Meanwhile, we cannot ignore the fact that 2013. Creating sustainable development and the industry. The competitive advantages are there is a great need for both residential and taking social responsibility are fundamental 8 l i nda b | a word f rom th e ceo aspects of Lindab’s business, and the Group’s guidelines and programmes within this field are gathered under the concept, Lindab Life. In addition to efforts to develop energy efficient solutions with the least possible environmental impact, Lindab has continued in 2012 to work towards an improved understanding of and compliance with good business ethics and safe work environments. The Lindab spirit makes the difference To summarise, I affirm that Lindab is well equipped for the future. The market situation is obviously a challenging one, but the same applies to everyone. One of many differences is the Lindab spirit, belief in ourselves and what we can do for our customers. This gives us enormous strength and makes us winners, regardless of future market developments. Anders Berg, President and CEO from 18 March 2013. 9 lindab | lindab l i fe Lindab regards its sustainability efforts as a value-creating cycle, in which the initiatives that favour the external environment and stakeholders also beneﬁt the company. In 2012, Lindab has concentrated its efforts within the ﬁelds of business ethics, energy-efﬁciency, climate and environmental impacts and safe work environments. Important sustainability work Creating sustainable development and taking Throughout the Group, Lindab has implemented labour and forced labour. The risk of such viosocial responsibility have always been fundaa clear regulatory framework – Code of Ethics – lations is considered to be low within the Group mental to Lindab. The Group’s guidelines and dealing with perceptions regarding sustainable and no violations were recorded during the year. programmes regarding social responsibility and business ethics. The code is based on the UN sustainability are combined under the Lindab Convention on Human Rights and describes Lindab does not tolerate abuse and discrimLife concept. This summarises how Lindab the principles regarding how every employee ination and strives for diversity and equality. should act on a daily basis and how the comshould behave in their relations with other empany should behave towards its customers, ployees, shareholders, business partners and The information presented relates to the calensuppliers and other partners. Lindab Life also other stakeholders. Every employee has the dar year for 2012 and, unless otherwise specigoverns the behaviour towards employees and right to form, join or refrain from participation fied, extends to all operating subsidiaries that the communities in which the company is prein trade unions or other organisations that enwere included from the start of the year. Comsent. Furthermore, it covers every significant gage in collective bargaining. Lindab makes panies that were divested or ceased operaenvironmental issue from a process and prodrisk assessments of its geographical markets tions reported data for the time that they were uct perspective. concerning factors such as oppression, child active. The previous sustainability report was published in April 2012. Lindab Life consists of four Business Lindab receives various government grants areas – Business, EnvironEnvironment for its operations. In 2012, these amounted to approximately SEK 16 m. The majority, 52 perment, Employees and Society, Employees cent, was state support in Russia in the form which also act as a framework for reporting the company’s + Society of tax breaks and investment grants. In Sweden a government grant was received for the sustainability work. redemption of a property, constituting 13 perLindab Life cent. The remainder consisted mainly of training and transport subsidies. 38 l i nda b | l i nd ab life Lindab’s social responsibility and Lindab Life are based on the following guidelines and control instruments: Lindab’s Code of Ethics and core values play a guiding role in Lindab’s organisation and WHISTLEBLOWER It is important that all employees its operations. Together with the UN’s Global Compact, the sustainability reporting in respond and act when deviations accordance with GRI and ISO 26000 comprise the cornerstones necessary for buildoccur from the principles of Lindab ing confidence and the basis for a strong brand. Life. Part of Lindab’s Code of Ethics describes the “whistleblower” − ISO 26000 – Guidelines for social responsibility. function, the opportunity for all − Global Compact – Guidelines on human rights, environment etc. employees to anonymously report − Global Reporting Initiative, GRI – Sustainability reporting abuses that are contrary to Lindab guidelines. Lindab reports under GRI level C. Life. No notifications have been − Greenhouse Gas Protocol – Guidelines for calculating greenreceived in 2012. house gas emissions. − Lindab Code of Ethics – Comprehensive internal policy document indicating approach. − Lindab’s core values, see page 10. Lindab’s work with social responsibility (SR) The Board The CEO and Group management are responsible for Lindab’s work regardof Directors ing SR, which is implemented by Group Staff Legal. The work is executed by an SR team comprising employees from the Legal, Finance, Purchasing, HR, Communications and Sales functions. Goals Reports Control instruments Control President and CEO Group management Priority issues: SR management SR group –Business ethics SR=Social Responsibility –Energy efficiency Stakeholder dialogue Materiality and risk analysis –Climate and environmental impact S u p plier s –Safe work environment Cu et y s to S oci mer s Lindab Distribution of revenue by stakeholder Lindab’s sales revenue in 2012 amounted to SEK 6,656 m (6,878), comprising sales of the company’s products and services. Most of Em s this is distributed among the company’s stakeholders. or pl st o ve ye In es Suppliers, 65% (67) Employees, salaries inc. social sec. contributions and pensions, 26% (25) Priorities determined through stakeholder dialogue Investors, profit for the year, 3% (2) Issues that emerged during the year through dialogues with various stakeSociety, tax, 1% (2) holders include ethical matters such as anti-corruption and free compeBanks etc., interest income and expenses, 1% (1) tition, environmental aspects such as the effect of steel on the environOther1), 4% (3) ment, energy-efficient products, as well as the Group’s energy consump1) Other consists of items that cannot be attributed to individual stakeholders. tion and carbon footprint. Based on these, a risk and materiality analysis This items mainly comprises depreciation, write-down of goodwill, was performed, thereby determining Lindab’s priorities. exchange rate differences and capital gains on the sale of assets.. 39 lindab | lindab l i fe Lindab’s business is based on energy-efﬁcient products and services that simplify construction. Together with sound business ethics, this contributes to healthy and long-term relationships with the company’s customers. Development of energy-efﬁcient solutions Lindab’s product development is founded on its Quality assured products year in the Group’s provision of products or in determination to contribute to simplifying conResources are being dedicated to the developthe health and safety impacts of the products. struction in all phases of the construction proment of products in order to optimise the manucess. The goal is to develop sustainable and facturing process, and to reduce costs and the Sound business ethics energy-efﬁcient products. In 2012, Lindab has environmental impact. Products that are develSound business ethics are pursued throughlaunched a new concept for residential ventioped are continuously tested and documented out Lindab’s business. All major suppliers must lation in several European markets, a demandin order to guarantee the quality and functionaladopt Lindab’s Code of Ethics and thereby comcontrolled and energy efﬁcient system for indoor ity. These are delivered together with the docmit to meeting the associated requirements. climate, as well as innovative solutions for wall umentation requested in the various markets, Unfortunately, in the construction industry and insulation in buildings that contribute to the insuch as user manuals, certificates and building in the various geographical markets where creased airtightness and warmth. product declarations. Lindab’s Swedish webLindab operates, certain operators behave in site contains building product declarations for a manner that is not acceptable. Lindab has Improved indoor climate all products that state the materials that are inlong had a competition policy that is continSince people spend a large proportion of their cluded. For many of the core products there uously reviewed and updated. Conduct that time indoors, it is important that the indoor are declarations of the Carbon Footprint, i.e. breaches competition rules is unacceptable. environment is healthy and that the compothe climate impact of the product from craCompany employees are informed and trained nents used in the building present no health dle to gate (from extraction of the raw material about the content of Lindab’s policy in order to risks. Lindab works actively to identify and reuntil the moment it leaves Lindab’s factories). avoid violation of these rules. Lindab has zero place building materials that can be regarded The high quality and functionality of Lindab’s tolerance towards corruption and has an antias a hazard to the environment or to health. products help to lower the risk of adverse efcorruption policy to ensure that conduct that Research and development projects are perfects on health and safety. All of Lindab’s largmight be considered as corruption does not take formed in-house as well as with suppliers, noer production units are certified under the ISO place in the company. The policy was updattably into surface treatment, corrosion prob9001 quality management system and the ISO ed in 2012 to comply with the UK Bribery Act. lems, strength as well as health and environ14001 environmental management system. No breaches against the group’s ethical prinmental aspects. No breaches have been identified during the ciples have been reported in 2012. Steel and sheet metal are the dominant materials in Lindab’s products. Although Steel steel has a long life compared to many other building materials, Lindab works together with the steel mills to produce more durable materials, with consideration to both the environment and quality. Because steel is an inorganic material that does not absorb liquids, no pesticides or other chemicals are required to protect against pests, mould or rot when it is used as a building material. Virtually all steel can be recycled and steel is today one of the most recycled materials in the world. It is estimated that approximately 20 percent of the steel that Lindab uses has been recycled. a sustainable material 40 l i nda b | l i nd ab life The right air in every situation In Europe, buildings account for about 40 percent of energy consumption. Meanwhile, studies into modern office buildings show that employees only spend 50–70 percent of their working hours in the office. To adapt the air flow to the need and reduce the energy consumption, a flexible indoor climate solution is needed. Lindab’s new VAV system, Pascal, is the market’s most simplified solution helping to optimise energy use. With Pascal, for example, the indoor climate can be controlled via an occupancy sensor that detects if the room is empty. If that is the case, the airflow decreases to a standby mode to reduce energy consumption even more. Lindab Pascal was launched at the start of 2012 and has been very positively received by customers. Lindab Pascal VAV = Variable Air Volume. With a VAV system a variable needs-based airflow can be achieved, thereby optimising the fan energy use. 41 lindab | lindab l i fe The growing interest in the construction industry for environmentally friendly products and production processes favours Lindab’s modern manufacturing of steel products, with solutions for simpliﬁed construction that contribute to a lesser environmental impact. Continuous environmental improvements A number of projects are being conducted withat reducing the Group’s impact on the environEmissions in the Group focused on reducing the environment and climate. The objectives are based on Transport mental impact, energy consumption and the the EU’s climate objectives for 2020. The longEnvironmental demands are made in the amount of scrap metal. The ongoing environterm objectives are complemented by shorter, central procurement of transportation. Conmental work is governed by the Environmenmore locally-based objectives and activities. In solidation and logistical planning also reduce tal Policy and agreed environmental objectives. particular, this means better processes and rethe environmental impact of transport. The The direct responsibility for environmental isduced energy consumption. majority of packaging consists of renewable sues resides with the local companies, with one materials, which are recycled. Lindab’s Carperson holding responsibility for the local enviUse of resources bon Footprint studies show that transport acronmental work. At Group level there is a cenUse of steel, the main raw material, has decounts for a fraction of the product’s overall tral environmental function with responsibility creased by approximately 6 percent. Energy climate impact. for the development, coordination and moniconsumption fell in 2012 as did the emission toring of the environmental work. of greenhouse gases. The decrease is in abProduction solute terms and per tonne of steel produced. Lindab’s operations, with modern manufacLindab’s energy This is mainly due to the decrease in producture of steel products, have a relatively small and climate objectives tion but the energy efficiency project has also environmental impact. This can be small emisLindab has set three long-term objectives aimed paid dividends. sions of dust, solvents from paint and metals into waste water. The processes that can result in emissions into water use closed systems and air containing dust is filtered conEnergy consumption Greenhouse gas emiswill decrease by 20% sions will decrease by tinually prior to being emitted. No unintended emissions have occurred during the year. of energy will come from –20% renewable sources –20% Most of the Group’s production facilities are connected to municipal drainage. Water that Consumption of raw materials Waste & scrap metal 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Steel, tonnes 183,000 193,000 182,000 Steel scrap, tonnes 13,491 14,574 13,590 Oils, m3 132 80 210 Hazardous waste, tonnes 655 635 490 Paint, tonnes 521 446 640 Total other waste, tonnes 4,345 4,705 6,340 Solvents, m3 12 20 20 Recycling rate, % 87 90 90 Rubber, tonnes 1,008 675 1,280 Energy Consumption of packaging materials 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Total, TJ 370 396 403 Cardboard, tonnes 1,861 1,914 2,130 Direct energy, TJ 185 198 170 Plastic, tonnes 679 380 730 Indirect energy, TJ 185 198 232 Wood, tonnes 7,424 7,290 11,580 Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions Tj SEK m 500 7,500 2012 2011 2010 Total, tonnes 55,987 61,086 52,366 400 6,000 Direct emissions, tonnes 11,349 11,896 10,392 Indirect emissions, tonnes 15,146 22,118 19,798 300 4,500 Other sources, tonnes 29,492 27,073 22,176 200 3,000 Energy consumption 2012 Water Energy consumption 2009–2011 100 1,500 2012 2011 2010 Sales revenue 0 0 Total water consumption, m3 169,676 175,864 191,786 2009 2010 2011 2012 42 l i nda b | l i nd ab life Investing in a better environment Investments in new press lines, the relocation of lines and the relocation and renovation of warehouses has resulted in reduced material consumption, increased efficiency, lower energy consumption, not to mention a better working environment for the almost 300 people who work at Lindab’s plant for the manufacture of ventilation products in Grevie, Sweden. Patrik Svensson is the Plant Manager. You have made some big changes. How did these come about? We are continuously working on long-term plans to find solutions that increase efficiency and improve working conditions in production. The decision to concentrate the press lines and rethink the warehouse management was taken several years ago and we have been working ever since to put it into place. We have also increased the production capacity by adding a new press line. What was the environmental impact of all this? Optimising our production and warehouse means that pallets do not have to be moved as frequently and over shorter distances. We are talking about a reduction in the movement of up to 20,000 pallets every year. This obviously leads to energy savings. The investment in new press lines has also reduced material usage. We also recycle surplus heat from machines and equipment in the press hall and use it to heat the premises, thereby reducing the consumption of natural gas. And the working environment? The change in the warehouse has given a much better working environment as a result of smoother floors, better lighting and easier handling. The new press lines have eliminated the previously monotonous work, lowering the risk of injuries. What is the next step? We are continuously reviewing the efficiency of our manufacturing. This applies to all aspects, such as time, materials and energy. Our work includes reducing the set-up time, the time it takes to switch the machine from one product to another. Plus we are Patrik Svensson is Plant Manager for obviously seeking new ways to further improve the working enLindab’s ventilation factory in Grevie. vironment and safety. Our production plant will also continue to The factory produces more than be one of the most efficient in the industry. 13,000 tonnes of products annually. is discharged over land surfaces is run-off and Waste nies and there is no information as to whether coolant water. This is normally clean but small The waste products generated during producany has been exported. traces of metal deposits may be present. Detion comprise mainly scrap metal. The recovgreasers and sediment traps are used to proery rate is high. Scrap metal is recycled comChemicals tect against accidental discharges. Leakage pletely along with up to 90 percent of other Lindab uses chemicals in production and is checks on cooling/heating pump equipment waste. Some incoming and surplus packagtherefore affected by the EU’s chemical legare performed to avoid ozone-depleting subing materials are reused on site. Anything not islation, REACH. The business is classed as stances from leaking out. No emissions have used is sorted and dealt with according to exa downstream user, since Lindab neither probeen recorded during the year. Independent isting laws. Hazardous waste that is produced duces nor imports chemical products to the inspections of the business show that no polincludes paint and solvent waste, absorbent European market. Lindab’s work in this area is lution has occurred that may require the dematerials and other oily waste. The waste is mainly focused on communication with supplicontamination of soil or water. collected by local waste management compaers and customers about REACH related issues. 43 lindab | lindab l i fe Lindab has operations in 31 countries and is a major employer in many communities. Lindab’s success is based on the Group attracting, developing and retaining the right employees. The focus is on a strong corporate culture, employee and organisational development as well as preventive health care. A ﬁrm commitment Initiatives to develop Lindab’s employees are in To support a healthy and safe working environoccur usually involve cutting and crushing of place at Group level as well as in local operament, for instance, employees are offered health hands and fingers. To counter these, staff retions and companies. During the year, approxprofiles, ergonomic aids and traditional health ceive training particularly with regards to the imately 350 key employees in the Group have checks. Emphasis is placed on encouraging importance of using gloves and other protechad a Performance and Development Talk with employees to lead an active and healthy lifetive equipment. Lindab measures LTIF (Lost their line manager. This formal appraisal is an style. This is supported with coaching, some Time Injury Frequency) – absence per million important tool in the development of employfinancial support and includes physical activhours worked – and this was 15 in 2012. The ees and the organisation in order to achieve the ity, balanced diet and balance between work goal is to come down to below 10 in the near Group’s goals and raise employee motivation. and leisure. future and to 0 in the long term. Linked to this are Talent Review and Succession Planning, which help to identify and deSafe working environment Strong social commitment velop potential replacements in key positions. A safe working environment is a top priority Through collaborations with various organisafor Lindab and the entire organisation is firmly tions and government agencies in the places Recruitment, various team activities and training committed in this area. Data about accidents where operations are carried out, Lindab encourses are conducted at a local level. A number and incidents are collected every month from deavours to contribute to a generally positive of units have a Lindab Academy, where individevery one of the Group’s units, statistics noted development and to enhancing the region’s atual employees and customers receive training in and then reported to the Group management. tractiveness and competitiveness in the long Lindab’s products, technologies and systems. Each business area has a dedicated person term, something that benefits both Lindab and responsible for operationally running the imthe society. Lindab has a long history of sucPreventative health care provement work regarding accidents, and accessful partnerships with schools and univerLindab is actively working with preventive health tion plans are determined for units with the highsities in many of the countries where the Group care on an individual, team and company level. est number of accidents. The accidents that operates. Employees participate as guest lecturers and students are offered internships at Lindab and receive help with their theses. In “ The campaign “Passionate about Biatorbagy in Hungary, active efforts are under Lindab” was launched in 2012. Make everyone realize that way to increase contacts with universities in the ” The goal is to increase motivation it is all about teamwork! among employees by presenting region through student visits, contributions to “ employees representing Lindab’s the content of courses and collaborations with ” culture and core values. In 2012, Enjoy producing quality! various research programmes and professoreight dedicated employees from ships. In Sweden, through the employers’ or“ Eastern Europe and Russia have ganisation Teknikföretagen, Lindab particibeen profiled on the Group’s inForget the word ‘impossible’, tranet. The campaign will continue pates in Teknikcollege, which works to raise to achieve personal and ” in 2013 with profiles of employees the appeal and quality of technically oriented company success! from other parts of Europe. courses. Lindab is also looking for new ways to interact, such as in Romania where students act as ambassadors for Lindab on Facebook. Average number Gender distribution, % Geographical distribution of employees of employees, % 6,000 Men, 80 (79) Sweden, 23 (22) 5,000 5,389 Women, 20 (21) Czech Republic, 17 (17) 4,586 4,454 4,484 4,509 4,000 Denmark, 10 (11) 3,000 Russia, 7 (6) 2,000 Poland, 7 (3) UK, 6 (6) 1,000 Other, 30 (35) 0 44 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 l i nda b | l i nd ab life Recruitment drive in Russian expansion A range of initiatives are being implemented at local level to meet the need for training, recruitment and team activities adapted specifically for the business. Lindab’s rapid Russian expansion has resulted in the need not only for a significantly increased production capacity but also the number of employees at the plant in Yaroslavl. In 2012, 136 people were recruited, including engineers in various functions. Lindab has participated in careers fairs and arranged a Careers Day, where students were invited to the plant in order to learn more about the company and the career opportunities available. In order to meet the future need for new engineers, a programme has been started for 16 top students who will be trained within the company over a period of one and a half years. Together with these crucial recruitment efforts, the focus on training for existing staff has intensified. All employees are guaranteed at least ten days of training each year, partly subsidised by the state, in various areas such as business English and Lean Management. In addition to these initiatives, Yaroslavl has implemented a variety of team-building activities and initiatives to create the industry’s best working environment. Images from Lindab’s family day in Yaroslavl in 2012. A safe work environment Lindab’s dedicated efforts to create a safe and healthy work environment permeate the entire Group. Several production units have been working intensively on improvements during the year. At Karlovarska in the Czech Republic, improvements in protective equipment, particularly the use of gloves, have led to a significantly reduced risk of cuts in the production of ventilation products. In addition, all staff have received first aid training and those authorised to use the company’s recently purchased defibrillators have been given clear instructions into their use. Efforts to meet the Group’s zero vision will continue in 2013. 45 lindab | G RI I nd e x GRI Index Lindab follows GRI guidelines for sustainability reporting, and reports through self-assessment in accordance with GRI level C. Indicator Status Page 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO statement on Social Responsibility F p. 8 2. Organisational proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organisation F Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services F p. 4 2.3 Operational structure F Note 30 2.4 Location of headquarters F Note 1 2.5 Countries where the Group operates F Note 30 2.6 Nature of ownership F p. 34–35 2.7 Markets served F p. 14–15 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation F p. 57 ff 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period F p. 57 ff 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period F p. 34 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period F p. 38 3.2 Date of most recent report F p. 38 3.3 Reporting cycle F p. 38 3.4 Contact persons P Back cover 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content F p. 38 3.6 Boundary of the report F p. 38 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report F p. 38 3.8 Reporting of entities that can affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations F p. 38 3.10 Explanation of the reasons for and effect of any restatements of information F p. 38 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes in the scope, boundary or measurement methods F p. 38 3.12 GRI Index F p. 112 4. Governance, commitments and stakeholder relationships 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation F p. 47–53 4.2 Chairman’s position F p. 46 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive Board members F p. 47–53 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions to the Board F p. 47–53 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Group F p. 18–19, p. 32, p. 50 4.15 Basis for the identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders P p. 39 5. Management approach and performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed F p. 39 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plan obligations F Note 6, Note 23 EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government F p. 38 Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used F p. 42 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials F p. 42 EN3 Direct energy consumption F p. 42 EN4 Indirect energy consumption F p. 42 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements P p. 42 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source P p. 42 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse-gas emissions F p. 42 EN18 Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and results F p. 38–39, p. 42–43 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P p. 42–43 EN28 Fines and sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and legislation F p. 37 Performance indicators for labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce P p. 44, p. 50, Note 6 LA2 Employee turnover P p. 44, p. 50, Note 6 LA7 Work-related accidents and diseases P p. 50–51, Note 6 LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employees by category F p. 50 Performance indicators for human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken F p. 38 HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor and actions taken F p. 38 HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced labor and actions taken F p. 38 Performance indicators for society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption F p. 40 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption F p. 40 Performance indicators for products PR1 Products and services impact on health and safety throughout the life-cycle F p. 40–41 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety F impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes p. 40 PR9 Monetary value of ﬁnes for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning products and services F p. 40 N/A= Not applicable F = Full P = Partial 112
