Communication on Progress of MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany United Nations Global Compact Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de September 01, 2013 Our aim is to constantly improve and to provide the highest technology and innovation level, a most complete product offer and outstanding custom development and environmental qualification services according to industry standards. Our business ethics in the daily conduct with customers, partners and employees is determined by the ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption of the UN Global Compact Initiative. Manfred Schmitz (CEO) Page 1 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 2 of 8 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH internationally proclaimed human rights. Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany We make an effort to show a maximum of fairness to our employees. In our Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 daily work this means, for instance, that information for all employees is info@men.de communicated in different ways in order not to exclude anyone, e.g. through www.men.de announcements posted on bulletin boards, in addition to e-mails. Notwithstanding their different qualifications and functions within the company, all employees shall be equal as people. To even better express this basic principle, we have successfully introduced a printed employee magazine two years ago. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. MEN develops and manufactures in Germany. Since the foundation of the company, MEN has not been accused of any human rights abuse. Potentially new suppliers have to go through a defined process in order to get MEN's permission to become a supplier. This process of approval uses supplier self-assessments, supplier certificates, and audits performed by MEN, and tests the knowledge of the purchasing staff on each company and the market where it is active. If the information gathered in this process gives concrete hints on human rights abuses, the supplier is not acceptable for MEN, and all necessary measures are taken to prevent further cooperation. Page 3 of 8 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Because of its company size, MEN has not had any cause or obligation to Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 create a works council up to now. For this reason, MEN has not taken any info@men.de active steps in this direction. However, we are entirely open for ideas and www.men.de suggestions from our employees. To make it easier for the employees to express their opinion and to find solutions for conflicts, we have named liaison officers for all areas of the company in the last six months. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Working hours and wages are agreed upon by contract with the employee. The employees can determine their working hours according to the concept of flexible time. Every employee is paid for his/her working hours. Flexible work time allows overtime compensation. If overtime was necessary, this is paid for by adding adequate premiums. The monthly pay slip gives every employee an overview of each day's working hours and break times, exact to the minute. This allows the employees to check their pay slip to the minute, as well. If there are justified inconsistencies, the data is corrected as suggested by the employee. As regards salary increases, MEN adheres to the proposals of IG Metall, a major German labour union, even if there is no legal obligation to do so. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. MEN sees child labour as an abuse of human rights. Therefore we apply the same basic principles to child labour than to human rights abuses. Page 4 of 8 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. According to Principle 1 (human rights) and as explained above, we make an MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH effort to absolutely treating our employees equally as people. The same is Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany true for job offerings and finally when we select new employees. We put Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 discriminating aspects such as gender, origin or handicaps to the info@men.de background. The diversity of our staff proves this. www.men.de MEN supports a non-profit organization called Chancen e.V. Chancen e.V. takes care of the laundry and of the catering for customers at MEN. The non-profit organization has the purpose to create jobs for mentally ill people. Their work at Chancen e.V. is aimed at giving the mentally ill persons an opportunity to develop their abilities step by step, and in this way gaining more selfconfidence and mental stability. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. To reduce environmental problems, MEN has an environmental management system that gathers key figures on material flow (input/output assessment) and energy consumption. The environmental managers regularly present these key figures to the directors. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environmental management is a part of the company's ideas management and its Balanced Score Card (BSC). We are certified to ISO 14001 since 2003. In September 2008, MEN has become a member of the B.A.U.M. (German Environmental Management Association), supports the diverse endeavors of B.A.U.M. for precautionary, integrated environmental protection through ideas and financing, and has committed itself to gradually putting the code for environmentally aware management developed by B.A.U.M. into practice. The so-called B.A.U.M. Code includes 10 rules of conduct, which we want to list here briefly (you can find the more detailed original list on the B.A.U.M. website under www.baumev.de). 1. Environmental protection is one of the primary goals of the company. 2. Environmental protection is a management task, leading to concrete goals and rules on all levels. 3. Environmental managers or environmental committees are named, provided with comprehensive information, and integrated in all decisions. 4. Environmental protection is an individual aspect within planning, control and monitoring systems. Page 5 of 8 5. Regular environmental reports to B.A.U.M.: weak points are recognized and improved; progress is documented. 6. Employees are informed, motivated and trained. MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH 7. Research is used to lower the environmental impact of products and Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany their production; economical use of raw materials, energy and water; Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 taking the lifetime of products and their disposal into consideration. Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 8. Including the market: developing environmental standards with info@men.de www.men.de suppliers; giving advice to business partners; informing consumers. 9. Open dialog with all groups of society: informing the media, cooperating with associations and authorities. 10. Effective laws are regarded as minimum requirements: aiming at a higher level of environmental friendliness. These rules of conduct reflect the extraordinary position of environmental protection in the company structure of B.A.U.M. members. MEN was honored by B.A.U.M. in the Büro & Umwelt competition (Office & Environment) in 2008 and 2009 [MEN took a position among the best 10 companies in the category up to 500 employees.]. In 2010 MEN was honored through the second place and 2011 MEN was honored through the first place in the German Büro & Umwelt competition (Office & Environment). Page 6 of 8 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. MEN is a founding member of the Ideenund Innovationsmanagement e.V. MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH in Nuremberg (Association for Ideas and Innovation Management). The Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Ideenund Innovationsmanagement e.V. of the University of ErlangenPhone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 Nuremberg is an association of practitioners, scientists and students who info@men.de have a common interest in innovative solutions for the areas of ideas and www.men.de innovation management. The association focuses on intensifying the relationship between practical innovation and the science of innovation as well as on promoting the transfer of knowledge. This transfer aims at coupling practical problems with solution approaches and know-how from research. The central element to do this is the approach of best practice . Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The employees have the possibility to turn to their superior, to the directors or to the liaison officer of each area with regard to issues like corruption or unethical behavior, including fraud and conflicts of interests and bribery. Additionally, they can also remain anonymous and use the mail boxes next to the notice boards to take a stand on such issues. In employment contracts, it is also mentioned that corruption including extortion and corruptibility are not allowed. Page 7 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik – Profile and Mission Embedded Solutions – Rugged Computer Boards and Systems MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 for Harsh, Mobile and Mission-Critical Environments 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Since its founding in 1982, MEN Mikro Elektronik has focused on innovation, Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 reliability and flexibility to develop and produce standard and custom info@men.de www.men.de computing solutions that employ the highest technology levels. The company – with more than 250 employees worldwide – provides a robust offering of highly reliable embedded COTS boards and devices widely used in extreme environmental conditions found in industrial and safety-critical applications. MEN Mikro Elektronik’s product offering comprises a huge selection of:  CompactPCI / PlusIO, CompactPCI Serial and VMEbus boards and 19” systems  Standardized computer-on-modules with carrier board development support  Standardized mezzanine I/O cards to complete system functionality  Ethernet and fieldbus network interfaces, switches, routers and gateways  Scalable box PCs and panel PCs with easy adaptation capabilities  Safe computers certifiable up to SIL 4 and DAL-A For individual requirements, starting with development through design-in and beyond, MEN provides its customers with advice and support as well as with system design, configuration and environmental qualification in accordance with industry standards. The company’s core competencies encompass x86 and RISC processor architectures, development rules for safe applications, analog I/O design, FPGA technology and Windows, Linux and real-time operating systems. Additional expertise includes RAMS and obsolescence management as well as the development of computing hardware for operation in harsh and extreme environmental conditions. MEN Mikro Elektronik’s computer solutions are used in harsh missionand safety-critical environments found in the transportation (rail, road, air, sea) and industrial (automation, power & energy, medical, mining) markets. The company is certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 (environment), EN 9100 (aerospace) and IRIS (railway) quality management systems, provides systems according to e1 (road traffic) requirements and is a member of several industry associations, consortiums and alliances, including VITA and PICMG. Page 8 of 8 Communication on Progress der MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany United Nations Global Compact Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de September 2013 Es ist unser Ziel, unsere Leistung kontinuierlich zu verbessern, den höchstmöglichen Stand von Technik und Innovation zu gewährleisten sowie ein möglichst vollständiges Produktangebot und hervorragende Dienstleistungen bei der kundenspezifischen Entwicklung und Umweltqualifikation gemäß Industriestandards zu bieten. Unsere Geschäftsethik im täglichen Umgang mit Kunden, Partnern und Mitarbeitern orientiert sich an den zehn Grundsätzen in den Bereichen Menschenrechte, Arbeit, Umwelt und Korruptionsbekämpfung der „Global Compact Initiative“ der Vereinten Nationen. Manfred Schmitz (CEO) Page 1 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Menschenrechte Prinzip 1: Unterstützung und Respektierung der internationalen Menschenrechte im eigenen Einflussbereich Prinzip 2: Sicherstellung, dass sich das eigene Unternehmen nicht an Menschenrechtsverletzungen beteiligt Arbeitsnormen Prinzip 3: Wahrung der Vereinigungsfreiheit und wirksame Anerkennung des Rechts zu Kollektivverhandlungen Prinzip 4: Abschaffung jeder Art von Zwangsarbeit Prinzip 5: Abschaffung der Kinderarbeit Prinzip 6: Beseitigung der Diskriminierung bei Anstellung und Beschäftigung Umweltschutz Prinzip 7: Unterstützung eines vorsorgenden Ansatzes im Umgang mit Umweltproblemen Prinzip 8: Ergreifung von Schritten zur Förderung einer größeren Verantwortung gegenüber der Umwelt Prinzip 9: Hinwirkung auf die Entwicklung und Verbreitung umweltfreundlicher Technologien Korruptionsbekämpfung Prinzip 10: Selbstverpflichtung, Korruption in allen Formen, einschließlich Erpressung und Bestechlichkeit, zu begegnen Page 2 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Menschenrechte Prinzip 1: Unterstützung und Respektierung der internationalen Menschenrechte im eigenen Einflussbereich Unseren Mitarbeitern versuchen wir mit der größtmöglichen Fairness zu begegnen. In unserem Arbeitsalltag bedeutet das für uns zum Beispiel, Informationen für alle Mitarbeiter auf verschiedenen Wegen zu kommunizieren, um niemanden auszugrenzen, z. B. durch Aushänge zusätzlich zu E-Mails. Ungeachtet ihrer unterschiedlichen Qualifikationen und Funktionen im Unternehmen sollen alle Mitarbeiter als Menschen gleichgestellt sein. Um diesem Grundprinzip noch besser Ausdruck zu verleihen, haben wir vor zwei Jahren erfolgreich eine Mitarbeiter-zeitschrift in gedruckter Form eingeführt. Prinzip 2: Sicherstellung, dass sich das eigene Unternehmen nicht an Menschenrechtsverletzungen beteiligt MEN entwickelt und produziert am Standort Deutschland. Seit Gründung des Unternehmens liegt keine Meldung einer Menschrechtsverletzung gegen MEN vor. Potentiell neue Lieferanten durchlaufen einen Prozess, um bei MEN eine Zulassung als Lieferant zu erhalten. In diesem Zulassungsprozess werden die Lieferantenselbstauskunft, Lieferantenzertifikate, durch MEN durchgeführte Audits, Kenntnis der Einkäufer zum jeweiligen Unternehmen und dem Markt in dem er tätig ist, abgefragt. Sollten sich hierbei konkrete Hinweise auf Menschenrechtsverletzungen ergeben, ist der Lieferant für MEN nicht akzeptabel und es werden alle notwendigen Maßnahmen ergriffen um eine weitere Zusammenarbeit zu unterbinden. Page 3 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Arbeitsnormen Prinzip 3: Wahrung der Vereinigungsfreiheit und wirksame Anerkennung des Rechts zu Kollektivverhandlungen Aufgrund der Firmengröße von MEN bestand bisher nie Anlass oder Verpflichtung zur Gründung eines Betriebsrats. Aus diesem Grund hat MEN auch noch keine aktiven Maßnahmen in dieser Richtung ergriffen. Jedoch stehen wir Ideen und Vorschlägen durch die Mitarbeiter jederzeit offen gegenüber. Um den Mitarbeitern den Weg zur Meinungsäußerung und Konfliktlösung zu erleichtern, haben wir im letzten Halbjahr Vertrauenspersonen für alle Unternehmensbereiche ernannt. Prinzip 4: Abschaffung jeder Art von Zwangsarbeit Arbeitszeiten und Entlohnung werden vertraglich mit dem Arbeitnehmer vereinbart. Die Mitarbeiter können ihre Arbeitszeiten im Rahmen der Gleitzeit selbst bestimmen. Der Mitarbeiter wird für die geleistete Arbeitszeit entlohnt. Innerhalb des Gleitzeitmodells ist entsprechender Freizeitausgleich gegeben. Evtl. notwendige Überstunden werden mit entsprechenden Zuschlägen abgegolten. Mit der monatlichen Lohnabrechnung erhält der Mitarbeiter eine tagesgenaue Übersicht mit den jeweiligen Arbeitstagen der minutengenauen Arbeitszeit und den Pausenzeiten. Dadurch hat der Mitarbeiter die Möglichkeit die Abrechnung minutengenau zu überprüfen. Bei gerechtfertigten Unstimmigkeiten erfolgt eine Korrektur im Sinne des Mitarbeiters. MEN richtet sich bei Gehaltserhöhungen an die Vorgaben der IG Metall, obwohl hierzu keine rechtliche Verpflichtung besteht. Prinzip 5: Abschaffung der Kinderarbeit Kinderarbeit wird von MEN als Menschenrechtsverletzung angesehen. Die Vorgehensweise zu Kinderarbeit wird deshalb identisch zu Menschenrechtsverletzungen behandelt. Page 4 of 8 Prinzip 6: Beseitigung der Diskriminierung bei Anstellung und Beschäftigung Gemäß Prinzip 1 (Menschenrechte) und wie oben bereits ausgeführt, MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH bemühen wir uns um eine absolute Gleichstellung der Mitarbeiter als Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Menschen ebenso wie bei Stellenausschreibungen und schließlich bei der Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 Auswahl neuer Mitarbeiter. Diskriminierende Faktoren wie Geschlecht, info@men.de Herkunft oder Behinderungen treten dabei in den Hintergrund, was durch die www.men.de Mitarbeiterstruktur belegt wird. MEN unterstützt den gemeinnützigen Verein Chancen e.V. Chancen e.V. übernimmt bei MEN die Wäschereinigung sowie das Catering von Kunden. Der gemeinnützige Verein hat das Ziel, Arbeitsplätze für psychisch kranke Menschen zu schaffen. Die Arbeit bei Chancen e.V. soll den psychisch kranken Mitarbeiter/innen die Möglichkeit geben, schrittweise ihre Fähigkeiten zu entwickeln und dadurch mehr Selbstvertrauen und psychische Stabilität zu erlangen. Umweltschutz Prinzip 7: Unterstützung eines vorsorgenden Ansatzes im Umgang mit Umweltproblemen Zur Reduzierung von Umweltproblemen erfasst MEN innerhalb seines Umweltmanagementsystems Kennzahlen zu den Stoffströmen (Input-Output-Bilanz) und Energieverbräuche. Diese verdichteten Kennzahlen werden in regelmäßigen Abständen durch den Umweltbeauftragten der Geschäftsführung vorgestellt. Prinzip 8: Ergreifung von Schritten zur Förderung einer größeren Verantwortung gegenüber der Umwelt Umweltmanagement ist Bestandteil des Ideenmanagements sowie der Balanced Scorecards (BSC) des Unternehmens. Seit 2003 sind wir zertifiziert nach ISO 14001. MEN ist seit September 2008 Mitglied im Förderkreis des Bundesdeutschen Arbeitskreises für Umweltbewusstes Management (B.A.U.M.) e.V., unterstützt ideell und finanziell die vielfältigen Bemühungen von B.A.U.M. um einen vorbeugenden, ganzheitlichen Umweltschutz und hat sich verpflichtet den von B.A.U.M. entwickelten Kodex für umweltbewusste Unternehmensführung schrittweise in die Praxis umzusetzen. Der sogenannte B.A.U.M.-Kodex enthält 10 Verhaltensleitlinien, die wir hier – in verkürzter Form – auflisten (die ausführlichere Original-formulierung finden man auf der Website von B.A.U.M. www.baumev.de). Page 5 of 8 1. Umweltschutz gehört zu den primären Unternehmenszielen. 2. Umweltschutz ist Führungsaufgabe und führt so auf allen Ebenen zu konkreten Zielen und Regeln. MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH 3. Umweltschutz-Beauftragte oder Umweltausschüsse werden Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany eingesetzt, umfassend informiert und in alle Entscheidungen mit Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 einbezogen. Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 4. Umweltschutz ist ein eigenständiges Kriterium in Planungs-, info@men.de www.men.de Steuerungsund Kontrollsystemen. 5. Regelmäßige Umwelt-Berichte an B.A.U.M.: Schwachstellen werden erkannt und verbessert; Fortschritte dokumentiert. 6. Mitarbeiter werden entsprechend informiert, motiviert und geschult. 7. Forschung wird genutzt zur Verbesserung der Umweltverträglichkeit von Produkten und ihrer Herstellung; sparsamer Einsatz von Rohstoffen, Energie und Wasser; Berücksichtigung der Lebenszeit der Produkte und ihrer Entsorgung. 8. Einbeziehung vom Markt: Erarbeitung von Umweltstandards mit Lieferanten; Beratung des Handels; Informieren der Verbraucher. 9. Offener Dialog mit allen gesellschaftlichen Gruppen: Informationen an Medien, Zusammenarbeit mit Verbänden und Behörden. 10. Geltende Gesetze werden als Mindestanforderung verstanden: Streben nach einem höheren Maß an Umweltfreundlichkeit. Diese Verhaltensregeln zeigen die außergewöhnliche Stellung des Umweltschutzes in der Unternehmensstruktur der Mitglieder von B.A.U.M. MEN wurde in den Jahren 2008 und 2009 vom B.A.U.M. beim Wettbewerb „Büro & Umwelt“ ausgezeichnet [MEN platzierte sich jeweils unter den besten 10 Unternehmen in der Kategorie bis zu 500 Beschäftigten.]. Im Jahre 2010 wurde MEN mit dem 2. Platz und im Jahr 2011 mit dem 1. Platz im bundesdeutschen Wettbewerb „Büro & Umwelt“ ausgezeichnet. Prinzip 9: Hinwirkung auf die Entwicklung und Verbreitung umweltfreundlicher Technologien MEN ist Gründungsmitglied des Ideenund Innovationsmanagement e.V. Nürnberg. Der Ideenund Innovationsmanagement e.V. an der Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg ist eine Vereinigung von Praktikern, Wissenschaftlern und Studierenden, die ein gemeinsames Interesse an innovativen Fragestellungen der Bereiche des Ideenund Innovationsmanagements verbindet. Im Mittelpunkt der Bemühungen des Vereins steht die Intensivierung der Beziehungen zwischen Innovationspraxis und Innovationswissenschaft sowie die Förderung des Wissenstransfers. Dieser Transfer bezieht sich auf das Zusammenführen von praktischen Problemen mit Lösungsmöglichkeiten und Know-How aus der Forschung. Zentrales Element ist hierbei der Best-Practice-Ansatz. Auch die Entwicklung und Verbreitung umweltfreundlicher Technologien wird beachtet. Page 6 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Korruptionsbekämpfung Prinzip 10: Selbstverpflichtung, Korruption in allen Formen, einschließlich Erpressung und Bestechlichkeit, zu begegnen Die Mitarbeiter haben die Möglichkeit, sich in Bezug auf Themen wie Korruption oder unethisches Verhalten einschließlich Betrug und Interessenkonflikte, Bestechung und Schmiergeldzahlungen an Ihren Vorgesetzen, die Geschäftsführung oder die Vertrauensperson des jeweiligen Bereiches zu wenden. Des Weiteren besteht die Möglichkeit auch anonym über die Briefkästen an den schwarzen Brettern zu diesen Themen Stellung zu nehmen. Weiterhin wird in den Anstellungsverträgen darauf hingewiesen, dass Korruption einschließlich Erpressung und Bestechlichkeit nicht zulässig sind. Page 7 of 8 MEN Mikro Elektronik GmbH Neuwieder Straße 3-7 90411 Nürnberg Germany Phone +49-911-99 33 5-0 MEN Mikro Elektronik – Profil und Firmenleitbild Fax +49-911-99 33 5-901 info@men.de www.men.de Embedded Solutions – Rugged Computer Boards and Systems for Harsh, Mobile and Mission-Critical Environments Seit der Firmengründung im Jahr 1982 liegt der Schwerpunkt bei MEN Mikro Elektronik auf der Entwicklung und Fertigung innovativer, zuverlässiger und flexibler Lösungen auf höchstem technologischem Niveau – sowohl auf Standardbasis als auch kundenspezifisch. Das Unternehmen bietet – mit über 250 Mitarbeitern – ein solides Programm an äußerst zuverlässigen EmbeddedStandardbaugruppen und -geräten, die typischerweise in industriellen und sicherheitskritischen Anwendungen mit extremen Umweltbedingungen zu finden sind. Die Produktpalette von MEN Mikro Elektronik umfasst eine große Auswahl an:  Baugruppen und 19“-Systemen in CompactPCI / PlusIO, CompactPCI Serial und VMEbus  standardisierten Computer-on-Modules mit Unterstützung bei der Trägerkartenentwicklung  standardisierten Mezzanin-I/O-Karten zur Vervollständigung der Systemfunktionen  Ethernetund Feldbus-Netzwerkschnittstellen, -Switches, Routern und Gateways  skalierbaren Boxund Panel-PCs mit einfachen Anpassungsmöglichkeiten  sicheren Rechnern, zertifizierbar bis zu SIL 4 und DAL-A Bei individuellen Anforderungen, beginnend mit der Entwicklung über das Design-In und darüber hinaus, steht MEN seinen Kunden mit Beratung und Unterstützung ebenso zur Seite wie mit dem Design, der Konfiguration und der Umweltqualifikation von Systemen im Einklang mit den Marktnormen. Die Kernkompetenzen des Unternehmens umfassen x86und RISC-Prozessorarchitekturen, Richtlinien für die Entwicklung sicherer Anwendungen, das Design analoger I/O, FPGA-Technologie sowie Windows, Linux und Echtzeit-Betriebssysteme. Als ergänzendes Know-How kommen RAMS und ObsoleszenzManagement sowie die Entwicklung von Rechner-Hardware für den Betrieb unter rauen und extremen Umgebungsbedingungen hinzu. Die Rechnerlösungen von MEN Mikro Elektronik werden in rauen Umgebungen im geschäftskritischen und sicherheitskritischen Umfeld in den Märkten Verkehr (Straße, Schiene, Luft, Wasser) und Industrie (Automatisierung, Energie, Medizin, Bergbau) eingesetzt. Das Unternehmen ist gemäß der Qualitätsmanagementsysteme ISO 9001, ISO 14001 (Umwelt), EN 9100 (Luftund Raumfahrt) und IRIS (Eisenbahn) zertifiziert, bietet Systeme gemäß e1-Anforderungen (Straßenverkehr) an und ist Mitglied mehrerer Herstellerverbände und Vereinigungen, einschließlich VITA und PICMG. Page 8 of 8
