2011 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 SK innovation Sustainability Report CONTENTS • CEO Message • Introduction 06 Innovative Korea, SK innovation Oil-Poor Country Becomes Energy Exporter • Company Profile 10 Company Overview 12 Business Portfolio 14 Global Operations • Sustainability Management 16 SK Management Philosophy 17 Corporate Governance 19 Business Ethics 21 Stakeholder Communication 22 Materiality Assessment Extending 녹색 혁명가, Life지구의 on Earth 생명을with Green 연장하다. Innovation • Special Issue 26 Independent Management System 30 Corporate Partnership 32 Safety, Health, and Environment Management 34 Low-Carbon Management 36 New Growth Engines 38 Stable Energy Supply 40 Corporate Culture Innovation 42 Customer Satisfaction SK Innovation Opens the Future for Korea • Our Performance 46 Economic Performance 52 Social Performance 66 Environmental Performance • Appendix 76 History 78 Expert Opinions 80 Third Party's Assurance Report 82 GRI Index Jongno 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Telephone: 82-2-2121-5114 Fax: 82-2-2121-7001 86 Awards & Associations ABOUT THIS REPORT SK innovation practices sustainability management to enhance corporate value and ultimately create a happier society. To share the company’s commitment with stakeholders and society, SK innovation has issued annual Sustainability Reports since December 2005. This Sustainability Report of the year 2011 covers SK innovation’s sustainability management practices and accomplishments of its headquarters, Ulsan and Incheon Complexes, and Global Technology Institute, from January through December 2011, and presents the details of business operations at its overseas branch offices, Board of Directors, and safety, health, and environmental policies applicable up until May 2012. Pursuant to the SKMS (SK Management System), the first half of this report focuses on the eight issues that are considered the most important of all key sustainability management issues identified through a materiality assessment, while the second half discusses detailed sustainability management activities in economic, social, and environmental contexts. In the environmental report centers on the Ulsan and Incheon Complexes, where the company’s production activities are undertaken, and thus have the biggest environmental impacts. As for the company’s programs or systems identical to those used last year, the relevant details were cited from the previous year’s report. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1). To obtain an objective assessment for the report’s credibility and in compliance with the GRI Guidelines, this report was independently assured by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry’s Business Institute for Sustainable Development, and the assurance results are included herein. For more information, please refer to the 2011 Business Report and 2011 Annual Report disclosed on the Financial Supervisory Service’s Electronic Disclosure System (http://dart.fss.or.kr), and the official website of SK innovation (www. SKinnovation.com). GRI G3.1 Guidelines Application Level Check SK innovation prepared this report in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, and declares that the report meets the Application Level of ‘A+’. The assurance provider confirmed that this report meets the GRI G3.1 Application Level of ‘A+’. CEO Message “As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of SK innovation in the year 2012, SK innovation pledges to strengthen its efforts to grow together with society for the stability and progress of the next 100 years.” Distinguished stakeholders, SK innovation conveys its sincere gratitude for your ongoing interest and support. By issuing this report, I hope to further SK innovation’s Through such successful establishment of the independent their passions, and to achieve both employees’ happiness and the sustainability management by sharing with you the dedication, management system, SK innovation will accelerate its efforts to company’s growth successfully. commitment, determination, and plans of SK innovation in the effort strengthen the competitive advantages of its current businesses to move towards a sustainable company. and to develop new growth engines. Furthermore, the company is SK innovation and its subsidiaries exist under a unified vision of devoted to creating new value for a sustainable future, by bolstering “Technology-driven Innovative Company” and under SK’s unique The year 2011 was a historic year for SK innovation as it advanced the research and development of green energy technologies upon management philosophy of “Separate and Together,” to secure its further towards a “Technology-driven Innovative Company,” which the basis of existing energy technology platforms. position and market support as a globally competitive leading energy is the company’s ultimate goal. In order to evolve from a leading & petrochemicals company in Korea. For the purpose of pursuing Korean oil refiner to a technology-driven integrated global energy SK innovation also pursues a model which seeks the mutual growth the happiness of stakeholders, which is one of SK’s values, the company, the company engineered a variety of attempts in the past and development of the company and society, and aims to become company promises to listen to your opinions and incorporate your year, and such changes led to a wide range of innovations within and a global company not only in terms of financial performance but opinions into all management activities, and become a sustainable without the company, living up to SK innovation’s reputation. a company whose general management practices set a global and respected company. standard. To address the growing social demands relating to As of January 1, 2011, the company changed its name from SK safety, health, and environment, SK innovation designated issues The year 2012 marks SK innovation’s 50th anniversary. SK innovation energy to SK innovation, which embraces its mission of innovation, in these areas as key business tasks and reinforced its safety, pledges to continue to embrace challenges and innovations to change, and future growth. And following the spin-off of SK health, and environmental capabilities to conduct sustainability become a global top-tier company and a long-standing leader, upon lubricants in the year 2009, the petroleum and petrochemical management activities. For instance, the company established new the strengths we built by overcoming numerous trials and hardships businesses were split into SK energy and SK global chemical, policies for the consistent, integrated approach to safety, health, since our foundation in 1962. In closing, I would like to ask for your respectively. As a result, former SK energy was split into four and environment management practices that meet international continued support and encouragement as we move forward. separate entities with independent management systems. standards. In addition, the company developed a new job creation model by forming and operating social enterprises, which enables Since the spin-off, SK innovation has grown rapidly in the short the economic independence of disadvantaged people. Through period of one year. In the year 2011, SK innovation reported record the creation of new jobs the company fostered sustainable social earnings of 68,372.2 billion won in revenues and 2,842.4 billion won contribution by revitalizing local economies. in operating profits, which are 27% and 51% increases, respectively, compared with the previous year. Despite the escalated changes To strengthen its competitive position in the global market, President & CEO of SK innovation in the business environment due to the instability of international SK innovation also designated “Organizational Revitalization” Ja Young Koo financial markets caused by the European financial crisis, the as a mission and is working to create a culture focused on the company produced desired results pursuant to the successful three values of “Challenge, Creativity, and Positive Thinking.” By implementation of the independent management systems, cultivating such culture, the company aims to create an environment resulting in each subsidiary’s faster and more flexible decisionwhere employees can maximize their capabilities and pursue making amid rapidly changing market conditions. 4 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 5 Innovative Korea, SK innovation SK innovation Tech-driven Innovative Company SK energy Globalization & Asset Optimization •Strengthening primary competitive advantages • Expanding the global value chain • Innovation • Increasing global trade • Speedy and flexible response • Strengthening primary competitive advantages & the ‘Value-Up’ project Revenue 68.4 trillion won Revenue 49.4 trillion won Operating income 2,842 billion won Operating income 1,242 billion won Daily crude oil & gas production 65,000 barrels Max. daily amount of crude oil refined 1,115 thousand barrels Technology driven Innovative Company 2,842.4 E&P and others 68,371.2 1.8% 50.3% 69.56% Lubricants 27.3% 16.7% 68 4.0% Revenue trillion won Revenue 113 trillion won 53,722.5 1,891.2 59.62% Petroleum 72.3% Operating income 2.8 trillion won Operating income 10 trillion won Tech. 17 trillion won 15% Petrochemicals Year 2010 Year 2011 Year 2010 Year 2011 Year 2010 Year 2011 22.0% Revenue Operating income Ratio of exports Year 2011 Year 2020 (unit : KRW billion) (unit : KRW billion) (based on sales) SK global chemical Global Top-tier Chemical SK lubricants Company Leader in the Global Market • Strengthening competitiveness of business portfolio • Building strategic partnerships • Securing a technology-driven competitive advantage • Securing technology-driven growth engines • Expanding global businesses • Developing a global market Revenue 15.1 trillion won Revenue 2.7 trillion won Operating income 774 billion won Operating income 508 billion won Annual production of petrochemicals 10,397 thousand tons GroupⅢ Capacity 33,300 B/D 6 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 7 Oil-Poor Country Becomes Energy Exporter Korea is fulfilling the dream of being an energy exporter without having any oil reserves of its own. SK innovation, the company that discovered energy resources for Korea in the midst of the oceans worldwide, extracts crude oils and natural gases from 26 blocks in 16 countries, and exports 70% of its products under the “Made in Korea” label. SK innovation leads Korea’s innovation to become an energy leader. Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Company Profile Company Overview Organizational Structure (as of Jan. 10, 2012) SK innovation was founded in 1962 as the first oil refiner in Korea aiming for energy independence. Determined to become an energy company with its world-class technologies, SK Innovation dreams Office of Board of Directors a bigger dream: Using green technologies to build a healthier planet. Taking innovative steps, like its name change and spin-off, SK innovation intends to cultivate its expertise in the existing businesses, 윤리경Business Ethics Dept. Internal find new growth engines, and ultimately become a “Technology-driven Innovative Company.” Audit Office SHE Division Management Supporting Office General Information (as of Dec. 31, 2011) ※SK energy was renamed SK innovation Company Founding Locations # of Business on January 1, 2011. Centering on SK name date employees areas Corporate Head office Plants/Research institute Battery I/E Material Corporate innovation, the company adopted the Global Business Business E&P Division Management Growth& Biz. Innovation Corporate Sustainability Research Global Technology, 325, Expo-ro, YuseongTechnology Group Globalization Division Culture Division Management independent management structure for Resources Division Division Division institute gu, Daejeon Division Jong-no 26, development, SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK Jongno-gu, Seoul batteries, SK innovation Oct. 13, 1962 379-24, Bongmyeong-dong, Hongdeok-gu, 1,642 lubricants. (SK Building, Cheongju, Chungcheongbuk-do information/ Seorin-dong) Plant electronic 1071, Miam-ri, Jeungpyeong-eup, materials, R&D Jeungpyeong-gun, Chungcheongbuk-do Major Subsidiaries and Shareholders (as of Dec. 31, 2011) 2, Sinyeocheon-no, Nam-gu, Ulsan Petroleum SK energy Jan. 1, 2011 Same as above Plant 2,957 415, Bongsu Ave., Seo-gu, Incheon products SK global Petrochemical ◦◦Shareholders holding more than ◦◦Major subsidiaries회사 Jan. 1, 2011 Same as above Plant 2, Sinyeocheon-no, Nam-gu, Ulsan 1,158 chemical products 5% shares황 Lubricants, SK lubricants Oct. 1, 2009 Same as above Plant 2, Sinyeocheon-no, Nam-gu, Ulsan 289 base oils # of shares (unit : share) SK innovation Percentage SK 30,883,788 33.40% Financial Information (consolidated) (as of Dec. 31, 2011) Revenue KRW 68,371.2 billion 100% 100% 100% SK energy SK global chemical SK lubricants Operating income KRW 2,842.4 billion 45,615,361 49.33% Net profit KRW 3,175.8 billion Total assets KRW 35,026.9 billion 100% 50% 41% SKME SK M&C Daehan Oil Pipeline Pension 7,943,134 Corporation 8.59% (DOPCO) Templeton 6,788,439 7.34% 10 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 11 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Business Portfolio SK innovation SK energy To evolve from the ◦◦Overseas Resource Exploration & Production Business ◦◦Petroleum Business largest Korean energy and As of April 2012, SK innovation is involved in the resource development of 26 oil blocks, 16 countries, SK energy’s petroleum business includes the production, export and distribution of petroleum products [Leading Brands of SK energy] and 4 LNG projects. As of December 31, 2011, the company holds 550 million barrels in oil reserves, in Korea, and ranks first in domestic oil refinery capacity and also in domestic market share. The Ulsan and petrochemicals company into a Incheon refineries boast of first class equipment for the production of high-quality oil products processed and recorded an average daily production of 65,000 barrels in 2011. In July 2011, the company closed global top energy company, we the deal to sell 2.4 billion dollars’ worth of shares in SK do Brasil to Maersk Oil of Denmark, which was from approximately 50 kinds of crude oils. In addition, over 4,000 SK gas stations across the country solidifies are developing growth engines agreed in December 2010. The deal marked the first case in which a Korean company successfully SK energy’s position as the largest market share holder by providing distinguished customer services such Gasoline “EnClean” based on innovative technology discovered oil reserves after exploring oil blocks, commenced commercial oil production, and then as “OK Cashbag” and “Enclean Bonus Card”,. The company also exports more than 50% of its petroleum sold it to a major global company, and was recognized as a promising future model for exploration & products. Furthermore, SK energy has started building platforms upon which it can expand overseas by platforms in overseas resource production businesses in Korea. Using the cash obtained through the sale of Brazilian subsidiary, the producing, trading, and marketing its petroleum products overseas. By establishing “another SK energy” exploration and production, company will purchase more promising E&P blocks through additional M&As and continuously increase abroad, the company will become a truly global company, and a leader in the Korean energy market. electric vehicle batteries its expertise and competitive advantage in the E&P business. With years of experience accumulated in business, and information and E&P business, SK innovation will continue vigorous exploration activities and promote new ventures, SBS Polymer Modified Asphalt by selecting and focusing on promising regions, and dedicate itself to become a global energy company ◦◦Asphalt Business electronic materials. by optimizing its E&P business portfolio. Based on high quality products and excellent services, SK energy’s asphalt business sells over 2 million tons a year, and holds the largest share in the domestic asphalt market and the Chinese imported asphalt market. SK energy is the first Korean oil refiner to register a patent for polymer modified asphalt (SBS PMA), and ◦◦Battery Business maintains a competitive advantage through continuous technology development. The asphalt business will SK Innovation developed batteries for portable IT devices in 1996, launched lithium-ion battery Netruck – Reliable Cargo Carrier, continue to dominate not only the domestic asphalt market but also strive to increase its market shares in ‘Netruck’ development for HEV applications in 2005, and started lithium-ion battery production in 2006. Since the Chinese and Northeast Asian asphalts markets, and become the best market player by expanding to the then, SK Innovation has developed lithium-ion batteries with global top level energy densities after years of efforts to improve batteries with higher energy densities. As a result, SK innovation batteries Southeast Asian and Oceanian asphalt markets. were selected as top choice batteries by many global original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for their electric vehicle designs: MFTBC(Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Company) Canter Eco Hybrid in 2009, Hyundai Bluon(i10) EV & Kia Ray EV in 2010, and Mercedes-AMG SLS-EV sports car in 2011. SK SK global chemical Jeju United FC Innovation will start mass production operations in Seosan, Korea at a plant covering 231,405m² (70,000 ◦◦Petrochemical Business pyeong) in the first half of 2012, which has an annual capacity of 40,000 electric vehicles. The company Formed as a result of the 2011 spin-off, SK global chemical is preparing to take another step forward is also engaged in developing batteries for grid energy storage systems and next generation batteries. toward achieving the vision of becoming a “Global Top-Tier Chemical Company.” In 1972, it was the first Using its top-notch technology, SK Innovation will approach the changing market environment proactively to become a global market leader in the battery business. Korean company to commercialize a naphtha cracking facility, and since then has led the development of the domestic petrochemical industry through continuous investment, research and development, and [Leading Brands of SK lubricants] technology development. SK global chemical supplies raw and secondary materials utilized in a variety of ◦◦Information & Electronic Materials Business industries, from advanced materials for cars, electronics, and telecommunications equipment to everyday In January 2011, SK innovation launched its I/E (Information & Electronics) Materials Business Division to products. In order to become a leader in the global chemical industry, SK global chemical will strengthen its operate the LiBS/FCCL/TAC film businesses, and to foster the I/E materials business into a new growth competitive advantages in core businesses and pursue global growth, and implement customer-focused engine. LiBS (Li-ion Battery Separator), the core component for rechargeable lithiumion batteries, has drawn management practices. Lubricant ‘ZIC’ attention as the markets for portable IT devices and electric vehicles has expanded, SK innovation has consistently delivered world-class quality and productivity through the seven production lines in Cheongju and Jeungpyeong. The demand for FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate), which is used as a material for flexible circuit boards, has increased, as IT devices such as smart phones and tablet PCs become slimmer SK lubricants and more sophisticated. After developing its own FCCL manufacturing technology, SK innovation started ◦◦Lubricants Business High-quality base Lube Oil ‘YUBASE’ its commercial production of FCCLs in July 2011. Further, business for the TAC (Tri Acetyl Cellulose) films, a material for display polarizers, is expected to grow steadily along with the growth of LCD and AMOLED Formed as a separate entity in October 2009, SK’s lubricants business has steadily grown with its specialized markets, and SK innovation is exerting its efforts to commercialize TAC film production after the completion of business. The base oils business concentrated on increasing output and improving its profit-making a manufacturing plant in Jeungpyeong in 2011. SK innovation will secure market leadership in the I/E materials structure and reaped remarkable results, compared with the previous year. The lubricants business has business by continuous expansion, and the development of innovative technologies and businesses, and earned recognition by ranking first for 14 consecutive years in a brand power survey of its leading ZIC brand, SK Sugar Gliders Handball Club accelerate its efforts to establish as a sustainable growth engines by discovering new businesses. and won last year’s Korea Green-Biz Award. For its excellent quality, the company has been internationally recognized—it received the highest ratings from the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Lubricant Standardization and Approval Committee (ILSAC). SK lubricants will increase its production capacity and pursue strategic market expansion to meet the world’s growing demand for high-quality base oils and lubricants, and will generate higher revenue by responding proactively to the changing market environment. 12 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 13 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Global E&P Operations Kazakhstan Zhambyl(E) Egypt Qatar North Zaafarana(P) Rasgas(L) U.S.A. Iberia Dome North(E) Algeria Oman Issaouanne(P) OLNG(L) Vietnam 15-1(P), 15-1/05(E), 123(E) Yemen YLNG(L) Colombia CPE-5(E), CPO-4(E), SSJN-5(E), Category Country Block Cote d’lvoire VIM/2(E), SSJS-1(E) Blocks in production 6 countries 8 blocks Libya CI-11(P), CI-01(E) NC-174(P) Indonesia Blocks in exploration 10 countries 18 blocks Equatorial Guinea North Madura I(E) LNG Project 4 countries 4 projects Peru Area D(E). Block S(E) Block 8(P), Block 88(Camisea)(P), Block 56(P), Z-46(E), PLNG(L) Madagascar Majunga(E) Australia WA34R(E), WA-425-P(E) WA-431-P(E) Blocks in Production Blocks in Exploration LNG Project 14 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 15 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Sustainability Management SK Management Philosophy Corporate Governance Pursuit of Stakeholder Happiness Board of Directors SK innovation considers stakeholder happiness a top priority, under the business philosophy, “A company ◦◦Organization of Board of Directors * What’s SUPEX? SUPEX refers to Super Excellence, the highest should continue to exist and progress by sustaining stability and growth, play a pivotal role in social and ‌ equirements for Special Resolutions performance level attainable. It is extremely As of March 2012, SK innovation’s Board of Directors has 9 members, consisting of 2 internal directors, 1 *R economic development by creating values for customers, employees, and shareholders, and ultimately non-executive director, and 6 external directors, whose membership has the highest percentage of external A special resolution refers to a decision on an difficult to reach the level of “Super Excellence” contribute to mankind’s happiness.” SK innovation also aims to build a happy society in which the roles of directors (67%) among Korean private companies. Thus, decisions made exclusively by external directors qualify important matter that requires a two-thirds immediately. The company therefore has the company and stakeholders and their relationship stay balanced and grow in a sustainable manner. To vote. Under the Board of Directors regulations, established an immediate goal called “Better as special resolutions(*) under the Board of Directors (BOD) regulations. This allows the external directors to special resolutions may include changes to the Company,” which is attainable considering the reach its goals, SK innovation is dedicated to pursuing SUPEX(*) through human-centered management. check and balance the management. The external directors also hold their own meetings to ensure the Board’s Articles of Incorporation, mergers, dissolution, time constraints and available resources. By SK innovation will become a company that is both loved and respected by contributing to building a healthy independent operation and encourage active communication. The Board runs 6 sub-committees: The Corporate assignment of operations, reduction of capital, accomplishing this goal, the company will be society. Social Responsibility Committee, for example, is responsible for discussing the company’s SR activities and submissions for dismissal of directors. eventually able to reach the SUPEX level. and sustainability management at Board of Directors meetings and helping enhance the ability to conduct SKMS (SK Management System) sustainability activities at the company level. SK innovation created SKMS (SK Management System) as a methodology for fulfilling continuous stability [Information on Directors] (as of March 2012) and growth and pursuing stakeholders’ happiness, and has since kept the system up-to-date. Under SKMS, Category Name Gender Current Position Responsibilities all employees understand the essence of business management, use the system as a decision-making Chairman & CEO of SK Holdings and Chey, Tae Won Male Chairman framework, bring themselves together, improve the quality of management, and ultimately enhance the Internal SK innovation directors company’s competitiveness. SKMS consists of Management Philosophy, Management Implementation Koo, Ja Young Male President & CEO of SK innovation Strategic Planning Committee Principle, and Business Management Factors. Based on the system, SK innovation sets a goal to become a Non-executive Kim, Young Tae Male President & CEO of SK Holdings Human Resources Committee director first-tier global company that contributes to mankind’s happiness, and has been worked hard to reach the goal. Kim, Young Ju Male Advisor of Sejong Law Firm Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (chairman), Transparent Management Committee Professor of Business Strategic Planning Committee (chairman), Audit Lee, Jae Han Male Administration at Dongguk Univ. Committee Management Management Lee, Hoon Kyu Male Lawyer-in-chief of The One Law Firm Human Resources Committee (chairman), Business Management Factors External Transparent Management Committee, CSR Committee Perspective Implementation Principle directors Transparent Management Committee (chairman), Choi, Myung Hae Male Advisor of Kim & Chang Law Firm Audit Committee Principles of Static Factors Dean of Business Administration Nomination Committee (chairman), CSR Committee, Choe, Hyuk Male Management SK Management System Application of Static Factors at Seoul National University Strategic Planning Committee Perspective Marketing, Production, Research & Development, Audit Committee (Chief Audit Executive), Nomination Han, In Goo Male Professor of KAIST Finance MBA Strategic Planning, Human Resources-Organization, Committee, Human Resources Committee SUPEX Goal / Business Plan Accounting/Finance, Purchasing CR(Corporate Relation)etc. Our Value Dynamic Factors ◦◦Appointment of Directors SK-Way to Roles of SK People and Leaders Implementation of Dynamic Factors Implementation by SK People Implementation by the Company SK innovation created an objective, fair process for appointing internal and external directors, and has complied Achieve Internal Environment for the Dynamic Factors with it. Candidates for internal directors are selected through a review of their credentials and qualifications by Our Value Volition, Work Capabilities, Coordination, [External Director Nomination Process] SUPEX Quest the Human Resources Committee before they are nominated at a shareholders’ meeting. External directors are Communication, SK-Manship, etc. appointed by forming an Advisory Panel for External Director Nomination, which creates a pool of candidates Nomination Committee Establish a Nomination Plan to be reviewed by the Nomination Committee. The committee decides on the candidates to be nominated at Sustainability Management by Practicing SKMS the General shareholders’ meeting(GSM). To ensure the independence of external directors, those who are Advisory Panel Create a Pool of Candidates relatives of the largest shareholders or who worked at the company within a two-year period are excluded, and To improve employees’ ability to practice and make pursuing SUPEX more specific, SKMS suggests three the company incorporates additional considerations into the evaluation criteria, such as expertise, commitment, External Director key management activities, “SUPEX Goal/Business Plan,” “Roles of Employees and Leaders,” and “Creating business mind-set, independence, social reputation, and personal image. Nomination Finalize Candidates Committee a SUPEX-oriented Environment.” In addition, the company provides training programs and workshops in order to share SKMS-based management philosophy and principles, increase confidence in the company, Board of Confirm Agenda Items ◦◦Board of Directors (BOD) Performance Evaluation and Compensation Directors for GSM and lead cultural innovation. Furthermore, the company provides training programs and workshops. Further, for Board of Directors General the company also proposes specific criteria and methods for carrying out business activities effectively and The Board of Directors conducts an annual performance evaluation in the categories of Board activities, Shareholders’ Nominate Outside Directors efficiently, and those for creating a SUPEX-oriented environment by defining business management factors. Meeting (GSM) operation, and activity support. The evaluation results are reported back to the Board and presented Lastly, the company classified its work methodologies and voluntary practices for employees into static and in annual reports. The Human Resources Committee reviews the limits of compensation appropriate dynamic factors to help employees more actively implement SKMS. Practicing SKMS lays the foundation for for directors’ performance. The Stock Option Plan is applied pursuant to Article 10 of the Articles of the company’s sustainable development and pursuit of stakeholder happiness. Incorporation, and no director received stock options in 2011. 16 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 17 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Business Ethics ◦◦No Conflicts of Interest among Directors Under the philosophy of SKMS, “Contribute to society’s happiness by creating value for stakeholders,” SK [Code of Ethics Structure] The Board members are not permitted to be engaged in any of the company’s operations either at their own innovation practices business ethics actively to secure its global competitiveness and fulfill corporate social expense or a third party’s expense without the Board’s prior consent, and cannot become a partner with responsibility. For instance, the company carries out activities such as ethics training for employees, creating/ SKMS operating ethics infrastructure, and spreading business ethics to business partners. (SK Management System) unlimited liability or director at another company with the intention of conducting the same kind of business, pursuant to Article 14 of the Board of Directors regulations. Code of Ethics and Ethics Guidelines Code of Ethics Ethics Guidelines Responsibilities and Activities of Board of Directors For employees to conduct all business activities fairly and transparently, the company created the ‘Code of ◦◦Working BOD (Board of Directors) Ethics’ and ‘Ethics Guidelines’, which provide ethical decision-making standards. The Code of Ethics and FAQ Guidelines suggest ethical decision-making standards and the code of conduct for stakeholders, including The basic functions of SK innovation’s Board of Directors (BOD) include strategic decision-making, advice, the basic ethics for employees, customer satisfaction, respect for shareholders’ value, corporate partnership and supervision of the company’s business issues at hand. SK innovation’s BOD aims to become an actually “Working BOD” that appoints and authorizes the CEO and provides feedback to the management’s advice. with business partners, and social responsibility. ◦◦Communication with Stakeholders ◦◦Code of Ethics SK innovation’s Board of Directors tries to listen to the voices of stakeholders by encouraging communication with stakeholders. To do so, the Board provides and runs a variety of channels of communication. At the company’s official website, the Board discloses its activities in detail, receives the opinions of stakeholders, and We, as members of SK innovation, are always proud of what we do and do our jobs as Basic Ethics for representatives of the company. allows employees to share their opinions by opening the “BOD News” on the company’s intranet. Moreover, the ■Keep our work and personal life separate and perform work fairly and transparently. Board offers direct channels, such as lectures on external directors’ specialty areas and visits to the plants. Employees ■ Respect other employees and create a corporate culture which allows us to work with passion and spontaneity. ◦◦2011 Key Activities We continue to satisfy our customers, build trust, and ultimately grow together with them. [Working BOD Activity Results] In 2011, the Board held 14 meetings, dealt with 61 items, and reported 93.7% of attendance (97.6% attendance ■Always try to provide the products and services that customers need. of external directors). Furthermore, 27 committee meetings were held to conduct preliminary reviews of 21 Attitude toward ■Respect customers’ different opinions and incorporate them into business BOD Meetings held _ 14 BOD agenda items and review 52 items in total. In addition, the Board has been actively engaged in social Customers activities. ■Protect customers’ property and information safely in accordance with the responsibility activities, such as sharing kimchi and visiting social services centers, and on-site board activities like Items handled _ 61 subsidiary presidents’ preparation of reports and visits to the battery plants and research institutes. national laws and company rules. We increase the company’s value to create value for shareholders and continue Attendance _ 93.7 % [Board of Directors and Committee Activities] (activities in 2011) ethical, efficient management. ■Maximize corporate value through continuous innovation and efficient Agenda Items Committee Meetings Key Agenda Items Responsibility management, and share results with shareholders. Reviewed for Shareholders ■Practice BOD-centered ethical management and respect shareholders’ Board of Directors 14 61 demands and suggestions. Previous-year results and external audit results, internal ■Prepare business data in accordance with applicable laws and standards and Audit Committee 7 20 audit results of consolidated settlement of accounts disclose them in good faith by law to protect shareholders’ interests Nomination Committee 0 0 N/A (no external director appointed in 2011) Relationship We pursue win-win cooperation with vendors and compete fairly with competitors. Strategy Planning Investment in TAC line and battery plant, expansion of LiBS 5 5 ■Provide vendors with equal opportunity, prohibit exploitative, unfair practices, Committee business with Business and pursue mutual benefits and growth. Human Resources Internal director nomination, Directors and Officers Liability, Partners ■ Compete fairly with competing companies based on mutual respect. 2 5 Committee review of compensation limits for directors, etc. Transparent Management Transactions/investments with subsidiaries, fair trade We contribute to society, as well as to economic growth, through social, cultural 11 16 Committee transactions, etc. activities, and do our best to conduct business in accordance with social norms. Corporate Social ■Contribute to social development through zero accidents and eco-friendly Board of Directors activity evaluation plan, social Social Responsibility 2 6 management. responsibility activity status, etc. Responsibility ■Engage in social responsibility activities and build a happy society. Committee ■Comply with local laws in conduct of business and respect local traditions and Committee Subtotal 27 52 cultures. Total 41 113 18 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 19 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Stakeholder Communication Commitment to Spreading Business Ethics Stakeholder Communication ◦◦EmployeeTraining SK innovation considers stakeholder communication the most basic and essential element in pursuing For employees to raise awareness of business ethics and practice ethical management voluntarily, SK stakeholders’ happiness. The company recognizes the importance of two-way communication and continues innovation provides online and in-class training for all employees. In 2011, 439 employees, including new to make a variety of attempts to enhance communication. Aside from exchange of opinion, the company also recruits and experienced employees, received 878 hours of in-house training. tries to collect stakeholders’ opinions and incorporate them into the decision-making process and business activities. [Ethics Training for Employees] (activities in 2011) Channels of Stakeholder Communication New recruits Experienced 439 trainees 878 training hours SK innovation selects key stakeholders, such as shareholders, customers, employees, partners, and communities who have big business impacts, and receives and collects their opinions through the most 107 332 214hr 664hr suitable channels for each group of stakeholders. The following are the key channels and activities conducted in 2011. ◦◦Consulting and Reporting through Business Ethics Infrastructure [SK innovation Business Unethical Behavior Reporting/Reward Program Holiday Gift Return Center [Communication Activities by Stakeholder Group] Business Ethics Pledge Ethics Website] (up to 20 million won rewarded since Nov. 2008) Service http://ethics.skinnovation.com Key communication channel 2011 key activities •For stakeholders including employees, customers, shareholders, and partners, to directly Shareholders’ meetings, quarterly results Quarterly results briefing (4 times), international consult or report ethical issues, channels like briefing, national/international NDRs (NonNDR (Non-Deal Roadshows) (4 times), national/ •Any gifts received Ethics Counseling Office (phone, fax, e-mail) and Deal Roadshows), national/international international conferences (7 times), national/ during holidays will Shareholders Ethics Website (http://ethics.skinnovation.com) conferences, one-on-one meetings, international investor relations meetings (over are available be immediately counseling by e-mail or phone counseling, 200 times), conference calls, e-mail/counseling, •Ethical issues are found in their early stages and returned. disclosures and reports, etc. phone counseling, etc. •Executives and team •Items not collected prevented, and reporters’ personal information leaders pledge to will be donated Customer satisfaction surveys (4 times), handling and report content are kept confidential to protect “Customer Happiness Center” (call center comply with Code of to social services customer service and information through Customers them from disadvantages service), websites for different products/ Ethics and Guidelines centers or facilities; Customer Center (479,000 phone calls, 26,000 (electronic signature services, customer satisfaction surveys, etc. items not donatable online requests), etc. •In 2011, a total of 80 issues were received, after mailing pledge) will be auctioned off through the counseling and reporting channels, within the company Continued operations of M2M Board, V Board, including 2 reports, 200 counseling requests, and M2M Board, V Board, Intranet (Open and the proceeds will Intranet (Open Square, tok Voice, tong tong), and 58 complaints. Square, tok Voice, tong tong), Ethics Employees be donated. •If any employee violates the Code of Ethics, such Ethics Counseling Center, and SKMS Counseling Counseling Center, SKMS Counseling, etc. unethical behavior is subject to punishment. In through online surveys and personal meetings. 2011, three violations were subject to disciplinary actions. Continuous partnership efforts, including close Meetings by inviting partners, Partner CEO communication through a variety of channels (by seminars, field councils with partners of region and by business), joint overseas expansion Partners ◦◦Spreading Ethics to Business Partners plants with repairs companies, and joint projects with SK innovation values fair, and transparent trade in doing business with its partners. The company’s business partners partners are actively involved in practicing business ethics based on mutual trust by signing the ‘Fair Trade Meetings with local organizations, attending Communication with major organizations and Agreement’. If a partner’s illegal or corrupt activity is discovered, the company will be subject to punishment local councils in neighboring areas and safety residents in Ulsan, attending as advisors to local by the company rules. In 2011, there were no violations or corrupt activities found among the business Communities councils of patrol divisions, and attending councils in Incheon, and supporting residents’ partners. steering committees of neighboring schools businesses through Mecena sisterhood 20 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 21 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Materiality Assessment Purpose of Materiality Assessment Materiality Analysis Results ‌* What is Materiality Assessment? SK innovation identifies key sustainability management issues and incorporates them into the report, taking To conduct the 2011 Materiality Assessment, SK innovation created a materiality matrix based on the level 8 Special Issues Materiality assessment refers to a process into consideration stakeholder interests and factors affecting business activities, based on ISO 26000, a of stakeholder concern and business impact and formed a task force for the preparation of this report. The Independent Win-Win Cooperation analyzing various sustainability management standard for social responsibility, and GRI G3.1, international guidelines for sustainability management results show that top priority issues were business performance, corporate partnerships of large and small management system issues identified by internal and external reporting, and monitors the issues primarily from the perspective of sustainability. and medium enterprises, worker health and safety, climate change response, new growth engines, stable Safety, Health, and Low-Carbon stakeholders from the viewpoints of stakeholder Environment Management energy supply, stakeholder engagement, and consumer communication. These top-priority issues were interest and corporate impact, and then New Growth Engines Stable Energy Supply prioritizing the issues. Materiality assessment is selected as special issues in this report and are discussed in detail. a methodology for determining issues that have 2011 Materiality Assessment Process Corporate Culture Customer Satisfaction Innovation a significant impact on a company’s sustainable development. In the year 2011 SK innovation’s materiality assessment identified stakeholder interests through media [Internal and External Stakeholder Materiality] analysis, domestic and international industry benchmarking, international standards, and independent expert 8 categories of social responsibility survey, and considered business impacts by analyzing the company’s management philosophy and business Governance Environment plans. The results were classified into eight categories of social responsibility, and further categorized into 33 Stakeholder Issues Top Priority Issues Economic Performance Fair Trade issues. ● 11 ●1 ●15 ●3 Safety Consumer Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 ●13 ●2 Labor Community Analyze issues Analyze issues from ●16 ●4 Identify special Define issues from stakeholders’ business impact’s Materiality chart issues ●17 ●5 perspective perspective ●20 ●6 Stakeholder Interest ●22 ●7 Media analysis ●24 ●8 International standards SK innovation analyzed the news articles SK innovation took into account the published by the media in the year 2011 ●25 requirements of international standards ●9 to identify stakeholder interests and ●26 for sustainability, such as ISO 26000, GRI ●12 social expectations. Since a substantial ●27 G3.1, UNGC principles, and DJSI, as the ●10 amount of press releases were prepared ●29 ●28 ●19 requirements to become a global company. and distributed by the company, negative ●31 ●14 As a result, climate change response, ●18 issues were given more significance. The ●30 sustainable resource use, and stakeholder ●21 issues that received a high level of attention ●32 ●23 6engagement ranked high as common include fair competition, government 666 ●33 6666requirements. relations, and business performance. Materiality Potential Issues Business Impact Business Issues Test Methods External expert survey Industry benchmarking Top Priority Issues Business Issues Stakeholder Issues Potential Issues SK innovation conducted a survey SK innovation analyzed the CSR activities 1. Stakeholder Engagement 9. Environment 11. Social Responsibility 25. Community Impact regarding the company’s level of 2. Corporate Partnership (Carbon Management) 13. Human Rights 26. Product Responsibility of its competing companies in the oil and sustainability and issues that need attention 3. Climate Change Response 10. Governance 15. Improving Working 27. Social Enterprise energy industry and identified the issues 4. New Growth Engines 12. Labor Relations Conditions 28. Reputation **. The survey targeted about 100 Korean (Green Business) 14.Training and Education 16. Consumer 29. Abolishing Human Rights existing in the industry. As a result, climate CSR experts, The results were incorporated 5. Employee Health and Safety 18. Risk Management (Customer) Privacy Abuses into its materiality assessment. Taking all 6. Business Performance 19. Business Ethics 17. Diversity and Equal 30. Marketing change response, employee health and 7. Consumer Communication 21. Pollution Prevention Opportunity 31. R  esponsible Political safety, and stakeholder engagement ranked these into account, corporate reputation, 8. Stable Energy Supply 23. General Affairs 20. Sustainable Resource Use Engagement new growth engines, and sustainable 22. Fair Competition 32. Business Environment high. 24. Consumer (Customer) 33. Ecosystem Conservation ‌** Issues that need attention resource utilization ranked high. Health and Safety Governance, product quality, environment, etc 22 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 23 Extending Life on Earth with Green Innovation The life of earth equals the life of mankind. SK innovation believes that energy companies should take the lead in protecting the planet. As a result of SK innovation’s commitment to developing renewable energy sources and new technologies SK innovation manufactures batteries for electric vehicles, Green Coal and GreenPol™. SK innovation leads the green revolution to protect the planet. Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 1 Independent Management System Establishment of Independent Management System Commitment to Establishing Independent Management System [2012 Corporate PR “Oil Field”] As of January 1, 2011, SK energy changed its name to SK innovation and split its petroleum business and [2012 Corporate PR ‘Battery’] petrochemical business into SK energy and SK global chemical, respectively. Centering on SK innovation, Since spin-offs have considerable impact on stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, the company adopted the independent management system for SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK customers, and partners, SK Innovation is well aware there may be expectations and concerns regarding the lubricants, and successfully spent the year strengthening its global competitiveness and increasing efficiency spin-off by stakeholders. Therefore, each subsidiary communicates actively with its stakeholders through IR in securing future growth engines. activities, employee surveys, and internal and external PR activities to inform stakeholders of the necessity of the spin-off for long-term growth and the expected longand short-term effects and to ask for their support. Since the spin-off and launch of the independent management system, the remaining parent company SK In addition, the company reviews issues concerning each stakeholder group from multiple aspects, prepares innovation is devoted to exploring and promoting future growth engines, focusing primarily on resource effective solutions, and continues to manage changes. development and technology development businesses, including petroleum development, information/ electronic materials, and research and development. SK energy, a new company, concentrates on the ◦◦Stakeholder Communication: ‘Shareholders and Investors’ petroleum and technical service businesses, while SK global chemical on the petrochemical business. SK’s Shareholders and investors showed a great deal of interest in the spin-off which transformed the company’s lubricants business was split into a separate entity called SK lubricants on October 1, 2009. values and provided a momentum for growth. They also expressed their expectations for the strategies and visions of SK innovation, which focuses on petroleum development and research and development of renewable energy, SK energy which focuses on midstream and downstream petroleum businesses, SK global chemical which is centered on the petrochemical business, and SK lubricants which operates the Background and Purpose lubricants business. SK innovation did its best to communicate with shareholders and investors through IR activities, including holding conference calls, regarding quarterly results and business conditions. The SK innovation’s determination to achieve innovation commenced prior to the spin-off of former SK energy, independent management system is considered to have been successfully established based on former “The year 2012 marks SK SK energy’s experience with the independent CIC system before the spin-off. It is clear the spin-off did and the spin-off and the adoption of the independent management system were achieved through sudden innovation’s 50th anniversary. decisions but deliberate processes. It is anticipated that the spin-off would contribute to enhancing the not damage the company’s value, but rather drastically improved business results. The spin-off is further This year, we will focus on execution abilities of each business and maximizing synergies among the businesses. expected to increase the corporate value of each subsidiary. SK innovation will buttress the independent becoming a global top-tier management system by continuously creating synergies among the businesses, while strengthening its competitive edge by enhancing each business’ expertise, promoting faster decision-making, and ensuring company, a company that will Before the spin-off, former SK energy adopted the CIC (Company-In-Company) structure in the year 2008 to flexibility in business operations. increase efficiency in business and organizational operations, and formed the four CICs, R&M (Refining and grow over the next century.” Marketing), chemical, Technology Institute, and CMS (Corporate Management Support), and the Resource (From the 2012 NewYear’s ◦◦Stakeholder Communication: ‘Employees’ Development Business Unit under the president’s direct supervision. However, to respond effectively Message by JaYoung Koo, to the recent changes in the global business environment and in energy supply and demand, radical and While the spin-off brought about expectations of new challenges to employees, there were admissions of feelings of insecurity as well. An employee survey regarding the spin-off found that employees showed a President & CEO of SK innovative changes were necessary to ensure the sustainable growth of the company. Such recognition was high level of interest in job security, pride, and revitalizing organizational communication. Concerning job innovation) the background for the spin-off of the petroleum and petrochemical businesses, the two largest CICs, into security, the most sensitive issue, pursuant to the job (employment) security agreement entered into in independent entities so that they would operate under the independent management systems. May 2010, there were no forced restructuring as a result of the spin-off. The agreement also stipulated all general working conditions, such as employees’ positions, wages, incentive bonuses, benefits, retirement The independent management systems of the four affiliates of SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical allowances, and vacations, would be succeeded to by the new entities, which would also use every possible and SK lubricants was designed to bring two effects: First, it is expected to enhance business flexibility and effort to maintain and improve the working conditions. Such measures resolved most of the employees’ the ability to execute by optimizing business units taking into consideration each business’ growth goals, concerns, and each subsidiary now focuses on increasing employees’ morale by establishing independent resource disparities, financial structures, and business environment outlooks. Second, it is expected to management and revitalizing the organization based on challenge, creativity, and positive thinking, and is improve each business’ performance and financial structures by reinforcing technology development and dedicated to creating a new and stronger corporate culture. expertise and by the development innovative business models. This management system aims ultimately at strengthening the overall business portfolio of all SK innovation affiliates to cope effectively with the changing ◦◦Stakeholder Communication: ‘Customers and Suppliers’ global energy industry, by cultivating the capabilities of each business and creating synergies among the There were no significant changes in customer or corporate partnership policies due to the spin-off. SK businesses. innovation continued to communicate the spin-off through disclosures and media reports, and provided related information to business customers and partners individually. Such measures assisted in increasing customers’ and partners’ understanding of the independent management systems and increasing public interest in the spin-off. The company will work harder to enhance customer satisfaction and corporate partnership. 26 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 27 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Accomplishments under the Independent Management ◦◦SK global chemical [2011 Corporate PR ‘Earth’s Desertification’] Systems SK global chemical reported 15,055.2 billion won in revenue and 774.3 billion won in operating profit in 2011. The results may have come from its export boom primarily in China and the strong margin growth of its [2011 Corporate PR ‘Polar Bear’] aromatic and butadiene products. SK global chemical’s appropriate response to the continuously growing Since the launch of the independent management systems, the SK innovation affiliates have shown demand within the regional market, centering on China, has led to the record-high earnings. In the business remarkable results by undertaking efficient, specialized business activities tailored to the needs of each environment with increasingly fluctuating material prices and intense competition, SK global chemical will still business, and by creating synergies among the businesses. In 2011, with SK innovation’s exploration increase exports by making forays into the Chinese market and other regional markets in Asia, and become business reported record-high earnings, and with the improved earnings of SK energy, SK global chemical, a global market leader that consistently creates value by boosting market leadership, increasing trade, and and SK lubricants, the company reached 68,371.2 billion won in consolidated revenues, 2,842.4 billion won in diversifying the related business. operating profits, and 3,175.8 billion won in net profits. The results represent a 27.3% increase in consolidated revenues from 53,722.5 billion won in 2010, and a 50.3% increase in operating profit from 1,891.2 billion won in 2010. Other than the petroleum refining and marketing business, all business areas including petroleum ◦◦SK lubricants development, petrochemicals, and lubricants, reported record-high revenues and operating profits, propelling In 2011, SK lubricants reported record revenue and operating profit of 2,709.1 billion won and 507.7 billion the earnings of all SK innovation subsidiaries to record highs. These results are considered to be the result of won, respectively. SK lubricants increased the exports of its internationally recognized base lubricants each company’s fast decision-making in response to the market conditions, enhanced business flexibility, and and also began exporting finished lubricants abroad, starting with the Chinese and Russian markets. synergies among the businesses under the independent management systems, which were successfully Consequently, the company posted record high earnings. To facilitate its global expansion, SK lubricants is implemented in the rapidly changing business environment, due to the instability of international financial currently planning to expand production lines in Korea and abroad. Once opened, its third base lubricant plant markets caused by the European financial crisis. What makes the results even more noteworthy is that more in the Ulsan Complex and finished lubricant plant in Tianjin, China, will fuel the company’s growth. than half of SK innovation’s revenues were from exports which signify the company’s progress towards becoming a global energy leader. Future Plans “Outgrowing its old image as a Korean company stuck in the ◦◦SK innovation이노베이션 ◦◦Optimizing the Independent Management System Optimized for Each Businesses SK innovation reported record-high earnings in the history of the exploration & production business. The petroleum business, SK energy and Creating Synergy exploration & production business reached record revenue and operating profit of 1,035.9 billion won and (currently, SK innovation) will take Under the independent management system, SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK 494.1 billion won, respectively, with the operating profit accounting for 47.4%. SK innovation began with lubricants will set new visions and goals and optimize management for their individual businesses. The steps to become a global energy small-amount equity investment in exploration and production blocks, extended the investment to operating company.” companies will set their combined mid-/long-term term goals to 4 trillion won in operating profit in 2015, and exploration blocks, and completed the vertical integration of oil/gas development and gas production/ and 10 trillion won in 2020, and work together for each subsidiary to reach at least a trillion won of operating (From the 2009 CEO inauguration transportation/LNG. Moreover, the company succeeded in large-scale asset sale and created a new business profit. Each company will aim to become a technology-driven, globally competitive company, develop a speech of JaYoung Koo, President paradigm for the exploration & production business. SK innovation has also continuously prepared for the strategically important business, and increase synergy with the other companies. SK innovation will enhance future energy business, along with the exploration & production business. By continuously investing in its & CEO of SK innovation) its technical capabilities and expertise in petroleum development, I/E materials, batteries, and R&D, SK current businesses, such as EV batteries, I/E materials, and GreenPol, and by developing additional growth energy in the petroleum and special gas refining business, SK global chemical in the field of materials, engines, the company will solidify its position as a technology-driven global energy leader and enhance its such as olefins, aromatics, petrochemical, polymer, and EPDM, and SK lubricants in the areas of lubricants capabilities to continue its stability and growth as a century-old energy company. and base oils. Under the motto, Separate and Together , the subsidiaries will continuously consolidate their business connections to create synergy, which helps make the best use of SK innovation’s energy ◦◦SK energy business capabilities, and also solidify their bond. Aside from strengthening technical connections among SK energy reported 49,400.9 billion won in revenue and 1,241.6 billion won in operating profit in 2011. In the businesses to create synergy, the four independent subsidiaries will further revitalize the organizations 2011, to tackle the domestic market stalemate, the company expanded its oil trade primarily in Singapore, and enhance their cooperative relationships by transforming their corporate culture. The entire SK innovation and increased suppliers in Indonesia, Hong Kong, and Vietnam, as well as China and Japan, as a part of the group will fulfill corporate social responsibility by disclosing business results and reinforcing business ethics strategy to increase demand for dry oil products in developing Asian countries. As a result, the company and will continue its growth by listening to stakeholders for their advice via a variety of communication exported 172 million barrels of light oil, including high-value products such as gasoline and diesel, a 10% channels and incorporating it into business activities. increase from the previous year’s export. SK energy will increase exports of petroleum by continuously reinforcing its trade business, and work harder to make forays into overseas markets with its product quality Independent that is competitive enough to export oil products to oil-producing countries, from which the company imports Management crude oil. System Strategy Creating synergy by strengthening Maximizing each company's technical business connections among competency and expertise through independent companies independent management 28 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 29 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 2 Corporate Partnership Corporate Partnership Philosophy ◦◦Technical Assistance and JointTechnology Development SK innovation aims to develop a win-win cooperation model by combining the creative technologies of SMEs SK innovation recognizes small and medium enterprises as equal partners and pursues corporate and the centralized, systematic technical capabilities and knowledge of large companies. For instance, the partnerships for the mutual growth of the company and SMEs. Instead of one-time support programs, the company takes part in the new product development and commercialization of its business partners through company developed a win-win framework to assist SMEs enhance their competitiveness through long-term technical cooperation in the field of key materials for TAC film, part of the I/E materials business. Once partnerships, and has arranged a variety of related programs. the company begins supplying the products scheduled for 2012, it is expected to contribute to partners’ continuous sales growth. 3-Stage Process ◦◦Human Resources Development Support In accordance with our corporate partnership philosophy and the company’s strong determination, SK To help SMEs enhance their competitiveness over a long period of time, SK Group continues to increase [SK innovation Corporate Partnership] innovation constructed a three-stage process relating to ‘individual transaction levels’, ‘industry levels’, and training/educational HR support for SMEs. SK Win-Win Academy, one of the leading programs launched in ‘community levels’. 2006, provides job training designed for varying positions, from working-level to middle management, and Equal opportunity and fair trade First, in transacting with SMEs SK innovation respects the principles of equal opportunity and fair trade. From to CEO. Of all the programs, the MDP (Management Development Program), which was designed to teach beginning to end, the company proceeds with transactions fairly, without favoritism, and tries to ensure the basics of management and business skills, was attended by 21 employees from 16 companies in 2011. In Strengthen SME’s appropriate mutual benefits. addition, a total of 59 companies participated in the 2011 CEO seminar, which was intended to provide CEOs competitiveness Second, SK innovation is dedicated to helping SMEs enhance their competitiveness for the development with instruction on management, liberal arts, and the best SUPEX practices. Additionally, the CEO seminar of the related industry. The company provides practical support for the growth of SMEs, such as financing, held in the Ulsan area and organized by SK innovation provided education closely related to about 60 local Spread the win-win culture research and development support, management support, and human resources development support. suppliers. With the suppliers’ enthusiastic support, the seminar will be held twice a year in 2012. Third, SK innovation aims to spread the corporate partnership culture across the community. Led by the WinWin Cooperation Office at SK global chemical, the company participates in conventions and declarations concerning fair trade and corporate partnerships, and takes the lead in promoting the corporate partnership ◦◦Closer Communication with Partners culture. “Open Innovation” lays the foundation for SK innovation’s win-win cooperation. Through a variety of channels, SK innovation listens to the opinions of SMEs and incorporates them into business activities and also communicates with partners frequently to build trust, which is also social capital. The successful examples Corporate Partnership Programs to Enhance Competitiveness include the meeting with major suppliers of the battery business and SK global chemical’s “Corporate Partnership” meeting held in 2011. The Corporate Partnership meeting, in particular, was attended by the CEO ◦◦Social Enterprises of SK global chemical and provided the opportunity for open communication, in which SK’s commitment to “SK-esque Social Enterprise” is SK’s new win-win cooperation model. Starting by forming social enterprises and vision of Corporate Partnership. as social service partners, SK innovation has recently expanded the scope of its activities to directly establishing social enterprises. The company is also involved in activities to build social enterprises at the level of SK Group, such as turning maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO) companies into social enterprises Fair Procurement Process and Supplier Partnership and providing MBA aimed at social enterprise start-ups. ◦◦Fair andTransparent Procurement Process ◦◦Funding and Financial Assistance Through the integrated online procurement system “SKBiOK.com,” SK innovation ensures that all Aside from 100% cash payments, SK innovation provides a variety of financing programs for SMEs to transactions with suppliers are carried out transparently, from supplier registration to procurement request, manage funds under better conditions. SK Win-Win Fund, a leading financing source launched across the SK to bidding, ordering, and to issuing tax invoices. The company also improved fairness by allowing a variety of Group, raised funds of 150 billion won and enables SK Group’s partners to receive loans at a lower interest stakeholders to engage in the procurement process, such as suppliers’ supervisors, procurement officers, than the market rate. Created in 2009, the fund has been active, with 8.6 billion won in balance as of late 2011. end-users, and technology assessment teams. ◦◦Partnership Business Support ◦◦Building Sustainable Partnerships SK innovation uses its business infrastructure in a number of ways to improve SMEs’ productivity and SK innovation introduced the Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) system, began a supplier increase their business opportunities. The company also helps SMEs expand their activities abroad. For the management process—registration, assessments, and differentiated management, and has operated a SCR catalyst business, for instance, SK innovation has provided support, including business knowledge and competitive supplier pool. In the supplier registration process, the company conducts an assessment of each the transfer of related processes/equipment. The business is now expected to generate annual earnings of supplier’s ethics, credit, technology, and environmental capabilities and ensures that all assessments are about 10 billion won for partners through the investment worth 4.8 billion won. As for overseas expansion, fairly conducted. SK innovation evaluates registered suppliers regularly on management, technology, quality, the company provided assistance in expanding the maintenance business for the BSR Project in Vietnam, safety·health·environment, and human rights, and provides advice to maintain strategic partnerships and reaching 15 million dollars in orders. sustainable relationships. 30 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 31 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 3 Safety, Health and Environment Management Safety · Health · Environment Management Vision and Strategy Safety · Health · Environment Management System and Upgrades SK innovation pursues a win-win model for the company and society through safety·health·environment ◦◦Safety· Health· Environment Management System Safety / Health / Environment Policy management. In May 2012, SK innovation created a new policy to ensure the consistent, integrated practice SK innovation runs the Safety·Health·Environment Management System to maintain consistency in safety, The corporate enterprise shall pursue incident-free operation and of safety, health, and environment management that meets the international standards. SK innovation will health, and environment management and produce results through continuous updates. The system environment-friendly management based on the spirit of humanoriented management, thereby gaining society's trust and growing hand-in-hand with society. continue to carry out improvement and prevention activities to keep employees and machines safe, and consists of 2 basic elements and 9 operating elements and is always kept up-to-date by applying the PDCA To do this, take the lead in building a safer, healthier society by bringing safety techniques and capabilities up-to-date. To (Plan-Do-Check-Adjust) method to each element. The Company shall become a role model among the domestic and foreign energy companies by planning and operating Safety, Health and Environment guideline stricter than that legally required, and preserve the earth’s environment, the company will carry out GHG (Greenhouse Gas) and pollutant reduction sharing such results with the public. activities and continue to create new environmental values through green technology development and Safety / Health *Define Safety and Health management as a top priority and business operations. [SHE Management System] engage continuous improvements and preventive activities for personnel and equipment safety, thereby leading the establishment of a safe and healthy society. *Innovate safety technology and enhance safety capability, thereby Forming Safety · Health · Environment Division taking an initiating role in improving social health and safety. Environment *Define Environment management as a core task and preserve the global environment by reducing greenhouse gases and minimizing Plan(P) Risk assessment Do(D) pollutants. *Continuously create new valuables from the environment by & management developing environment-friendly technology and operating When the independent management systems of SK innovation and its affiliates was established, the environment-friendly business, thereby innovating the future energy industry. May 31, 2012 company formed the SHE (Safety·Health·Environment) Division directly under CEO’s supervision, an Contractor Information & organization responsible for operating the integrated safety, health, and environment management system. management communication CEO CEO CEO CEO SK innovation SK energy SK global chemical SK lubricants KOO, JA-YOUNG PARK, BONG-KYUN CHA, HWA-YOUP CHOI, KWAN-HO SHE Division plans on bringing the SHE Management Systems at all plants in Korea and overseas to the “global top-tier” level, enhancing each office’s ability to execute, and solidifying safety·health·environment Legal Leadership management into SK innovation’s own culture. The following shows the SHE Division formed in 2012 and the compliance Mindset & Capability SHE teams of SK innovation’s four subsidiaries: Behavior Community relationship Procedure Evaluation Performance [SK innovation Subsidiaries’ Safety, Health, Environment Organizations] & management Adjust(A) improvement Check(C) SHE Division (formed in 2012) Global Technology ◦◦Strengthening Performance Management System [Safety·Health·Environment Activity (Independent SHE Member) SK innovation has continued its efforts to bring the current SHE Management System up-to-date and improve Performance Index] Battery Business Division its ability to execute to cement its position as a global company and a role model for Korean companies in the (Independent SHE Member) Category Performance index same industry with regards to safety, health, and environment management. An external consulting agency (importance) I/E Materials Business Division System System administration, including (Independent SHE Member) provided an objective assessment of SK innovation’s SHE Management System. Based on the results, the administration PSM ratings, EMS assessment company has worked hard to transform its safety culture. The company’s management secured its leadership (30%) results, etc. Implementation of safety by declaring its commitment to safety, health, and environment management. The management also created activities, including % of SHE the Safety Golden Rules to reinforce field-oriented safety management. Moreover, the management has training completion, number of Leading index: SHE meetings/check-ups, near70% worked hard to increase employees’ SHE awareness and behavior by running the internal safety, health, and miss accidents, number of SHE suggestions, and emergency environment audit program based on employee engagement and by reinforcing safety training. SHE Division simulation training results has also helped SHE teams improve performance by suggesting strategies for corporate SHE management Number of accidents, accident rate, number of environmental and defining the duties and rights of SHE teams at the subsidiaries’ worksites. To improve evaluation and Lagging index: accidents, number of legal adjustable violations, speed limit violations, performance management, the company has upgraded the SHE Audit System, applied the performance number of civil complaints, Independent SHE Unit Independent SHE Unit Independent SHE Unit (Ulsan & Incheon Complexes) (Ulsan Complexes) (Ulsan Complexes) indicators of SHE management, provided feedback, strengthened near-miss control, and rewarded top number of rewards, etc. performing teams and employees. 32 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 33 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 4 Low-Carbon Management Climate Change Strategy ◦◦EmissionsTrading System In 2007, SK innovation became the first company in Korea to introduce an in-house Emissions Trading System, test-ran the system at the Ulsan Complex in 2008, then began operating the integrated Emissions SK innovation established its own climate change strategy to tackle problems caused by climate change, and Trading System company-wide in 2009, including the Incheon Complex. In 2010, Using these experiences, has continuously carried out voluntary reduction activities, including earning carbon credits by reporting GHG in 2010, SK innovation designed a framework for adopting the ETS across the SK Group and implemented (Greenhouse Gas) reduction results, improving processes, and participating in pilot projects simulated trading with SK Group affiliates and Korea East-West Power Co. In 2011, the company participated in the Emissions Trading System Pilot Project #1 supervised by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy to [Strategy for Mitigating Climate Change] enhance its capabilities and competitiveness before the government scheme takes effect nation-wide. ※ SK innovation has been implementing Phase Ⅰ Phase Ⅱ Phase Ⅲ Phase III since 2011. ◦◦CDM(Clean Development Mechanism)*사Project Phase Laying the foundation Establishing Implementing SK innovation was awarded a government contract for the “Korea-Developing Country Climate Change for low carbon low-carbon management GHG emission reduction management system system initiatives Support Project”** targeting Vietnam, Malaysia, and Thailand, and implemented renewable energy and * ‌CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) CDM project development. SK innovation built a collaborative network with the local government agencies, Under this mechanism, if a developed country • Constructing IT-based GHG (investor) reduces emissions through an international organizations, research centers, and companies, and has explored potential CDM projects emission-reduction project in developing • Building calculation schemes control system countries (project countries), the reductions • Participating in international through seminars and the local networks and conducted feasibility studies of the discovered projects, such Emissions for GHG emissions • Implementing company-wide are partially counted as the investor’s. The emissions trading market as biogas and photovoltaic power generation. Trading • Building internal emissions integrated emissions trading mechanism allows the developed countries to • Emission portfolio earn CER (Certified Emission Reduction) credits System trading system system management for the reduced emissions, and developing • Simulating emissions trading • Reviewing group-wide countries to receive technical and financial emissions trading system ◦◦Future Plans assistance. Since 2005, developing countries With new government regulations introduced, such as the Framework Act on Low-Carbon, Green Growth also have been able to implement CDM projects • Voluntary energy conservation • Promoting energy as investors. Carbon • Discovering and registering conservation projects (declared in 2010), the Greenhouse Gas/Energy Target Management System under the same act, and the Credits GHG emissions reduction • Discovering and promoting government Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading System Act (enacted in 2012), it has become necessary to ** Korea-Developing Country Climate projects with government overseas CDM Change Support Project take a practical approach to GHG reduction in 2012. This also means that implementing GHG reduction and Eco•Technology energy conservation projects and developing process technologies will become even more important. SK A government-funded project designed to help • Developing eco-friendly developing countries cope with global climate Friendly commercialization technologies and projects innovation will therefore continue to carry out its GHG reduction project, earn carbon credits in Korea and change and increase their bargaining power in Energies and expansion of project emissions reduction agreements by providing abroad, create global business opportunities by providing support in developing countries, and solidify its support and cooperation, and also designed to position as a global company. provide ideal conditions for domestic companies Low-Carbon Management to expand into developing markets. [Greenhouse Gas Emissions] Under the Framework Act on Low-carbon, Green Growth, SK energy, SK global chemical (in 2011), and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Management SK lubricants (in 2012) were selected as companies subject to the Greenhouse Gas and Energy Target ◦◦SK energy (unit : 1,000tCO₂) Management System, and are responsible for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. SK innovation has ◦◦Creating Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management System (GEMS)축 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Direct emissions 5,715 6,399 7,197 6,886 6,972 faithfully complied with the Target Management System. Even before the system took effect, the company SK innovation completed the calculation of GHG emissions arising from the plants owned by SK energy, SK [GEMS Structure] Indirect emissions 1,123 1,291 1,430 1,538 1,268 had already begun to develop and invest in GHG and energy reduction projects and reduced about 760,000 global chemical, and SK lubricants, based on the IT-based in-house GHG emission calculation system created Operation Information System (OIS) Total 6,838 7,690 8,627 8,424 8,240 tons earlier, and will continue its commitment. The economic impact of the system, such as penalties will in 2007. For effective GHG management, the company strengthened the IT-based GHG management Master management Yield management GHG management (Daily management) be therefore very insignificant. If, however, companies are required to pay for their assigned amount units system, taking into consideration the acquisition of the Incheon Complex by SK energy and increased lines. Yield Daily emissions management Monthly/annual emissions Statements ◦◦SK global chemical management management management under the Emissions Trading System (ETS), which will take effect in 2015, then SK innovation may have to Fuel Gas, (unit : 1,000tCO₂) In 2011, as the GHG and Energy Target Management System took effect, SK innovation fortified its lowGHG Fuel Oil Steam/ Self-consumption/ input/production/ Stationary fuels : Gaseous fuels, Liquid fuels 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 management pay for credits on a pro-rata basis. SK innovation thus tries to create business opportunities by reducing GHG carbon management system by creating the GHG & Energy Management System (GEMS) designed to transfer/logistics Indirect emissions Mobile : Electricity, combustion Steam (heat) Monthly/ Direct emissions 2,862 2,559 2,353 2,370 2,626 logistics center annual emissions through a variety of projects, securing credits, and generating additional revenues by the time the : Stationary Indirect emissions 1,027 951 1,012 965 1,150 monitor GHG emissions on a daily basis in connection with the Operation Information System (OIS). The Refinery activities (process combustion, Indirect emissions emissions management (w/Excel) emissions) Total 3,889 3,511 3,366 3,335 3,776 ETS is adopted. GEMS gathers all the data needed to calculate GHG emissions from the OIS, which is monitored on a daily Results data basis and automatically calculates emissions, allowing systematic emissions calculation and monitoring. RTDB gathering process Meter data The system can also frequently check emissions through daily monitoring, helping the company monitor and Emissions ◦◦SK lubricants data Effective Response to Government Policy (unit : 1,000tCO₂) Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 respond efficiently to annual reduction targets. The OIS data, which form the basis of GEMS, is connected RTDB Minute-by-minute data Calculating emissions Each local worksite Basic emissions data Direct 55 51 57 63 to the company’s Accounting Management System, which will allow each production unit to reflect its Indirect 81 82 81 87 carbon accounting once the Emissions Trading System is adopted. SK innovation has dramatically increased Total 136 133 138 150 ◦◦Greenhouse Gas and EnergyTarget Management System accessibility and convenience so any OIS users can easily view and monitor GHG data by creating GEMS, Since 2000, SK innovation has calculated its GHG emissions and had them assured by an external agency ※ SK lubricants became subject to ETS in 2011, and allowed all employees to read GHG emissions generated from related equipment. The GEMS is, and calculated its GHG emissions since 2008 under the ISO 14064 requirements. Then, in 2007, the company began calculating GHG emissions under therefore, expected to raise employees’ awareness of low-carbon management as well. the government’s “Target Management System Guidelines,” and having them verified by a government designated agency. 34 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 35 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 5 New Growth Engines Global Technology ◦◦Thin Film Solar Cells [R&D Cost] Using its world-class proprietary technologies, SK innovation implements new technology development and SK innovation is developing a next-generation CIGS thin film solar cell technology, which will solve the new business expansion in the areas of renewable energy, petrochemical, and advanced materials. problems, thanks to the low material efficiency of crystalline silicon solar cells and with the multi-phase R&D Cost (unit : KRW 1,000 won) value chain. To facilitate commercialization, in 2011, the company obtained a platform technology in 2011 Global Technology is an organization responsible for the R&D of SK innovation and three subsidiaries and by investing in HelioVolt, an U.S. thin film solar cell venture. SK innovation has since focused on bringing its Year 2009 86,032,856 for supporting and facilitating the globalization of their technology-driven businesses, aiming to become a manufacturing technology up-to-date and implemented the business to build a manufacturing plant in 2014. Year 2010 107,256,019 technology-driven innovative company in the long term. To reach its goal, Global Technology is expanding Year 2011 153,831,000 the promising areas of a technology value chain and carrying out activities to find new growth engines. Petrochemicals The organization has also extended research and development support for energy, chemicals and resource development and increased R&D of new growth areas, such as batteries and I/E materials. To promote green R&D Cost/Revenue (unit : %) ◦◦CO² -embedded Polymer (GreenPol™) growth, the organization conducts research on CO²-based materials, photovoltaic, clean coal, and bio-fuels. A polymer made from a material consisting of over 40% carbon dioxide, GreenPol™ provides excellent Year 2009 0.24 Global Technology will continue to explore and develop new technologies to build future growth engines and properties, such as nontoxicity, barrier properties, transparency, and biodegradability. A high productivity an environmentally friendly society. For the aforementioned research and development activities, Global Year 2010 0.24 aspect has brought the product into the limelight, comparable to general plastic resins, such as polyethylene Technology invested approximately 370 billion won in 2011 and is expecting to increase its budget. The and PVC. Since the completion of the pilot plant in 2009, SK innovation has focused on developing a Year 2011 0.23 organization will also continuously increase its research and development and engineering staff in the year manufacturing technology and applications for commercialization purposes. 2011. Growth Engines by Area Information/Electronic Materials ◦◦LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separator) Renewable Energy With its exclusively developed cutting-edge technology, SK innovation became the third company in the world to successfully commercialize LiBS (Li-ion Battery Separator), a core component for rechargeable ◦◦Batteries for EVs and ESSs리 lithium-ion batteries. Since its Cheongju Plant began operating Unit No. 1, the company has increased its Mid-/large-sized batteries provide high energy and output efficiency and are expected to play a pivotal role market dominance by continuously expanding the production lines and actively developed export markets in developing next-generation vehicles and energy storage systems. In 2009, SK innovation entered into a while contributing to domestic production of the LiBS, which has been a heavily import-dependent product. hybrid vehicle battery supply contract with Daimler Group’s Mitsubishi Fuso and in 2010, became a battery SK innovation is currently running seven production lines at Cheongju and Jeungpyeong Plants, and supplier for Hyundai-Kia Motor Group’s high-speed EVs and for Mercedes-Benz electric supercar. In January continues its R&D and investment efforts to improve technology and market leadership. this year, the company also completed the formation of a JV with Germany’s Continental Corporation to combine SK innovation’s strengths in the battery cell area and Continental’s expertise in the BMS and auto ◦◦FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate) parts business and to pave the way for global leadership in the battery industry. SK innovation also leads the SK innovation developed its own technology for manufacturing high-performance FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad smart transportation business of the government-funded smart grid pilot project, takes part in the smart Laminate), a material used in flexible circuit boards. In 2010, the company developed a technology to diversify place and smart renewable areas and in the construction of the world’s largest high-tech open test-bed the product line and was certified by its customer; in 2011, it completed its manufacturing plant; and in July to test the ESS developed exclusively by SK innovation. During the second half of this year, the company 2012, it began production. The company will build Unit No. 2 to pave the way for future sustainable growth. will start operating the automated 200MWh battery production line in the Seosan Industrial Complex, Chungcheongnam-do, in addition to the existing lines at Global Technology, and safeguard its position as a global battery supplier equipped with a large-scale production facility. ◦◦TAC (Tri Acetyl Cellulose) SK innovation developed and has tried to commercialize a manufacturing technology for TAC (Tri Acetyl ◦◦Clean Coal Energy (Green Coal) Cellulose) film, a material used in display polarizers. Since the completion of its Jeungpyeong plant in SK innovation is developing an innovative, clean coal energy technology that can dramatically reduce Chungcheongbuk-do, the company has continued its R&D to expand the production lines. pollutants & carbon dioxide and also save investment costs. As the host company of a government project funded by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, SK innovation is implementing an industry-university cooperative project. In 2011, the company built a pilot plant to facilitate its technology development. 36 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 37 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 6 Stable Energy Supply Expanding Stable Supply Infrastructure Flexible Supply Management Korea is the 9th largest oil-consuming country in the world, and its presence has grown in the world In 2011, with oil demand remaining status quo and the economy recovering, SK innovation kept the operating petroleum market. SK innovation has worked hard to respond to growing uncertainty in the global market rate of CDU (Crude Distillation Unit) at 78% for stable oil supply, which was slightly higher than the previous through stable energy supply. It has also tried to build stable crude oil supply infrastructure and helped year. The operating rates of key chemical products, PE (Polyethylene), PP (Polypropylene), and PX (Paraxylene), transform Korea into an energy superpower. SK energy imports about 300 million barrels of crude oil each were 99%, 100%, and 100%, respectively. year, and has been building a strategic network worldwide by collaborating with global energy companies and strengthening its bond with oil-producing countries. To enhance the ability to cope with global emergencies, [Plant Operating Rates] the company has also prepared a variety of solutions, increased oil reserves, and built infrastructure for ※ Plant operating rates are flexibly managed considering all factors, such as market stable, economically efficient crude oil supply. For instance, the company will implement a policy to keep Year 2009 73.0% demand and supply. long-term imports at a sufficient level and diversify the import channels to Europe and Africa. 77% of the company’s oil imports come from the Middle East, according to the 2011 performance data. To ensure long • CDU Year 2010 77.7% term stable oil supply under the changing global political climate, including the recent political instability in the Middle East and U.S. sanctions on Iran, SK innovation actively seeks to purchase oil from regions other than Year 2011 78.4% the Middle East, such as Europe. Year 2009 97% [Annual Crude Oil Imports] (unit: 1,000 barrels) • PE Year 2010 92% Year 2009 290,703 Year 2011 99% Year 2010 313,871 Year 2011 313,663 Year 2009 98% • PP Year 2010 95% Expanding Exploration & Production Year 2011 100% SK innovation has been expanding its E&P business abroad to evolve from the largest energy company in Korea to a global energy leader. As of year-end 2011, the company secured 550 million barrels of oil reserves and its daily production reached 65,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2011. The Northeast Field of Su Tu Year 2009 89% Den, Vietnam, Yemen LNG Train 2, and Peru LNG Plant continue stable operations. SK innovation is expanding • PX Year 2010 100% its production line in Peru to generate more revenue and increase reserves. It also plans to conduct additional exploration activities. Furthermore, SK innovation participates in the drilling project in Colombia as an operator Year 2011 100% and carries out a variety of other exploration projects in Vietnam, Australia, and the Republic of Equatorial Guinea. With the profit earned by selling its Brazilian subsidiary, SK innovation plans to acquire producing assets or enter into a corporate M&A. Lastly, the company will contribute to national energy development and become a global leader in energy E&P by continuing its block exploration and development and stable oil supply. 38 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 39 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 7 Corporate Culture Innovation Corporate Culture Innovation: Challenge, Creativity, and Positive Thinking “tong tong,” SK innovation’s intranet forum, was opened to encourage employees to share their honest opinions online, and an event called “Shall We Talk” was held to learn directly from the CEO about organizational revitalization and the company’s vision. A sports event like Haneul Madang Sports was Challenge SK innovation’s old corporate culture emphasized stability, order, and hierarchy and was very consistent with designed to improve intimacy among between organizations and other events were also provided to help the strategies of the existing petrochemical industry. The technology-driven industry, where SK innovation Imagine the best, aspire to realize business units to bond with each other. faces new challenges, sees very intense competition and high market volatility. Therefore, the company the imagination (challenging the old decided that it would not be able to adapt to strategic changes by maintaining its old culture. “Organizational culture is required) Revitalization” was designed to create a culture that adapt to the changes made to the company’s To-Be strategy. SK innovation and the company defined its cultural values as Challenge, Creativity, and Positive Key Activities Thinking as its core values. Creativity ◦◦SK innovation New attempts and experiments To encourage the internalization of the new culture, instead of making artificial changes, SK innovation has SK innovation created “Communication Day” to provide opportunities to talk offline and launched “V-Board” (active discussion across all levels is adopted a step-by-step approach. In Phase 1, in 2010, the company targeted briefings, meetings, over-time where junior employees can communicate directly with the CEO. Aside from the workshops for executive work, and vacations as improvement priorities to “Make a Fun Workplace,” and improved the past practices officers and team leaders, which are held every first and second half of the year, SK innovation held a corporate required) dramatically. In 2011, SK innovation continued the “Make a Fun Workplace” activities, while transforming culture workshop where all employees discussed SK innovation’s cultural identity and behavior during the second the energy generated from those activities into a culture of “Challenge, Creativity, and Positive Thinking.” half.The workshop was held in 11 sessions for 50 days and attended by about 1,000 employees. Positive Thinking Creating the culture of “Challenge, Creativity, and Positive Thinking” is carried out in Phase 2 of Organizational Revitalization, where the company aims to improve employees’ way of thinking and behavior and pursue a “Can-do” attitude ◦◦SK energy higher level of happiness. (Team leaders and members are SK energy created and enforced the “Guidelines for Corporate Culture Innovation” to provide the most required to cooperate) efficient working environment. By creating the environment where unnecessary jobs are streamlined and Systematic Support employees can pitch creative ideas and focus on essential jobs, the company allowed employees to take part in “Brain Engagement” and eventually create a “virtuous-cycle” in the corporate culture, where employees cultivate their capabilities and the company continues to grow. To facilitate organizational revitalization, SK innovation supports environmental and systematic overhauls. To improve the office environments, tall partitions were taken down, the office walls of executive officers were replaced with glass, and team leaders’ desks were moved closer to those of team members, creating ◦◦SK global chemical a barrier-free workspace and making the workplace communication-oriented. The company also introduced SK global chemical provided CEO-employee meetings as a year-round program to encourage direct the half-day off and flexible time policy to help employees achieve work-life balance. communication between employees, and the CEO, and decided to celebrate “Communication Day” based on “fun” and “significance.” The company also held the GC workshop including an outdoor mission to Changes were also made to the HR programs, which were conservatively operated. First, field employees promote communication and harmony across all levels. Furthermore, SK innovation launched “J-Board (Junior are now allowed to actively engage in the hiring process and directly choose among talented candidates. Board)” to create a “bottom-up” organic organization where employees are allowed to participate. Personality and aptitude tests are now flexibly applied to hiring experienced employees, and the rewards policy stresses diversity and flexibility rather than uniformity and universality. This policy ensures that only qualified candidates can be hired. SK innovation’s improvements also include helping retired employees who ◦◦SK lubricants left the company for study purposes get re-employed, enforcing the promotion qualification examination SK lubricant launched a Culture Innovation TF consisting of junior employees and fortified bottom-up program, improving the transfer management program (Job Market), and transforming the uniform communication. The company also built the Dream Office, implemented the Creative Biz. Look, and distribution of educational budgets (IDP). These changes show that the company is moving forward from improved the culture of business meetings. To enhance communication with the CEO, all employees were the culture of managerial efficiency and internal equality towards the culture of managerial effectiveness and provided with small-group meetings and the opportunity to share business progress and talk with the CEO market competitiveness. on “Happy Day” every month. Organizational Revitalization Activities Future Plans In 2011, a variety of activities were carried out to convey the management’s sincerity and encourage SK innovation will pave the way for a better culture through the current organizational revitalization activities employees’ engagement through communication about the necessity and direction of organizational and consider them long-term activities, rather than temporary ones. The company’s plans also include revitalization. developing a variety of communication channels and providing more programs like the corporate culture workshop to encourage employee engagement and help them learn new cultures. 40 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 41 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Special Issue I 8 Customer Satisfaction CS Framework and Activities innovation increased customer benefits like Affiliate Credit Card aside from the biggest discounts and point rewards. The card allows “immediate discounts upon fueling,” aside from the biggest discounts and point rewards in the industry. SK innovation considers customer satisfaction a top priority and implements systematic CS activities to deliver higher levels of customer satisfaction through customer-centric management. The CS Framework consists of on-site CS survey, on-site CS improvement activities, and gathering Voice of the Customer (VOC) ◦◦Building Customer Trust with Authentic Products and Honest Service : systems. “Quality Assurance Program” As customers’ distrust of oil quality has grown due to high oil prices and the distribution of fake oil resulting from high oil prices, SK innovation developed “Quality Assurance Program,” to show its commitment to On-Site CS Survey System quality service, building customer trust in SK innovation services. SK innovation operates a new reward program, which includes frequent station checks for honest services (authentic product, right amount), and ◦◦Customer Interface Monitoring System “ACE Program” the “Fake Oil Reporting/Reward Campaign” to root out all fake oil products. In 1998, SK innovation began to operate ACE (Appearance Cleanliness Evaluation) Program to provide high quality services at SK gas stations. ACE Program was designed as a support program to increase customer ◦◦Compliance satisfaction by checking the level of CS at each station, providing feedback to the station and its sales team, SK innovation complies faithfully with the Broadcasting and Advertising Act, Outdoor Advertisements Control [Product Safety Activities] setting improvement priorities, and carrying out improvement activities. In 2011, the company overhauled the Act, Consumer Protection Act, and other applicable laws, and did not violate any laws related to its products ACE process so that a panel selected by a research agency actually drove and fueled cars while monitoring and services in 2011. Providing Material Safety Data CS levels from customers’ perspective. The evaluation results were analyzed and then sent to stations so Sheets (MSDS) for all product that they could be used in improvement activities. As a result, SK Gas Stations ranked first in both the Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) survey conducted by Korea Management Association and the Korea Evaluating hazards across product Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) survey conducted by Korea Standards Association, respectively. Voice of the Customer (VOC) Gathering System lifecycles and eliminating defects ◦◦Customer Service Center: “SK energy Customer Happiness Center” Complying with product safetyOn-Site CS Improvement Process SK innovation runs “SK energy Customer Happiness Center,“ a communication channel for customers to related laws answer their inquiries and grievances regarding the use of products/services and gather customer opinions Operating a steering committee on ◦◦On-Site CS Improvement through “CS 119Team” on the company’s marketing activities. At the Center, 50 expert counselors were hired to provide specialized, product safety In 2011, SK innovation began to operate “CS 119 Team,” a CS consulting program for gas stations, to improve kind counseling services by phone or online, listen to customer voices on the company’s marketing activities, CS on-site. Within the program, a CS expert visits a service station, checks its service level, and suggests and take them into consideration to provide better products and services. Through the VOC (Voice of the Training employees and suppliers customized on-site training and other various improvement ideas, making a great contribution to improving Customer) feedback process, the company provides fast feedback on the voices gathered through a variety service quality at service stations and encouraging station employees’ attitudes towards service. Since CS of channels and handles complaints. In collaboration with Customer Service Team, Voice of the Customer Conducting periodic safety audits 119 Team has received a highly positive reception, SK innovation will increase CS 119 teams. provides fast, accurate customer services, and the gathered VOC is shared with related organizations in periodic reports so that they can be used to improve the systems. ◦◦Improving Employees’ CS Attitude: “Employee CS Campaign” SK innovation provides an annual field work program for employees to improve their CS attitudes and Customer Responsibility Activities marketing skills. In 2011, the company launched the “Kindness Campaign” under the slogan “Your Smile Is SK’s Happiness” and in 2012, the “Cleanliness Campaign,” under the slogan “Clean and Kind SK EnClean ◦◦Customer Information Protection Makes You Happy.” The campaigns have allowed employees to not only conduct a variety of field PR activities In 2010, SK innovation adopted the data user authentication system to ensure that anyone who can access but also listen to customer voices and incorporate them into their jobs. personal information is aware of the importance of privacy and applies the system to their jobs. In addition, the company and suppliers monitor the handling of personal information on a regular basis and comply with ◦◦Increasing Membership and Affiliate Service Benefits the privacy regulations by running a system for the safe transfer and storage of personal information. Further, SK innovation created a SOC (Security Operation Center), an independent work space where personal SK innovation updated customers’ favorite membership service EnClean Bonus Card” and launched an information encryption and a stronger security policy are applied, to reinforce technical, physical security. SK additional service called “EnClean Affiliate Discount Service” where customers can save extra OK Cashbag innovation also created/amended its Privacy Policy and Guidelines, bolstered the management of the Data points or get double point discounts at affiliate stations, as long as they have used energy services at SK EnClean or charging stations more than once in the past month. To help customers save fuel cost, SK Security System, and provided periodic privacy training to eliminate the risk of data leaks. 42 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 43 SK이노베이션 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix skinnovation.com SK innovation Opens the Future for Korea With genuine interest and engagement, we are building a happy future for Korea. SK innovation spreads the energy of happiness across Korea through empathy and engagement. SK innovation fulfills its social responsibility by forming social enterprises and creating jobs for our disadvantaged neighbors. SK innovation leads by taking bold steps toward a healthier Korea. 44 _ We are SK innovation sustainability Report 2011 _ 45 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Our Performance Economic Economic DMA Creating and Distributing Economic Value Performance SK innovation continues to increase revenue through innovation. 2011 Economic Performance In 2011, through the independent management system, SK innovation tried to enhance its global As the IFRS took effect on January 1, 2010, under the Korea International Financial Reporting Standards competitive advantage by strengthening its technological capabilities and securing new growth (K-IFRS), SK innovation adopted the standards to prepare these financial statements. The financial engines. Its commitment led to a 27% increase in revenue with KRW 68,371.2 billion won, compared statements include the changes made after the spin-off early 2011. The year 2011 saw a 27% increase in with the previous year. revenue with 68,371.2 billion won, compared with the previous year; due to rising oil prices and economic recovery, the petroleum business reported a revenue increase by 37% with 87,950.2 billion won; the petrochemical business a 44% increase with 22,535.3 billion won, due to the continued strong market Vision and Strategy growth; and the lubricants business a 33% increase with 4,862.4 billion won, all compared with the previous year. Other businesses like E&P reported 1,581.3 billion won of revenue, a 48% increase, due to the rising oil SK innovation has actively promoted global management and future energy development to become prices and an increase in average daily production. a technology-driven global energy company. With the spin-off and the launch of the independent management system, SK innovation will consolidate its competitive edge as a global energy leader by [Revenues of Key Businesses] (Unit : KRW billion ) continuously investing in new businesses, such as E&P, I/E materials, and batteries, and by developing overseas markets for its petroleum, petrochemical, and lubricants subsidiaries. Business category Item 5th Period (2011) 4th Period (2010) Export 23,549.5 15,587.7 2011 Key Issues Petroleum Domestic 27,195.3 15,247.5 business Overseas subsidiary 37,205.4 33,473.9 New technology • New businesses • Financial performance Total 87,950.2 64,309.1 • Success of Independent management system Export 11,269.1 10,067.3 Key Achievements Petrochemical Domestic 6,923.5 3,055.8 business Overseas subsidiary 4,342.7 2,541.9 • S  uccess of the Independent Management System of SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK lubricants Total 22,535.3 15,665.0 • Successful sale of oil blocks worth 2.4 billion dollars owned by its Brazilian subsidiary • Successful development and commercialization of an advanced manufacturing technology for flat Export 2,030.4 1,566,6 copper clad laminates (FCCL), one of the I/E materials Domestic 642.7 436,8 • Revenue increase by 27.3%; operating profit increase by 50.3%, compared with the previous year Lubricants business Overseas subsidiary 2,189.3 1,646.5 • Economic performance (unit: KRW billion, %) Total 4,862.4 3,649.9 Category 2010 2011 Export 1,252.3 920,9 ※B  ased on K-IFRS consolidated financial Total assets 29,405 35,027 statements E&P Domestic 329.0 138.9 Economic * K ey indicators Revenue 53,722 68,371 and others performance Overseas subsidiary 0 6.4 See the 2011 Business Report on the website (consolidated) Net profit 1,149 3,175 Total 1,581.3 1,066.2 Key indicators* Debt ratio 154.56% 136.16% Consolidated adjustment -48,558.0 -30,967.7 Total 68,371.2 53,722.5 46 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 47 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix 2011 Financial Statements Summary [Revenue] Year 2010 Year 2011 [Income Statement Summary ] (Unit : KRW million) % of domestic 40.38% 30.44% Subject 5th Period (Year 2011) 4th Period (Year 2010) % of import Sales 68,371,155 53,722,461 59.62% 69.56% Cost of Goods Sold 63,551,358 49,749,441 Gross Margin 4,819,797 3,973,020 SG&A Expenses 1,860,221 1,705,222 Government Grants Other Operating Income 1,689,270 1,178,509 In 2011, SK innovation received 52 million dollars through the Success Repayable Loan System for 11 Other Operating Expenses 1,806,492 1,555,152 overseas exploration and production projects including in Vietnam, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, and Kazakhstan. The key blocks funded through the Success Repayable Loan included 15-1/05 block in Vietnam, Operating Income 2,842,354 1,891,155 where the company discovered oil in 2009 and 2010, and CPO-4 and SSJN-5 blocks in Columbia, which the Non-Operating Income 3,349,235 914,202 company operates as an operator, and the company also conducts seismic surveys and drilling activities. Non-Ooperating Expenses 1,882,942 1,302,937 Income before Income Taxes 4,308,647 1,502,420 Exchange Rate Risk Management Income Taxes 1,132,804 353,239 Since exchange rates have a big impact on oil imports and sales, they are considered a critical risk factor. Net Income 3,175,843 1,149,181 Characteristic of an all import-dependent structure, the business is exposed to foreign exchange liabilities in Other Comprehensive Income 166,275 (3,178) foreign currency. To reduce the risk from such fluctuations, SK innovation uses derivatives to hedge against exchange rate risks from operating and other incomes based on VaR (Value-at-Risk) under the foreign Total Comprehensive Income 3,342,118 1,146,003 currency management rules. To manage exchange rate risks, SK innovation operates the Exchange Risk Management Committee with Director of Corporate Management Division as a chair, and Treasury Team is responsible for reporting related transactions on a regular basis. [Balance Sheet Summary] (Unit : KRW million) Subject 5th Period (Year 2011) 4th Period (late 2010) 4th period (early 2010) Shareholder Returns Current Assets 19,886,932 15,495,703 13,918,469 In 2011, SK innovation determined a dividend of 2,800 won per common share, a 700 won increase Non-Current Assets 15,139,949 13,910,021 14,377,782 compared with the previous year, and has implemented gradual increases in dividends to ensure stable Total Assets 35,026,881 29,405,724 28,296,251 shareholder returns. To increase shareholder returns, the company will pursue stability through active risk management and efficient business operations and endeavor to reach its business goals by establishing a Current Liabilities 14,305,452 11,744,822 11,104,071 long-term growth strategy. Non-current liabilities 5,889,819 6,109,135 6,617,351 Total liabilities 20,195,271 17,853,957 17,721,422 [Dividends] Capital 468,570 468,570 468,570 Category 2009 2010 2011 Capital Surplus 5,885,505 5,878,164 5,917,961 ※ The 2009 data are based on the stand-alone financial statements under K-GAAP Par value per share (won) 5,000 5,000 5,000 Earned Surplus 8,202,693 5,265,931 4,293,926 ※ The 2010 and 2011 data are based on the Earnings per share (won) 7,311 9,480 18,278 Other Capital 20,507 (161,184) (232,737) separate financial statements under K-IFRS Dividend per common share (won) 2,100 2,100 2,800 Dividend per preferred share (won) 2,150 2,150 2,850 Minority Sshareholder’s 254,335 100,286 127,109 Total cash dividends (million won) 195,289 195,767 261,001 Equity Total Equity 14,831,610 11,551,767 10,574,829 48 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 49 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix 2012 Business Plan In 2012, SK innovation will bolster its competitiveness Petroleum Business Lubricants Business new and renewable energy storage market, SK Innovation built the nation’s largest energy storage system at the Jeju Smart Grid Test Bed in October through the consolidated independent management 2011. Based on these proven technologies, the company plans on carrying system of SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK SK innovation is swiftly responding to the changing market environment SK innovation is creating a global platform for finished products as part out mass production at Seosan General Industrial Complex, where an lubricants, and continue its efforts to become a leader in by diversifying its petroleum business portfolio and also through diverse of its globalization initiative. With a focus on emerging markets that annual production capacity of batteries capable of outfitting 40,000 E/V is the global energy industry by creating synergy among risk management methods to ensure stable performance. In 2012, beyond include China, Russia, Southeast Asia and South America, the company expected. the existing oil refinery business, the company plans on diversifying its is localizing its production and distribution network, while also pursuing the businesses. Further, the company will continue to business portfolio internationally, while continuously expanding its supply overseas B2B markets. In 2012, a third joint venture LBO plant in Ulsan, invest the new growth engines like E&P, battery, and I/E chain in Indonesia, Hong Kong, Vietnam, China and Japan. At the same Korea with Japan’s JX Nippon Oil & Energy starts commercial operation materials businesses, develop overseas markets for the time, the company will increase the number of its export markets for high soon and will have a daily production capacity of 26,000 barrels. Another petroleum, petrochemical, and lubricants businesses, value-added light and middle distillates, especially gasoline and diesel. LBO plant with a daily production capacity of 13,300 barrels is under and adopt a flexible business structure to create synergy, Furthermore, the company will continue expanding the trading business construction in Spain, a joint venture with Repsol. Information/Electronic bringing the value of the business portfolio up to the and establishing a foothold in overseas markets in an effort to improve its Materials Business business structure. SK innovation will also increase customer-oriented and maximum level. technology driven new growth engines, allowing the company to become SK innovation is developing businesses to make LiBS (Li-ion Battery the leading energy company in the Asia-Pacific region. Separator), TAC (Tri Acetyl Cellulose), and FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Exploration & Production Business Laminate) business areas into new growth engines. The company was the third company in the world to develop a lithium-ion battery separator, In July 2011, SK innovation finalized a deal to sell SK do Brasil, its Brazilian the core component of lithium-ion batteries. Based on this technology, E&P subsidiary, to Maersk Oil of Denmark for US$ 2.4 billion, completing the company is producing separators for diverse IT applications and for E/ a contract that was signed in December 2010. The earnings from the deal V batteries. In 2012, By taking advantage of its technological advantage, will be used to purchase more production blocks or pursue further M&As. the company will continue developing innovative products and expanding In 2012, the company is continuing to upgrade its E&P business portfolio production lines to become a world-leading LiBS producer. The company through active exploration projects and the securing of new blocks, designs and operates the pilot plant on its own, which has secured it a with a focus on areas with high-growth potential. The company will also platform for commercial production of TAC film. In 2012, the first plant for maintain/increase income sources by efficiently managing the existing mass production is under construction in North Chungcheong province. blocks and developing new blocks, and implement stable LNG production Once it wins product verification from client companies, the company and distribution through the LNG projects in Yemen and Peru. Moreover, will begin full-scale sale of the product. After applying its own continuous centering on the E&P Technical Center in Houston, the company will curing process technology, the company completed a mass production recruit/train E&P global talent and support successful operations in line which manufactures products and started commercial production Colombia and Peru, and continuously foster its technological capabilities in July 2011. As it moves forward, the company aims to become a global using the operating assets and technology that it will gain through the leader in the circuit material industry by expanding into displays and other M&As/production asset purchases. related industries. Petrochemical Business SK innovation endeavors to reinforce competitiveness in order to grow steadily in the production of olefins, aromatics, solvents, synthetic resins, and synthetic rubber. In 2012, the company will aggressively expand its Battery Business In the future, SK innovation will further boost the development of future business in China and seize the business opportunities in global market growth engines, which will propel “green growth” under the vision of – especially in emerging markets, such as Southeast Asian countries and SK innovation has been recognized for its excellent performance in the “Leader in the Energy Industry.” To realize the vision, the company will India, while consolidating its competitive position in domestic market. battery system technology and production areas by chosen to supply continue to endeavor to develop competitive technologies, such as The company is now reinforcing R&D capabilities in order to secure a batteries for electric vehicles made by Daimler Group’s Mitsubishi Fuso, GreenPol (CO²-embedded Polymer), Green Coal (clean coal energy), and fundamental technology for a new market expansion. In particular, it is Mercedes-AMG, and Hyundai-Kia Motors. As a leading company in the Cellulosic Ethanol. now commercializing the Nexlene technology, one of SK Innovation’s own technologies. It will continuously step forward to further growth, for example by creating a joint venture (JV) with JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation (Japan) to build a PX plant in Ulsan, which would produces 1 million tons annually. 50 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 51 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Our Performance Social Social DMA Employee Satisfaction SK innovation is building a brighter future for Korea. Fair Opportunity and Respect for Diversity SK innovation strictly prohibits all forms of discrimination against employees’ gender, age, and origin, respects [Employees by gender] (unit: person) SK innovation has always been concerned about the development of Korean society and committed diversity, and strives to provide fair, reasonable opportunities. During the hiring process, the company complies to fulfilling its responsibility as a corporate citizen. Its commitment has led to “True Management for Male with the Labor Standards Act and Equal Employment Act to ensure fair procedures, and the terms and conditions Happiness” to build a happier Korean society. Female 5,039 of employment are provided fairly through the collective bargaining agreement, employment standards, and employment agreements. SK innovation complies with applicable laws regarding the prohibition and regulations Year 2008 484 Vision and Strategy of gender-based discrimination, and ensures equal opportunities for female employees and equal pay for equal positions. The company also offers an annual session of anti-sexual harassment training at the workplace. Those 4,884 who just gave birth are allowed to use parental leave and return to work after the leave. In addition, through the The vision of SK innovation is “A company where employees work with passion, a company that Year 2009 477 Agreement on Promotion of Employment for the Disabled with the Korea Employment Promotion Agency for the society respects.” SK innovation tries to meet society’s expectations by communicating with Disabled, SK innovation aims to reach 2.5%, the legally required ratio of disabled employees. Aside from its legal stakeholders and staying engaged with local communities. It also tries to fulfill its responsibility as a 4,945 and institutional efforts, SK innovation strives to create a corporate culture that respects diversity. SK innovation corporate citizen by pursuing stakeholder happiness through “Happiness Management.” believes that such a corporate culture will keep employees from experiencing any form of discrimination based on Year 2010 512 gender, age, or origin. 2011 Key Issues 5,322 Respecting Human Rights Year 2011 588 Corporate culture • Employee safety and health • Social contribution/ SK innovation considers respecting human rights one of corporate social responsibilities and is committed to protecting employees’ human rights and guaranteeing their labor rights. The company also complies strictly with community development• Customer satisfaction labor laws. [Information on the Labor Union] (as of Dec. 31, 2011) ◦◦Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Membership 2,566 members SK innovation is dedicated to promoting mutual benefits for both labor and management and guarantees all labor Full-time union members’ freedom of association and collective bargaining under labor laws. The labor union represents 5 members Key Achievements the interests of its members. The Labor-Management Council is responsible for discussing issues that have a memberes Federation of KoreaTrade big impact on employees, and the details of business operations are frequently shared with the labor union. Unions, • R  anked 1st in Korea Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) in the category of gas stations for 4 straight years Furthermore, the company should immediately report the results of its restructuring and rewards/punishments Associations Federation of Korea Chemical • Improved customer service by establishing CS119 Team for customer consulting to the Union. The labor-management collective bargaining agreement is, in principle, supposed to be applied Workers • Formed SHE Division at the company level to employees below the level of senior assistant managers, but the company tries to make most part of the • Opened “tong tong,” a new program designed to promote communication among employees agreement applicable to all employees. • Provided a place for communication with local communities by donating “SK Happy Wing Park” in front of its Incheon Complex, and improved the cityscape. ◦◦Child and Forced Labor SK innovation does not own businesses with high risks of child labor and forced labor and strictly prohibits such illegal activities. All employees at SK innovation were hired at their own will, and are evaluated for their performance Year 2009 2010 2011 * contribution and abilities under the appropriate Compensation and Promotion programs. 2011 average accident rate disclosed by Ministry of Labor Accident Rate (%)* 0.30 0.23 0.08 Overall industry: 0.65, manufacturing: 0.96 ◦◦Grievances Committee Social contribution The Grievances Committee consists of 6 members, 3 each from management and the labor union, and is activity cost 37.1 31.5 47.8 committed to improving the working environment and conditions. The committee receives employees’ individual (KRW billion) grievances in writing or orally, by phone, e-mail, or otherwise and tries to solve them. ◦◦Employee Privacy SK innovation contracts out internal security management to a security agency and regularly educates 203 security officers working at the company on their basic duties and how to respect human rights. 52 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 53 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix [Employee Information by Worksite] Head office Ulsan Complex Year 2008 (Total 5,523) Year 2009 (Total 5,391) Year 2010 (Total 5,457) Year 2011 (Total 5,910) Employee Safety and Health Management Incheon Complex (As of late 2011/unit : person) Technology With the goal of Safety First, SK innovation is committed to raising safety awareness among top Institute ※H  ead office includes employees management, senior managers and the entire workforce, and encourages them to take the initiative in of overseas and other worksites various accident prevention activities. Based on the SHE (Safety·Health·Environment) Management System, the company enacted safety and health policies and guidelines as well as missions, such as safety and health must-dos, risk prevention activities, safety and health internalization, employee participation programs and 1,769•2,929•504•321 1,706•2,774•502•379 1,755•2,675•474•553 1,903•2,806•462•739 SHE visual programs. [Percentage of Full-time No. of full-time Year 2008 Year 2009 Year 2010 Year 2011 Employees] employees 98.4% 98.4% 98.6% 98.6% ◦◦Industrial Safety and Health Committee % of full-time SK innovation operates the Industrial Safety and Health Committee in accordance with the Occupational employees 5,435 5,276 5,382 5,830 (Unit : person, %) Safety and Health Law. Major agenda items include an industrial accident prevention plan, safety and health education for employees, and the inspections and improvements of work environments. Article 53 of the Collective Agreement (the organization and operation of the Industrial Safety and Health Committee) stipulates the organization and operation of the Industrial Safety and Health Committee, as well as its limits and counteractions. Labor and management reached an agreement in February 2003 to enact the Guidelines [Retired Employees by Head office Year 2008 (Total 319) Year 2009 (Total 161) Year 2010 (Total 115) Year 2011 (Total 167) on the Operation of the Industrial Safety and Health Committee, allowing the committee to function more Worksite] Ulsan Complex Incheon Complex easily. (Unit : person) Technology Institute ※ In 2008, retired employees increased due to the ◦◦Process Safety Management (PSM) System relocation of affiliated SK innovation adopted the PSM system recommended by the Korean Ministry of Labor in order to prevent companies, i.e. SK M&C accidental accidents and create a safe workplace. The company established a system for keeping track of the 289•16•0•14 105•34•7•15 72•25•8•10 86•41•16•24 12 PSM elements. We have in place a system to track each of the 12 PSM factors. As of late 2011, 6 out of 10 plants at the Ulsan Complex had maintained the highest “P” grade, and SK innovation strives to get the P grade for all worksites through the PSM grade re-evaluation in 2012. [Retired Employees by Male Year 2008 (Total 319) Year 2009 (Total 161) Year 2010 (Total 115) Year 2011 (Total 167) Gender] Female 239 132 89 128 (Unit : person) ◦◦Safety •HealthWin-Win Program 80 29 26 39 Under the guidelines of the Ministry of Labor and Employment, SK innovation has operated “Safety·Health Win-Win Program” to help suppliers prevent disasters and ensure safety·health by improving their safety·health capabilities. Designed to provide substantial, practical support, the program includes human, [Employee Mix] Under 30 By age Minority (disabled) material investment plans for suppliers. Between 30 (Unit : person) and 50 Over 50 Year 2008 Year 2009 ◦◦Industrial Accident PreventionTraining SK innovation conducts regular Industrial accident prevention training under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Training is provided at each level to maximize its effects, and employees of repairs/installation vendors also receive the same level of industrial accident prevention training. The company also created a 526•4,602•395 495•4,290•576 training system for the efficient management of all training programs. Year 2010 Year 2011 74 74 83 86 Year 2008 Year 2009 Year 2010 Year 2011 543•4,491•424 300•4,662•948 54 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 55 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix [Industrial Safety Training Results in 2011] Employee Competency Development Category Eligibility Trainees Sessions Hours SK innovation runs training programs aiming to help employees broaden their horizons, cultivate their Supervisors 459 38 21,440 global insights, and improve their capabilities. The company classifies competencies into 4 to develop Legal Safety· Health Training Technical/office positions 2,469 84 55,044 SUPEX leaders who can cope with the changing business environment and train employees to develop ‘SK (Cyber training) innovation Manship’ and operates appropriate training programs. Subtotal 2,928 122 76,484 New recruits 44 6 856 ◦◦SK innovation Manship Collective safety training for field employees 1,037 21 16,780 SK Manship that SK innovation pursues is a “Global Expert” who is trustworthy, takes on challenges and Employee Safety· brings about innovation. (cardiopulmonary resuscitation) training 139 8 1,112 Health Training Other training 1,035 5 1,140 ▒ SK Values SK innovation provides training programs and workshops for all employees to share the SKMS-based Subtotal 2,255 40 19,888 management philosophy and principles, increase loyalty and pride, and become the “SK Man” who leads human and cultural innovations. ◦◦Employee Healthcare Activities SK innovation takes care of employees’ health through the regular medical checkup program. At Ulsan ▒ Leadership Leadership programs bolster the competencies required to become SUPEX leaders at each level of job class, Complex, where most of the production workers are employed, has the Industrial Health Center with 6 such as cultivating a business perspective, strategic thinking and leading changes in corporate culture. doctors and nurses. Other facilities and medical supplies are provided to help take care of employees’ health. At the head office and Ulsan Complex, sports facilities are available to provide health care to employees and ▒ Job Competency their families. Moreover, SK innovation strictly controls harmful factors to protect employees from harmful To secure the competencies required in business, SK innovation encourages each team to spontaneously substances existing in the working environment. define the core competencies needed to produce results, make resource and development plans, and provide in-house and external training programs according to the plans. ◦◦Safety Management Performance Assessment • Overseas Training Program (Job Expert Training) * Plant Availability In 2011, through various safety management system and activities, SK innovation’s Plant Availability* was Each year, SK innovation selects employees eligible for overseas training to develop master’sand Number of days of plant operation excluding doctoral-level talent, and runs a program for appointing employees at global companies to help days of maintenance 98.95% at the Ulsan Complex and 99.87% at the Incheon Complex of SK energy, SK global chemical’s PA cultivate global capabilities and expertise. was 99.53% and SK lubricants’ 100%. In 2011, there were 5 accidents resulting in injuries during process operations, but the overall accident rate was low. • Short-term Outside Training SK innovation establishes an annual individual development plan (IDP) and helps employees attend [Accident Rate by Worksite] training programs at external agencies, international seminars, and conferences to execute their ** Head office (unit : %) personalized competency development projects. Includes employees at the head offices, overseas/other plants of SK innovation’s Category 2009 2010 2011 비고 Subsidiaries Head offices** 0.23 0.00 0.00 ▒ Globality SK innovation To facilitate the implementation of “global business,” SK innovation provides training focused on recruiting *** Average accident rate reported by Technology Institute 0.53 0.00 0.27 Average accident local experts and developing global leaders with global perspectives from countries, which global businesses the Ministry of Labor and Employment rate of the Ministry Data published on April 12, 2012, by the Ministry Ulsan 0.33 0.29 0.13 of Labor and are concentrated. of Labor and Employment (based on 2011) SK energy Employment *** • Developing Local Experts Incheon 0.40 0.21 0.00 Overall : 0.65 SK innovation develops local skilled workforces with global intelligence by sending them overseas for ※Calculated based on the number of Manufacturing : up to a year and allowing them to experience the local languages, cultures and economies. SK global chemical Ulsan 0.00 employees effective late 2011, excluding 0.97 accidents outside work, such as sports SK lubricants Ulsan 1.00 0.79 • Foreign Language Education Support events. SK innovation supports global skills development by offering customized intensive programs (CIP), one to one business English course, and phone/video/group courses. 56 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 57 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Fair Trade Compliance SK innovation and its subsidiaries are the first companies in the industry to operate the Compliance [Annual Training Hours by Person] Program (CP). Their CP results and plans are reported to the Board of Directors and they improve the level of ◦◦Other Education Support compliance. In 2011, they received one corrective action order from the Fair Trade Commission with regard to Category Description unfair trade practices. About 500 internal/outside online courses are available, including SK Online Training Academy’s programs, so that employees can develop skills according to [SK innovation’s Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) System] their needs. 7 CP Elements Operational Status Each year, famous instructors from universities and consulting firms attend and help operate SK MBA Program where employees learn Determination • Declaration of commitment to compliance and adoption of Universitybasics about business administration, and other university-industry and interest of CEO CP norms Industry Cooperation cooperation programs are operated, such as the Energy Management course. • Appointing Head of Corporate Sustainability Management Division Appointment of Chief 40 hours 35 hours 54 hours 55 hours as Chief Compliance Officer and disclosing the appointment (Feb. Compliance Officer A variety of programs designed to help employees develop their skills, 2012) Other such as the program for supporting employees who retire for study purposes, mind control and training program, and club activity support • Publication of compliance guidebook Publication of Yeae 2008 Yeae 2009 Yeae 2010 Year 2011 compliance guidebook • Publication of fair trade guideline ※ Based on the training hours managed by Fair Evaluation and Compensation CP education • CP seminars for employees the team responsible for training across the • Education for CP experts, education specific to each business company SK innovation considers appropriate compensation for employees’ hard work through fair evaluation and compensation the first step towards happiness management, and is committed to creating and improving • Operation of compliance committee and CP regulations the programs and policies that support this philosophy. Internal control system • Operation of dedicated team • Fair Trade Auditing ◦◦Evaluation System Disciplinary program • Disciplinary measures for violators SK innovation operates the evaluation system in the aspects of SK Values, competencies, and performance. By evaluating employees’ abilities, credentials and performance on a regular basis, SK innovation uses the Document • Systematic management of CP-related documents results as criteria for promotions, transfers, training and compensations. The evaluation items and processes management system differ, depending on the job characteristics of executive officers, team leaders, salaried employees, and meritpaid employees. ◦◦Compensation System SK innovation runs salary and bonus system to ensure fair compensation based on employees’ abilities, credentials, and performance. Bonuses are graded and paid based on performance by calculating the Policy Engagement company’s finances according to EVA (Economic Value Added) and KPI (Key Performance Indicators). As the leader of the Korean petrochemical industry, SK innovation is actively involved in the policy-making ◦◦Promotion Schme process as part of its effort to promote the sustainable development of the industry. The company has been an active member of the Korean Petroleum Association (KPA), Korea Petrochemical Industry Association SK innovation operates a fair, reasonable promotion management program that takes into consideration (KPIA), and Fair Competition Federation (FCF). Through these organizations, the company has been able employees’ evaluation results, as well as their abilities and credentials. The fair promotion program motivates to convey its opinions and stances in connection with public policies and participate in discussions about employees to work more spontaneously and improve their abilities. making policies and programs. In 2008, in particular, to share the pain of those lacking energy resources due to high oil prices and support related projects, the company agreed to create a special joint fund worth 100 ◦◦Retirement Policy billion won, part of which is run in the name of “Low-carbon, Green Energy Fund.” In 2011, using the fund, SK innovation directly and indirectly provides retired employees with compensation for their contributions to the company implemented such projects as “Heating Oil Supply for Underprivileged” and “Energy-saving, the company. If any employee is killed on-site or becomes disabled during construction, the company pays Efficiency Improvement Project,” and will continue to support the underprivileged and implement energy retirement allowances to support their necessities, so that they can be proud of their company. service projects. 58 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 59 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Social Contribution Activities Under the slogan “Creating happiness through energy,” SK innovation tries to fulfill the Social Contribution ◦◦EmployeeVolunteer Encouragement Policy mission, “Improving corporate value by pursuing community happiness.” The company will focus on the 3 SK innovation runs the Released-Time Program in order to count volunteer activities as part of work, key areas, poverty, education, and environment, and grow into a company that shares happiness through incorporate employee volunteerism into corporate culture, and encourage employee engagement. The clear task setting and continuous practice. company also opened the website for the volunteer corps to keep track of volunteer activity results, where employees share information and their volunteer experiences and exchange opinions. SK innovation encourages employees by appointing auxiliary jobs as volunteer team coordinators, holding workshops to Key Tasks help coordinators cultivate their skills, and making the Volunteer Champion Awards official. These programs motivated employees to organize a volunteer corps and engage in a variety of volunteer activities. SK First, We develop social contribution programs that meet social needs and our innovation also provides employees’ children the opportunity to attend volunteer activities during breaks. business acumen Such opportunity is expected to offer valuable experiences and the chance to become good citizens in the Second, We implement green initiatives in the global community community. Third, We engage in volunteer activities that contribute to the happiness of our employees National Social Contribution Programs SK innovation is dedicated to improving quality of life in local communities through partnerships with Employee Engagement in Volunteer Activities nonprofit organizations and government departments. ◦◦SK innovation Angels Poverty (Social Services) Programs SK innovation’s volunteer corps called SK Innovation Angels was launched in July 2004. The corps has expanded company-wide at first, then nationwide, and its members are voluntarily involved in volunteer ◦◦Establishing Social Enterprise “Happy Farm” activities. To help resolve the income gap due to the polarization of wealth, SK innovation has created and helped operate social enterprises, such as Agaya, Mezzanine I-Pack, Mezzanine Eco-One, and Grateful Hands, as part of its job-creation efforts for the low-incomers, in collaboration with related organizations. In 2011, SK Mission Improving corporate value by delivering happiness to communities innovation directly established a social enterprise called “Happy Farm,” which can use the company’s R&C, and signed MOU with the local government to develop stable distribution channels. “Happy Farm” conducts businesses ranging from plant and flower cultivation and sale to landscaping by hiring employees from the Focus Poverty, Education, Environment underprivileged, and created “Shimteo” (Resting Place) to revitalize the local economy. Activities Biz. & Social Mix, Green & Global, Fun Volunteer ◦◦Sharing Kimchi and Briquettes In October each year, SK innovation declares the “Happiness Sharing Season” to help the underprivileged stay warm in the winter. SK innovation’s “Happiness Sharing Season” is importance because all employees, from senior management to ordinary employees, participate in volunteer activities. In 2011, through the Sharing Briquettes Campaign of Love Warm Korean Peninsula Foundation, the company provided about 4,000 Head office 17 teams •1,410 members • Seoul/Gyeonggi households with about a million briquettes, and with the National Volunteer Center, about 13,700 households with about 70,000 heads of kimchi . Ulsan Complex 23 teams •2,813 members • Ulsan/Gyeongnam ◦◦Building a Happy Community SK innovation runs a variety of programs to help the underprivileged in the Ulsan area, where a large Incheon Complex 7 teams •462 members • Incheon petrochemical complex is located. Through a variety of programs, including Local Low-Income Support, Independence Support for the Disabled, Low-Income Youth Scholarship programs, and through activities like Technology Institute 5 teams •742 members • Daejeon/Chungcheong Low-Income Youth Summer Beach Camp, Senior Culture Festival, and Hiking for the Disabled, the company has built an intimate relationship with the community. In addition, since 2000, the company has offered free Logistics 11 teams •286members • nationwide meals for about 1,000 starving children each year in the neighborhoods of the Ulsan and Incheon Complexes and its logistics centers across the country. 60 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 61 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix ◦◦Spreading Donation Culture ◦◦Creating SK HappyWing Park Since 2007, about 2,000 employees at SK innovation have participated in small donations through the “1 SK innovation created SK Happy Wing Park and donated it to the local community. The company created a Person, 1 Donation Account” program and been committed to spreading the donation culture. About 30 resting place of 430m² for citizens in front of the main entrance to the Incheon Complex, as well as a green executive officers at SK innovation also have participated in sponsoring scholarships for college students in park using solar panels, which proved the company’s reputation as an environmentally friendly energy developing countries and been dedicated to nurturing global leaders. company. ◦◦Environmental Composition Contest Celebrating its 19th anniversary this year, SK innovation Environmental Composition Contest was held for Education Programs the first time for the visually impaired, instead of ordinary elementary school students. In 2011, 354 visually impaired elementary, middle and high school students attended, and 66 winners were offered experiences ◦◦Energy/Environment Education Programs for Elementary School Students like watching baseball games, which is a rare opportunity for the visually impaired. “Energy and Environment Program” was held for 510 second and fourth-grade students in Seoul and Daejeon. Instead of just passing on basic knowledge, the program helps learn the close relationship between energy and environment and is recognized as an experience-based integrated program using entertainment Global Social Contribution Programs (games, making), receiving the Environmental Education Program Certificate from the Ministry of Environment. SK innovation is dedicated to fulfilling its role as a global company. Beginning in Peru in 2007, the company implemented local development programs in Vietnam in 2011. The company will extend the programs to ◦◦Dream Soccer Class other countries. In partnership with Jeju United FC, SK innovation has run the “Dream Soccer Class” program for children who use local child centers in Jeju, and since 2006, about 1,000 children have attended each year. In 2011, as ◦◦Vietnam part of its multicultural family support, SK innovation sponsored the Multicultural Family Youth Soccer Club in In 2011, SK innovation replaced classroom desks and chairs, did electrical work, painted walls, and tended Goyang to help about 60 children with multicultural backgrounds with their physical, emotional development plants in middle schools located in Binh Son City, near the BSR plant to which the company has passed on and hosted family events and awareness-raising projects. its refinery and chemical technologies. This year’s Vietnam CSR activities were attended by about 100 SK employees who work at the BSR. ◦◦Cooperation with the Department of SocialWelfare at Local Colleges During the second half of 2010, the Incheon Complex entered into an industry-university cooperation ◦◦Peru agreement in community involvement with the Department of Social Welfare at Incheon JEI College, Since 2007, SK innovation has been involved in community development programs in the vicinity of its the breeding ground for social workers in Incheon. The Incheon Complex has worked with the students operations in Peru. Starting with the renovation of 50 schools in Ica Province by 2011, which were greatly on a variety of volunteer activities for local residents through human and material exchanges and funded affected by the 2007 earthquake, SK innovation invested approximately 10 billion won for four years from the students’ volunteer activities. Other than that, the company also sponsors the Korea Foundation for 2007 through 2011 in providing medical training, medical supplies, local teacher training programs, and Advanced Studies, Janghak Quiz, and the “1 Company 1 School” campaign. “Microfinance” to increase rural incomes. Environment Programs ◦◦Rose Festival and Cleaning Activities in Ulsan Grand Park SK innovation spent 10 years building Ulsan Grand Park and donated the park to Ulsan City. The part has since become the cultural center of the community and hosted a variety of social contribution activities and corporate Mecenat events for the Ulsan Complex. In 2011, 370,000 citizens visited and had a great time at the Rose Festival. SK innovation also offers regular programs like Youth Craft Program. The Incheon Complex works with the community to conduct monthly cleaning activities in the neighborhood and continues cleaning near the Gongcheon River and Wonjeok Mountain as part of the “1 Company 1 River” and “1 Company 1 Mountain Cleaning” campaigns. 62 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 63 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix An Overall Glimpse at SK innovation’s Social Contribution Activities 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 Teaching at local children’s community center Agaya part-time daycare center Social enterprises Supporting Mezzanine I-Pack (job creation included) Supporting Mezzanine Eco One Supporting Grateful Hands Poverty Creating and operating Happy Farm Delivering briguettes of love Sharing a warm winter Sharing kimchi Community School of Love (including starving children support) 1 Person 1 Donation Account Employee donations College student sponsorships in developing countries Energy and environment education for elementary school students Education Sports activity support for underprivileged children Creating Ulsan Grand Park Environment Composition Contest on Environment Protection Education, medical care, and environmental businesses in Peru Global Education business in Vietnam [Volunteer (person)] Year 2008 4,492 Year 2009 4,966 Year 2010 5,223 Year 2011 5,713 [Volunteering hours (hr)] Year 2008 55,500 Year 2009 64,453 Year 2010 56,787 Year 2011 56,355 64 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 65 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Our Performance Environmental Environmental DMA Environmental Management Performance SK innovation will continue to evolve and become an energy Environmental Management System company that protects Earth. SK innovation and its production subsidiaries practice systematic environmental management through Aside from process innovation to reduce environmental impacts, SK innovation’s persistent the Environmental Management System (EMS). It was confirmed that each subsidiary was certified with commitment to developing innovative, green technologies has motivated it to become the energy ISO 14001, an international standard for environmental management systems, and created the EMS in company that is needed for the green era. accordance with the international standards. SK energy’s Ulsan and Incheon Complexes received annual follow-up and re-certification reviews every 3 years since it was first certified ISO 14001 in 1996. The plants of SK global chemical and SK lubricants obtained ISO 14001 certificates after the spin-off. Each plant works Vision and Strategy hard to ensure the efficient operation of the Environmental Management System (EMS) through an annual legal compliance evaluation and regular internal audits. Further, they continue to check the implementation of SK innovation is dedicated to fulfilling the group’s environmental vision, “Contracting to sustainable EMS and work hard to improve/develop their environmental management. development and the happiness of society through eco-friendly management practices” To reach the goal, the company pursues fair innovation through the SHE(Safety·Health·Environment) Management Compliance and Public Complaints System developed in 2004. In 2012, the company will continue its efforts to create an advanced SHE culture under the SHE Division. SK innovation will reduce environmental impacts by reducing GHG, SK innovation applies stricter internal standards than legally required in regards to air and water pollutants, eliminating pollutants, and using resources efficiently. hazardous substances and other waste. As a result, SK innovation has never been to any administrative action for violations of the environmental regulations for the past 5 years. In 2011, there were no accidents related to environmental pollution. There were complaints about the condensing steam arising from the wet 2011 Key Issues scrubber, the final pollution control system in the heavy oil upgrading process at the Ulsan Complex, but they were resolved by mediation between the petitioner(s) and the office governing the area. The company will work harder to prevent civil petitions through open communication with stakeholders in local communities. [Annual Environmental Cost] Improving and developing the Environmental Management System• (unit: billion won) Low-carbon emissions•Green product development Year 2009 96,6 Protecting Environment in Neighboring Areas Year 2010 43,0 SK innovation made it a rule that an environmental impact assessment is conducted on all activities that may Year 2011 37,5 have any environmental impacts, such as the construction, expansion, or modification of a plant, to protect Key Achievements the environment of the areas adjacent to each plant. An environmental impact assessment on the activities ※ Environmental costs excluding investments in new processes of procuring raw/subsidiary materials is carried out frequently when there are changes made to processes •Reinforced environmental management by forming SHE Headquarters or work methods. In addition, an environmental impact assessment is conducted on the manufacturing •Created the GHG/Energy Management System processes every 5 years. The neighboring areas of the plants of SK innovation are all petrochemical industrial [2011 Worksite Environment Investment Cost] •Had its GHG reductions (KVER, Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction Project) acknowledged complexes and thus not suitable as habitats for wild animals, but the company focuses on preserving and Item Amount Item Amount (million won) (million won) monitoring the ecosystems in the plants and their neighboring areas. Based on the wildlife protected area through internal energy conservation activities Toxic data published by the Ministry of Environment, there are no areas with high levels of biodiversity that are Air 20,544 materials 370 •Efforts to reduce environmental impacts affected by the company’s production activities. VOC/Odor 1,250 Soil 248 Water 4,292 Landscape 3,302 * Environmental Investment Category 2009 2010 2011 Energy See details contained herein. Environmental Investment Noise 20 conservation 7,150 Environmental ** Low-carbon emissions Waste 40 Safety 300 The report targeted the direct/indirect GHG investment * Investment cost 96,6 43,0 37,5 ( KRW billion) SK innovation is dedicated to minimizing pollutants generated at its plants, and making continuous Total 37,516 emissions generating from the Ulsan and Incheon Complexes, and 6 types of GHG environmental investment through green product development and production. ※ Total amount of four SK innovation Low-carbon Direct GHG 9,601 9,313 9,661 subsidiaries (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, and SF4) were converted into the CO2 values, due to the emissions** Indirect GHG 2,524 2,584 2,505 characteristics of the refinery business. (GHG emissions (1,000 tCO2) Total 12,125 11,897 12,166 66 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 67 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Sustainable Resource Use Energy and Resource Conservation ◦◦Outside Energy Conservation Activities SK innovation implements a collective energy project to ensure low-cost, stable steam supplies to SK innovation realizes that energy and resource conservation helps reduce environmental impacts neighboring companies using spare equipment outdoors. In 2009, the company brought in waste and also production costs, and has made consistent efforts to use resources efficiently. With years of heat/steam from Aekyung Petrochemical, and in 2011, started selling the waste steam to Hyosung’s experience, the company developed examples of energy and resource conservation and built a related Ulsan plant and Taekwang Industry. In 2012, the company began to implement the “Steam Highway” database among many other conservation activities to improve resource efficiency in each process. project to sell the low-cost steam produced by SK Chemical to subsidiaries and other companies, Its other energy conservation efforts include increasing facility efficiency, reducing the energy loss of and has continuously worked hard to reduce energy use. Further, to utilize biomass resources, the supply systems, and optimizing power equipment. company turned the gas generated from the Seongam Sanitary Landfill in Ulsan (CO2, CH4) into fuels and started furnishing it to Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd. and a waste incineration plant in Ulsan. In 2011, the gas generation from the Seongam Landfill amounted to approximately 12,000Nm3 each ◦◦2011 Key Energy Conservation Activities and Performances day. The Incheon Complex is in talks with New Business Development Team to import steam from The Ulsan Complex, where the majority of SK innovation’s manufacturing activities are conducted, the neighboring companies, as part of its energy conservation efforts. SK innovation’s outside energy has worked hard to increase energy efficiency by optimizing process operations. In 2011, the plant conservation activities contribute to not only saving energy but also reducing GHG emissions. The implemented the optimization of fuel systems by continuously monitoring the price fluctuations of Aekyung Petrochemical steam supply and Seongam Landfill Gas (LFG) projects have been recognized each fuel type and reinforcing communication with the responsible teams at each plant. As a result, for their GHG reduction performance since 2006, and had 6,481tCO2 and 179,262tCO2, respectively, the company reduced fuel costs dramatically by changing its staple fuel from 0.3% B-C to LNG. At the accepted as their KVER (Korea Voluntary Emissions Reduction) results by the Ministry of Knowledge same time, in 2012, the company remodeled two power plant boilers into LNG-fired boilers to limit Economy. the use of B-C to the minimum and maximize the use of LNG. The Ulsan Complex also created and operates its own Energy Management System, conducts continuous real-time monitoring to reduce energy consumption and costs, and implements process improvement activities at each plant and [Amount of Energy Sale (*) through Community Energy Supply Project (steam) (Ulsan Complex)] (Unit : ton) technical team each year. Further, to meet the lowered limits of NOx emissions (250 to 150ppm) as Year 2009 -432,915 * Amount of energy sale The amount of water intake has surpassed the a result of stronger regulations, the Ulsan Complex is taking the lead in practicing low-carbon, green amount of water sold since 2009. growth by installing denitrification systems in the key boilers and process heaters. Year 2010 -542,041 Year 2011 -339,354 ◦◦Enhancing Energy Consumption Monitoring SK innovation uses the Operation Information System (OIS) to ensure the high data reliability of energy consumption and other computer programs like PMS (Process Monitoring System) for real-time [Water Sources and Volume] (Unit : ton) energy use monitoring. The Ulsan Complex has always worked hard to bring energy consumption ※ SK innovation receives water supplies from Nadong River Wondong Intake Facility (Ulsan Complex) Han River Water System (Incheon Complex) Korea Water Resources Corporation, and monitoring up to date, such as creating the VOIS (Visualized Operation Intelligence System) in 2008 water intakes have not affected the water and installing the EMS (Energy Management System) in it to ensure effective monitoring of energy Year 2009 37,510,806 Year 2009 2,851,266 sources. consumption and critical control points. Year 2010 37,929,296 Year 2010 2,697,303 [Energy Use (Fuels & Electricity)] Year 2011 35,301,920 Year 2011 2,776,276 ※ Bunker-C and fuel gas are used as staple fuels 2009 2010 2011 ※ Total usage combining the energy use of SK Type [Crude Oil Process Volume] (Unit : 1,000 barrels) Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWh) Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWh) Fuel(TOE) Electricity(MWh) energy’s Ulsan and Incheon Complexes, and Ulsan Complex Incheon Complex the Ulsan Complexes of SK global chemical Use 2,943,415 2,880,967 3,027,084 3,059,886 3,159,500 3,075,020 and SK lubricants Year 2009 254,824 Year 2009 42,199 Year 2010 277,407 Year 2010 39,158 Year 2011 283,482 Year 2011 41,011 68 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 69 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Pollutant and Waste Control Air Pollutant Control Water Pollutant Control SK innovation applies strict emission standards and strives to limit the levels of pollutant emissions to SK innovation has managed to limit the levels of effluent discharge at or below 10 to 40% of the emission the minimum. As for the major facilities discharging air pollutants, the company uses TMS (Tele-Metering standards through continuous water quality control activities. The company also built an MBR (Membrane Systems) for 24/7 pollutant emissions monitoring and also conducts periodic patrol/check-up activities. By Bioreactor), a remote water quality monitoring system and a highly efficient biological wastewater treatment using low-sulfur oils, denitrification and desulfurization facilities, and installing ultra-low NOx burners, the system. In particular, sour water, which contains corrosive materials generated from the production company has been dedicated to reducing emissions of sulfur and nitric oxides. To respond to the tighter nitric process, is reused as desalter feed water to reduce wastewater generation and water usage, and some of oxide emission standards, the company operates SNCR (Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction), SCR (Selective the reclaimed water is used for fire protection and landscaping. Further, SK innovation treats spent caustic Catalytic Reduction), and ULNB (Ultra-low NOx Burner) systems at the pollutant-emitting facilities. To create soda through a wet air oxidation (WAO) system, which was developed using the company’s proprietary a clean plant environment, SK innovation controls VOC and odor by operating VOC and odor control systems technology, and enforces the separation of high-concentration wastewater generated from the production like regenerative thermal oxidizers, bio-filters, and VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) recovery systems at process for the biotoxicity control of effluent discharge effective in January 2011. the environmental management facility, shipping facility, storage facility, and process areas at each plant. SK innovation does not produce, distribute or use any substances defined as harmful to the ozone layer under the Montreal Protocol. The company has replaced halon gas, which is used for fire extinguishers, [Wastewater Treatment Information] with alternative fire-extinguishing agents for new and modified systems, and amended the safety rules Type Treatment facility Treatment method Destination and removed the provision regarding the installation of halon-based extinguishers applicable to all plants. Ulsan CLX Wastewater Biological + Advanced Public waters (East Coast) Subsequently, the company bans the introduction and use of halon for certain extinguishers, which were Treatment Plant Ulsan filled with halon. No2 FCC Wastewater Yongyeon Sewage SK energy Biological Treatment Plant Treatment Plant Incheon CLX Wastewater Gajwa Sewage Treatment Incheon Biological + Advanced [Air Pollutant Concentrations] Treatment Plant Plant ※ The emission standards refer to the emission Company Average Emissions Concentration PE/PP Wastewater Pollutant Worksite Legal Limit Physicochemical Standard Treatment Plant Yongyeon Sewage limits of SOx and NOx from heaters and 2009 2010 2011 SK global chemical Ulsan Ulsan 180 170 37.8 35.3 30.9 EPDM Wastewater Treatment Plant the emission limit of dust from boilers; the SK energy Biological SOx Incheon 180 160 60 66 43.0 Treatment Plant average concentration refers to the average level of emissions generated by SK energy (ppm) SK global Ulsan 180 160 40.1 chemical before the spin-off. SK energy Ulsan 200 180 83.2 76.9 74 [Average Water Pollutant Concentrations] (unit: ppm) NOx Incheon 250 235 103 103 84.3 (ppm) SK global Company [Wastewater Discharge] (unit: 1,000 tons) Ulsan 150 130 110.0 Legal limit Average emission concentration chemical Pollutant Worksite Standard SK energy Ulsan Ulsan 50 40 10.5 6.3 5 SK energy 2009년 2010년 2011년 SK energy Incheon Dust Incheon 50 35 5.1 7.5 4.6 SK global chemical (mg/m2) SK global Ulsan CLX 40 20 9.1 8.12 11.5 Ulsan 30 20 5.8 chemical SK energy No.2FCC 90 70 12.37 12.26 23.3 12,225 2009 1,469 COD Incheon CLX 90 40 14.5 18.5 17.6 [Air Pollutant Emissions] (unit: ton) SK global PE/PP 90 70 10.6 13,333 ※ Data from 2009 to 2010 include emissions chemical EPDM 90 70 29.4 2010 Emissions 1,525 generated by SK energy before the spin-off. Pollutant Worksite Ulsan CLX 10 8 3.05 2.02 2.9 2009 2010 2011 12,819 SK energy No.2FCC 80 60 16.06 21.59 35.9 Ulsan 5,207 4,962 3,439 2011 1,767 SK energy SS Incheon CLX 80 30 8.3 8.2 10.9 SOx Ulsan 539 579 684 1,273 SK global chemical Ulsan 498 SK global PE/PP 80 60 10.9 chemical EPDM 80 60 15.0 Ulsan 8,256 7,682 5,895 SK energy NOx Incheon 926 970 950 Ulsan CLX 5 1 0.49 0.41 0.4 ※ SK energy’s No.2FCC WastewaterTreatment SK global chemical Ulsan 1,408 SK energy No.2FCC 5 3.7 0.72 1.08 2.2 Plant was built in June 2008 Ulsan 526 316 191 Oil Incheon CLX 5 3 0.67 0.51 ※ The concentrations of SK global chemical’s SK energy Dust Ulsan 27 28 21 SK global PE/PP 5 3.7 0.4 PE/PP and EPDM in 2009 and 2010 include chemical all discharges from SK energy before the SK global chemical Ulsan 43 EPDM 5 3.7 0.4 spinoff. 70 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 71 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Waste Control Hazardous Chemical Substance Control SK innovation is dedicated to reducing waste generation and increasing recycling efficiency. The company SK innovation is committed to helping both customers and employees prevent harmful elements and thus recycles waste beforehand and provides employees and suppliers with recycling training so that accidents that may arise from chemicals by creating a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) system, sharing waste can be separated and discharged in its early stages. Further, the company conducts periodic on-site information, and conducting training and on-site check activities. The company also works hard to reach inspections to prevent waste from being left unattended and dispose of it fast and appropriately. In addition, the reduction targets under a voluntary agreement with the government to reduce chemical emissions. SK innovation runs the waste management system for increasing job efficiency for waste generating The Ulsan complexes of SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK lubricants continue to carry out reduction and waste-handling teams and for sharing waste generation and treatment results with employees. The activities, though their voluntary agreements expired in 2009, and SK energy’s Incheon Complex surpassed system encourages employees to take care of their own wage and raise awareness of waste reduction. its target by reducing 92% relative to the reference year, according to the 2011 interim evaluation results The company contracts out the incineration/reclamation of most of collected/discharged waste to a waste found. management agency whose capabilities have been tested. In 2011, general waste generation increased sharply compared with the previous year, due to the disposal of construction waste generated from the site [Performance of Voluntary Agreement on Chemical Emission Reduction] clearance for a new plant (Base Lubricant Plant #3). There were no transboundary movements of waste on ※ Voluntary agreements of the Ulsan the Basel Convention. Year of Type Reference (kg/year) Reduction target Results complexes of SK energy, SK global chemical, agreement and SK lubricants expired in 2009 SK energy 803 2010 2012 The 2011 interim evaluation 2006 [Waste Discharge Volume] (unit: ton) (Incheon) 2006 emissions 30% 50% results: reduced by 92%; ※ Data from 2009 to 2010 include discharge Discharge and Percentage from SK energy before the spin-off. Type Worksite 2009 2010 2011 ◦◦MSDS(Material Safety Data Sheet) ※ SK lubricants includes data in 2010 since it Ulsan 34,794 27,895 27,718 SK innovation shares with employees data on the hazardous chemicals used at plants through SK e-MSDS, was spun off in 2009. SK energy Incheon 3,164 2,839 3,341 based on the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. The shared Designated waste SK global chemical Ulsan 3,291 data is classified into 16 categories, including manufacturer by chemical, hazard, and first-aid measure, and SK lubricants Ulsan 13 166 84 the company provides regular all-employee training on MSDS, training for new recruits, training on how SK energy Ulsan 55,247 48,699 71,290 to handle new chemicals, and special training for job changes. MSDS information on the products made Incheon 1,979 1,901 4,012 and distributed by SK innovation is available on the websites by product type (petroleum: www.e-SK.com; General waste SK global chemical Ulsan 9,992 chemicals: www.SKchem.com; lubricants: www.SKzic.com; and base oils: www.yubase.com), and there SK lubricants Ulsan 1 13 3,518 were no violations of the regulations related to product information and labelling in 2011. Total discharge volume 95,198 81,513 123,246 % of waste recycled 54.4 63.8 69.5 Soil and Groundwater Management [Waste Discharge Volume by Treatment Method] (unit: ton) SK innovation created and applied its own soil management process for the systematic management of soil Subcontract volume and groundwater. The company also prepared a new organization, duties, and treatment procedures, and Type Self-treatment (landfill) % Recycling rate ※ Includes four subsidiaries of SK innovation Recycled Incinerated/landfill ensures through employee training that immediate action should be taken in case of a pollution accident 2009 3,845 51,813 39,540 54.4% to prevent it from worsening and implement purification measures promptly. Also a party to the “Voluntary 2010 0.5 48,988 27,785 63.8% Agreement regarding the survey and restoration of soil containment” promoted by the government, the 2011 62.4 85,641 37,543 69.5% company voluntarily inspects soil quality every 3 years, implements soil contamination control activities, and conducts a legal soil contamination investigation every other year. The results of the 2011 soil contamination investigation showed that soil pollutants were kept under the legal standards and groundwater pollutants ◦◦Waste Recycling and Reduction also under the legal standards at all three locations within the new advanced facility. In addition, the company Of the designated wastes, waste oil is sent to the recycling fuel plant and used to produce recycled fuels. As participated in the GAIA Project (Geo-Advanced Innovative Action Project) awarded by the government to for waste containing metals, the metals are extracted and used as resources, reducing waste generation. develop a technology for purifying nondegradable polluted groundwater. The SEEDs, a research team the Spent caustic soda is treated using a WAO (Wet Air Oxidation) facility, which helped reduce pollutants and company takes part in, was selected among the top 100 R&D teams for its 3 years of R&D accomplishments, GHG emissions. and will start making the technology into a system this year. 72 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 73 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix [2011 Soil Contamination Investigation Result] ※ Soil contamination investigation result is TPH* BTEX** TCE*** performed every two years by law, and SK Category global chemical does not have test results for Locations Result Locations Result Locations Result 2011. Ulsan 699 528 Normal 171 Normal * TPH SK energy (Total Petroleum Hydrocarbon) Incheon 10 10 Normal **BTEX SK global chemical Ulsan (Benzene,Toluene, Ethyl benzene, Xylene) SK lubricants Ulsan 17 17 Normal *** TCE (Tri-Chloro Ethylene) Product Environmental Friendliness Green Products and Services SK innovation has always worked hard to minimize the environmental impacts of its products and services. Aside from the innovation activities to improve environmental performance of gasoline, diesel, and kerosene, Appendix the company continues to invest in green technology development and green businesses. Improving Product Quality and Environmental Friendliness | History | Expert Opinions | Third-Party Assurance Statement SK innovation is dedicated to improving environmental friendliness, as well as quality, by producing | GRI Index | Awards and Associations gasoline and diesel that meets the world’s highest levels of sulfur content from 4 to 6 ppm. Its excellent quality was recognized by the Ministry of Environment. The company voluntarily signed a government agreement to supply bio-diesel and increased the mix ratio of bio-diesel in commercial diesel from 0.5% in 2007 to 2.0% in 2010. The company will continue to implement a variety of activities to reduce oil dependence and increase the effect of environmental protection. [Findings of the Sulfur Content and Quality Grade for Gasoline by the MOE ] 2009 2010 2011 Legal limit st st st st st 1 half 2 half 1 half 2 half 1 half 2st half Sulfur content Below 10 4 4 6 6 4 4 (ppm) Quality grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ※ ★★★★★ is the world’s highest grade. [Findings of the Sulfur Content and Quality Grade for Diesel by the MOE] 2009 2010 2011 Legal limit 1st half 2st half 1st half 2st half 1st half 2st half Sulfur content (ppm) Below 10 6 5 6 5 4 4 Quality grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ※ ★★★★★ is the world’s highest grade. 74 _ We are SK innovation Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix 2010 – Technology-driven Global Energy Company History •Jun. 2010 Completion ceremony for LNG Plant in Peru •Jul. 2010 Appointed as battery supplier for Hyundai-Kia Motor’s high-speed EVs •Oct. 2010 – Completion ceremony for Jeungpyeong Plant (completion of LiBS lines #4 and #5 and the commencement ofTAC/FCCL lines) •Jan. 2011 – Split-up of petroleum and petrochemical business/ Renamed “SK innovation” •Feb. 2011 Appointed as battery supplier for Mercedes-Benz Supercar/SK innovation won Business Ethics Award •May 2011 – Commenced the 500MWh-battery production plant in Seosan Industrial Complex •Jul. 2011. – Obtained Brazilian government’s permission to sell oil blocks in Brazil to Maersk Oil, Denmark •Oct. 2011 – Successfully exported the world’s first naphtha cracking technology (ACO technology) 1962-1969 Founded as the First Oil Refiner in Korea using a catalyst •Oct. 1962 – SK energy established (former name: Korea Petroleum Corporation) •Apr. 1964 – Operated CDU (Crude Distillation Unit) #1 (35,000 barrels, Ilsan) •May 1964 – Expanded CDU (Crude Distillation Unit) #1 (55,000 barrels, Ilsan) •Dec. 1968 – Operated a lubricant mixing plant 1980-1989 Laying the Foundation for Global Energy Leadership •Mar. 1980 Expanded the lubricant blending plant (4,500 bpd) •Aug. 1980 Gulf’s 50% equity share and management rights acquired by Korea Petroleum Energy •Dec. 1980 SunKyung Co., Ltd. acquires management rights in accordance with the government’s privatization policy •July 1982 Company name changed toYukong Co., Ltd. 2000-2009 TakingaSteptowardsAsia-PacificEnergyandChemicalLeader •May 1985 Merged with Korea Petroleum Energy •Jan. 2000 Opened Korea’s largest hub for combined mileage service •Nov. 1985 Renovation of the atmospheric distillation plants, 1970-1979 Backbone for Development of Korean Economy providers called OK Cashbag.com increased refining capacity to 345,000 bpd •May 1970 – Started operation of aromatic extraction plant (216,000 •May 2001 Verified feasibility of a crude oil development project at block •Dec. 1985 Commenced operation of new aromatics plant with an tons per year) 15-1 in Vietnam annual capacity of 40,000 tons •Jun. 1970 – GULF bought 50% of the company’s stock and rights to •Nov. 2003 Commenced commercial oil production at SuTu Den field at •May 1987 EstablishedYukong Elastomer Co., Ltd. (annual capacity management block 15-1 in Vietnam of 10,000 tons) •Sept. 1972 – Completed the pipeline works from Ulsan to Daegu •Dec. 2003 Participated in LNGThermal Power Plant construction project •Jan. 1988 Commenced crude oil imports from Malibu continental •Oct. 1972 – Started operation of #3CDU (Crude Distillation Unit) with British Petroleum (BP) shelf block,Yemen (currently, Ilsan, 170,000 barrels) 1990-1999 Paving the Way toward TopTier Energy/Chemical Company •Jan. 2004 Management decides to construct new reformer at •Dec. 1989 Commenced operation of No. 2 ethylene plant (annual •Mar. 1973 – Started operation of naphtha cracking center (100,000 •Aug. 1990 Commenced operation of No. 1 polypropylene plant (annual capacity of aromatics plant (30,000 bpd) capacity of 400,000 tons tons per year based on ethylene) 345,000 tons) •Aug. 2004 Commenced commercial production at Camisea oil and gas •Jun. 1974 – Expanded CDU #2 (Ilsan, 110,000 barrels) •May 1991 Commenced operation of No. 4 atmospheric distillation plant (265,000 bpd) field in Peru •Mar. 1978 – Expanded the naphtha cracking center (55,000 tons per •Nov. 1992 Commenced operation of No. 1 heavy oil desulfurization (capacity of 30,000 •Nov. 2005 Announced the new corporate identity year based on ethylene) bpd) and cracking facility (capacity of 30,000 bpd) •Jan. 2006 Acquired Incheon Oil and established SK Incheon Oil •June 1994 Acquired 20.2% stake and management rights of Korea MobileTelecom •May 2006 Commenced operation of No. 2 Reformer •Nov. 1994 Began importing crude oil from North Zaafarana block in Gulf of Suez, Egypt •July 2007 Split into a holding company (SK holdings Co., Ltd.) and an •Sep. 1995 Commenced operation of No. 4 middle distillation unit (capacity of 50,000 operating company (SK energy Co., Ltd.) bpd) •Oct. 2007 Management decides to merge with SK Incheon Oil •July 1996 Commenced commercial crude oil production at block 8 in Peru •Feb. 2008 Merger with SK Incheon Oil completed •Oct. 1996 Commenced operation of No. 5 atmospheric distillation plant with capacity •Mar. 2008 Completed No. 2 RFCC of 200,000 bpd, with gross capacity reaching 810,000 bpd •Mar. 2008 Completed JV LBO plant in Indonesia •Jan. 1997 Commenced operation of No. 2 heavy oil desulfurization (60,000 bpd) and •June 2008 Completion ceremony at 1.4 BDO production plant cracking facilities (50,000 bpd) •Oct. 2009 Physical division into SK lubricants and SK energy •June 1997 Established local oil development subsidiary, SK E&P Company •Oct. 1997 Changed company name to SK corporation •Mar. 1999 Introduced OK Cashbag service, a loyalty Cashbag service 76 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 77 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Expert Opinions The following expert opinions were provided by independent experts reviewing this Sustainability Report and are distinguishable from the independent assurance report. Byong-hun Ahn Vice President of KAIST Seoul and Dean of Business School, Head of Corporate Byung-wook Lee Social Responsibility Research Center President of Korea Environment Institute, Former Vice-minister of Ministry of variety of areas from oil exploration and product exports to new Environment growth engines, such as midand large-sized batteries, thin film solar cells, and carbon dioxide plastics, as well as for the refinery business. To realize investment plans for the new growth engines, the company First of all, I congratulate SK innovation on the publication of its Sustainability Report. As I read the first will need an innovation mechanism and programs to improve the sustainability report issued by SK innovation I noted the tremendous amount of effort exerted by SK First of all, I would like to congratulate SK innovation, a new parent ability to respond to changes. This is why the DJSI assessment criteria innovation on achieving innovation. company with three subsidiaries, on issuing its first Sustainability now include Innovation Management. I was impressed by the economic outcome resulting from the spin-off and the innovative measures Fourth, the Social Responsibility report shows SK innovation’s Report. I also profess to look forward to the future innovations to be undertaken by the company to achieve such success. The green growth engine policies were especially further implemented by the company. Considering that many Korean performance and diversity clearly. Particularly remarkable are the impressive along with the strong management performance. It is encouraging to see SK innovation companies have been delaying issuing sustainability reports, I applaud “strategic” social contribution activities, where the company considers securing competitive technology through continuous investment in research and development SK innovation’s management and business teams who have prepared can make the best use of its resources, abilities, as well as the to realize its 2020 vision. this report with palpable enthusiasm. characteristics as an energy company. The social enterprise program In the environment section, I would like to commend the company for its commitment to overcoming the The Sustainability Report of 2012 shows several positive also reflects extensiveness and entrepreneurship. I would like to weaknesses of the energy industry, especially regarding GHG and pollution. It is very encouraging to find developments. As SK innovation has already made much progress suggest that these programs may require an overhaul with a “select that the company formed a safety, health, and environment organization under the direct supervision of the and has accumulated much experience in sustainability management, and focus” approach, taking into account professionalism, efficiency, CEO. It goes without saying that a global company should respond actively to climate change and practice the company has succeeded in making many positive changes year and interconnectivity. after year. Upon review of this report I would like to make a few Fifth, SK innovation should expand SKMS, SK innovation’s a higher level of environmental management. Even so, the creation and implementation of a low-carbon constructive suggestions for the further progress of SK innovation. management philosophy, into SK’s sustainability management management system in a large-scale refinery is a significant achievement by all accounts. I would like to First, the report reflects the changing trends of ISO 26000, Global system, to include constituents requested by modern sensibilities. In suggest, however, as a global company, SK innovation should proactively respond to safety and health Compact Guidelines, and DJSI assessment criteria, as well as the other words SKMS should include all stakeholders within the sphere issues, which will need close monitoring due to on the nature of the energy industry. familiar GRI G3 Guidelines. Aside from the CSR issues, the report of influence, pursuant to ISO 26000 and other standards, to fit global As for the company’s social performance, it is very inspiring to see SK innovation develop corporate sustainability management paradigms. For instance, the adoption of also dedicates a large part to “new growth engines” and “economic partnerships through the formation of social enterprises. I find it noteworthy that the company placed its performance” in accordance with materiality assessment results, a human rights management system, which has been a global issue, Social Responsibility Committee under the Board of Directors so that matters related to social responsibility including media analysis and expert surveys, along with the CSR should be discussed. This is especially applicable with regards to local and sustainability would be discussed at the BOD level. Such decision-making structure is characteristic of issues. This reflects the fact that investors no longer focus just on a community development and support measures in development sites global companies. company’s CSR. overseas, since these communities are also “stakeholders within Also impressive was the analysis of stakeholder issues. I hope will be incorporated in sustainability Second, this report highlights the essence of sustainability the sphere of influence” though they do not transact directly with the management practices to further win the favor of additional stakeholders. In order to increase corporate management which is the derivation of happiness of employees company. value a company should persuade stakeholders of its sincere commitment to sustainability management and stakeholders through the corporate culture and organizational Lastly, as for the report framework, I hope that SK innovation issues or social contribution activities. Although our society suffers from the lack of genuine communication, I system. Consistent with such view, there is an emerging global comprehensive reports, instead of issuing annual reports and awareness that the short-termism of stakeholders should be replaced sustainability reports separately, to provide a variety of stakeholders hope the stakeholder analysis attempted by SK innovation will lead to genuine communication among by long-termism. I believe it would be beneficial if SK innovation also like shareholders and investors with more comprehensive information. stakeholders and further lead to the transformation of a warm and trustworthy company. adopted such long-termism in examining and evaluating shareholder I believe the company is ready to join the global movement of such composition, internal evaluation criteria and corporate governance. integration, and that this Sustainability Report structurally and Third, this report presents bold, long-term investment plans for a spiritually mirrors the integrated reporting. 78 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 79 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Third Party's Assurance Report The Business Institute for Sustainable Development of the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry (hereafter “BISD”) was commissioned to provide external assurance on SK innovation’s 2011 Sustainability Report (hereafter “Report”) as an independent assurance provider. Purpose Assurance Process Inclusiveness Recommendations Does this Report comply with the principle of stakeholder This assurance statement is intended to provide external assurance The BISD was not involved in stakeholder engagements and the engagement for responsible and strategic response to sustainability The BISD also provides the following recommendations, without of SK innovation’s sustainability management performance and to assurance was conducted by reviewing the interviews with the management? affecting its assurance opinion: •SK innovation is interested in and accepts the interests and opinions •SK innovation should develop its management philosophy SKMS, present comments on the assurance results. company’s responsible officer and the related documents provided by SK innovation. The assurance includes: of shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, and communities create a sustainability management framework, set long-term goals through a variety of stakeholder communication channels; for material issues, and report them to stakeholders. Through this •The BISD did not find any stakeholder group omitted during this •Review of press releases provided by SK innovation; framework, the company should establish a reporting framework Responsibility and Independence •Whether process through SK innovation’s stakeholder communication connected with the sustainability strategy framework and keep it up the Sustainability Reporting Criteria are applied within SK channels to date. This Report covers SK innovation’s sustainability management innovation; •SK innovation should continuously update the internal guidelines to •Review of information in the Korean version of the report and the activities, performance, and future plans in 2011, and SK innovation Materiality keep sustainability data and information consistent, accurate, and is solely responsible for the preparation of the report. The BISD is data gathering process; complete. not involved in any of the business operations of SK innovation other •Reported information, policies and systems with regard to Does this Report include material issues that affect stakeholders? •SK innovation should maintain its open-mindedness by making the •SK innovation defined key sustainability management issues than providing external assurance to ensure its independence and materiality analysis and key issues; process of hearing and reflecting voices of the stakeholder in the autonomy in conducting assurance and providing the management •Environmental/safety data verification through due diligence and through the materiality assessment process; •SK innovation seemed to improve accuracy in defining key issues by report into a formal system. with conclusions. interview with responsible officer (Ulsan Complex); •SK innovation should take into account all positive and negative •Interview with the officer responsible for sustainability, reporting, making the materiality assessment process more systematic. •There aspects of the company into account when suggesting key issues, were no material issues that were omitted in the materiality and editing (head office) and should include them in the report and ensure balanced reporting. assessment process. Assurance Standard and Limitations •Review of outside experts on sustainability Responsiveness The BISD conducted assurance in accordance with the three Does this report address stakeholder issues properly? subjects of AA1000AS Standard (inclusiveness, materiality, and responsiveness) and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Assurance Opinion •SK innovation included the activities that address the key issues reporting principles. defined through the materiality assessment process and the The BISD conducted assurance in accordance with the assurance sustainability results into the Report; The scope of assurance was limited to the 2011 results, and any data process described in Assurance Report and made a few changes to •In terms of materiality, Assurance Team did not find any part of the President Park, Tae-jin before the period was excluded. This assurance included audits of the the Report, if necessary. After that, the BISD concluded that there are head offices in Seoul and Ulsan Complex among other domestic and activities to address the key sustainability issues and performances no material errors in the report content. As it was confirmed that the overseas plants, and did not include online data. The assurance task that violates the principles of responsiveness. indicators listed on GRI G3.1 Index were reported, Assurance Team did not include financial information and GHG data that have been verified that this Report meets the A+ level requirements. Based already verified by another agency. on the assurance activity, Assurance Team provides the following Manager of Office of Strategic Coordination, Choi, Kwang-rim assurance opinion considering the AA1000APS principles: 80 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 81 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix GRI Index Category Index No. Description Page Reported Explanation Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Reported ● Partially Reported ◐ Not Reported○ N/A 4.10 17 ◐ particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 67 ● addressed by the organization. Category Index No. Description Page Reported Explanation Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 86 ● Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 5 ● or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 5 ● Governance, Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 86 ● Commitments, and international advocacy organizations in which the organization. 2.1 Name of the organization. 10 ● Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 21 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 12~13 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 21 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 2.3 11 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by and joint ventures. 4.16 21 ● type and by stakeholder group. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 10 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Organizational Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and 22~23 ● 2.5 14~15 ● Profile operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. concerns, including through its reporting. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 10~11 ● DMA EC Economic 46 ● 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 12~13 ● DMA EN Environmental 66 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 ● Business DMA LA Labor Practices and Decent Work 52~53 ● Information 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 10 ● Disclosure DMA HR Human rights 52~53 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 86 ● DMA SO Society 52, 60 ● 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Cover ● DMA PR Product responsibility 42, 53 ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Cover ● Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 47~48 ◐ 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Cover ● retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Cover ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's EC2 34 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content. Cover ● activities due to climate change. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations 58 ● 3.6 Cover ● See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 48 ● State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 3.7 Cover ● EC5 53 ◐ SK innovation complies with laws on minimum wage. explanation of scope). at significant locations of operation. Economic Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other Performance Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 3.8 Cover ● EC6 31 ◐ Parameters entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Indicators significant locations of operation. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques The percentage of employees at SK innovation’s overseas 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Cover ● Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from worksites is very low; though the company hires natives at Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. EC7 ○ the community at significant locations of operation. each plant, but does not have a preferred hiring process or a Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons management system for the ratio of executive officers. 3.10 for such re-statement (e.g. M&As, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement Cover ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided methods). EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono 52, 60~65 ◐ engagement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 N/A N/A Not applicable applied in the report. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including EC9 60~65 ● the extent of impacts. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 82~85 ● GRI Index EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 68~69 ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 80-81 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 72 ◐ Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 17 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 68 ● responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 17 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 68 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 69 ● 4.3 17 ● governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 69 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 4.4 18 ● governance body. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 69 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Environmental EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 69 ● Governance, 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and 17 ◐ Performance environmental performance). EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 69 ● Commitments, and Indicators Engagement 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 18 ◐ SK innovation does not have a system for management of EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Reported ○ water reused or recycled from the production process. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.7 17 ◐ Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. EN11 67 ● areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 4.8 16 ● economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 67 ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and protected areas. management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and EN13 Habitats protected or restored 67 ● 4.9 17 ◐ opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 67 ● 82 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 83 Company Profile Sustainability Management Special Issue Our Performance Appendix Reported ● Partially Reported ◐ Not Reported○ N/A Category Index No. Description Page Reported Explanation Category Index No. Description Page Reported Explanation To SK innovation’s knowledge, there are no areas None of the important investment agreements to Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with which SK innovation is a party has additional provisions EN15 N/A N/A with high levels of biodiversity that are affected by its Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. HR1 ○ on human rights, and the company does not have a production activities. human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. particular human rights review process when entering EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 34 ● into an agreement. SK innovation does not have a system for calculating Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Reported ○ other indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken. 31 ◐ Business partners’ pledge to business ethics practices commuting or business travels. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 68~69 ● HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 53 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 70 ● employees trained. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 70 ● HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 53 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 71 ● Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Social : Human HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support 53 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 ● Rights these rights. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 73 ● Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 53 ● Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Environmental EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage 72 ● Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Performance of transported waste shipped internationally. HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or 53 ● Indicators compulsory labor. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures EN25 related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges 71 ● HR8 53 ● concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. of water and runoff Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and There are no incidents of abuse of indigenous people HR9 N/A N/A Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and actions taken. resulting from overseas operations. EN26 74 ● Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human extent of impact mitigation. HR10 53 ◐ rights reviews and/or impact assessments. The percentage of products that require packing materials Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed among those made by SK innovation is not high, and HR11 53 ◐ EN27 ○ through formal grievance mechanisms. by category. the company does not have a management system for Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess recycling packing materials. SO1 and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, 60 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary operating, and exiting. EN28 67 ● sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SK innovation has a process for preventing and handling Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to incidents of corruption in place, but does not conduct an Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods SK innovation does not have a management system SO2 ○ corruption. analysis of risks related to corruption in any of its current EN29 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting ○ for tracking the environmental impacts of product and business units. members of the workforce material transportation and employee movements. Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 20 ● procedures. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 67 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 20 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 54 ● Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 59 ● Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and Social : Society lobbying. LA2 54 ● region Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, SO6 N/A N/A Not applicable and related institutions by country. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 57~58 ● Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and part-time employees, by major operations. SO7 59 ● monopoly practices and their outcomes. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 53 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 59 ● Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. LA5 53 ● whether it is specified in collective agreements. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on SK innovation has not defined negative impacts that it SO9 ○ communities. may have on communities. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker SK innovation does not implement measures to prevent LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 55 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 ○ and mitigate negative impacts that it may have on health and safety programs. potential or actual negative impacts on communities. communities. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services SK innovation conducts a risk assessment of products LA7 56 ● of work-related fatalities by region. PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and ○ but does not conduct additional assessments to improve services categories subject to such procedures risks. Social: Labor Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Practices and LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 55~56 ● PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during 43, 73 ● Decent Work serious diseases their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 55 ● Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 43, 73 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 58 ● of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of 43, 73 ● LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career 57~58 ● Product outcomes. endings. Responsibility Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 42, 52 ● Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career measuring customer satisfaction. LA12 57~58 ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to development reviews. PR6 43 ● marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 17, 54 ● PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, 43 ● indicators of diversity. and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer LA14 53 ● PR8 43 ● significant locations of operation. privacy and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 53 ● PR9 43 ● regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 84 _ We are SK innovation Sustainability Report 2011 _ 85 Awards & Associations Awards Associations Won the IR5S Chang Young Shil Science & Technology 2013 Daegu World Energy Conference Steering Committee Award (Ministry of Education and Chemical Technology, Industrial Technology Institute) Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Seoul/Ulsan/ Incheon) Awarded Gold Prize at Korea Technology Awards and voted among the Top 10 Advanced Technologies for high-tech base Korea Petroleum Association lubricant catalyst (Minister of Knowledge Economy) Korean Commission of International Petroleum Conference Awarded the Science & Technology Promotion Merit (Ministry of Education, Science & Technology, KOITA) The Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) Awarded the Merit for Contribution to National Industrial Development through Labor-Management Cooperation Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development (Prime Minister’s Office) Industry and Technology Minister’s Award Korea Employers Federation (Minister of Knowledge Economy) Korea Fair Competition Federation Awarded the Export Merit for reaching 1-trillion exports (Minister of Knowledge Economy) Korea Industrial Technology Association Techno CEO of the Year (Ministry of Education, Science & Technology, KOITA) Korea Energy Foundation Minister’s Commendation for the Promotion of the Battery Industry (Minister of Knowledge Economy) Korea Battery Industry Association Minister’s Award for Implementation of Truck Stop Business Korea Chemical Industry Association (Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs) Awarded the Minister of Knowledge Economy Merit on Korean Committee of U.S.-Korea Business Council Chemical Industry Day (Minister of Knowledge Economy, Petrochemical Industry Association) Overseas Resource Development Association This report has been printed with ecofriendly produced paper 86 _ We are SK innovation and soy oil ink certified by FSC (Forest Stewardship Council).
