Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 About This Report Contents About This Report This is Coway’s eighth sustainability report. Since we published our first sustainability report in 2005, Coway has continued to share our sustainability Corporate Overview Key Performance Indicators CEO Message p 01 p 04 1 Customer Satisfaction Management 1.1 Ongoing Customer Communication 1.2 Stronger Customer Satisfaction Programs p 26 p 26 4 Community Participation & Development 4.1 Increasing Communication with & Participation in Local Community p 54 management initiatives with stakeholders on an annual basis. In this year’s About Coway p 08 1.3 Improved Product Stewardship p 28 4.2 Comprehensive Management System report, we have sought not only to make a transparent disclosure of our susfor Social Contribution p 55 tainability management efforts and performances but also to utilize it as a Responsible Corporate Governance p 10 1.4 Stronger Protection for Customer Information p 30 4.3 Strategic Social Contribution p 56 channel for receiving stakeholder feedback and incorporating it into our opTransparency & Ethics Management p 12 4.4 Response to Social Needs & Expectations p 59 erations. Risk Management p 13 Materiality Analysis p 14 2 5 Reporting Period and Scope Stakeholder Engagement p 16 This report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2012. For some R&D Investment & Innovation p 17 cases, data from 2010 and 2011 was included to highlight trends and make Brand Value Creation p 18 pertinent comparisons. Information on the 2013 activities and plans were also Economic Value Creation & Distribution p 20 used where necessary. This report focused mainly on our performances at the Head Office, the Environment Technology Institute, the Environment Qual2012 Sustainability Management Highlights p 22 ity Institute and production plants along with some accomplishments from overseas operations. Starting this year, logistics centers and water treatment Green Management Win-Win Supplier Partnerships business sites are added to the list of our business sites. We are committed to continually expanding the scope of social and environmental data from over2.1 Integrated Environmental Management 5.1 Expanding Communication with Suppliers p 62 seas operations as part of our efforts towards comprehensive and balanced System p 34 5.2 Establishing Comprehensive Supplier sustainability management across our business and production sites. 2.2 Climate Change Response & Water Management System p 63 Resource Management p 37 5.3 Strengthening Win-Win Growth Programs p 64 Reporting Preparation and Principles 2.3 Greener Products p 40 5.4 Increasing Supplier Participation & This report was prepared in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines of the Global 2.4 Greener Life Cycle p 42 Social Contribution p 65 Reporting Initiative (GRI), the international standard for sustainability reporting. In preparing this report, we have identified issues that reflect our stake3 holders’ interest and expectations with a materiality analysis and made our best effort to present in-depth information on such issues. Coway is committed to publishing a sustainable report every year. Key Performance New in This Year’s Report In 2012, Coway underwent great changes and faced many challenges. To help our stakeholders better understand where Coway is currently at, we added a section in which CEO directly discusses changes and challenges associated Employee Value Creation Appendix Indicators / Coway Story with the company’s majority stake sale as well as the future of Coway. Also, we have made a meaningful step forward by establishing a sustainability 3.1 Stronger Employee Communication & Economic Data p 67 management framework to facilitate balanced response and management reParticipation p 46 Social Data p 68 garding material issues and firmly set the direction for Coway’s sustainability 3.2 Work-Life Balance & Environmental Data p 69 management. Family-friendly Management p 47 Memberships, Awards & Certifications p 72 3.3 Fair & Transparent HR/Assessment/ Independent Assurance Statement p 74 Assurance Compensation System p 48 GRI G3.1/ISO26000 Index p 76 To ensure quality and credibility of content and data presented and to increase 3.4 Talent Cultivation & UNGC/MDGs p 79 transparency of reporting procedures, this report has received third party asEmployee Capability Development p 49 Global Network p 80 surance from an independent assurance provider. The assurance statement is 3.5 Creating Corporate Culture based on available on pages 74-75. Trust & Mutual Advancement p 50 4 3 Key Performance Indicators Coway Story Contents 2010 2011 2012 Coway’s New CI and Slogan In line with our move to change the corporate name to “Coway” a new corporate identity was created in 2013 About the Cover Coway strongly believes that every mundane activity – eating, breathing and sleeping – should Corporate Overview Key Performance Indicators CEO Message p 01 p 04 1 Customer Satisfaction Management 1.1 Ongoing Customer Communication 1.2 Stronger Customer Satisfaction Programs p 26 p 26 4 Community Participation & Development 4.1 Increasing Communication with & Participation in Local Community p 54 Economy Assets to express Coway’s customer first value proposition make people happy because that’s what makes (Unit: KRW 100 million) 13,582 15,765 17,015 About Coway p 08 1.3 Improved Product Stewardship p 28 4.2 Comprehensive Management System of “Trust” and “Confidence” as well as our traditional our lives richer. We hope that our work invite Revenue for Social Contribution p 55 Responsible Corporate Governance p 10 1.4 Stronger Protection for Customer Information p 30 (Unit: KRW 100 million) 15,018 17,099 18,068 corporate culture of “Youthfulness” and “Innovation.” happiness to everyday life and add value to liv4.3 Strategic Social Contribution p 56 The orange color symbolizes “Sensitivity,” which eming. The cover of Coway’s 2012 Sustainability ReTransparency & Ethics Management p 12 Operating Income 4.4 Response to Social Needs & Expectations p 59 (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2,535 2,425 2,278 bodies both Youthfulness and Innovation, while the port expresses our strong commitment towards Risk Management p 13 blue represents “Technology,” which encapsulates “Healthy Environment, Happy People” with Materiality Analysis p 14 Customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) 2 5 (Unit: %) 17.2 12.1 21.2 Trust and Confidence. The gradation at the center beautiful images of children, who are our future. Stakeholder Engagement p 16 symbolizes Coway striking a beautiful harmony beNumber of Rental and Membership Accounts R&D Investment & Innovation p 17 (Unit: 10,000 accounts) 508 545 574 tween “Sensitivity” and “Technology,” and conveys Brand Value Creation p 18 pay Free* Refund Amount the company’s corporate philosophy – “We strive to (Unit: KRW 100 million) 151 241 336 become a company that creates best technologies for Economic Value Creation & Distribution p 20 customers with loving care.” Additionally, under the 2012 Sustainability Management Highlights p 22 Environment GHG Emissions (tCO2e, Scope1+2, net emissions) 5,365 5,455 5,874 slogan “Adding Value to Lifestyle”, Coway pledges to Energy Use bring brand new values into the world with technolo(GJ) 101,196 103,927 112,132 gies that create healthy environment and services that Green Management Win-Win Supplier Partnerships Water Use make people happy. 2.1 Integrated Environmental Management 5.1 Expanding Communication with Suppliers p 62 (m3) 87,133 72,356 91,555 System p 34 5.2 Establishing Comprehensive Supplier Plastic Recycle 2.2 Climate Change Response & Water Management System p 63 (ton) 5,040 6,094 6,081 Resource Management p 37 5.3 Strengthening Win-Win Growth Programs p 64 Employee Number of Employees 4,188 4,537 4,834 2.3 Greener Products p 40 5.4 Increasing Supplier Participation & 2.4 Greener Life Cycle p 42 Social Contribution p 65 Percentage of Female Employees 70 68.6 66.3 3 Number of Disabled Employees 45 38 39 Total Training Costs (Unit: KRW 100 million) 18 24.8 11.5 Local Number of Employees in Volunteer Group Community 1,783 1,817 2,030 Average Volunteer Hours per Member Key Performance 17.3 18.4 18.1 Indicators / Amount Spent on Social Contributions + Donations Employee Value Creation Appendix 19.9 14.2 12.4 Coway Story (Unit: KRW 100 million) 3.1 Stronger Employee Communication & Economic Data p 67 Supplier Supplier Innovation Support (Unit: KRW 100 million) 48.6 38.9 Participation p 46 Social Data p 68 No Interest Funding Support for Suppliers 3.2 Work-Life Balance & Environmental Data p 69 (Unit: KRW 100 million) 20 17.8 Family-friendly Management p 47 Memberships, Awards & Certifications p 72 Number of Certified Green Partners 3.3 Fair & Transparent HR/Assessment/ 49 53 55 Compensation System p 48 Independent Assurance Statement p 74 GRI G3.1/ISO26000 Index p 76 Technical Support 3.4 Talent Cultivation & (Supply Quality, ppm) 369 149 142 Employee Capability Development p 49 UNGC/MDGs p 79 Global Network p 80 * “Pay Free” is one of Coway’s customer service programs provided in partnership with credit card companies. The amount of Pay Free refund is the 3.5 Creating Corporate Culture based on sum of rental fees paid by customers with card points. Trust & Mutual Advancement p 50 3 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 CEO Message CEO Message Thank for your ongoing trust and support for Coway. In 2012, Coway underwent a major change; the company’s majority shareholder was changed from Woongjin Holdings to MBK Partners. In the process, many of you who deeply care about Coway expressed concerns about the stability and sustainability of Coway as a business. Coupled with the deteriorating business climate from the prolonged economic contraction, it was only natural for stakeholders to become concerned about any possible negative impacts of the control and ownership structure change on Coway’s business performance. Coway, however, has beautifully risen to the challenge, transforming the change into an opportunity for another leap forward. Last year, Coway posted the largest sales in its history with KRW 1.8068 trillion, a 5.7% gain from the previous year, and proved our resilience and competitiveness to overcome any challenge and continue its growth. Although our operating income decreased 6.4% from the previous year to KRW 227.8 billion, it was the result of writing off non-recurring costs, such as disposal of obsolete inventories, in the 4th quarter. Disregarding the non-recurring costs, we recorded a 4.9% gain in operating income at KRW 255.2 billion. Such respectable results in the rapidly changing business environment were the fruit of our efforts towards improving organizational efficiency and profitability based on sophisticated organizational capability. It was particularly helpful that we were able to expand the home-wellness appliance rental business and successfully launch the new mattress rental & care business, while developing diverse greener products that meet customer needs and strengthening our sales efforts in overseas markets. But perhaps the most significant of all was the fact that Coway received positive evaluation from external organizations about our overall business activities. In 2012, Coway was honored with such prestigious awards and recognitions as Presidential Prize at the 2012 Green Management Excellent Awards; Grand Prize in the General Service Category of the 2012 Best 100 Companies to Work for in Korea; and Company with Outstanding Quality Competitiveness 2012 by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards under the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy. Such recognitions again show that our sound corporate culture will act as the foundation for Coway’s sustainable growth in each area. Encouraged by such positive results, Coway established a new corporate identity and announced the vision “THE Lifestyle Design Company” coming into 2013. Based on our renewed drive, we will continue to strive for sustainability management. In particular, we will focus our enterprise capability on expanding customer service and promote innovation to create brand new customer values. As we make a new start and strive for sound growth, your continued encouragement and interest will be a great inspiration to everyone at Coway. Thank You. Joon Kee Hong CEO Coway 4 5 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 CEO Message Q Please review the 2012 majority stake sale of Coway and resulting changes in the company’s business management. Q What is the direction for Coway in the year 2013? A With such changes, Coway has further matured as an organization and business. In 2013, we are A In August 2012, Woongjin Holdings decided to sell its majority stake in Woongjin Coway to a third party. Subsequently, MBK Partners has acquired 30.9% of shares and become the majority sharegoing to expand and strengthen our service to delight customers, getting nearer to them with renewed commitment and presenting greater joy and happiness. To this end, we are planning to exholder. Following the acquisition, Woongjin Coway was renamed “Coway” at the extraordinary pand “HEART Service,” which was introduced in 2012 as part of tailored customer services, and regeneral meeting convened on November 27, officially parting ways with Woongjin Holdings and launching it into “New HEART Service” with ungraded quality and service offerings. becoming part of Coway Holdings, the special purpose company established by MBK Partners. “New HEART Service” is not only more elaborate than the existing service but also more meaningIn line with the control and ownership structure change, Coway redesigned our corporate identity ful as the service was developed with customer participation. We made an open call for improvethat embodies Coway’s customer first value proposition of “Trust” and “Confidence” as well as the ment ideas for the existing HEART Service and received more than 12,000 ideas. After careful selectraditional corporate culture of “Youthfulness” and “Innovation.” This move was intended as a retion, about 30% of the ideas were incorporated into the service design. Coway will always listen to newal of our commitment to creating greater value for customers, as announced in January 2013. our customers and strive for service that brings delight to customers. Another direction Coway is looking at is market expansion through technological innovation. Last THE Lifestyle year, while changes to the control and ownership structure was taking place, Coway introduced Vision Announcement unique products such as the Da-Vinci water filtration appliance (CHP-010E), the world’s first water Design Company filtration appliance that allows users to choose the taste of water, and the Hanbyum water purifier (model code: CHP-241N), the smallest water filtration appliance in Korea, and created differentiated value for our customers. This year, we are going to lead the market by taking full advantage of our unrivaled R&D capability and focusing on technological innovation. Meanwhile, we are planning to In February, Coway announced a new mission and core values along with the new vision ‘THE Lifeexert our strengths in new business areas. For the first time in Korea, Coway developed the matstyle Design Company,’ clearly establishing a direction for the company’s new start and providing tress rental & care business and introduced the service in November 2011, offering affordable rental Coway executives and employees with guidelines for their thinking and action. With the announceand care service for high priced mattresses. This is a completely new business that no one else has ment, Coway made a complete transformation in terms of corporate structure as well as corpotried before. We have actually created a new market and are enjoying the benefits as the first mover. rate branding and culture and prepared itself for forward looking management in a more stable and flexible manner. Amid such dramatic changes, we were still able to maintain business continuity and improved our sustainability as a business. In particular, with renewed focus on customer value creation, we 2013 Target Revenue KRW 1,920 billion 2013 Target Operating Income KRW 291 billion succeeded in continuing our growth trend, recording the greatest sales in our history once again. Coway’s key successes of 2012 include expanding the market by continually introducing a variety In 2013, we are also going to make great efforts to develop new businesses, further expanding the of new products such as the Hanbyum water filtration appliance (model code: CHP-241N), the Damattress rental & care business into a total home care service. By developing new businesses, Vinci water filtration appliance (model code: CHP-010E) and the Desktop water filtration appliance Coway can benefit from business diversification and increased profits, while providing added value with icemaker (model code: CHPI-280L); actively expanding product lineup for air purifiers with to our customers. In order to inject greater energy into execution of the plan, we declared the new humidifier and dehumidifier functions to meet customer needs; and successfully launching the vision in February 2013 and are mobilizing employee commitment. Moreover, we are committed mattress rental & care business. to meeting our sales target for 2013, KRW 1,920 billion, a 6.3% increase from the previous year, as well as operating income of KRW 291 billion, a 27.7% increase from the previous year, and repay the continued support of stakeholders with excellent performance. Stakeholders’ continued encouragement and interest will further motivate everyone at Coway to strive for the greatest performance in history. change challenge 6 7 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 About Coway About Coway New Mission & Vision of Coway Healthy Environment, Mission Happy People Coway delivers a new way of life with technologies that make the About Coway sions, 2 departments, 4 factories and 76 teams (as of March 2012). Such environment healthy and services that make people happy. In ways unique to Coway, we bring brand new values into the world, Established in 1989, Coway is Korea's leading home-wellness apa decision was made to facilitate effective response to rapidly changing create THE lifestyle and designs customer satisfaction that pliance company that manufactures water filtration appliances, air business conditions by clarifying the roles and responsibilities of each goes beyond customer trust. purifiers and bidets. We have continued to grow to take leadership in organization and improving business efficiency. We also have established the sector, delivering more popularized, specialized and sophisticated the “Ethics Management Department” directly under CEO to promote a Vision THE Lifestyle Design Company home-wellness appliances. Coway posted record sales in 2012 thanks transparent management culture and further strengthen our organizato our strong and comprehensive product portfolio, including “Coway,” tional efforts towards ethical integrity and social responsibility. the representative brand for the highest-quality water, “CAIRS,” which has become synonymous with clean air, to “LooLoo,” companion for a pleasant bathroom culture and “Clive,” a food waste treatment system. Corporate Overview Powered by its innovative technology, Coway has made a successful Always Near You entry into the water treatment business and is fast becoming a leader Name of Company Coway Co., Ltd. Near in the sector. Launched in 2010, the premium cosmetics brand “Re:NK” Address 658 Yugu-ri, Yugu-eup, Gongju-si, Chungcheongnam-do is continually expanding its market share with positive response from No. of Employees 4,707 (as of yearend 2012) Moving Nearer to Customers! Date Established May 2, 1989 Coway is always there for customers when they want us and customers. In 2011, Coway successfully launched a homecare service CEO Joon Kee Hong need us, providing care just like a family. Coway delivers that provides a mattress rental & care service at affordable prices, customer satisfaction with services that look at people and Business Area Manufacturing and Sales creating a new trend in the rental service market. In 2012, the company Main Products Water filtration appliances, air purifiers, bidets, water softeners, food technologies that looks to the future. Value Adding Greater Value to Life was renamed Coway and thus separated from Woongjin Holdings. Folwaste treatment systems, water treatment, cosmetics, etc. lowing the separation, Coway established the new vision “THE Lifestyle Design Company” and is moving forward to become “a company that creates best technologies for customers with loving care.” As a responBeyond Expectations Striving for Perfection sible corporate citizen, we consider people and the environment as our Financial Overview (KRW in millions) top priority and are fully dedicated to creating new values for our stakeBeyond Perfect Category 2010 2011 2012 holders with renewed commitment. Technologies, products and services that go beyond Seeking perfection for customers! Assets 1,358,254 1,576,459 1,701,508 customer expectation Delights that extend beyond Coway strives for perfection in everything we do, from Liabilities 631,097 828,057 898,788 satisfaction and trust! Corporate Organization Equity 727,157 748,402 802,729 developing technologies and making products for health and Driving the present to the future with passion and creativity, happiness of our customers to providing customer service. Coway has been making continuous growth based on efficient organizaRevenue 1,501,812 1,709,868 1,806,833 Moving beyond Korea and to the world, Coway mounts a Coway seeks perfection in ethical integrity to ensure health tion. In 2012, Coway was reorganized into 10 departments, 4 research Operating Income 254,353 243,343 227,812 challenge to the impossible. By designing a new lifestyle, we and happiness of our customers as well as to promote peace Recurring Profits make the environment healthy and people happy. and stability of our society. centers, 4 sub-divisions, 2 departments, 4 factories and 83 teams from 243,257 225,352 161,465 Net Income 183,273 177,106 119,749 the existing structure of 11 divisions, 4 research institutes, 4 sub-diviTHE Lifestyle Design Company Organizational Chart After the majority stake sale and subsequent separation from Woongjin Holdings in 2012, the company was renamed “Coway.” Such changes 10 divisions/4 research institutes/4 sub-divisions/ created needs for reestablishing our corporate identity and motivated us to identify and present a clear direction and specific goals to our 2 departments/4 factories/83 teams CEO employees as part of our efforts to achieve the vision in the near future with new business models and growth engines. As such, Coway re(As of March 15, 2013) CFO defined our core values as an independent brand to a new vision in line with our new corporate strategy. The new vision of Coway is our future value identified and defined with the participation of a total of 13,862 internal and external stakeholders (810 Coway employees, 12,552 Talent Development Ethics Management CODYs and 500 consumers). “THE Lifestyle Design Company” conveys our commitment to delivering a new way of life with technologies that Team Department make the environment healthy and services that make people happy. Strategy Planning Overseas Business Marketing Division CL Division W Sales Division CS Division Process for Reestablishing Corporate Vision & Core Values Division Division Water Treatment Environment Environment Quality Design Research Literature Review Internal & External Survey Internal & External Interview Media Analysis Vision & Core Values SCM Division Production Division Cosmetics Division Division Technology Institute Institute Center 8 9 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Responsible Corporate Governance Responsible Corporate Composition of Shareholders Advanced Decision Making Process for Major Investment Governance Affiliated Persons 0.2% Foreign Investors 51.3% and Management Issues The executive decision making body at Coway is shareholders meeting Employee Share Ownership 3.3% and the BOD with the Management Committee serving as a subordinate decision making body. The BOD makes decisions on important Institutional/Individual Investors 14.3% issues such as large size investments and borrowings, merger and Coway Holdings, Inc. 30.9% split-off, while the Management Committee establishes key business strategies and makes decisions on small size investments and execution of such investments to facilitate efficient operation and speedy decision making The Management Committee is comprised of three members appointed by the BOD including CEO. Changes to Control and Ownership Structure Percentage of Shareholders (as of January 2, 2013) Protection of Minority Shareholders Decision Making Process for Major Issues In 2012, Coway underwent a major change in its control and ownership Based on our respect for minority shareholders, Coway has estabstructure. The change was triggered by Woongjin Holdings’ decision in Composition of Shareholders Number of Shares Percentage lished provisions for protecting minority shareholders in Clause 16 Foreign Investors 39,541,883 51.3% February, 2012 to sell its majority stake in Coway to overcome financial of the Article of Incorporation and is making great efforts to protect Introduction of Issue Coway Holdings, Inc.* 23,829,150 30.9% difficulties. Following the decision, Woongjin Holdings and MBK Partthe rights of minority shareholders. Also, we are putting great efforts Institutional/Individual Investors 11,044,523 14.3% ners, a private equity fund, officially agreed on the sale of the majority Employee Share Ownership 2,520,000 3.3% into fair, timely and regular disclosures to ensure equal and fair acstake and the contract was consummated according to an appropriate Affiliated Persons 169,820 0.2% cess to management information indiscriminate to the size of shareBasic Research & Feasibility Solicitation of process to establish Coway Holdings as the majority stakeholder of Employee Share Ownership Association 19,420 ≑ 0.0% holding. Review Stakeholder Opinions Coway as effective of January 2, 2013. Based on the agreement, a total * Coway Holdings, Inc.: A special purpose corporation established by MBK Partners of 23,829,150 shares, including those hold by affiliated persons, were sold, which is 30.9% of the total number of shares issued. The control and ownership change also resulted in changes to the BOD; the entire Clause 16 (Protection of Minority Shareholders) BOD Management Committee BOD Status (as of January 2, 2013) members of the BOD at the time of the stake sale resigned, except for 1) In accordance with the Commercial Code of Korea and other related CEO Joon Kee Hong. At the extraordinary shareholder meeting held on Name of Directors Position Also Serving as laws, all shareholders are awarded with the rights as exclusive and November 27, 2012, 6 Board members (4 non-executive and 2 external) Joon Kee Hong CEO CEO, Coway, Co., Ltd.; Chairman of the Board minority shareholders and such rights shall be duly respected by the Voting Feedback and an auditor were appointed to form the new BOD. As of March 2013, Michael Byeong Ju Kim Non-Standing Director Chairman, MBK Partners company’s management. the Board of Directors of Coway consists of 7 board members and a Jong Ha James Yoon Non-Standing Director CEO, MBK Partners 2) S  hareholders, as defined by the Commercial Code of Korea and other Jay H. Bu Non-Standing Director Vice President, MBK Partners related laws, have the rights to make a written request to access standing auditor. Tae Hyeon Park Non-Standing Director Senior Managing Director, MBK Partners pertinent information related to the company’s management and In Bum Choi External Director Standing Adviser, GM Korea operations including business conducts and financial status of the BOD Execution 77,124,796 Jun Ho Lee External Director President, Seoul Office, Monitor Group members. The company shall reply in writing and supply the information Total Number of Kyung Hwan Kim Auditor Internal Auditor, Coway, Co., Ltd. within 15 days upon a request, unless such a disclosure can significantly Shares Issued undermine common interest of both the company and shareholders or potentially disclose confidential information. Solicitation of Shareholder & Investor Opinions BOD Status Coway’s IR strategy is fully in line with our belief that we need to form The Board of Directors (BOD) plays a crucial role in oversight and mon“strategic relationship based on trust” with investors. We are also enitoring to facilitate efficiency and promote fairness in Coway’s manageCompensation for Directors (KRW in millions) gaging in a variety of IR activities to deliver accurate information to as ment and operations. Duties of the BOD include appointing profesDividends many investors as possible. Such efforts include regular discussion sional executives with extensive expertise and experience as required Category Number of Directors Total Compensation Average Compensation per Director On average, Coway has paid out about 45% of our net income as divisessions with CEO, NDRs for domestic and foreign investors and our by the Articles of Incorporation, making decisions on important manInternal Director 4 801 200 dends to our shareholders every year. However, the BOD decided to active participation in conferences hosted by securities companies. agement issues, preventing business risks and conducting an internal External Director 2 67 33 not offer cash dividends in the 2012 fiscal year with consideration to In order to provide IR information in a timely manner, Coway actively assessment of top executives’ performance. A total of 7 members, inAuditor 1 155 155 the major change to Coway’s control and ownership structure from Total 7 1,023 146 hosts investor visits. As a result, Coway received the “Excellence in IR” cluding 2 external directors, and an auditor are appointed to fulfill such sale and purchase agreement between Woongjin Holdings and Coway award from the Korea Investors Relations Service for two consecutive duties. The operations of the BOD and the activities of each committee Holdings. Instead, the BOD plans to offer dividends in first quarter years in 2010 and 2011. are subject to regular evaluations. The percentage of external directors of the 2013 fiscal year. The plan will be finalized at the BOD meeting in Coway’s BOD is 28.6%. Key BOD Activities scheduled for April 2013 based on the confirmed income statement of the 2012 fiscal year and the sales results from the first quarter of 2013. Unless unlikely circumstances prevent us from doing so, Coway Major Disclosure Activities Audit Number of Board Meetings 15 (4 regular and 11 ad-hoc) Although Coway does not operate an independent and standing audit Attendance Rate of External 80% expects to offer dividends similar to the amount from the 2011 fiscal Interim Earnings Disclosure Directors year between mid and late April, during which dividends are usually committee, a single auditor is appointed (Kyung Hwan Kim) at the genQuarterly, Half Yearly & Annual Report Major Agenda 2012 business plan, quarterly earnings report, sale of shares eral shareholders meeting and entrusted with audit related duties to declared and paid. General & Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting Related Disclosure of other corporations, sale of treasury shares, convening of ensure transparent and independent operations of the BOD. The audiextraordinary shareholders meeting, etc. Disclosure on the Decision to Sell Shares of Other Corporation tor takes part in BOD meetings to serve as an independent supervisor Disclosure on the Sale of Treasury Shares Disclosure on Changes in Owners’ Equity of the directors and has rights to request account books and docuInterest Costs (Unit: KRW 100 million) Disclosure on the Ownership Structure of Large Conglomerates as Required by the Fair Trade Commission ments to departments if deemed necessary to perform his duties as an auditor. In addition, the auditor can be briefed on issues regarding Interest Costs 288 Coway not only complies with annual disclosure requirements laid out by the relevant laws and Interest Income 14 regulations but also makes proactive and voluntary efforts to disclose and regularly issuing percompany operation and access management information following the tinent literatures such as a sustainability report. In the process, we are also striving to make a Net Interest Costs 274 standard procedures when such needs arise. balanced presentation of financial/non-financial performances and plans. 10 11 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Transparency & Ethics Management/Risk Management Transparency & Campaign (Preventative) & Monitoring Risk Management Ethics Management Category Activity Topic Campaign CEO Message Raising Ethics Awareness (Preventative) Poster Compliance with Sound Sales & Marketing Practice Pop-up Campaign Sound Use of Corporate Card Monitoring & Regular Assessment Twice yearly, at entire business and production sites Assessment Twice yearly monitoring of corporate card usage Year-round Monitoring Illegal sales practice monitoring with the Mystery Shopper program * Established separate management standards for HQ and sales workforces and performs monitoring and analysis accordingly Coway’s 3 Cs of Ethics Management Compliance Check Organizations Coway’s Risk Management Features Risk Management Process We have further strengthened our risk management system to effecCoway has its own ethics management guidelines named tively respond to potential management risks and identify new opporCEO Risk Management Process Organization in Charge the 3 Cs of ethics management, and everyone at Coway is tunities from such risks. Upon discovering an issue that could develop making best efforts to putting them into practice. The 3 Cs Ethics Management Department into potential risks, each business and division shares it with the Risk Step 1 Departments gather real-time * CP Team: Compliance Team are Code of Conduct, Compliance Check Organization and Management Committee. Comprised of executives and staff members Information information / Convenes risk • Departments gathering assessment meeting Consensus by Ethic Training. Moreover, we are committed with relevant expertise, the Committee implements effective meaLegal Team Assessment Team CP Team* to prevent ethical risks by embedding ethical integrity into sures to prevent or mitigate the risk following a predetermined risk Step 2 Analyzes relevant data / Assesses our corporate culture. management process. Once a potential risk is identified, the CommitImpact risk level / Issues alert • Risk Assessment Meeting tee clearly defines accountability of relevant personnel and thoroughly Analysis Process for Reporting Unethical Conducts Code of Conduct manages the issue. Step 3 Coway established the Code of Conduct to promote ethics manageFormation of As executive decision making body, • Risk Management Committee Unethical Fact Checking sets response direction / key policies ment throughout the organization and present clear action guideConduct Report Report & Investigation Result Case Risk Management Process Response Team Made Verified Notified Shared lines to our employees. Also, we are offering a variety of ethics Occurs Performed At the center of our risk management efforts is risk impact analysis, • Risk Management Committee training programs to employees and suppliers and engaging ethics based on which Coway assesses the risk level of potential issues, and Step 4 • Risk Management Team Response Establishes response strategies campaigns to spread the “Clean Coway” culture throughout the enFact Finding Deliberation & organizes and operates response teams such as the Risk Manage• Risk Management Support Plan Performed Decision ment Team, Risk Management Support Team and Media Response Team tire organization. Team depending on risk type and level. The Risk Management Team is • Risk Management Team Step 5 Compliance Check Organization Ethics Training responsible for implementing corporate level risk management efforts Response Engages in response initiatives • Risk Management Support Activities Team Ethics Management Department Established to Serve Directly unon the issue at hand and leading relevant response activities. The Risk der CEO — In 2012, we established the Ethics Management DepartMedium Target Audience Frequency Topic Management Support Team provides any necessary supports to the Step 6 ment, which reports directly to CEO, to facilitate effective corporate Online Sales Division 7 times Compliance with Sound Sales Practice, Risk Management Team, while the Media Response Team is tasked • Risk Management Committee Progress Reports progress and results wide promotion of ethics management. Comprised of the Legal, Prevention of Illegal Use of Customer with media response and stakeholder communication. Based on the Report Identity Information, etc. Assessment and CP Teams, the Ethics Management Department is response system, Coway fully prepares itself for all potential risks and Offline Sales Division Monthly Compliance with Sound Sales & responsible for preventing a variety of ethical risks associated with once the risk situation is resolved, makes further efforts to prevent Step 7 Marketing Practice, Case Sharing • Risk Management Team Monitoring & Ongoing monitoring and feedback our management and operations and for further developing the ethNew Recruits and New Hires 2 times Ethics Management recurrence or lower the risk level through ongoing monitoring and Feedback ics management system to promote ethical integrity throughout the feedback. organization. Our Response Strategy to Transform Risk into Opportunity Our Efforts to Eliminate Irregular Sales Practices Unethical Conduct Reporting Process & Whistleblower Protection For efficient risk management, Coway groups enterprise risks into Risk Management Organizational Chart — Coway is currently operating an online reporting channel named the following three categories – financial, operational and disaster As part of our effort to firmly establish sound and ethical sales & marketing “With Coway” to ensure that unethical conducts by our employees, practices, Coway is working hard at eliminating irregular sales practices related—and manages them accordingly. In 2012, Coway coped with Risk Management Committee such as acceptance of bribes, unhealthy business practices and corthrough a variety of initiatives. First, we have improved our ethics management financial risks such as the economic crisis originated from Europe, risruptions, are reported without repercussions to whistleblowers. The system, strengthening disciplinary systems and standards, redesigning the ing commodity prices and economic contraction but still managed to identity of whistleblowers is thoroughly protected, and the reported investigation process for irregular sales practices and increasing accountability. overcome the tough business climate and post a sales increase of 5.7% Risk Assessment Meeting issues are fairly and promptly handled following the internal ethical Also, we have established programs designed to prevent and crackdown such compared to the previous year by making proactive responses based on practices, including the mystery shopper program for ongoing monitoring. As violation reporting process. The individuals who filed the reports are our systematic risk management process. In the operational side, we part of our prevention efforts, we have produced a video titled “Preventing Top Risk Management Team Risk Management Support Team Media Response Team notified of the outcome and the case is shared internally to promote had to cope with negative impacts on corporate reputation and brand Seven Irregular Sales Practices” and utilized it for employee trainings. ethics awareness and prevent recurrence of such practices. image from the majority stake sale but succeeded in minimizing the risk by making proactive responses such as transparent information Consensus by Ethics Training disclosure and proactive introduction of products. As for the implemenIn order to promote the “Clean Coway” culture, we are engaging a 2012 HR Committee Decisions tation of the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System, we made variety of campaigns targeting employees and suppliers along with proactive and voluntarily efforts for GHG emissions reduction to overNumber of Employees Grounds for Disciplinary Action Disciplinary Action Taken ethics training programs. In 2012, we provided regular on and ofDisciplined come risks successfully as well as to transform it into an opportunity fline ethics trainings to our sales workforce and new recruits and 85 Supervisory and managerial negligence, Paid suspension, for generating financial benefits. Additionally, we are exploring ways to produced training videos on ethics management and utilized them in Unhealthy sales practice, Irregular sales Reprimand, transform disaster related risks, such as global warming and changes practice, Inappropriate use of corporate card Pay cut, etc. in rainfall patterns, into opportunities with appropriate responses. internal trainings and video conferences. 12 13 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis 2013 Coway Sustainability Management Framework Overview Comprehensive Ongoing In order to achieve a sustainable growth, Coway is actively accommodating diverse stakeholders’ opinions and expectations and incorporating Sustainability Customer Stronger Stakeholder Management Communication them into our operations. Based on such efforts, we have been able to increase the corporate value and deliver results in a sustainable manner. Engagement System Customer Satisfaction Coway is also performing a materiality analysis to identify internal and external issues and to manage them on an ongoing basis following a sysPrograms Improved Responsible tematic process. In 2012, based on a materiality analysis, Coway identified 41 key management issues from 7 different criteria (environment, prodCorporate Product Stewardship Governance uct, customer, employee, management & strategy, supplier and society & ethics) and made improvement efforts throughout the year. In 2013, we Stronger grouped sustainability management criteria into 5 key management, basic management and ongoing management criteria and are implementing Protection Transparency improvement efforts for 26 key issues identified across those management criteria. Furthermore, we have established the “Coway Sustainability & Ethics for Customer Management Information Management Framework” based on the materiality analysis and set a clear direction for sustainability management for this year. Integrated Materiality Analysis Process and Methodology Ongoing Customer Environmental Risk Management Management In performing the materiality analysis, international standard assessment and stakeholder survey were weighted 20% and the rest of criteria were Satisfaction Management System Criteria Management each weighted 10%. Based on the step by step analysis results, risk management and comprehensive sustainability management were identified Basic as the most important issues, while the stakeholder survey showed that our stakeholders regarded product safety, management of toxic materials Management Climate Change Expanding contained in products and customer satisfaction as the most material issues. Communication with Criteria Response & Water Resource Management Suppliers bility Manage ina m sta ework 2013 Cowa Green ram yS Management Materiality Analysis Process tF Establishing u en Comprehensive Supplier Win-Win Greener Products Management System Supplier Partnerships Step 1. A  ssess & Evaluate Sustainability Step 3. Analyze International Standards & Step 4. Analyze SRI Guidelines & Step 2. Analyze Media & Web Coverage Management Relevant Laws and Regulations Sustainability Indexes Strengthening Win-Win Greener Life Cycle • Have Coway’s sustainability management • Analyze the coverage of internet portals, • Analyze changes and emerging issues in • Analyze changes and emerging issues in SRI Growth Programs assessed by a third party agency against broadcasting companies and major newspapers international standards and relevant laws guidelines and sustainability indexes international sustainability management for sustainability management issues and regulations • FTSE4GOOD, DJSI, etc. standards Community Employee • Perform comparative analysis on monthly and • ISO26000, GRI G3.1, UNGC, 10 Principles, etc. & Participation Increasing Supplier Value Creation Creating Corporate Culture • 11 areas and 144 sub criteria ⇨ Issues Pool annual coverage trends Development based on Trust & Mutual Participation & Social Contribution Advancement Step 5. B  enchmark Leaders in Sustainability Step 6. A  nalyze Sustainability Management Step 8. Identify Key Interest Areas and Step 7. Stakeholder Interview/Survey Management of Competitors Material Issues Increasing • Benchmark sustainability management • Analyze sustainability management of • Conduct interview and survey on diverse • Categorize identified areas and issues and Communication with & Talent Cultivation & best cases from Korea and overseas domestic and overseas competitors stakeholders to find out their interest present them comprehensively Participation in Local EmployeeCapability Community Development • Define stakeholders, key management • Analyze sustainability management system, and satisfaction level for sustainability • Present Coway’s 2013 sustainability management as well as to identify their priority Fair & issues and major initiatives management issues and initiatives management direction using the framework Comprehensive Transparent HR/ •3  ,156 employees / 1,175 customers / 140 local Management Assessment/ community members / 40 supplier companies System for Social Compensation Contribution Work-Life Balance System Strategic Response to Stronger & Family-friendly Social Social Needs & Employee Management Contribution Expectations Communication & 2013 Materiality Analysis Results Participation Customer Satisfaction Green Management Employee Satisfaction Communication with & Win-Win Supplier Basic / Participation in Local Partnerships Ongoing Management Criteria • Product safety (1st) -p 31 •M anagement of hazardous •F  air assessment & Community • Customer satisfaction & CRM substances in products (2nd) compensation (12th) -p 48 •Win-Win relationship with •Transparency / Ethics (3rd) -p 26~27 -p 35, 71  amily-friendly •F •Contribution to local suppliers (13rd) management (8th) -p 12 • Protection for customer • Greener product and management (15th) -p 47 community (10th) -p 56~59 -p 64~65 •Business performance (14th) Establishing Sustainability Management Direction for 2013 information (4th) -p 30 equipment (5th) -p 40~43 •Employee health / safety / •Job creation (11th) -p 68 •Expansion of supplier’ -p 4~8, 67 •R&D (7th) -p 17 •Prevention of environmental welfare (17th) -p 36, 47 sustainability management •Sustainability management The Sustainability Management Framework is a model that clearly presents Coway’s sustainability management areas and issues. We have pollution (6th) -p 40 •Employee capability (25th) -p 63 system (16th) -p 15 identified 26 sustainability management issues from 5 key management areas, ongoing management area and basic management area •C limate change response development (21st) -p 49 •Comprehensive risk strategy (9th) -p 37 •Working conditions for nonmanagement (19th) -p 13 based on our 2013 materiality analysis as well as the level of stakeholder’s expectations and requirements regarding those issues. regular workers (22nd) •Stakeholder engagement (20th) -p 16 •Talent recruitment and •New business development retention (23rd) -p 47~49 (24th) -p 22 The issues identified through the analysis are further defined with consideration to Coway’s management strategy, operations, and corporate culture to best facilitate our sustainability management efforts and managed as a framework that presents the direction for sustainability 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th management. Material issues from the “customer satisfaction management” area including “product safety,” “customer satisfaction,” “CRM,” and “protection of customer information” are defined as internal management issues within the framework and will be managed systemati1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th cally. Also, other key management issues, such as “management of hazardous substances in product,” “greener product and equipment,” “prevention of environmental pollution” and “climate change response,” are further defined and presented as “comprehensive sustainability Environment Product Customer Employee Management & Strategy Supplier Society & Ethics management,” “climate change response and water resource management,” and “greener product and greener lifecycle” in the framework, • Reduction of GHG • Customer satisfaction • Customer satisfaction •Fair evaluation & •Long-term corporate • Green purchasing • Ethics management emissions • Customer complaint •C ustomer complaint compensation vision • Support for suppliers • Social contribution and management of such issues will be worked into our enterprise functions. Coway has designed the systematic sustainability framework • Reduction of energy use handling handling •Talent recruitment •Sustainability management •5 issues including •6 issues including to ensure balanced response and management. We are committed to build a comprehensive sustainability management system so that • 6 issues including water • 5 issues including •5 issues including •7 issues including safety organization / strategy supplier ethics communication with resource management customer service customer service & health •7 issues including local community sustainability management is integrated into the entire business processes and embedded into our employees’ business conduct, and that economic value creation ultimately, our sustainability management efforts are realized into stakeholder value. 2012 Materiality Analysis Results 14 15 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholder Engagement/R&D Investment & Innovation Stakeholder Engagement R&D Investment & Innovation Strengthening future Customer competitiveness We actively solicit opinions and adWe believe that “R&D-focused Managevice from our stakeholders in order to ment” is the best way to remain faithful make ourselves more sustainable and to our corporate philosophy – “We strive continuously generate both tangible Employee Community to become a company that creates best and intangible values for stakeholders. technologies for customers.” Indeed, Also, we disclose information transparour R&D capability is the key driving ently to facilitate shared growth with force behind our growth and a unique stakeholders based on mutual trust. To value that is not likely emulated by R&D Mission & Strategy this end, we proactively gather stakeothers. Coway is committed to further Strengthening holder opinions on a variety of managestrengthening our R&D infrastructure competitiveness of existing ment issues through regular and adand expanding investments to ensure businesses and laying the hoc communication led by respective that we provide best-in-class products Government/ Supplier foundation for future growth departments. Municipality and services to customers and enable talented researchers to concentrate on their work, free from any restraints. Improving process Strengthening efficiency competitiveness of Shareholder/Investor existing businesses Strengthening Future Competitiveness R&D Expenses (Unit: KRW in millions) R&D Workforce Communication Channel Employee Communication Channel Community Corporate website, Customer website, CS Labor-Management Council, Grievance web portal, VOC, Call center, Talk session resolution system, Intranet, Corporate Develop and expand existing product line Category 2010 2011 2012 Category 2010 2011 2012 with customers, Customer satisfaction magazine/SNS, Internal communication • Expand air related product line p 41 Material Costs 6,319 8,265 8,917 Ph.D. 17 23 21 survey programs, Employee satisfaction survey Labor Costs 15,719 19,121 14,019 Master 15 156 103 Identify Products that Lead to New Businesses Key Interest Key Interest Total R&D Expenses 22,038 27,746 22,936 Researcher 183 216 143 Efforts for customer satisfaction, Fair evaluation and compensation, Training • Develop promising items for future growth Ratio of R&D Expenses 1.45% 1.62% 1.27% Total 315 395 267 differentiated customer service, systematic and capability development, Family friendly (Heath care, kitchen, beauty appliances) to Total Sales customer feedback management, customer management, Disclosure of employment complaint handling, thorough protection of status, Working conditions and benefits for customer information non-regular workers Improving Process Efficiency Develop and Expand Micro-size/Green Products Average Number of Communication Channel Government Government funded councils, Fair Trade • Expand application of innovative technology p 41 Products Developed per Researcher Number of R&D Patent Holdings Commission • Expand green technology (energy saving) Customers Communication Channel application p 41~43 2011 2012 Type 2010 2011 2012 Key Interest Local council meeting (Yugu, Incheon, 0.33 models 0.40 models Patent & Utility 381 292 321 Compliance with laws and regulations, Pocheon), NGO meeting Public-Private sector partnership (46 models/140 researchers) (54 models/136 researchers) Model Strengthen Innovative/Integrated Product Key Interest Registration Communication with local communities, Development Disclosure of ethics management • Develop innovative next generation products p 22 performance, Social contribution and volunteer work • Diversify products (features/performance) p 29 Patent Holdings by Product Group (Unit: No. of cases) Strong Competitiveness Water Filtration Air Purifier Bidet Water Softener Food Waste Other Communication Channel Shareholder/Investor Communication Channel Supplier IR web site, Annual report, BOD meeting, Suppliers’ web portal, Coway Partner’s Day, Appliance Treatment System General shareholders’ meeting, Ad-hoc IR Suppliers’ Council, Supplier innovation Strengthen Product Quality and Cost 849 309 309 141 205 483 meeting convention, Supplier satisfaction survey competitiveness 37% 14% 13% 6% 9% 21% Key Interest Key Interest • Reduce costs with smaller and simpler products, * Patent Holdings by Product Group (2012): 2,296 patents Increasing profitability, High dividends Financial/technology/training support for and use of common components p 41 policy, Sound corporate governance, suppliers, Environment/ethics management • Explore strategic overseas outsourcing Business opportunity, Risk management support for suppliers, Improvements for suppliers’ working conditions • Develop innovative materials Budget minded R&D Operations • Operate R&D budget management process 16 17 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 BRAND VALUE CREATION Brand Value Creation Home Wellness Appliance Cosmetics The name “Coway” (combination of the words Created with Coway’s cutting edge bioengi“co” and “way”, meaning “together, we move neering technology, the name “Re:NK” means forward”) represents our hope that everyone both “Rebirth New Skin” and “Revolution of comes together to end water pollution and New Knowledge.” Re:NK promises to become makes sure that clean and healthy water is a leader in state-of-the-art skin research with Out of Coway’s four home wellness apalways available. “Smart Beauty Technology.” pliance brands, including the brand “Coway,” three (water filtration appliance, “CAIRS” represents our aspiration to provide Our traditional herbal cosmetics brand “allvit” air purifier and bidet) have the top share the cleanest air and satisfactory care services was created based on Coway’s reinterpretation in their respective markets. Cosmetics to customers. of herbal cosmetics traditions and represents brands such as Re:NK are also gaining our “right” spirit – celebrating things from the on market leaders. All Coway brands With “LooLoo,” we have brought sophistication past and creating relevant value with it. strive to create value that “makes the into bathroom and we promise healthy and reenvironment healthy and people happy.” freshing bathroom culture to our customers. The name “NATURANCE Fromn” conveys the We will to focus our efforts to make our message that our products are made with rare customers happy and the environment “CLIVE” represents a delightful kitchen and and natural ingredients from the five seas and healthy with top of the line technology embodies our vision to become a partner for six continents. It represents our philosophy to and delightful customer service. pleasant life. strive for beauty in harmony with nature. A brand new concept in home care service, “Mattress Rental & Care” provides high 2012 Sales by Brand (KRW in millions) quality mattress rental and care service at affordable prices. Utilizing our extensive service Category Brand 2012 Sales Percentage in • Year round, multipurpose air Total Sales (%) experience built on the pursuit for perfection, purifier sales expanded Home Wellness Coway 902,940 49.97 Coway’s skilled mattress care specialists make • Dehumidifier launched • Brand Coverage Ratio 22.3% Appliance CAIRS 234,938 13.00 regular visits and manage the sanitation of our successfully (Second in the Industry) LooLoo 360,702 19.96 customer’s mattresses. 1.33 • Brand Coverage Ratio 41.1% Mattress 24,048 (First in the Industry) CLIVE 11,163 0.62 Other 77,544 4.29 Sub Total 1,611,335 89.19 Overseas 109,576 6.06 Cosmetics 66,706 3.69 Water Treatment 19,198 1.06 Other 18 0.00 Total 1,806,833 100.0 Water Treatment 1.06% Cosmetics • “ Hanbyum” water filtration 3.69% appliance (model code: CHP• Self-sterilizing Bidet (BAS 18, 241N) sets the trend for microstronger sterilization performance) Overseas Business size products 6.06% • Water Softer (BB08-Z, three times • Water filtration appliance with more powerful performance) icemaker achieves number 1 sales in the market • Brand Coverage Ratio 42.9% (First • Brand Coverage Rate: 50.1% in the Industry) (First in the industry) (Source: Coway internal survey) Home Wellness Appliance 89.19% 18 19 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Economic Value Creation & Distribution Economic Value Creation & Distribution Employee Supplier This amount is the sum of wages, severance This is the sum of purchasing costs paid to pay and benefits paid to our employees, who our suppliers. In addition to such business are undoubtedly the greatest assets of Coway. and financial transactions, Coway provides We provide a variety of training programs to interest-free funding support to our suppliers cultivate talents and to develop individual cafor a set period of time based on their finanpabilities, and offer comprehensive benefits cial situations and business performance in designed to improve the quality of life for our order to help top-performing suppliers to employees. overcome temporary cash flow problems. The program is part of our efforts to improve the Local Community competitiveness of our suppliers and to proThis amount is the sum of our social conmote management stability. tributions and donations to local communities. Coway provides a variety of support to Shareholder/Investor Employee promote arts and culture, public welfare, This amount is the sum of dividends paid out research and education, and environmental to shareholders and interest paid to lenders. A pioneer in “rental marketing,” Coway 2,872 protection. We successfully fulfill our responsibilities to shareholders and lenders by paying out earnKRW 100 million Government/Municipality ings-based dividends to our shareholders, the was the first in Korea to introduce this new business model and led the way for This amount is the sum of taxes and dues, true owners of the company, and paying the the popularization of home wellness apincluding national taxes (corporate income promised rate of interest to lenders. tax, value added tax, withholding), based on pliances based on cost competitiveness our financial statement. We contribute to the Reinvestment and sophisticated services. In 2012, development of the society and the country by Retained earnings refers to the portion of cuwe continued to grow thanks to effecpaying a part of the economic values genermulative net income which is retained by the tive risk management, successful new ated through our business activities as taxes corporation to be reinvested in its core busiproduct introduction, product quality to the government and municipalities. ness. Coway’s retained earnings consist of improvements and active stakeholder Total Sales Operating Income Net Income earned surplus reserve and voluntary reserve. engagement. We are making our best 18,068 2,278 1,197 efforts to fulfill our role as a responsible corporate citizen by giving back the economic value from our business KRW 100 million KRW 100 million KRW 100 million activities to our stakeholders. We will Supplier continue to strive for economic value creation to deliver a greater value to our stakeholders. 4,252 Government/Municipality KRW 100 million 1,599 KRW 100 million Local Community 12 KRW 100 million (Unit: KRW 100 million) Shareholder/Investor 288 Stakeholder 2010 2011 2012 Employee 2,133 2,501 2,872 Reinvestment Government/Municipality 1,331 1,295 1,599 KRW 100 million 1,170 Supplier 3,267 3,934 4,252 Local Community 20 16 12 Shareholder/Investor 975 1,030 288 KRW 100 million Reinvestment 971 500 1,170 Total 8,697 9,276 10,193 20 21 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 ⑤ 2012 ① Highlights ⑨ In 2012, we pressed forward with our sustainable management ③ initiatives, developing products that promote customer health, protecting the environment, and engaging in a broad range of activities to facilitate co-prosperity with the socially marginalized and with stakeholders. This, in turn, further strengthened the foundation for Coway’s sustainable growth. ⑧ We will continue to strive to become a responsible corporate citizen that contributes to social development and increases stakeholder value through business activities. ② ④ ⑨ ⑩ 1. Announced New CI and Core Value with honors such as the New Excellent Technology (NET) Certification sive studies on indoor air quality issues and incorporate the findings into lowing up on the renewed commitment, we have introduced a policy of With our new start, Coway has established and announced a new corpo(the Da-Vinci water purifier, model code: CHP-010E) and the IR 52 Jang developing products that eliminate hazardous substances and pollutants engaging in joint innovation efforts with our suppliers to facilitate mutual rate identity, corporate vision and core values to renew our brand image Young Sil Award (the Hanbyum water purifier, model code: CHP-241N) in completely. growth, and newly established a team dedicated to running a variety of and commitment towards customers. The new vision expresses Coway’s 2012. support programs for 30 suppliers. strong commitment to becoming “THE Lifestyle Design Company” based 6. Selected as “Outstanding Company in Quality Competitiveness” on our trust with customers, corporate philosophy, and technology lead4. Received Presidential Prize at Green Management Excellence For the second consecutive year, Coway was named an “Outstanding 9. Expanded Initiatives for Addressing Water Shortage ership built over the past 24 years. Awards Company in Quality Competitiveness” at the 2012 Quality CompetitiveWe are actively taking part in global efforts to address water shortage Coway received the Presidential Prize at the 2012 Green Management ness Competition hosted by the Korean Standard Association and the problems. At the 6th World Water Forum held in March 2012, Coway 2. Expanded Rental Business Excellence Awards hosted jointly by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy Korean Agency for Technology & Standards (a Ministry of Knowledge introduced a container-type simple water filtration system as a solution We have expanded our mattress rental business into “Mattress Rental & and the Ministry of Environment. The honor was the result of our ongoEconomy affiliate). The recognition was the result of Coway’s multidifor supplying clean drinking water in remote or disaster areas suffering Home Care Service” that offers cleaning service for customer-purchased ing efforts to embed low carbon management into our business pracmensional efforts towards product and service quality improvement, from water shortage. We are also making diverse water related social mattresses as well. It is a new business model that expands our mattices, such as establishing the “Environmental Information System” and best represented by our comprehensive quality management system contributions, such as the “Yugu Stream” cleanup project and the “Happy tress rental service, which has shown solid growth since its introduction. forging a “Carbon Partnership” with suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions. designed to deliver delights to customers. Well” campaign, to lead global efforts to resolve water shortage probWith the service expansion, we are now able to provide a healthy living Coway’s ongoing efforts were also highlighted by other awards and lems. environment to more customers and further strengthen Coway’s standrecognitions in 2012, such as the Prime Minister’s Award at the Green 7. Named “Best Company to Work for in Korea” ing as a leader in the home wellness market. Ranking Awards, the Minister of Environment’s Award at the Industry Coway was ranked first in the general service category of “the 2012 Best 10. E  stablished Industry’s First International Standard Product Leaders in Recycling Awards, and the Carbon Management Industry 100 Companies to Work for in Korea,” organized and released by the Safety Testing & Certification Center 3. Introduced Innovative, Greener Products Leader by the CDP Korea, and further cemented our reputation as the GWP (Great Work Place) Korea. Also named “the Best Company to Work In May 2012, Coway established the Coway International Safety CertificaCoway has introduced a broad range of innovative greener products No.1 environment company. for in Korea” in the manufacturing category in 2011, Coway is making tion Center. Located within the Yugu Plant, the international certification to the market based on our differentiated technology. In 2012, we sucongoing efforts to create better and more pleasant working conditions center is set to perform product safety tests and certifications with state cessfully continued our great tradition with the “Da-Vinci” water purifier 5. Established Asia-Pacific Research Center for Indoor Environment and corporate culture for our employees. of the art equipment and technology that meet international standards. (model code: CHP-010E), which successfully resolved sanitation issues and Health With the launch of the certification center, we have created a one stop and helped save energy by eliminating the water tank, and the “Hanbyum” Coway signed an agreement with Hanyang University to establish the 8. Signed Memorandum for Large & Small Business Cooperation certification system that will help us strengthen product competitiveness water purifier (model code: CHP-241N), which is 65% smaller and uses Asia-Pacific Research Center for Indoor Environment and Health (APARIn order to further strengthen our efforts towards mutually beneficial and make timely response to market demand. 50% less energy compared to the existing products. Our innovative prodCIEH), Korea’s first research center dedicated to indoor air quality regrowth with small and medium sized suppliers, Coway signed a memoucts were praised as “transforming technology into art,” and recognized search. We plan to invest KRW 1 billion for the next three years for extenrandum with the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation. Fol22 23 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Customer satisfaction Management Material Issue 1 Customer Satisfaction Management Our Approaches Coway continues to strive for customer satisfaction and value creation. Our efforts towards customer satisfaction management are guided by the four strategic pillars of “ongoing communication with customers,” “stronger customer satisfaction programs,” “stronger protection of customer information,” and “improved product stewardship.” At the center of our efforts is the Customer Centered Management (CCM) System designed to deliver lasting satisfaction to customers based on systematic management and the “New HEART” service implemented to improve the quality of customer satisfaction. Based on such differentiated initiatives for customer satisfaction, Coway earned lasting customer trust in the market and received a record high NPS* of 21.2% in 2012. Coway is committed to helping our customers enjoy healthier and happier lives by staying one step ahead of customer needs. * Net Promoter Score (NPS): A customer loyalty index that shows the loyalty of a company’s customer relati ships Our Achievements Key Management Issues 2012 Activities Page No. Ongoing Customer •Established a process for incorporating customer opinion into business p 26 Communication Stronger Customer • Improved customer access with the CS web portal p 26 Satisfaction Programs •Reduced response time for customer complaints by establishing the VOC p 27 team at the call center and the daily VOC monitoring system Improved Product • Established the Coway Safety Certification Center and implemented the p 28 Stewardship daily quality monitoring program • Improved the performance of water and air purifier filters p 29 Stronger Protection for • Strengthened protection for customer information with a customer privap 30 Customer Information cy protection solution • Introduced a system for preventing use of customer information without p 30 permission Our Key Index Number of Rental & Membership Accounts Net Promoter Score (NPS) 5.74 million 21.2 % Pay Free Refund Amount 33.6 KRW billion 24 25 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Customer satisfaction Management 1.1 Process for Incorporating Customer Opinion into Business systems and programs to deliver greater satisfaction to our vide more caring service. We have also improved our customer customers. We strengthened protection for customer informaservice infrastructure by further developing our VOC (Voice of tion with a new prevention system against use of customer inCustomer) management and establishing CS web portal to faCustomer formation without permission and improved the membership cilitate faster response to customer issues and to reduce costs program to provide greater customer convenience. Also, our associated with risk management and management failures. Communication Channel* * Communication new contract document imaging system increased field busiOngoing Customer Website Channel Immediate Action ness efficiency and saved KRW 320 million in costs. Customer Service with Emotional Strength — In order to SNS Communication Face to Face with Customers Call Center Website www.coway.co.kr promote customer satisfaction with customer participation, Sharing CCM Know-how — Coway is making valuable contriwe made an open call for product service ideas and customer Survey VOC Customer Center butions to mutual growth in our society by widely sharing our satisfaction stories under the title “Wow Service.” Customers We make every effort to gain customer trust by respecting www.payfree.co.kr CCM knowhow. In 2012, we provided a course that covers such responded passionately with over 12,000 ideas about strengthcustomer opinions, providing services that meet customer topics as “Understanding CCM” and “Business CS in Practice” ening customer relationship, improving product service, and needs, and continuously creating values that improve customComprehensive Analysis Official Blog blog.coway.co.kr to 554 college students nationwide as part of a CCM industryvarious communication strategies. After careful considerers’ lives. Such customer centered management has helped academia cooperation program. Also, we operated a CCM ation, about 30% of the ideas were incorporated into the “New us earn strong customer trust, and more consumers are usIncorporation into Business Planning Official Twitter twitter.com/ mentorship program in North Gyeongsang Province, assistHEART Service.” ing Coway products as a result. cowaystory ing six local SMEs to acquire the CCM Certification. The CCM Business Management/Support Official Facebook mentorship program is designed to offer Coway’s advanced Advancing VOC (Voice of Customer) Management — For www.facebook.com/ knowhow on customer service infrastructure and CCM to faster response to customer complaints, we redesigned the Communication is the very first step towards building customcowaystory Business Process mentee companies to strengthen their business competitiveVOC management system at our call center. In 2012, we newly er relationship based on trust and achieving customer satisService VOC/Call Center ness. The 2012 program produced an encouraging outcome established the VOC part to secure sufficient manpower and faction. We gather customer opinions through a wide range of Sales 1588-5100 Production with consumer complaints received by the Korea Consumer further strengthened VOC management with a daily VOC on/offline communication channels and actively incorporate Development NPS Survey Agency against our mentee companies decreased by 15% to monitoring & reporting system, which facilitates real-time rethem into product development to deliver greater satisfac155 cases from 178 cases the previous year. porting of identified issues to relevant departments to enable tion to our customers. When customers share their opinions, advance resolution of such issues. we promptly perform a comprehensive analysis based on an New HEART Service internal procedure. Once it becomes clear that immediate “HEART” service is our flagship customer satisfaction program Smart Response System for Customer Complaints — In 2012, 1.2 improvement is possible, we incorporate the solution into our designed to uphold our promise to customers and to help them we established a smart response system to provide swift rebusiness process. For cases that require more time and effort, maintain health. Our aftersales service and 24/7 call center sponse to product related customer complaints. The new syswe introduce the issue as a mid to long term assignment and operations allow customers to use Coway products in optimum tem not only increased customer satisfaction by dramatically make ongoing effort until customer satisfaction is ensured. conditions throughout the rental service period. At our call cenreducing the initial response time by 90% to 1 hour from the Our communication with customers often results in positive ter, professional customer service representatives respond to previous 12 hours, but also saved costs with process simplifioutcomes, such as increased customer satisfaction and imcustomer inquiries in their respective field of expertise and do cation and accurate identification of the cause of complaints. proved product quality, and often brings financial benefits as Stronger Customer their best to ensure customer satisfaction. We also solicit feedwell. In 2012, our customer-inspired improvement initiatives Satisfaction Programs back from our customers and professional CODYs on an annual created financial benefits of about KRW 1.7 billion. basis to improve our service. In 2012, the service program was Coway has acquired the “Consumer Centered Management re-designed and re-launched as “New HEART Service” to proHandling Customer Complaints (CCM)” Certification sponsored by the Fair Trade Commission and issued by the Korea Consumer Agency. The certification Compliant Call center service staff Confirm incident type Number of Rental & Membership Accounts is granted to businesses that make ongoing improvement ef(Service Team/ Branch) Process customer forts from the perspective of consumers. Consumer Centered Authenticate customer identify & verify compliant & receive A/S Customized customer bank account for bill payment request Management is also the operating and management principle Service to Meet 5,740,528 Professional Measure/ CS Dr. Register field report with of our customer satisfaction management system. In 2012, Individual Needs 5,452,009 Care (Caring) Decision/ smartphone (photographCoway set customer satisfaction as our top management goal 5,082,747 Compensation ic & video records) and strived to improve customer value with a broad range of agreement Implement appropriate Deliver specialized customer satisfaction programs based on CCM. Complete on Promises measure Motherly Care Product Guide Manager in charge Real-time decision on (Complete) case accountability Discuss compensation Committed Care CCM Initiatives (Swift) million Friendly Care Reducing Costs Associated with PL* Failures — In 2012, CoUnvarying (Attentive) way provided on-site capability improvement trainings to “CS Kindness 5.74 Speedy NPS* Survey Results doctors” and PL managers, and dramatically improved our PL Response to Customer response system. Thanks to such efforts, PL related customer Request complaints dropped about 11% between 2011 and 2012, from 2,973 to 2,673 cases, resulting in increased customer satisfac2010 2011 2012 17.2% 12.1% 21.2% tion and reduced costs associated with PL failures. Service Identity * PL: Product Liability Beyond Expectation Slogan * Net Promoter Score (NPS): A customer loyalty metric that shows the loyalty of a 2010 2011 2012 Improving Customer Related Systems & Programs — In “HEART Service, company’s customer relationships. Used as a gauge for business competitiveness * Formula: NPS (unit: %) = Percentage of customers who recommended the * Based on the number of products rented and sold 2012, we made improvements on a variety of customer related Connecting heart to heart” company – Percentage of customers who did not recommend the company 26 27 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Customer satisfaction Management 1.3 Filtering System of Coway Water Filtration Appliances step step step step 01 02 03 04 Improved Product Stewardship Neo-sense Filter RO Membrane Filter Inno-sense Filter Antibiotics Filter We are making continuous efforts to achieve product quality that delivers value to customers. Coway’s quality related efRemoves fine particles, Removes carcinogens and Minimizes odor and fine dust Prevents proliferation of forts, led by the Environmental Quality Institute, are focused rusty scraps and chlorine heavy metals and improves water taste microorganisms not only on improving product quality planning and management but also on our working environment for quality assurWater Filtration Appliance Filtering System Performance ance and quality improvement. Our corporate-wide efforts to Environmental hormones Removed 100% by the RO system improve productivity, quality, and product safety also include Sterilization residues (20 items) Removed 100% by the RO system: 17 items the enterprise preventive management system to prevent Partially removed by the RO system: 3 items Pharmaceuticals (22 items) Removed 100% by the RO system quality failures. Additionally, we provide diverse quality manHeavy metals/other (15 items) Removed 100% by the RO system: 8 items agement support (i.e. product quality consulting) to our supPartially removed by the RO system: 7 items (Beryllium 99.9%, Thallium 99.9%, Microcystin 99.9%, Iodine 98%, Cesium 97%, Barium 92%, Nickel 97%) pliers so as to help them develop R&D capability, build more efficient business system, and achieve a breakthrough in quality improvement in the long run. Number of Consumer Safety Related Certifications Filtering System of CAIRS Air Purifiers ● New Quality Management System ● Extended 796 step step step step step 01 02 03 04 05 Coway’s product quality management starts from the product development phase, thoroughly complying with safety stan714 dards from the very beginning of the process. We also make 663 ongoing efforts to embed green management into our busi245 199 ness practices and secured top notch quality competitiveness 173 in greener products. Also, our comprehensive quality manageSuper Fine Mesh Filter Pre-filter Customized Filter Deodorization Filter Anti-virus HEPA Filter ment system is hard at work to create new customers in the global market and successfully deliver the product quality that Removes large dust parRemoves dusts, human Customized to meet cusRemoves harmful gas, Remove fine dust, dust, ticles, pollens, large mold hair and pollens tomer needs to address food odor, formaldehyde germs, cigarette smoke customers expect. Coway received numerous recognitions for particles and animal fur sick-house syndrome, and VOCs and fine mold particles 551 such efforts, being named an “Outstanding Company in Qual490 515 yellow sand and allergens ity Competitiveness” by the Korean Agency for Technology & Standards (a Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy affiliate) *VOCs: Volatile Organic Compounds Air Purifier Filtering System Performance and honored with the Customer Quality Satisfaction Award. Anti-virus HEPA Filter Eradicates 99.9% of harmful viruses (based on research by Professor Sang Heui Seo, Research Institute for Influenza Virus, Chungnam University) Quality Innovation Intiative Destroys 99.9% influenza viruses (based on the HI removal test by University of Tsukuba, Japan) Coway engages in a wide range of quality innovation initiatives 2010 2011 2012 Destroys 99.9% Avian Influenza viruses (based on the AI removal test by Dottori University, Japan) Customized Filer Yellow sand filter Removes 90.9% of SO2 and 85.7% of yellow sand (Precipitation & gas removal rate test at Busan Techno Park) to reduce defective rate. Outcomes from such initiatives are * Certification: KC Electrical Safety Certification (Korea), UL Electrical Safety Legionella filter Eradicates 99.9% of legionella (Kyoto University, Japan) translated into financial benefits and managed accordingly. Certification (U.S.), CE (Europe), PSE (Japan), CCC (China), etc. New house filter Continuously injected formaldehyde (with increasing concentration) into a 1 m³ size space: The concentration level ceased to rise after 30 minutes (Mitsubishi Paper Mill) Herbal medicine Destroys 99.9% of E. coli (Certification No. 1, Association of Korean Medicine) Quality Innovation Initiative & Performance anti-bacteria filter HI-AI filter Eradicates 99.9% of virus after contract with HI-AI filter (University of Tsukuba, Japan) Program Activities & Performance Ant-allergy filter Removes 99% of allergen after 5 minutes (Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology, Japan) Emergency CEO Innovation Conference for Suppliers Participated by CEOs and employees from 45 suppliers Key defective rates, quality policy and improvement measures shared Enterprise OEM/ODM Management Innovation Establishment of the 5 step innovation process from contractor selection through follow up management New Product Quality DR Gate Establishment & Operation Establishment and operation of checklist for each DR process Early failure detection and incorporation of failure cases into improvement measures Sensitive Technology of LooLoo Bidets Consumer Perspective/ Consumer perspective test (20 cases) Abnormal Testing Method Development Abnormal test (10 cases) Coway International Safety Certification Center External promotion of product stewardship step step step step 01 02 03 04 KRW 400 million reduction in quality related certification costs and 50% reduction in time required for certification Expansion of Product Quality Failure Prevention System to Expansion and renewal of call center and warranty operation process Overseas Operations Daily Quality Monitoring Program Implementation of a daily quality report for identifying quality issues and making improvements Instant hot water system Twin nozzles Self-deodorization Self-power generation Quality Forecast System Implementation of the quality forecast system for preventing risks associated with production process 28 29 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Customer satisfaction Management 1.4 Skin Protection Technology of LooLoo Water Softers 2013 Customer Privacy Protection Initiatives As part of our ongoing efforts to strengthen protection for LooLoo water softeners remove metal substances in tap water and customer privacy, we plan to establish a team dedicated to help your skin reserve 69.1% more moisture. leading our privacy protection initiatives. The team will assess 69.1 % Stronger Protection for our privacy management and implement technical and managerial protection measures to best prevent customer information leaks. Also, the team will perform other tasks designed to Customer Information strengthen our privacy protection management system, such as expanding privacy trainings for employees and sales force, As part of our efforts to fully protect valuable customer inforand tightening the control of and access to our customer data. mation, we have made improvements to our privacy policy and management process, strengthened the role and responsibiliSoap residue created by the Removing metal substances ties of relevant departments, and minimized employee access to our customer data. As a preventative measure against inapGuiding Principle for Protecting Customer Information metal substances in tap in the water minimizes water and surfactants destruction of skin barriers propriate use of customer information, we also implemented an online privacy protection application that thoroughly tracks 1. Ensure full protection of customer information with a multi-step authentication process (minimum three steps) destroy skin barriers. and strengthens skin resilthe use of customer data and increases accountability. 2. Prevent inadequate sales practices utilizing the mobile SMS authentication system (order processing system with protection ience, leading to a minimal against illegal use of identity) loss of skin moisture. 3. Prevent customer information leaks by establishing a customer information encryption system (privacy protection solution) 4. Perform ongoing monitoring, and strengthen disciplinary actions against those who compromise customer privacy Customer Privacy Protection Solution 5. Prevent improprieties by performing ongoing ethics training our sales force The customer privacy protection solution prevents customer 6. Implement and operate CCMS, and make efforts to prevent customer dissatisfaction with the self-regulatory program for Trusted Technology of Food Waste Treatment System CLIVE customer complaints information leaks by alerting Coway employees about customers’ personal information stored in their work PCs and having Hot-air dry 20 hours them either delete or encrypt the information after verificaOur Efforts to Secure Product Safety Microorganism tion. Coway has installed the solution to all PCs located at our 14 hours treatment Head Office and sales branches. Our 2012 sustainability management materiality analysis identified product safety as the most material issue to our stakeholdGrind & Dry 4 hours 30 minutes ers. In order to address stakeholder concerns, we made a wide range of efforts to further improve our product quality and Prevention System for Illegal Use of Personal Identity safety, such as ongoing after-sales management service that promotes customer trust. Drying Time Reduced to 4 Hours 30 Minutes with the We adopted the prevention system for illegal use of personal “Grind & Dry” System identity for our product ordering process in order to maximize Completion of Coway International Safety Certification Improved Cleaning Service for Water Filtration Appliances data input convenience in the smart ordering process and to Center The HEART Plus Service was first introduced in 2009 to proreduce risks associated with inappropriate use of customer 33% In May 2012, Coway launched home wellness industry’s vide periodic cleaning and sterilization services to our rental Hot-air dry identity. The system prevents use of customer information first international safety certification center. Located within customers. As part of our efforts to improve hygiene of water Microorganism 40% without permission by mandating authentication at every step treatment the Yugu Plant, the center tests the safety of products and filtration appliances, we expanded the HEART Plus service to of the process from ordering through installation, and utilizing certifies them with cutting-edge equipment and technology. our membership customers and introduced the “Reborn SerGrind & Dry 75% diverse authentication methods appropriate for each step. The center houses 120 kinds of equipment for tests related vice” to offer replacement of regular parts. With the service Volume Reduction Rate of Grind & Dry 75 % Prevention System for Illegal Use of Personal Identity to electrical safety, electromagnetic impact, and standby power. The center performs safety tests to reduce risks such as electric shock and fire, and safety evaluations, includexpanded to membership customers, we are now able to ensure product hygiene throughout product use. Also, we offer parts replacement to our membership customers who have ing electromagnetic impact monitoring and energy saving used the product more than 5 years to replace parts that have Responsible Marketing Practice Process Before After related tests. Coway believes that the center will contribute direct impact on product hygiene, such as internal pipes and Application • Resident registration • First six digits of resident registration number In our marketing activities, we strive to fully comply with all to the development and production of products that meet the faucets. With the services tailored to disparate hygiene needs submission number • Authentication by method of customer’s applicable marketing & communication laws and regulations standards of countries and to facilitate swift acquisition of of each product, we reduced risks associated with product • Automatic draft account choice of the regions in which we operate. Also, we established an information major international certifications. The certification center has hygiene and achieved service cost efficiency. internal review process (performed by the legal team) to proSmart order •Identity authentication • O/B contact to seller’s IP phone number, enabled us to reduce costs and periods in the acquisition of mote ethical and responsible communication practices across • Automatic draft account voice ecording international and national certifications by 30 and 50 percent, the organization and provide accurate and objective informaverification • Applicant self-authentication respectively. • Identity authentication tion to our customers. In particular, we are making constant • Automatic draft account verification updates to product user manuals and specifications as they Release Transmission of installation authentication HEART Plus Service Recipients have significant implications for customer safety. Thanks to Before: Rental customers request number such efforts, we did not receive any noncompliance in the area Product Registration of authentication number prior to After: Rental and membership customers of marketing and communication in 2012. installation installation 30 31 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management Material Issue 2 Green Management Our Approaches Guided by our strong vision and mission for environmental management and clear mid to long term targets for climate change response, Coway is making sustained efforts to minimize negative environmental impacts associated with our business activities. In 2012, we further advanced our integrated environmental management system by improving the Hazardous Substance Process Management (HSPM), expanded the take-back and recycling programs, and strengthened environmental impact management. We also continued our efforts for climate change response and GHG emissions reduction with the establishment of the carbon life cycle assessment information system, and focused on creating safe and healthy working conditions for our employees through the integrated EHS information system and employee health promotion programs. Furthermore, we are constantly expanding our line of greener products by identifying greener product elements and incorporating them into our R&D process, and creating a virtuous cycle of turning our environmental management initiatives into products and services. • Green Management Mission: ECO-WAY (Eco + Co + Way), a path shared by nature and humans • Green Management Vision: “The 1st Green Global Leader Designing a Healthy Tomorrow” • Mid to Long Term Target for Climate Change Response: By 2020, reduce 50% of intensity-based GHG emissions and 1% of absolute emissions compared to the 2010 baseline Our Achievements Key Management Issues 2012 Activities Page No. Integrated Environmental • Established mid to long term roadmap and execution strategy p 34 Management System Climate Change Response & • Made effective climate change response with the carbon life p 37 Water Resource Management cycle assessment information system • Developed a waterless water filtration appliance testing system p 39 Greener Products • Greener product sales increased p 40 Greener Life Cycle • Implemented the greener product rating system p 42 • Developed greener products and materials with suppliers p 42 • Adopted greener refrigerant (R600a) p 42 • Achieved energy efficiency with refrigerant-free instant refrigerp 43 ation and instant hot water systems • Reduced GHG emissions and energy use through product refurp 43 bishing, refrigerant take-back, and recycling Our Key Index Water Use Net Emissions (tCO2e) 91,555 m3 5,874 tCO2e Energy Use Plastic Recycling 112,132 GJ 6,081 ton 32 33 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management 2.1 Management Commission sets up corporate-wide climate Environmental Audit & Monitoring Process HSPM System & Response to Regulations change response strategies and green management policies Based on our environmental audit and monitoring system, we Based on the Hazardous Substance Process Management while leading a broad range of initiatives to transform our perform regular environmental audit on internal organizations (HSPM) established as part of our integrated environmental business sites into low carbon, green sites. Our Environment and suppliers. In order to improve the effectiveness of the management system, Coway thoroughly manages hazardous Management Team is fully dedicated to implementing and audit, we also conduct regular and ad-hoc monitoring on ensubstances based on internal standards that are stricter than supporting the EHS management activities, and serves as the vironmental initiatives and performances from each manageinternational guidelines to transform all our business sites into Integrated Environmental secretariat of the EHS Management Commission. We also ment sector. In the 2012 environmental audit, our total score “Green Business Sites.” Additionally, we introduced the “Green Management System established the Eco-way Council to ensure that EHS straterose by 4 points compared to the previous year (5.3% YoY gain). Partnership (G-WP)” certification program and encourage our gies and policies are effectively implemented in each busiThe improved performance was attributed to our improvement suppliers to fully comply with the standards on material manageness area. Once corporate level environmental management in the resource recycling – managing environmental stanment and use of hazardous materials, as well as common sysBased on our Integrated Environmental Management System, process and climate change response strategies are estabdards information on the performance management system tem requirements prescribed in the “green partner self-check.” we strive to achieve our environmental management vision of lished, the Eco-way Council puts them into working-level EHS by utilizing information technology and improving recycling becoming “The 1st Green Global Leader Designing a Healthy operations. Major issues identified at the Eco-way Council are and refurbishing rates. However, our performance in the enviTomorrow.” Established and operated based on the Integrated proposed to the EHS Management Commission and are adronmental organization and awareness criteria declined with 2012 Additions to HSPM Items Environmental Management System, the EHS Management dressed through strategic response activities. a decrease in employee training & campaign and the Eco-way Commission serves as a control tower for managing EHS issues council activities from the previous year. under the direct control of CEO. In addition to conducting anREACH, LFGB, Food Contact nual environmental audit and monitoring, the EHS Management * Please refer to Appendix (p. 71) for the entire list of hazardous substance management Commission oversees our various initiatives (green corporate Coway EHS Management Organization items culture, green infrastructure, HSPM, and greener product and Environmental Audit & Monitoring Process service development), establishes green communication strategy, and provides related support in accordance with the roadmap BOD • Establish Operation/Performance Integrated Environmental Management Information System for the EHS management. Plan Management Criteria • Establish Assessment Guidelines With a majority of our employees working inside an office, the • Make KPI Notifications risk of work injuries and illnesses is relatively low at Coway. • Address Improvement Recommendations However, for business sites such as the Yugu Plant and R&D Roadmap for Integrated Environmental Management & ExCEO Do (Operation/Performance) centers that have potential risks of safety accidents, we estabecution Strategy • Operate/Manage the Process Feedback lished the Industrial Health & Safety Committee at each site In order to implement our environmental management iniConvened: Four times a year (quarterly) and implement necessary measures to prevent potential risks. Climate Change Response •Perform Self-check & Internal tiatives, we set the four strategic directions of ECO-Culture, ESH Performance: Four times a year Check Assessment Also, all Coway business sites in Korea have been certified Environmental ECO-Infra, ECO-Product & Service, and ECO-Communication, Management (quarterly) •Receive Third Party Assessment with the ISO 14001 Environment Management System (EMS) Management Commission Major Issue Discussion: Year-round and established a mid to long term roadmap for environmental Team Standard. In addition, our Incheon Plant acquired KOSHA Strategic Decision Making: Quarterly • Address Improvement management and execution plan through 2015. Guided by the (decision proposed to BOD) 18001 and Yugu Plant acquired OHSAS 18001 as well as KOAction Recommendations roadmap, we are effectively promoting Coway’ green corporate • Benchmark Best Practices SHA 18001. image and maximizing our environmental and brand values to Eco-way Council strengthen our competitiveness as a sustainable business. Integrated Environmental Management IT System — In 2009, we implemented the SAP EHS system, Korean industry’s first Integrated Environmental Management Organization Green Marketing Response to Hazardous Response to Climate Substances Change In order to achieve our green management vision and meet our mid to long term targets, the EHS Management CommisResource Recycling Green Strategy Environmental Audit & Monitoring Results (Unit: points) sion was established in 2006 directly under the CEO. The EHS (Waste) (Communication) ●2011 Environmental Organization Criterion Note ●2012 & Employee Awareness Environmental Organization & Employee training & campaign, and Eco-way Council ESG Communication 8 6 Environmental Infrastructure Employee Awareness activities decreased & System Operations Environmental Infrastructure & EIS/MIS implementation required Roadmap for EHS Management (reputation) 7 8 8 8 System Operations Upgrade of management/performance index required Resource Recycling (waste) Standard data management improved Strategy 2013 2014 2015 Waste product recycling increased ECO Green Corporate • Expand EHS organization • Provide specialized environmental training • Provide environmental training for future IT utilized in performance management CULTURE Culture • Provide inclusive environmental training & • Specialize environmental R/R & systemize consumers Climate Change Response & Energy partnership with suppliers implemented campaign environmental management organization • Achieve zero-carbon business site/office Cleaner Production Inventory of logistics centers & employee dormitory • Implement mobile office completed ECO Green Management • Establish waste management system • Adopt green accounting • Actively utilize green accounting Greener Marketing/Sales Carbon Management Financial Report published INFRA System/ • Expand SCM win-win growth support • Implement green monitoring system • Upgrade recycling center Resource Recycling (waste) Greener Design & Regulation Infrastructure for greener product development 8 7 Green Utility/ • Acquire Green Business Site Certification • Upgrade financial benefits from waste • Upgrade IT resources for climate change 14 17 Response established Infrastructure response Energy efficiency increased ECOCleaner Production/ • Expand greener product/parts development • Adopt renewable energy • Develop and produce top-notch greener products Greener Marketing/Sales Greener marketing/sales performance materialized/ PRODUCT/ Greener Product / • Maximize profits from refurbished products/recycling • Expand energy efficiency business • Expand greener service/business discovery Greener Design & Regulation Climate Change Response & improved/expanded SERVICE Greener Service • Minimize costs associated with processing waste • Establish greener technology/service roadmap • Increase green R&D investments Response Cleaner Production Improvement in the utilization of certifications in produced during service provision 14 5_14점, 16점16 16 17점17 4_16점, marketing/sales required ECOEco-Communication • Publish “Integrated Environmental Report” • Expand participation-based green experience • Build eco-house ESG Communication (reputation) ESG related responses improved 75 79 COMMUNI• Expand stakeholder engagement event and social contribution • Establish social enterprise Increase in stakeholder engagement required CATION • Expand disclosure of green information • Strengthen green marketing Total Score Scored 4 points higher (5.3% YoY gain) 34 35 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management 2.2 integrated environmental management system. The system since 2006. A total of 5 cases of work injuries and illnesses to engage in reduction initiatives as part of our commitment allows us to control a wide range of environmental managewere reported at Coway in 2012, and a total of 541 days were towards climate change response. Also, we are introducing ment systems (GHG emissions, energy, and hazardous matelost from the cases. low carbon, green management systems to our suppliers and rial waste) as well as the health and safety management syshelping them build a systematic carbon management system. tem and the safety risk management system. The system also Green Communication As an expression of our commitment to carbon manageallows us to manage employee health & safety related data in In order to expand our environmental management efforts ment, we have been publishing annual carbon management a more systemized and efficient manner and greatly helps us externally as well as internally, we are engaging in a broad reports and communicating our carbon management efforts Climate Change Response & make effective prevention efforts against safety accidents. range of green communication initiatives. Also, we are in the to diverse stakeholders accurately and clearly. Thanks to such Water Resource Management process of establishing an integrated environmental manageefforts, we were invited to join the Carbon Management Global Improved Support for Industrial Health & Safety Committee ment system for environmental management data to disclose Leaders Club in 2012 for the second consecutive year. The impacts of climate change do not stop at global warm— Our Health & Safety Committee is in operation at respecour performances transparently and accurately. ing. There are also a myriad of issues associated with water, tive business sites to build constant readiness for all types of Awards & Recognition — The UNGC named Coway as one of an essential resource for human life and survival, such as potential risks. The committee facilitates employeemanageFood Waste Reduction Campaign — In August 2012, Coway the “C4C (Caring for Climate) Progress Report 2012 Top 25 drinking water supply, sanitation, and water shortage issues. ment discussions and agreements on important health & launched a pilot project to grow vegetable gardens with food Performers” in recognition for 1) championing climate change Climate change also has an impact on the underwater ecosafety issues to prevent workplace health & safety risks. In adwaste in association with the Gangdong-Songpa chapter of response based on clear awareness of climate change, 2) system, which in turn has direct and indirect impacts on our dition to incorporating employee feedback into our operations, the Korean Federation for the Environmental Movement. The making GHG emissions reduction efforts based on clear clilives. In order to address environmental issues associated with this committee also mobilizes voluntary employee efforts for aim of the project is to reduce food waste by transforming it mate change response strategies and policies and specific climate change and water resources, both threats to human improving the working environment and performs periodic into a resource with a joint effort of numerous stakeholders GHG emissions reduction target, 3) achieving GHG emissions survival, we are implementing a wide range of strategies and corporate-wide assessment to support employee health & including municipalities, environmental NGOs, Gangdongreduction in cooperation with its business partners, and 4) disinitiatives, such as reducing GHG emissions and water use. safety initiatives. gu residents and Coway. Starting with this project, we plan to closing information on such efforts transparently along with closely collaborate and form constructive relationships with an objective external assurance. We also received the PresiEmployee EHS Risk Management local communities and environmental groups as a basis for dential Prize at the 2012 Green Management Excellent Awards Coway is making diverse efforts to promote our employees’ our efforts towards addressing highly relevant environmental hosted by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and the Ministry Climate Change Response physical and mental health and to prevent industrial accidents issues and expanding investments in developing solutions for of Environment, and the Ministry of Environment’s Prize at the We are working hard to minimize CO2 emissions, the major and disasters. Our increasing efforts for employee health & such issues. 2012 Recycling Leaders Awards in addition to other numerous cause of climate change, at all our business locations, from safety include managing employees with health risks, and awards and recognitions related to environmental and social research centers to plants and offices. To this end, we estabproviding smoking cessation programs and the Happy Mind Green Maker Program — Launched in 2008, “Green Maker” responsibility. lished the integrated carbon management system and are unprogram (psychological counseling service). We also expanded is a program designed to nurture green talent that has been in dertaking business process innovations and voluntary energy company-sponsored regular health checks to include emoperation for 5 years. Open to every university in Korea, Green Environmental Training — As part of our efforts to achieve saving initiatives with the enthusiastic participation of all our ployee’s family members and extended EHS trainings to all Makers are making social contributions as well as engaging our vision for environmental management, we are expanding employees. business sites and employees. Thanks to such efforts, Coway’s in environmentally friendly initiatives. 40 members of the 5th programs designed to raise employee awareness and increase work injury & illness rate has remained below the national class of Green Makers were provided with an opportunity to their professional knowledge in the area. We also provide IT System for Carbon Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) — As part industry and the manufacturing industry averages for the past gain experience in green management by contributing martrainings to our suppliers to promote win-win green growth of our efforts to make effective responses to climate change three years, and our business sites remained disaster-free keting ideas and performing regular assignments for three and plan to expand our environmental training programs to and to improve our product competitiveness, we implemented months. In December 2012, they also hosted a global environdiverse stakeholders. Korea’s first SAP based IT system for the carbon life cycle asment camp held in Kyushu, Japan. sessment of our products. With the system in place, we have Employee Health Promotion Programs the infrastructure to make appropriate responses to climate Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) — Since we joined the 2012 Environmental Training Overview change on top of our capacity to respond to regulations on Program Description Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2009, we have been makhazardous substances and GHG emissions. Moreover, we can Health Check Provided annually ing ongoing efforts to manage our GHG emissions data and Program Topic No. of No. of Hours Note help customers make greener choices by providing informaSmoking Smoking cessation clinic and anti-smoking campaigns Sessions (Cumulative) Cessation tion regarding carbon emissions associated with the life cycle (Cumulative) Reenergizing Professional massage service for musculoskeletal disease prevention Employee Environmental training 1 2 hours of our products. Room and energy restoration Awareness for new hires Refresh Zone Provision of numerous recreational and resting facilities (ping pong Environmental news 6 Online offering tables, massage chairs and video games) letter [Eco-Lesson] (via groupware, Example of Carbon LCA (Unit: kgtCO2e) Happy Mind Psychological counseling service (provided nationwide since June 2012) bulletin board, employee online community 1,112kg s Work Injury & Illness Rate LooLooLaLa) missio o2 E n Professional Greener design, 13 261 hours Includes online c Year No. of Cases Coway Manufacturing National Industry Training recycling, responding to class Food Waste Reduction international regulations, Approved Average Industry Average Average 2010 4 (non-work related) 0.096% 1.07% 0.69% hazardous substance 2011 5 0.11% 0.94% 0.65% management, etc. Pre-production (57.06) 2012 5 0.11% 0.42% 0.28% Supplier Basics of greener 261 2,088 hours Onsite assessCHP-210L Production (1.48) Training product development ment on supplier’s Disposal (58.04) for suppliers greener product * Coway’s work injury & illness rate: Number of employee-reported work injuries or development, etc. Use (995.4) illnesses / Total number of employees X 100 (5 / 4,537) * Reference source for national and manufacturing industry’s average for work injuries and illnesses: Statistics on Work Injury & Illness and Industrial Disaster by the Ministry of Labor Green Maker 36 37 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management Mid to Long Term GHG Emissions Reduction Target & PerAlthough GHG emissions from the Incheon Plant decreased Total GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2e) source crisis, Coway became the first Korean company to join formance about 97 tCO2e, it was mostly from a decline in production the CEO Water Mandate of the UN Global Compact in 2010 In 2011, the Korean government amended the Guidelines for output. To reduce GHG emissions from the plant effectively, ● Direct Emissions (Scope 1) and is making voluntary efforts to resolve water related isthe Greenhouse Gas Target Management System, and emiswe are implementing diverse measures such as replacing ● Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) sues and to manage valuable water resources. The Eco-way sions associated with refrigerants were excluded based on lighting fixtures with LED. GHG emissions from the Pocheon ●Intensity (tCO2e/KRW 100 millions) Council, Coway’s working level council for environmental and the voluntary verification of GHG emissions. As such, the base Plant increased about 4 tCO2e as the volume of waste product climate response initiatives, analyzes the risks and opportuniyear for emissions reduction targets was changed from 2009 recycled at the plant increased from 2,619 tons in 2011 to 2,997 2010 575 4,789 5,365 0.35 ties originating from GHG emissions and water resources and to 2010. The adjusted GHG emissions targets for 2012 was tons in 2012. However, we have made diverse efforts such as incorporates the results into our management strategies and 2011 368 5,086 5,455 0.32 5,349 tCO2e in total and 0.29 tCO2e/KRW 100 million for intenreplacing fossil fuel boilers into electric ones in December key policies. Our efforts for improving water resource mansity, both of which we did not meet with 5,873 tCO2e and 0.33 2012 and expect to see the results in the near future. GHG 2012 342 5,532 5,874 0.33 agement are also creating positive outcomes for our business, tCO2e/KRW 100 million, respectively. The rise in production emissions from the Seoul Head Office and the Cosmetics Regenerating direct and indirect benefits. * GHG emissions data for 2012 is an estimate from before the third party verification volume and expansion of business sites in 2012 were the key search Institute decreased as the result of indoor temperature factors in falling short of our GHG emissions targets. Going management mandated by the Energy Use Rationalization Act. Water Resource Management at Our Business Sites (Waterforward, we will expand our initiatives for reducing GHG emisTotal GHG emissions from R&D Center increased by 22 tCO2e less Test System for Water Filtration Appliances) — At the Percentage of GHG Emissions sions and make ongoing efforts to ensure that we meet our due to an increase in energy use from the rise in the number Yugu Plant, water is used to test the quality and performance mid to long term reduction targets. of products models developed at the facility. of water filtration appliances. In order to reduce such water * Emissions associated with refrigerant were excluded due to the change in 2011 in * 5,456 tCO2e in 2011 > 5,874 tCO2e in 2012: Total emissions increased due to inclusion of Yugu Plant 27.4% Incheon Plant 12.1% use, we invested heavily in techniques that use less water and the Guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System. emissions from the Water Treatment Division (for 10 months), logistics centers and developed the world’s first test system that uses nitrogen and new employee dormitory (included in the annual data compared to 2011) Water Treatment Pocheon Plant vacuum instead of water. The system generated financial ben* Total GHG Emissions from 6 business sites (Yugu Plant / Incheon Plant / Pocheon 8.5% GHG Emissions Status Division 2.6% efits of about KRW 490 million by saving approximately 1,320 Plant / Seoul Head Office / Cosmetics Research Institute / R&D Center): In 2012, we made some facility improvements to the Yugu Total emissions decreased from 5,170 tCO2e (2011) to 5,030 tCO2e Yugu Employee tons of water annually, reducing the time required for tests by Plant by implementing automatic equipment for employee Dormitory 2.1% 38% and increasing productivity by 5.8%. We have expanded R&D Center 29.1% safety and health, and expanding production lines for appliLogistics Center 9.7% the test system to our Incheon and Pocheon plants and are ances using a greener refrigerant (R-600a). As a result, elecCosmetics Research still working hard to develop test systems that use less water Seoul Head Office 6.0% Institute 2.6% tric power use increased slightly, and GHG emissions from and have no negative impact on the environment. the plant remained at the same level as the previous year. Water Resource Management by Our Products (Saves Water with Nano-trap Filter) — As part of our ongoing efforts to reWater Resource Management duce waste water from product use, we developed the NanoAs part of our efforts to protect the environment and design trap filter in 2012 and completely eliminated waste water from healthy and happy lives to people, we are paying particular our water filtration appliances. The 2nm nanomaterial used Mid to Long Term GHG Emissions Reduction Target (Unit: tCO2e) attention to managing water resources which have a great in the Nano-trap filter delivers high filtration efficiency and impact on human life. As water resources are also closely eliminates harmful substances effectively. Our water filtra● Before Adjustment related to what we do and can have significant impact on our tion appliances also offer the direct water dispensing feature 17,696 17,723 ● After Adjustment business, we are engaging in diverse activities based on mid and require no water tank, which helps users who use a large 16,603 13,218 to long term water resource management strategies. amount of water or live in areas with low water pressure. With the new Nano-trap filter, our products conserved a total of 11,086 9,940 Global Level Water Resource Management Effort — Inspired 903,149 tons of water compared to the product models prior to 7,934 5,768 by the vision of the UN Global Compact to address water re2012. 5,365 5,360 5,349 5,344 5,338 5,328 5,333 5,328 5,322 5,317 5,312 4,200 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total Water Use (Unit: m³) ●Total 91,555 Intensity-Based Reduction Target (Unit: tCO2e/KRW 100 million) ●Yugu Plant 87,133 ●R&D Centers ● Before Adjustment ●Incheon Plant 72,356 0.96 ● After Adjustment ●Pocheon Plant 0.88 ●Logistics Centers 0.79 0.75 * Recycled and reused water is not currently 0.66 utilized at our business sites, except for 41,349 apart of the Incheon Plant 36,982 33,394 28,938 0.41 0.41 * Pocheon Plant: Only public water supply 31,407 0.32 0.29 0.27 is used at the location due to 24,731 0.24 20,695 0.20 Pocheon’s extensive regulations to protect 0.35 11,931 17,570 underground water * Incheon Plant: Underground water is not 1,952 459 1,117 519 0.22 0.20 available as the Namdong Industrial 0.03 0.18 0.16 0.15 0.14 Complex (where the Incheon Plant is located) is constructed on a reclaimed 2011 2010 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 wetland 38 39 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management 2.3 COWAY ECO PRODUCT / SERVICE Coway’s Greener Products in 2012 Climate Change Resource Recycling Environmental Regulation Reducing GHG R  educing resource Eliminating hazardous emissions use materials • Develop technology that • Reduce product size • Eliminate use of materials Greener Products reduces GHG emissions and weight causing gene mutation/ • Develop products that • Use more natural cancer 1. Water Filtration Appliance (Model: CHP-241N) Raw Material Hazardous chemiEU RoHS Compliance use renewable energy materials • Eliminate use of regulated Use cal substances To us, greener products are those products that reduce bur65% • Develop products that • Use more recycled flame retardants Size/material use Product size reduced by 50% den to the environment by abating GHG emissions throughout require no power/selfmaterials • Reduce use of heavy reduction (compared to CHP-06D) generate metals their life cycle (from production to use to disposal) and using Product Use & Energy use 4.1kWh (Uses 80% less monthly energy a minimum amount of natural resources and harmful subMaintenance compared to CHP-06DL) stances. Coway strives to develop such products with a parIncreasing energy Improving Improving safety/health Disposal GHG emissions Creates 80% less monthly GHG emissions efficiency recyclability • Reduce noise/vibration Creates 85% less GHG emissions in the disposal ticular focus on climate change response (improving energy • Develop high energy • Use degradable • Provide stronger Size Reduction phase (no refrigerant) efficiency), resource recycling, and environmental regulations. efficiency products materials antibacterial/sterilization Waste generated Products refurbished and materials reused Going forward, we will continue to develop smaller and lighter • Achieve zero standby • Use recyclable features micro-sized products that deliver high energy efficiency as power materials • Use more natural Reduced the size of water tank with direct water dispensing: Achieved high • Develop eco control • Expand take-back materials well as greater performance and convenience. Moreover, we removal rate/processing volume with the development of Nano-trap filter system and recycling Reduced the size by eliminating hot water tank: Developed instant hot water will take environmental impact into consideration in developprograms system that produces water up to 90℃ without storage tank ing premium products and multi-functional products. Reduced the size by eliminating compressor: Developed electronic refrigeration CHP-08AL CHP-06DL CHP-241N system using thermoelectric semiconductor (refrigerant-less) R&D Process for Greener Products Greener Product Sales 2. Air Purifier (Model: APM-0812DH) Raw Material Hazardous chemiEU RoHS Compliance Use cal substances Our product development process starts from listening to our We contribute to the creation of a healthier environment with Size / material use Product size reduced 23% stakeholders. Their opinions, collected through various chanlow carbon, energy efficient products. Such strategies not only reduction (compared to APM-1011YH) nels, are incorporated into product development based on the help us respond to climate change but also increase our sales Product Use & Energy use 26W (35% improvement compared to other flagship roadmap for greener technology development. The resulting in the greener product segment. Maintenance products) prototype, or technology, is reviewed by the EHS Management Disposal Waste generated Products refurbished and materials reused Committee for environmental friendliness. Once the committee approves the prototype, it is developed into a product and 23% introduced in the market. Greener Product Sales Overview (Unit: KRW 100 millions) ●Greener Product Sales 22% Product Planning / Development • Product Application and Development 22% Size Reduction 19% APM-1010DH APM-0812DH Feedback Collection • Voice of Customer and Sales Workforce 3. Bidet (Model: BAS14-A) Raw Material Hazardous chemiEU RoHS Compliance Use cal substances Greener Products in 2012 • Roadmap for Greener Technology Size / material use Only Korean bidet product acquired the Technology Development Development 11% reduction “Low Carbon Certification” Product Use & Energy use 8.2 W of standby power Maintenance (40% reduction compared to bypass mode) • Review by EHS Management Review of Environmental Impact Disposal Waste generated Products refurbished and materials reused Percentage in Total Sales Commission 1,640 3,333 4,201 Green Plug: Green Plus is our smart energy-saving technology that records data related to the user’s 2010 2011 2012 40% Greener Product/Service Elements product use in hourly intervals for 14 days. Based on the use pattern, Green Plug controls electric power All our greener products create minimal impact on climate * Due to a change in the equation used to calculate the amount of greener product use and saves energy. According to a test conducted change with low GHG emissions and high energy efficiency, sales (as of February 2013), the figures may differ from those presented in the 2012 by Coway’s Environmental Technology Institute, reduce resource use by increasing product recyclability, and Carbon Management Report BAS14 Green Plug saves up to 40% of monthly energy use fully comply with environmental regulations for hazardous (KRW 1,600 of energy bill savings) compared to the Monthly Energy Costs bypass mode (based on a four-member household materials and safety & health. with 12 uses a day). 40 41 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Green Management 2.4 We always think “green” when we develop, sell, dispose and recycle our products. With our “green” mind, we will continue to deliver products and services that minimize negative impacts on the Green Initiatives for Product Use Phase Product Use environment. GHG emissions “Hanbyum” Water Filtration Appliance (no-refrigerant instant refrigeration/instant reduction initiatives hot water system): Optimizes energy use by producing cold and hot water with the Greener Life Cycle focusing on the product use phase instant refrigeration/hot water system 20,720 Reduction of tCO2 e ⑦ Development Greener Product Rating System Financial benefits from 414.4 KRW million ⑧ Greener Product • Coway certified greener products GHG emissions / Rating System • Greener products certified by the Korean government and Korean certification agencies • Greener products certified by international certification agencies energy use 41 Energy savings of Gwh ⑨ • Global top class greener products • World’s best & first greener products 4 CHP-06DL⑤ CHP-241N2 ⑥ 6,574.59 KRW million ⑩ * Based on the product use phase defined by the Ministry of Environment’s Carbon Footprint Label 1 1 * Number of CHP-241N units sold in 2012: 161,522 Climate Change Resource Recycling Environmental Regulation 개발 Improved energy efficiency Reduced use of resources Stronger response to hazardous materials Development 5 5 Reduced GHG emissions Greater recyclability and health & safety 1 CHP-270L: Greener refrigerant applied CHP-010E: Waste water eliminate Full compliance for new products 회수/재활용 Take-back Bidet: Green Plug applied CHP-241N: Size reduced by 50% Self-sterilizing water filtration appliances /Recycling APM-0812DH: Energy use reduced by 35% Take-back / Take-back Recycling Reverse Logistics Process rL Greene ife Cycle 친환경 라이프 사이클 Take-back /Recycling 2 2 Industry leadership and financial benefits through voluntary Pocheon Recycling Center Warehouse at Warehouse at Eco CODY Purchasing Green Partnership Certification waste processing / Production Plant Regional Hub Branch / Doctor Purchasing 구매 Integrated Optimization Capability Development Green Partnership Program Installation/Sales management of data Innovation on materials, material Waste Product Collection Service 4 4 quality and parts with Improvements Supplier One Point Process • Provides a free take-back service on delivery of a new Coway product Green the ERP (Enterprise to Green Management for Capability Improvement Partner • Also offers a paid de-installation service for customers who wish to dispose Coway Resource Planning) Partner Check Development Assignments Mentoring Improvement 사용 Use Product system Sheet Initiatives appliances without product purchase 3 3 Refurbishing 1,789 생산 Reduction of 2010 2011 2012 tCO2 e ⑪ • Total Green Purchasing Rate: 93.01% Production Refurbished Product KRW 12.2 KRW 12.4 KRW 16.6 2 35.78 • Performance from Partnership for Greener Product & Material Development Sales billion billion billion Financial benefits from KRW reduced GHG emissions million ⑫ Energy efficiency improved by 41.1% and GHG emissions decreased by 35.3% No. of Refurbished 35,538 units 40,444 units 29,477 units / energy use Product Sold Refrigerant Recycling Recycling GHG Emissions Reduction Production Adoption of Greener Refrigerant (R600a) R-134a R-12 3,010kg 1,725kg 3,913tCO2 15,042tCO2 Financial benefits from 18,175 Reduction of tCO2 e ⑬ Stronger management in the production • Product Applied: CHP-270L Total 4,735kg 18,175tCO2 reduced GHG emissions / energy use 363.44 KRW million ⑭ process to minimize • GHG emissions reduction from refrigerant change Plastic Recycling negative impacts on the environment 2010 2011 2012 137 Reduction of Volume Recycling Rate 5,040 tons 53.60% 6,094 tons 60% 6,081 tons 63.6% Financial benefits from 7,165 Reduction of tCO2 e ⑮ tCO2 e ③ 5 Financial benefits from R-134a ① R-600 ② reduced GHG emissions / energy use 2.74 KRW GHG Emissions Reduction 5,938tCO2e 7,180tCO2e 7,165tCO2e reduced GHG emissions / energy use 133.94 KRW million ⑯ 3 million ④ * Recycled plastics are not used in our products due to consumer aversion and sold to recycling companies * Food waste treatment systems and water softeners are included from 2012 * Please refer to page 70 from Appendix for the detailed process for calculating the values ① to ⑯ 42 43 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Employee Value Creation Material Issue 3 Employee Value Creation Our Approaches The greatest asset to a business is its people. Based on the belief that our employees are the true owner of our business activities and the source of customer value creation, we strive for “employee satisfaction management” to help our employees develop their professional capability and achieve their individual vision with great work satisfaction. We also have established a clear direction for talent cultivation with consideration to the current business climate and our corporate vision, while making diverse efforts to promote employee value based on the four strategies of “work-life balance & family-friendly management,” “fair HR / assessment / compensation system,” “talent cultivation and employee capability development,” and “corporate culture based on trust and mutual growth.” Going forward, we will continue to strive to become an organization that helps its employees develop into best talent and lead happy professional and personal lives. Our Achievements Key Management Issues 2012 Activities Page No. Stronger Employee • Ensured employee participation in a major decision making process p 46 Communication & Participation • Promoted employee’s business participation with employee p 46 suggestion programs (i.e. Sang-sang Ocean) Work-Life Balance & Family• Received the Grand Prize of the 2012 Best 100 Companies to p 47 friendly Management Work for in Korea for two consecutive years Fair and Transparent HR / • Introduced a mentoring program in the evaluation system p 48 Assessment / Compensation System Talent Cultivation & Employee • Operated talent cultivation programs such as STEP and CoP p 49 Capability Development • Operated the Star Academy, a training program specialized for our p 49 service workforce Creating Corporate Culture • Hosted the Labor-Management Council workshop and talk sessions p 50 based on Trust & Mutual • Operated an on and offline grievance counseling program p 51 Advancement (ER Culture Lab) Our Key Index No. of Employee Suggestions from the Sang-sang Ocean Program Employee Satisfaction 85,165 6.7 points Total Hours for Employee Training No. of Labor-Management Council Meetings 95,743 4 44 45 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Employee Value Creation 3.1 3.2 Expanding Employee Participation in Decision Sang-sang Ocean (Employee Suggestion Program) Overview Making Process Coway’s flagship innovation initiative “Sang-sang Ocean” is an At Coway, we actively incorporate the opinions of our ememployee suggestion and training program designed to proployees as well as the opinions of external stakeholders into mote innovation in our employees’ work. Employees are invitthe decision-making process for large scale investments and ed to enjoy fun activities in a virtual ocean and encouraged to major management issues. Moreover, our diverse efforts to express creativity to arrive at innovative ideas. Ideas produced Stronger Employee promote communication between employees and managefrom the Sang-sang Ocean sessions are incorporated into Work-Life Balance & Communication & Participation ment, including the CEO, enable us to naturally include our our business and management operations after a review, and Family-friendly Management employees in the key decision-making process. We have also employees who suggested the selected ideas receive rewards established a wide range of employee suggestion programs and benefits. Sang-sang Ocean is not only a program for proCoway’s employee satisfaction management starts from lisHelping our employees achieve a balance between work and and communication channels to create sufficient opportunimoting employee innovation, however, but also a vehicle for tening to the employee voice, making overarching efforts for life and increasing employees’ sense of belonging by expandties for our employees to express their opinions. renewing our corporate culture, facilitating communication communication, and actively including our employees in the ing our responsibility for their families are the key elements of and creating sustainable organizational value. In 2013, we will key decision-making process. In 2012, we redoubled our efour employee satisfaction management. To this end, we prostrengthen the program’s collaborative aspect with “Together forts regarding employee communication and saw a 7.5% vide a wide range of employee welfare and benefit programs Employee Communication and Participation Process Sang-sang” to encourage our employees to put their innovadecrease in turnover rate compared to the previous year, indiand strive to create corporate culture that facilitates such eftive minds to a broad range of issues, from cost saving ideas cating an increase in employee satisfaction and improved orforts by continuously communicating the connection between Employee Communication and Feedback to new business ideas. ganizational competitiveness. Another major achievement last work-life balance and family-friendly management. Opinion Gathering year was deepened trust between labor and management. Sang-sang Ocean (Employee Suggestion Program) Overview Introduction of Major Consensus and BOD Agenda (i.e. investment) Implementation Programs for Work & Life Balance Year Total No. of Monthly Average No. of Suggestions Suggestions Average per Employee (Monthly) Second Review Run Away Project Helps our R&D workforce relieve work stress and become Feasibility Review / Stakeholder 2010 174,265 14,522 10.8 refreshed Opinion Gathering 2011 82,569 11,796 7.2 Vacation Program for Provides vacation time and expenses based on the number 2012 85,165 7,097 3.9 Feedback Continued Service of years in continued service Key Ideas Mattress rental business, Waterless test system for water filtration appliance, Benefit Point Program Supports employees’ development by providing benefit points from 2012 Received the IR 25 Jang Young-Sil Award (CHP-241N), Employee Club Support Supports employee clubs and hobbies Entry into the dehumidifier market, etc. Child Care Support Provides child care facilities and nursing rooms Employee Communication and Participation Channels Information Sharing Channels Employee Satisfaction Survey Results Programs for Employee Families Every year, we conduct an employee satisfaction survey to Good Morning Coway Corporate level communication forum/ Monthly collect employee feedback and to identify improvements to Coway Day Supports employee families’ office visit and family trip Shares business performance, introduces be made. The survey results are used as a basis for employee Coway Happy Farm Supports employees and their family members to have Internal Social Network Service ‘Kokkiri’ new members, etc. communication as well as the data for establishing a compreweekend farming experience. Employees are provided with Internal SNS ‘Kokkiri’ Internal social network service for Year-round hensive plan to promote employee satisfaction and an action an opportunity to appreciate their family and to feel greater employee-management communication Employee Online Community Online communication channel for employees Year-round plan for specific issues. trust for the company Family Day Helps our employees spend more time with their family and ‘LooLooLaLa’ Online vehicle for building and spreading become refreshed by designating one workday as the day corporate culture for leaving work on time Sustainability Report Internal and external information sharing Annually Employee Satisfaction (10 points) Wedding Anniversary Sends gift to employees on their wedding anniversary channel/ Celebration Shares the financial and non-financial 2010 6.5 Funeral Supply Support Supports diverse funeral supplies to employees who are performance of Coway Interactive Conversation with the CEO bereaved of their family member and offers consolation Domestic / Overseas HR Shares key HR information such as Year-round 2011 6.7 Presentation appointment, promotion, assessment, compensation, training, etc. 2012 6.7 Named “2012 Best Company to Work for in Korea” Coway is making great efforts to build an advanced HR manEmployee Opinion Gathering Channels agement system and infrastructure based on our strategic Interactive Conversation Interactive conversation session for the CEO Monthly direction for “a stable, efficient and systematic HR system.” with the CEO and employees We are also paying particular attention to emerging HR issues, Energy & Excitement Promotion Group Energy & Excitement Reports to CEO Monthly work & life balance and family-friendly management, to crePromotion Group Produced ideas for creating new corporate ate energetic and sound corporate culture. As a result, Coway culture was ranked first as the Best 100 Companies to Work for in Sang-sang Ocean Employee suggestion program for work and Year-round Korea in the general service category by the GWP (Great Work new business related ideas Eowoolim Regular meeting participated by all employDaily Place) Korea. Also named “the Best Company to Work for in ees; unique to Coway (morning) Korea” in the manufacturing category in 2011, Coway is makHigh-Ting Designed to build a bond between manageMonthly ing ongoing efforts to create better and more pleasant workment and employees through various shared ing conditions and corporate culture for our employees. experiences, such as outdoor activities Sang-sang Ocean (Employee Suggestion Program) 46 47 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Employee Value Creation 3.3 3.4 Assessment System Overview Ideal Coway Employee Business Strategy Corporate Culture / CSF*/KPI* Ideal Coway Employee Creative Organizational Performance Target Ability to Practice Spirit of Sharing Designer of “Sensibility” Building ideas upon ideas Professional Enthusiasm Fair & Transparent HR/Assessment/ Individual Performance Target Leadership Capability Talent Cultivation & Compensation System Employee Capability Development Care Creating delights with sensibility Coway established a fair HR/assessment/compensation sysIn order to encourage and support our employees to share tem to help our employees utilize their capabilities to the fullour corporate vision and value and to constantly develop their Strategic est extent, contribute to achieving organizational goals, and Organizational professional capability, we established and presented a clear Always arriving at the best solution Performance Work Performance realize their individual career visions. Assessment Individual Capability model for “Ideal Coway Employee.” To help our employees Assessment develop into such talent, we implemented a talent cultivation Individual Review Ownership Performance system that provides comprehensive support in improving Leading the way to the future with a strong initiative Operating Principles of HR/Assessment / Assessment expertise in the areas of their personal interest as well as in Compensation System their professional capability development. The operation of our HR/assessment/compensation system Passionate Striving for a better tomorrow and embracing is guided by the three principles of “R&R first,” “performance Salary / Promotion / Training / Transfer / Resignation challenges for the future first” and “talent cultivation first” to ensure fair and transparWhat We Look for in Our People ent HR/assessment/compensation management. We also 1_Perfoms organizational / individual performance assessment based on business strategy Based on our new mission, vision and core values, we clearly established an HR statistics database to ensure the reliability 2_Performs capability assessment to develop organizational / individual capability defined the qualities that we look for in our employees in of the HR data and to support accurate and efficient HR man3_Operates the assessment process based on open communication terms of attitude and core competencies. Such qualities are 2012 STEP Overview agement. Our employees are provided with fair opportunities 4_Provides motivation by utilizing assessment / assessment results represented by the 5 keywords of “passionate,” “ownership,” to develop their professional capability and to receive neces“strategic,” “creative,” and “caring,” and specified into writing Target 1,117 employees (sales & production workforce excluded) * CSF: Critical Success Factor Audience * Training for employees in sales and sales management were led by the sary training. as the “Declaration of Coway Employee Identity” to guide the * KPI: Key Performance Indicator Training Team from the respective business divisions * Assessment Target: All Coway employees (including non-regular workers) actions of our employees. We plan to utilize the new definiTraining Costs KRW 1153.77 million in total (KRW 1,033,000 per participant) Fair Assessment System tion of “Ideal Coway Employee” as guidelines for recruitment, Total Hours 95,743 (25,777 hours for online training / 69,966 hours for offline training) In evaluating our employees, we assess their professional employee goal setting and employee assessment as well as in (Cumulative) 86 hours per participant capability as well as their performance to help them grow employee training and talent cultivation. We believe that such into “an ideal Coway employee” in the long term and provide efforts will help our employees become “Designers of sensibilCompensation System Overview development support tailored to their individual potential and ity” who deliver customer satisfaction and contribute to realcapability. To this end, we perform an absolute assessment of izing our corporate vision of becoming “THE Lifestyle Design 2012 Human Rights Workshop individual performance based on the following four criteria: Company.” Organizational Performance Assessment Regular Performance Bonus Program Title Say NO!: Creating a workplace without sexual harassment assessment of organizational and individual performance in (variable / non-cumulative) Target Assistant to Senior Manger connection with our business strategy, assessment of orga+ Strategies for Talent Cultivation and Employee Audience nizational and individual capability for future development, Individual Performance Assessment Capability Development Number of 1,049 assessment based on open communication, and utilization of In 2012, as part of our efforts to further develop our training Participants the results to motivate employees. Following the multidimen+ system, we focused on improving employee training and capaTotal Hours 2,098 sional assessment of individual performance, we reassess the Individual Capability Assessment bility development support with the CoP (Community of Prac(Cumulative) assessment results in conjunction with organizational perfortice) program as well as training support tailored to individual mance and grade individual performance on a curve to ensure = capability. In 2013, we plan to build a comprehensive training transparency. Also, we establish KPIs for each organization Comprehensive Assessment Base Salary (fixed / cumulative) system that offers mobile-learning and to focus on strengthand link them into performance targets for teams and individening the Coway identity with membership training. uals. The progress is systematically monitored and managed Bonus Paid for Meeting Special Performance Bonus with a performance assessment mentorship program. MorePerformance Targets (variable / bonus) STEP(Self Teaching & Education Plan) —“STEP” is a training over, we are implementing a three dimensional assessment program for strengthening individual and organizational capacomprised of self-assessment, supervisor assessment and bility by inspiring our employees to plan their own training and Appointment / Promotion Assessment Appointment / Promotion peer assessment to increase fairness and transparency of our motivating them to follow through with the plan. To further asassessment / compensation system. sist our employees, we have also established the comprehensive STEP management system that provides an at-a-glance look at their progress and facilitates efficient management of the course schedule. 48 49 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Employee Value Creation 3.5 Promoting Active Learning with CoP — In August 2011, we ER Culture Lab (Grievance Resolution Center) Happy Mind Program Overview introduced the CoP program to promote a culture of colThe ER Culture Lab is our official channel for receiving and laborative workplace learning. The program encourages addressing employee grievances that operates under the No. of Beneficiaries 15 (including couples) No. of Sessions 64 (19 for test) employees to form study groups with like-minded colleagues guarantee of absolute anonymity. Employees can present Fund Supported KRW 5,070,000 and provides necessary support. Currently, a total of 48 CoP grievances of any nature from work related issues to personal groups from 13 business divisions are in operation, including problems. In order to increase the true effect of this program the practical trading management study group organized by Creating Corporate Culture based on and facilitate immediate response, we engaged in ongoing overseas sales staff, the IR study group organized by IR staff Trust & Mutual Advancement promotion campaigns on the intranet, improved the program’s and the Production Management Workshop at the Production online accessibility and established an offline center for grievDivision. Coway provides necessary support such as study ance counseling. With the program, we are able to prevent We are making constant efforts to spread the values champimaterials and outside lecturers, and offer training trips to topa wide range of HR risks by helping our employees resolve oned by our corporate culture – youthfulness, innovation, trust performing CoPs. Our employees are taking advantage of the grievances, strengthen our organizational competitiveness and confidence – based on our strong belief that our corpoCoP program to improve their capability in the areas of their and create corporate culture based on trust. rate culture will become the leading force behind achieving interest free of time and space constraints. our new corporate vision, “THE Lifestyle Design Company.” Based on trust and mutual advancement, Coway’s labor-management relationship is a driving force behind our sustained ER Culture Lab Overview growth as well as a basis for sound corporate culture. We also Web Screen for Applying to Happy Mind Program employ a wide range of programs that help employees work Grievances Covers personal issues (i.e. personal issues, career vision and personal debt) as well as work related issues (i.e. workplace relationout their personal issues such as the ER Culture Lab and the ship, assignment, sales related) Happy Mind program to create more sound corporate culture. Grievance Online: Bulletin board (Grievance Counseling Room), email, mesSubmission senger, etc. Channels Offline: Phone counseling, visitation and referral Creating Labor-Management Relationship based Grievance Elaborate the issue > Submit the issue> Register the issue> Mini MBA on Trust and Mutual Growth Counseling Process Resolve the issue Result Notification Within 2 days of registration (1.2 days on average) In order to facilitate labor-management accord, the LaborManagement Council is notified in advance of any major Programs for Employee Capability Development changes in Coway’s business and when necessary, ad-hoc council meetings are held to reach a satisfactory agreement Grievance Resolution Performance Professional Capability Development on issues related to employee welfare and working condiMini MBA Training program to foster the next generation of Coway leaders tions. Our regular Labor-Management Council meetings are Item 2011 2012 (Annually) Produced a total of 140 graduates from 7 classes (as of 2012) attended by employee representatives and management repNo. of Cases 140 56 12 Week Language 12 week language program to foster global talent resentatives including the CEO to exchange ideas and build No. of Cases Resolved 140 56 Course (Year-round) Awards opportunities for overseas assignment to graduates Resolution Rate 100% 100% consensus as a representative of all Coway employees. In Major Grievances Promotion, sales, work, Personal, communication, 2012, we hosted a Labor-Management Council workshop and personal, etc. sales, promotion, etc. Capability Development through Overseas Training several talk sessions to further strengthen mutual trust and Overseas Training WAA Program for discovering new business items and strengthencommunication. (Annually) ing global perspective Over 150 employees completed overseas benchmarking trip Happy Mind Program to more than 30 countries (as of 2012) Labor-Management Council Overview Launched in June 2011, “Happy Mind” is a psychiatric counseling program we offer to employees in partnership with Support for Employee Self-development Category 2010 2011 2012 professional counseling organizations. Started as a local No. of Council 7 5 4 program for Seoul and Gyeonggi Province based employees, Star Academy Sales & service expert training program for top-performing Sessions (Annually) CODYs it has been expanded to a nationwide program for all Coway Major Agenda Salary raise, Bonus payments, Salary raise, Majority stake sale Korea’s first training program specialized for service workforce employees. The program offers up to 5 sessions of 50 minute Annual leaves, etc. of the company, Managing employee stress, Maintaining private counseling and 2 types of tests for free (annually) and a working conditions, etc. full guarantee of anonymity for the service recipient upon their No. of Cases 7 8 9 request. The program offers counseling on a broad range of Discussed personal issues such as emotional problems, family troubles, No. of Cases 7 8 9 couple’s issues, relationship troubles as well as work-related Resolved issues. This program was introduced as part of our efforts to create healthy work environment and corporate culture by helping our employees work out diverse personal issues and relieve stress. 50 51 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Community Participation & Development Material Issue 4 Community Participation & Development Our Approaches We base our social contribution efforts on our vision of “advancing the quality of life for the health of our children,” and engage in a wide range of social contribution initiatives. In particular, we direct our efforts to protect the environment of the Earth, improve nutritional quality for the socially marginalized, fulfill our responsibilities for future generations, and support the development of low income countries. In order to maximize the impact of our efforts, we also focus on programs that are closely related to our businesses and that improve local communities’ environment and quality of life. Going forward, we will incorporate our newly established corporate vision and core values as well as stakeholder interests into our social contribution initiatives to promote community participation and development. Moreover, we will continue to engage in communication with communities and strive to create a corporate culture that promotes voluntary employee participation in our social contribution initiatives for community development. Going forward, we will make our social contribution system more efficient and continuously expand communication with local communities. Our Achievements Key Management Issues 2012 Activities Page No. Increasing • Social contribution efforts based on close communication p 54 Communication with local communities with & Participation in Local Communities Comprehensive • Implemented a system for managing social contribution efforts and per p 55 Management System formances of individual employees for Social Contribution • Promoted a corporate culture that encourages employee p 55 participation in social contribution efforts Strategic Social • Continued our ongoing programs, i.e. the Yugu Stream Beautification p 56 Contribution Project and the Happy Well Project in Cambodia • Implemented social contribution programs based on customer participation p 56 • Operated the Green Supporters Program in partnership with our suppliers p 59 Response to Social • Engaged in initiatives to improve living conditions of the socially marginalized p 59 Needs & Expectations • Engaged in initiatives to improve nutritional quality of the socially marginalized p 59 Our Key Index Social Contributions Donations 9,425 KRW 10,000 11.4 KRW 100 million Average Employee Volunteer Hours Number of Employees in Coway Volunteer Groups 18.1 hours 2,030 52 53 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Community Participation & Development 4.1 Complex. As a member of the association, the Incheon Plant Social Contribution Programs for Local Communities Direction for Coway Social Contribution Initiatives interacts with local community members and gathers a broad range of local opinions. Collected opinions are incorporated Program Initiative & Our Performance Vision for Our Social Contribution Initiatives Regular Volunteer Work by Annual volunteer event that began in 2005. Donation of into the development and operation of social contribution and Improving Quality of Life to Ensure Healthy Branch Managers from CL briquette and Kimchi to those in need from Seoul, Incheon and community participation programs. Coway’s social contribuDivision Business Area Busan to help them through winter. Tomorrow for Our Children tion performances and future plans are shared with stakeVolunteer Program for Promotion engaged in partnership with the discount retail Increasing Communication with & holders through our sustainability report and website. Improving Living chain Homeplus. Funded a living condition improvement projParticipation in Local Community Conditions of Children from ect with contributions from customers and donations from Low Income Households Coway and Homeplus. Strategic Direction Coway Global Scholarship Annual scholarship program that began in 2010. Scholarships Coway strives for mutual growth with communities in which Community Communication Channels & Our Performances for Students with (KRW 10 million per student) to ten exchange students from top Form close, we operate and engages in a wide range of efforts to facilitate Multicultural Background universities in Asian developing countries who are attending Strengthen collaborative Promote Expand Yugu Plant relationships with employees’ community development. Our social contribution initiatives Channel Yugu Regional Promotion Council Seoul National University. the connection opportunities governmental voluntary social Year-end Employee Year-end employee volunteer event held in substitution for the with our core for customer take advantage of our effective communication channels with Membership 40 and noncontribution businesses participation Volunteer Work company’s year-end ceremony. Over 500 employees participated governmental efforts local communities, and based on ongoing communication, we Objective & Exchange ideas and discuss local issues with organization leaders (town in 2012, and made KRW 50 million in donations. organizations develop and implement social contribution programs that have Activity mayor, police precinct captain, school headmaster, etc.) and opinion Woongjin Play Event Invited 93 students from the International Mongolia School and a substantive impact on community development. leaders of the local community for Mongolian Students the Nasom Multicultural Daycare Center, and offered a fun day at Convened Monthly in Korea the Woongjin Play . In the works to establish as a regular event. Talent Donation by Blue Sea (scuba diving club): Engaged in waterfront cleaning Pocheon Plant Action Plan Overview Company Clubs activities in Ulleungdo and the coastal areas of Gangwon Our Definition of Local Community Channel Regular Meetings with the Pocheon City Government, the Sinbuk-myeon Province. Our business sites are located in Seoul, Yugu, Pocheon and Office and the Giji 2-ri Village Foreman • Strengthen the connection between our core businesses and social (International) Water Improved living conditions of a remote village in Ghana, Africa contribution programs. Examples include the Yugu Stream Beautification Membership 20 Incheon. The communities in these regions provide us with Filtration System Donation by installing a simplified water filtration system and supplying Project and the Happy Well Project in Cambodia, which are closely connected Objective & 1) Pocheon City Government: Discuss administrative support regarding quality workforce, administrative support, and constructive in Africa clean drinking water for 4,000 villagers (100 tons a day). to Coway’s core business area of water Activity licenses/permissions, business operations, and cooperation on Coway’s • Form collaborative partnerships with relevant agencies and organizations to feedback as our valuable partners. Influencing each other volunteer activities further increase the effectiveness and impact of our social contribution efforts economically, socially, and environmentally, Coway and these 2) Sinbuk-myeon Office: Discuss cooperation on defense council related matters • Promote employees’ voluntary efforts for social contribution (i.e. employee communities have formed a synergetic relationship with volunteer groups and company club talent donations) and expand support for 3) Giji 2-ri Village Foreman: Gather the opinions of local residents employee initiatives mutual benefits. Based on such awareness, we defined local Convened Every Two Months • Expand opportunities for customers to participate in social contribution and community as “administrative districts where our business form customer relationship based on trust Incheon Plant sites are located and all entities (residents, municipalities, Channel Namdong General Affairs Association suppliers, NGOs, civic organizations, educational and research Membership institutions, media outlets, etc.) that influence us and are Objective & No activities in 2012 influenced by us. Going forward, we will continuously expand Comprehensive Management System for Social ContribuActivity our definition of community to become a responsible and susConvened Ad-hoc tion Initiatives Kimchi Donation Drive tainable global corporate citizen. Coway has an efficient organization and system to manage Employee Volunteer Event Substituting Year-end Ceremony our social contribution programs. Volunteer coordinators of Processes and Channels for Communication with Community each team support the voluntary social contribution efforts of The Plant Management Team at each of our business sites Developing Social Contribution Programs for Local Communities employees which are organized at the team or the business oversees communication with diverse members from the Communicating and engaging with local communities is the division level under the leadership of the Communication 4.2 respective communities, including government agencies, lovery first step in our social contribution efforts for identifying Team, which is responsible for developing, operating and mancal organizations and residents, and carefully gathers their the community’s needs and exploring ways to make a real difaging Coway’s social contribution efforts. Also, our corporate opinions. The Yugu Plant operates the Yugu Regional Promoference. In 2012, we further developed our model for mutual volunteer group has a membership of 2,030 employees (as of tion Council to exchange ideas and explore paths for mutual growth based on ongoing communication and diverse social 2012), and many of our company clubs actively practice the growth with local opinion leaders, while the Pocheon Plant contribution programs, such as projects for improving living spirit of sharing through talent donations. We have provided engages in a range of regular communication sessions with conditions of low income families, scholarships for students various supports to help their efforts and established a social community members. The Incheon Plant is a member of the with international and multicultural background, and subComprehensive Management contribution performance management system with which Namdong General Affairs Association, a cooperative council stituting the year-end ceremony with an employee volunteer System for Social Contribution employees can independently manage their social contribuorganized by the resident companies of the Korea Industrial event. tion performance. Based on our vision of “improving living conditions for the health of our children” for social contribution initiatives in 2012, we established strategic directions to strengthen the connecKey Social Contribution Performances Process for Community Communication and Community Opinion Gathering tion between our social contribution programs and core busiAlthough our investment in social contribution initiatives denesses, to form collaborative relationships with governmental clined in 2012 compared to the previous year, donations and and non-governmental organizations, to create corporate employee volunteer hours remained at similar levels. We also Target Selection and Ongoing Communication Team Program Planning & Execution culture that promotes employee’s voluntary social contribution made substantive progress in our social contribution efforts Planning Communication (In Charge of Social Contribution) Development efforts, and to expand customer participation. A broad range of by strengthening the connection between our core businesses social contribution efforts are operated systematically with the and social contribution programs, forging close relationships Regular Employee Volunteer Communication Group support of the Communication Team, which is in charge of Cowith local organizations, establishing corporate culture that way’s social contribution initiatives, and a volunteer coordinapromotes employees’ voluntary social contribution efforts, Feedback tor of each team. The corporate volunteer group and employee and expanding customer participation. However, our greatclubs also make valuable contributions. est achievement in 2012 was the fact that we established a 54 55 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Community Participation & Development corporate culture where our employees can initiate social contribution efforts. In 2013, we plan to further strategize and systemize our social contribution initiatives based on the new corporate vision and identity. We will also focus on buildYugu Stream Phase II of Yugu Stream ing on what we have already achieved by sustaining our proBeautification Project Area grams, while further expanding inclusive social contribution programs to provide stakeholders with more opportunities to Yuma Bridge participate in social contribution. Beautification of the Yugu Stream Baekgyo-ri, Culture-N: Creating inviting riverfronts Yugu-eup Social Contribution Key Performance Indicators Gyeryong Stream Category 2010 2011 2012 (Local, Grade 2) Social KRW 860 million KRW 240 million KRW 94 million Contributions Donations KRW 1.13 billion KRW 1.38 billion KRW 1.14 billion Baekseok Stream Average Employee 17.3 hrs 18.4 hours 18.1 hours (Local, Grade 2) Volunteer Work in Cambodia Volunteer Hours (30,800 hours in total) (33,500 hours in total) (36,224 in total) Haewol-ri, Sagok-myeon Number of 1,783 1,817 2,030 Employees in Corporate Eco-N: Create habitats for diverse creatures Customer Participation in Social Contribution Hogye-ri, Sagok-myeon Volunteer Group and conserve / restore the streams Customer participation is fast becoming the core model for Blue-N:Clean the water that flows in community participation and development programs. Such the streams programs not only provide opportunities for customers to make social contributions by encouraging voluntary participaHaewol-ri, Sagok-myeon 4.3 tion, but also help us form trust based relationships with our customers. Coway’s customer participation programs include the Yugu Rice Donation program, where customers use their “she’s well” points from the “Pay Free” website to donate rice, Bangheung-ri, Useong-myeon and the Happy Well Project, a project to build wells in Cambodia. In 2012, a total of 300 bags of organic Yugu Rice were Dongdae-ri, Useong-myeon donated to the Korean Council of Food Support with the parStrategic Social Contribution ticipation of 682 customers, and 27 wells were built in CamOkseong-ri, Useong-myeon bodia with the help of 1,601 customers. In the first quarter of We focused on social contribution programs that have a strong 2013, 20 of the donors will travel to Cambodia to take part in Bike-N: Create  a bike path for recreational connection with our core businesses (i.e. The Yugu Stream the volunteer program. We will continue to expand customer and leisure activities Beautification Project and the Happy Well Project in Camboparticipation in our social contribution initiatives to create a Confluence of the Geum River dia) while implementing programs that engage stakeholders value we can share with our customers. (i.e. customers and suppliers) in our programs. Such efforts contributed to raising awareness of social contribution and maximizing the impacts of our social contributions initiatives. Phase II Yugu Stream Beautification Project Strategic Social Contribution Initiatives Coway successfully improved the water quality and the ecoAt the core of our strategic social contribution efforts are the system of the local community with the Phase I Yugu Stream Yugu Stream Beautification Project and the Happy Well Project, 2012 Yugu Stream Beautification Project Beautification Project (2006-2011). In 2012, building on what which are also perfectly in line with our four strategic direcwe had already achieved, we expanded the project to the tions: improving the connection between our businesses and Category Performance lower part of the Yugu Stream and kicked off Phase II Yugu social contribution initiatives, strengthening partnerships with Number of 254 Stream Beautification Project. In partnership with the MinParticipants governmental and non-governmental organizations, creating istry of Environment and the City of Gongju, we will continue Number of 9 corporate culture that promotes employees’ voluntary social our efforts to improve the Yugu Stream’s water quality and Times contribution initiatives, and expanding customer participation. Hours 2,032 hours ecosystem through 2016. Our long-term commitment to these projects has produced (cumulative) great results, with our growing expertise over time leading to Key Water quality improvement: Maintained Grade Ia water quality Period: 20122016 (5 years) increased effectiveness of the projects. In 2012, we were not Achievements Biodiversity improvement: Ecosystem field research Region: Yeongjeong-ri, Sinpung-myeon, Gongju-si – Confluence of the Guem River (22.4km) Yugu Rice Donations was not conducted in 2012/ Scope: • Ministry of Environment and City of Gongju (Restoring the Ecosystem at the Main able to further expand these two projects due to changes in the Continuous management of water quality to promote biodiversity Stream of the Yugu Stream) company’s ownership structure, but we successfully managed Yugu Rice Sales: 20,000 (10kg bag) • Coway (Planting Water-purifying Plants at Tributaries of the Yugu Stream / River to sustain the results thus far achieved by turning it into an opMatching support recycling: Completed Cleaning by Employees) portunity to pursue substantive growth of the program. 56 57 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Community Participation & Development Supplier Participation in Social Contribution Initiatives the direction for the improvement of our products and services The participation of suppliers in our social contribution efforts and strengthening of our business competitiveness. We have not only helps us form a partnership based on trust but also collaborative partnerships with numerous organizations that Happy Well Project have expertise in social issues, particularly social welfare orprovides an opportunity for mutual advancement based on stronger business competitiveness and effective risk manageganizations and NGOs, and engage in regular communication ment. In particular, Coway’s Green Supporters Program helps with them. Based on insights offered by such organizations, our suppliers manage hazardous substances, improve their we Identify in a timely manner social issues that need to be business site EHS and sanitation, calculate GHG emissions, addressed and follow up with social contribution programs, and perform EHS self-check with the donation of expertise by donations, and supply & goods sponsoring to make a difference. our employees in the environmental area. The program helped reduce the environmental risk of our suppliers and in turn, strengthened the competitiveness of Coway as well as of our Process for Gathering Community Opinions suppliers. Launched in 2012, the Green Supporters Program (volunteer program designed to share our expertise in environKey Welfare • Analyze Social Needs & mental management with suppliers) is operated in partnership Organizations Expectations with our suppliers Jeongyang Styropol and KJ, Corp. under the • Supply Relevant Information Happy Well Project (Cambodia) Overview • Determine Beneficiaries leadership of the Environmental Management Team. We invite Ongoing • Provide Support Communication supplier participation in social contribution initiatives, such as the program encouraging our suppliers to form at least one sponsorship commitment, and are continuously expanding the Coway Feedback (Team is Charge of 100 50 10 1 scope of joint social contribution initiatives. Social Contribution) • Volunteer Work • Coway Product Donation • Supply & Goods Support Program Planning • Sponsorship (Financial/ & Development Non financial) 10 18 Execution Banteay Mean Chey Siem Reap 19 Improving Nutritional Quality and Living Conditions for SoBat Dambang 19 cially Marginalized 302 Green Supporters Program In 2012, we directed our attention to the socially marginalized Khampong Thum suffering from a food shortage due to the economic recession and the living conditions of low-income families. In partner5 Khampong Cham ship with the Korean Council of Food Support, about 50 em26 4.4 ployees volunteer every month to deliver meals to the elderly Khampong Chhnang living alone, and Coway supported a total of 3,328 bags (10kg/ 2 Pery Veaeng bag) of rice to families in urgent need of food supply. In partPhnom penh nership with the Korea Environment Corporation, we launched 15 7 a health supporter/consulting program and help low income Khampong Spueu families living in unhealthy environments improve their living Kardal 28 Response to Social Needs & conditions. We also donated 147 units of the Coway air purifier 234 Svay Rieng Expectations to low income families living in neighborhoods vulnerable to flooding and other disease-causing factors to contain diseases 141 As of March 2013, Cumulative caused by unhealthy living environment. Also, we engaged in Takaeo In order to earn the trust of stakeholders as a responsible cor826 the “Sharing Love with Housing” campaign in partnership with Kampot Total Number of Wells porate citizen, we respond actively to social needs and expecthe discount retailer Homeplus to improve living and learning tations. In addition to our regular social contribution programs conditions of children from low-income families. and diverse volunteer activities, we make our best efforts to respond to emerging issues by developing and introducing Happy Well Project Total Number of Wells Donated by Coway 700 new social contribution initiatives every year. Category 2011 2012 Process for Identifying Societal Needs and Expectations Number of Volunteers who travelled to Cambodia 17 22 Embracing social needs and expectations and making swift Number of Wells Donated (Cumulative) 650 767 responses not only allow us to contribute to community develNumber of Benifiting Villages 13 villages, 6 townships, 4 counties, 2 provinces 23 villages, 12 townships, 4 counties, 2 provinces opment but also provide us with an opportunity to improve and design lifestyles. This is also an important process in defining Volunteer Program for Improving Living Conditions 58 59 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Win-Win Supplier Partnerships Material Issue 5 Win-Win Supplier PartnershipS Our Approaches Coway is committed to building win-win partnerships with our suppliers based on sound business dealings because we strongly believe that to achieve sustainable growth, we need to build fair and transparent business relationships with suppliers as a source of value creation and a basis of true partnership that brings mutual advancement. Competitive suppliers make us competitive, while their risk is translated into ours. As such, we make a broad range of efforts to build win-win supplier partnerships based on the four strategic directions: expanding supplier communication and participation, establishing a comprehensive supplier management system, strengthening win-win growth initiatives, and increasing supplier participation and social contribution. In particular, we are focusing on expanding our supplier support programs, including the three key programs (funding and financial support program, integrated raw material purchasing program, technology and innovation support program), into strategic initiatives designed to strengthen competitiveness across our value chain. Our Achievements Key Management Issues 2012 Activities Page No. Expanding • Engaged in ongoing communication with suppliers p 62 Communication with through the Open Purchasing System Supplier Establishing • Improved the selection process for parts suppliers p 63 Comprehensive • Established Supplier Relation Management (SRM) System p 63 Supplier Management System Strengthening Win-Win • Operated the Supplier Sang-sang Ocean Program p 65 Growth Programs • Established the vision and mid to long term roadmaps for win-win growth p 65 Increasing • Continued the Green Partnership Program and the COP Academy p 65 Supplier Participation • Operated a sponsorship program in partnership with Woongbihoe p 65 and Social Contribution (Supplier Council) Our Key Index Financial Benefits from Innovation Initiatives Number of Certified Green Partners 3.89 KRW billion 55 Technical Support Program Performance Total Savings from Integrated Raw Material (Supply Quality) Purchasing Program 142 ppm 1.16 KRW billion 60 61 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Win-Win Supplier Partnerships 5.1 5.2 Woongbihoe (Supplier Council) — Woongbihoe is Coway’s Supplier Relations Management System (SRM) supplier council launched in 2011 with the participation of 20 Coway established an SRM system to comprehensively mansuppliers, and serves as a key supplier communication chanage business activities related to suppliers and purchases. nel that facilitates a broad range of discussions on diverse The system increased our business efficiency by effectively topics. The council also works to promote communication consolidating supplier communication channels and accelamong suppliers and assist suppliers to proactively respond erating exchange of information and feedback. In particular, Expanding Communication to the voice of customers and various production-related Establishing Comprehensive the SRM system completed our strategic supplier relationship challenges. In 2013, Coway plans to further expand Woongbiwith Suppliers Supplier Management System management system and enabled us to systematically manhoe initiatives, such as quarterly general meetings to share age the process for locating potential suppliers and fostering management information and discuss current issues, and top-performing suppliers. Also, the system ensures transparCoway is committed to building win-win partnerships with In order to achieve win-win growth with suppliers based on exchange groups organized for different materials to share ency in the supplier assessment process by systemizing the our suppliers based on the belief that such a partnership is fair and transparent business partnerships, Coway established the progress of supplier innovation initiatives. Also, we will exevaluation process, and facilitates strategic supplier managethe very basis of our competitiveness and sustainable mana fair supplier assessment process. Based on the evaluation change information on a broad range of topics and engage in ment by effectively managing supplier data (i.e. supplier peragement. In order to facilitate lively communication with our results, Coway implements effective win-win growth programs communication initiatives to gather supplier feedback, identify formance, supplier information, changes in business deals, suppliers, we utilize various communication channels includcustomized to the various needs and circumstances of suppliareas for improvements, and share the result of improvechanges in financial data supplied by credit rating agencies). ing the Supplier Sang-sang Ocean Program and the Supplier ers. Also, we established a comprehensive supplier management efforts. We believe that such efforts will help us further Council, “Woongbihoe,” to exchange ideas and explore paths ment system to provide efficient support and, we make ongostrengthen the ground for win-win growth. Initiatives for Fair Trade Practice for mutual advancement. ing efforts to promote fair trade. Coway makes ongoing efforts to maintain fairness and transProcess for Supplier Opinion Gathering parency across our supplier selection and evaluation process. We make ongoing efforts to accommodate the varying needs Based on the principle of free competition, we provide equal Our Definition of Supplier Improved Supplier Assessment Process and opinions of our suppliers, and actively incorporate them business opportunities to all our suppliers for business deals, Coway defines supplier as “business partners who supply raw into our business and management initiatives following the We operate a supplier assessment system to continuously lostrive to forge trust-based relationships based on fair and and subsidiary materials and services required in the proviprocess summarized below. cate excellent suppliers based on fair business partnerships. transparent business transactions, and work towards mutual sion of Coway products and services.” As valuable partners, Our supplier evaluation system is managed fairly and transadvancement in the long run. This is also clearly articulated in suppliers provide us the foundation to deliver best products parently, and the results are used in implementing various our Code of Conduct. and services. To achieve truly sustainable management, we win-win growth programs customized to accommodate differProcess for Supplier Opinion Gathering ent levels of suppliers. In addition to basic evaluation criteria select competitive and socially responsible companies as our suppliers through a fair and transparent selection process. such as cost, quality and delivery, Coway’s supplier evaluation We are also expanding initiatives to establish sound and equal Supplier Registers Feedback system assesses suppliers’ CRS performance (i.e. ethics manCoway Code of Conduct Chapter 3 Fair Trade business partnerships (i.e. transparent business process, agement, environmental management, employee rights) to including the payment process) as part of our ongoing efforts Receive Supplier Feedback screen out suppliers with operational risks and to encourage 1 Equal Opportunity to maintain and further strengthen trust-based partnerships voluntary implementation of sustainable management initia• We provide equal opportunities to all qualified businesses with suppliers. Review & Incorporate Feedback tives by suppliers. to be selected and registered as our suppliers. • Our suppliers shall be selected and registered in a Feedback Delivered to Relevant Departments reasonable manner following a fair and objective Supplier Communication Channels In 2012, we made various improvements to our supplier seevaluation process. We have established a wide range of supplier communicalection and evaluation system to increase efficiency. First, we Notify Outcome tion channels to promote mutual understanding and business changed the supplier selection method from price bidding to 2 Fair Business Transaction Process efficiency. We established the Open Purchasing System exvolume allocation based on the results of potential supplier • All business dealings shall be handled fairly with all clusively for our suppliers to provide access to Coway’s purassessment. The evaluation, which previously comprised of parties on an equal footing, and the conditions and chasing policy, latest production/order data and purchasing Supplier Satisfaction Survey Results status, Green Partnership, and Quality Management System, procedures for such dealings shall be finalized after consultations. The system also aims to ongoing communicaAs part of our efforts to strengthen supplier relationships and was merged into a single supplier assessment management. sufficient discussions. tion channels, such as the supplier suggestion system. Morimprove the purchasing process, we conduct an annual supFurthermore, we carefully reviewed and revised the evaluation • All forms of improprieties taking advantage of superior ever, we have regular talk sessions with suppliers for in-depth plier satisfaction survey. However, we were not able to conduct criteria and scoring system to enhance the relevancy and efpositions are not to be tolerated. discussions on win-win growth initiatives, and conduct regular the survey in 2012 because Woongjin Holdings, which had confectiveness of evaluation. We also implemented a comprehen• Persons with ties to Coway employees, such as family supplier surveys to assess supplier satisfaction and address ducted the survey for its affiliates at the group level, went into sive supplier management system to manage supplier data members, relatives, and friends (including those with their grievances. In addition, we operate a broad range of court receivership. Going forward, Coway plans to conduct the efficiently and to improve the effectiveness of evaluation. academic and/or regional ties) shall not be selected as communication channels to promote information exchange survey internally and incorporate the results into our managesuppliers without undergoing objective verification of their and cooperation. ment strategies. qualifications, such as bidding or comparative estimates. 2012 Improvements to Supplier Assessment Process 3 Pursuit of Mutual Advancement • We proactively support our suppliers to secure business Supplier Communication Channels & Our Performance Supplier Satisfaction Survey Results (Unit: points) Supplier Assessment System • Consolidated into a single system competitiveness and achieve growth in the long term, and Channel Frequency No. of Participants Category 2009 2010 2011 share profits generated from innovations. Supplier Satisfaction Survey Annually 100 suppliers Supplier Satisfaction 87.3 85.4 86.3 • Enhanced the practicality of Supplier Council (Woongbihoe) Quarterly 20 suppliers Overall Dimensional 84.5 79.4 81.9 evaluation criteria Supplier Assessment Criteria Exchange Group per Material Every two months 4 teams per material Satisfaction • Enhanced the relevancy of evaluation criteria Supplier Innovation Convention Annually 35 suppliers Overall Satisfaction 85.7 82.0 82.8 Supplier Web Portal Year-round All suppliers NPS 80.8 78.7 84.0 Comprehensive Supplier • Computerized evaluation results “Open Purchasing System” Ethical Integrity 92.1 92.7 91.7 Management System and status data 62 63 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Win-Win Supplier Partnerships 5.3 we were able to secure price transparency through direct Supplier Sang-sang Ocean Program — Coway strengthCertified Green Partners (No.) transactions with commodity companies. Based on such efened communication with suppliers with “Suppler Sang-sang forts, we saved approximately KRW 1.16 billion in 2012, includOcean,” our supplier suggestion program participated by 14 2010 49 ing KRW 800 million savings from chargeable subcontracting suppliers. In 2012, Coway received a total of 65 suggestions on 2011 53 of the raw materials for injected plastic. topics such as cost savings (21 cases), productivity enhancement (11 cases), and quality improvement (10 cases). In 2013, 2012 55 Strengthening Win-Win Growth we will further expand the program to include more suppliers, Programs Cost Savings from Integrated Raw Material Purchasing and produce more ideas and identify projects that we can work on to collaborate with suppliers to strengthen our technology COP (Coway Open Plaza) Academy Category Savings Saving Rate and cost competitiveness. We provide a wide range of win-win growth programs to The COP (Coway Open Plaza) Academy was established in 2007 Raw Materials for Plastic KRW 3% promote mutual advancement. We are also continuously ex(Chargeable Subcontracting) 800 million to provide development support to our top-performing small to Plan for 2013 Win-Win Growth Programs panding the scope of win-win growth programs, from general Raw Materials for Press (Chargeable Subcontracting) medium sized suppliers with competitiveness. The program ofmanagement support (i.e. R&D investments, low-interest Consolidated Purchasing of PBA Parts KRW 360 million 2% As part of our efforts to promote win-win growth, we estabfers a wide range of support, including training (on and offsite) loans and interest-free funding support) and extending to the Total Savings KRW 1,160 million 2.4% lished a mid-term roadmap based on our vision, “Achieving and comprehensive consulting, and helped our suppliers enintegrated raw material purchasing program and support for sustainable win-win growth with Coway.” Our 2013 win-win hance the competitiveness of their workforce and organization. innovation initiatives. growth objective is to “strengthen fundamentals of suppliers.” We plan to further expand the program based on our assessTo this end, we plan to strengthen the technological and busiInnovation Support Program — In partnership with the Large ment that it serves not only as a training program but also as a ness capabilities of our suppliers by bolstering the Supplier & Small Business Cooperation Foundation, Coway engaged channel for providing practical supports to suppliers. Sang-sang Ocean Program, benchmarking leading manufacOur Win-Win Growth Policy and Strategy in a variety of supplier innovation programs based on trust, turing companies, expanding production site innovations, and communication and collaboration. After in-depth discussions At Coway, we believe that increasing supplier’s competitiveintroducing an ERP system and promoting its use. Moreover, on supplier support strategy, Coway and the Large & Small COP Academy Program Performance ness is the most effective way to achieve win-win growth. we will expand our win-win growth programs to include secBusiness Cooperation Foundation each provided management Competitive suppliers make Coway competitive and in turn, ondary suppliers in addition to our primary suppliers to extend support, as well as training and consulting support. SuppliCategory 2010 2011 2012 our competitiveness opens doors for suppliers, both in terms win-win growth opportunities to a greater number of suppliers. ers presented a great model for win-win growth by delivering Offsite Training 359 72 79 of market presence and business performance. To this end, we product competitiveness to Coway and successful innovation Onsite Training 19 suppliers 29 suppliers provide a broad range of win-win growth programs designed cases to the foundation. A total of 29 suppliers participated in to strengthen the resilience and business fundamentals of our our 2012 innovation support programs, a 52% increase from suppliers. In addition to providing funding support to facilitate 5.4 the previous year. The number of innovation cases also rose by Operation of Social Contribution Programs in Partnership management stability, we also engage in joint innovation ef198% to 588, producing financial benefits of KRW 3.89 billion. with Suppliers forts with suppliers in diverse areas, including R&D, to create synergy, and expand the scope of cooperation for mutual As part of our efforts to promote community participation and advancement by establishing a separate collaboration channel development, Coway formed sisterhood ties with a rural vilfor individual issues. lage and engage in a variety of exchange activities such as Supplier Innovation Initiatives & Performance Increasing Supplier Participation & volunteering to help farmers, hosting farmer’s markets and leading village beautification projects. In 2012, we operated Performance of 2012 Win-Win Growth Initiatives Supplier Social Contribution the program in partnership with Woongbihoe, our supplier Interest-free Funding Support — Coway provides interestIn order to help our suppliers achieve growth, we provide a council, as an opportunity to strengthen our partnership. In free funding support to our suppliers for a set period of time Innovation Case Management Support broad range of supports based on trust and collaboration. the four times we visited the village, we helped farmers, perbased on their financial situation and business performance to Training & Improved Such programs include the Green Partnership Certification formed village beautification works and contributed to the lohelp them focus on improving productivity and product qualConsulting CompetitiveProgram, which was established to promote green managecal economy by hosting farmer’s markets where we helped to ity without cash flow problems. In 2012, we provided a total of Support ness ment among our suppliers, and the COP Academy, which sell crops produced during our volunteer period. The joint efKRW 1.78 billion to two suppliers and extended the maturity Supplier Support offers opportunities to participate in joint social contribution fort by participating suppliers enabled them to enhance comdate for a supplier to ease their liquidity pressure. Large & Small Business Strategy Coway initiatives and provides practical support such as training and petitiveness in sustainable management through heightened Cooperation Foundation consulting. Going forward, we plan to continuously expand and awareness of social contribution, and Coway also benefited Co-Prosperity Fund — In 2011, we launched the “'Coway Costrengthen initiatives that promote trust and mutual advancefrom improved corporate image. Win-Win Growth Participation prosperity Fund” as part of our efforts to help our suppliers ment. actively pursue sustainable management initiatives. In 2012, we also raised a total of KRW 9 billion in partnership with local Supplier Participation in Social Contribution Programs banks and provided low interest loans to help our suppliers 2011 2012 2011 2012 19 29 197 588 overcome cash flow issues and enhancing business competiGreen Partnership Supplier Number of Participating Suppliers Number of Innovation Cases tiveness by strengthening internal capabilities. 21.2% 198% First introduced in 2007, the Green Partnership Certification is granted to suppliers who meet Coway’s standards in the arImproved Enhanced Corporate Integrated Raw Material Purchasing Program — Coway Competitiveness Image eas of common system indicators, material management and CSR Social supports suppliers in overcoming difficulties caused by rising 2011 2012 2011 2012 environmentally hazardous substances as stipulated in the Promotion Contribution commodity prices with an integrated raw material purchasing KRW 3.2 billion KRW 3.89 billion 149 ppm 142 ppm “Green Partner Self-evaluation Indicators.” In 2012, 55 suppliprogram. We help our suppliers overcome cash flow strains Financial Benefits Defective Supply ers acquired the certification. Enhanced Corporate and secure stable supply of raw materials by purchasing raw (Performance of Supplier Technical Support) Coway Community Image materials in large volumes through Coway’s proprietary integrated purchasing process and reducing overall costs. Also, 21% 4.7% Social Contribution 64 65 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Economic Data Appendix Economic Data Summary of Balance Sheets (Unit: KRW) Summary of Income Statement (Unit: KRW) Category 2010 2011 2012 Category 2010 2011 2012 Current assets 441,169, 455,659 511,499,151,364 691,276,655,813 Sales 1,501,812,040,147 1,709,867,512,884 1,806,832,625,803 Non-current assets 917,084,808,782 1,064,959,877,824 1,010,230,889,971 COGS 490,590,059,135 552,005,591,884 605,383,221,006 Total assets 1,358,254,264,441 1,576,459,029,188 1,701,507,545,784 Gross profit 1,011,221,981,012 1,157,861,921,000 1,201,449,404,797 Current liabilities 384,530,070,012 534,279,560,755 719,579,302,501 SG&A expenses 756,869,440,736 914,518,436,668 973,637,124,791 Non-current liabilities 246,566,890,154 293,777,106,176 179,198,809,923 Operating income 254,352,540,276 243,343,484,332 227,812,280,006 Total liabilities 631,096,960,166 828,056,666,931 898,778,112,424 Non-operating income 9,134,637,488 19,932,576,678 23,432,631,552 Paid-in capital 40,662,398,000 40,662,398,000 40,662,398,000 Non-operating expenses 8,496,236,937 14,403,411,764 28,466,241,146 Capital in excess of par value 97,773,449,148 97,773,449,148 97,773,449,148 Financial income 6,377,208,027 2,243,894,076 3,551,546,717 Retained earnings 582,918,759,202 677,684,182,975 716,802,060,649 Financial expenses 18,111,175,278 25,764,876,270 61,677,411,697 Other 5,802,697,925 (67,717,667,866) (52,508,474,437) Investment income from (3,187,533,127) Total Shareholder's equity 727,157,304,275 748,402,362,257 802,729,433,360 investments in associated/ Total liabilities and 1,358,254,264,441 1,576,459,029,188 1,701,507,545,784 affiliated companies shareholder equity Net income before income tax 243,256,973,576 225,351,667,052 161,465,272,305 Income tax expenses 59,984,105,088 48,246,024,186 41,716,698,658 Net income 183,272,868,488 177,105,642,866 119,748,573,647 Government Subsidies (Unit: KRW) 2012 Project Subsidies in Value Note March Water Regeneration Plant (Daegu-Gyeongbuk Blue Gold Cluster), National Project 80,600,000 Phase 3 Smart Water Treatment Plant, Government Subsidy 12,000,000 Phase 2 May Smart Water Treatment Plant, Private Sector Contribution 36,750,000 Coway Smart Water Treatment Plant, Private Sector Contribution 15,750,000 Kukdong Construction High Quality MBR, Phase 2 Private Sector Contribution 53,100,000 Coway June Smart Water Treatment Plant, Private Sector Contribution 350,000,000 GS E&C [Air Purifier with Humidifier and Dehumidifier Functions] Taejin Metal R&D Cost Substitution 40,000,000 August Large & Small Win-Win Energy Partnership Project Cost 9,090,910 Advance September Nature Inspired Engineering, National Project-Government Subsidy Substitution 42,000,000 High Quality MBR, National Project-Government Subsidy 354,000,000 Water Regeneration Plant, Government Subsidy 182,650,000 Jeju Island Cosmetics, Government Subsidy 75,000,000 November Large & Small Win-Win Energy Partnership Project Cost 9,090,910 Phase 2 Jeju Island Aloe Farming, Government Subsidy 180,000,000 Phase 3 Greener Product Development Infrastructure Project Costs 12,000,000 December Greener Product Development Infrastructure Project Costs 240,000,000 Total 1,692,031,820 Economic Data 67p Social Data 68p Environmental Data 69p Membership, Awards & Certifications 72p Independent Assurance Statement 74p GRI G3.1/ISO26000 Index 76p UNGC/MDGs 79p Global Network 80p 66 67 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Social Data/Environmental Data Social Data Environmental Data Category Category 2 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Note Category Category 2 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Note Total Employees Korea No. of people 4,188 4,537 4,834 Environmental Investment & Operations Costs KRW 1 million 2,279 2,081 2,518 Overseas (on assignment) No. of people 47 49 44 Energy Use (Direct, Indirect) All GJ 101,196 103,927 112,132 Including HQ, R&D centers, Cosmetics Research Institute Overseas (locally hired) No. of people 883 928 Direct Butane GJ 0 17 22 and production plants (Yugu, Incheon, Pocheon) Executives No. of people 27 28 23 LPG GJ 42 44 43 Business Area Production No. of people 274 264 263 Diesel GJ 1,862 1,812 1,554 Sales No. of people 2,717 2,911 3,149 LNG GJ 4,551 2,307 2,267 Research No. of people 295 363 387 Kerosene GJ 1,002 383 339 Administrative No. of people 779 860 908 Propane GJ 1,282 1,165 1,115 Other No. of people 123 139 127 Direct Total 8,739 5,728 5,340 Employment Type Regular No. of people 3,084 3,436 3,649 Indirect Electricity 92,452 98,199 106,792 Non-regular No. of people 1,104 1,101 1,162 Indirect Total 92,452 98,199 106,792 Percentage of non-regular % 26.4 24.3 24.2 Raw & Subsidiary Use Plastic ton 10,139 10,794 8,922 Diversity Physically challenged Years 45 38 39 Metal ton 6,162 6,229 4,867 Average years of service for physically challenged Years 4.3 4.6 4.9 Packaging Material ton 2,015 2,325 2,000 Male (percentage) % 30 31.4 33.7 Based on regular workers, 2012 Water Use Corporate m³ 87,133 72,356 91,555 Female (percentage) % 70 68.6 66.3 Yugu Plant m³ 41,349 28,938 31,407 Average Years in Continued Service Employees Years 7.6 6.6 6.1 Incheon Plant m³ 11,931 17,570 20,695 Turnover Rate Number resigned No. of people 493 497 492 Pocheon Plant m³ 459 1,117 519 Turnover rate % 11.77 10.95 10.18 R&D Centers m³ 33,394 24,731 36,982 Maternity Leave Number applied No. of people 7 14 15 Logistics Centers 1,952 Return rate % 57 93 93 Percentage of those who returned to work GHG Emissions Direct Emissions (Scope 1) tCO2e 575 368 342 Net emissions increased in 2012 due to the launch of our after their maternity leave (based on those Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) tCO2e 4,789 5,087 5,532 logistics center (July 2011) and inclusion of emissions from who are still in service as of February 2013) Net Emissions (Scope 1+2) tCO2e 5,365 5,455 5,874 the Water Treatment Division. Employee Training Total training costs KRW 100 million 18 24.8 11.5 Net Emissions Intensity tCO2e/KRW 100 million 0.35 0.32 0.33 Average training hrs. per employee Hours 93 149 86 Corporate tCO2e 5,365 5,456 5,723 Average training cost per employee KRW 1,000 1,676 2,028 1,033 Yugu Plant tCO2e 1,731 1,646 1,731 Salary & Benefits Salary KRW 100 million 1,685 1,984 2,282 Incheon Plant tCO2e 846 808 711 Severance pay KRW 100 million 136 151 168 Pocheon Plant tCO2e 495 493 498 Benefits KRW 100 million 313 366 422 R&D Center tCO2e 1,824 1,688 1,709 Productivity Sales per employee KRW 1million 373 388 385 Cosmetics Research Institute tCO2e 89 155 151 Operating income per employee KRW 1million 56 55 52 Head Office tCO2e 379 436 354 Value-added labor productivity per employee KRW 1million 132 129 143 Logistics Center tCO2e 230 569 Labor share % 40.8 43.8 43.9 Major Carbon Partnerships tCO2e 44,109 43,667 44,430 Suppliers (31) tCO2e/KRW 100 million 30.09 30.83 25.99 * Coway introduced a defined benefit based retirement pension scheme for its employees in May of 2010. The scheme is applied equally to all employees from one year after they join the company. Waste Produced Product ton 10,250 11,770 12,229 Our 2012 figures for product waste and service waste volume * There is no salary gap between male and female employees, and all employees are treated equally in terms of HR policy and employee benefits. The minimum wage for entry-level employees is Business Site: General ton 631 743 866 differ from those presented in 2011 due to changes in internal approximately 290% higher than the legal minimum wage. Business Site: Designated ton 30 29 30 waste management standards. Service ton 4,137 5,162 5,642 Product Waste (carbon waste included) Service Waste (carbon waste and water contained in filters excluded) Recycling Rate Waste Plastics ton 5,040 6,094 6,081 GHG Emissions Reduction tCO2e 5,938 7,180 7,165 Administrative: 908 Regular: 3,649 Female: 66.3% Metal ton 4,242 5,143 5,364 Non-regular: 1,162 Other: 127 GHG Emissions Reduction tCO2e 29 36 37 Male: 33.7% Work Injury & Illness Rate Corporate % 0.096 0.11 0.11 Regular Korea Research: 387 4,834 Employees 4,811 * Air pollutant discharge: Coway produces its product mostly by assembly and does not produce any pollutants that are controlled under the “Enforcement Decree of the Clean Air Conservation Act.” Production: 263 3,649 * Water pollutant discharge: Coway directs sewage water to sewage treatment plants for processing and does not discharge any waste water (managed based on the standards prescribed by relevant laws and regulations). Sales: 3,149 * Substances that deplete the ozone layer: Coway produces GHG emissions from refrigerants (R-134a, R-12) contained in waste products but makes best efforts to reduce GHG emissions by collecting it through the recycling process. Employment Type Business Function Gender (less executives) 68 69 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental Data Environmental Data Environmental Data Greener Product Sales in 2012 (Unit: KRW million) Items for Hazardous Material Management * Plans to entirely cease the use of 6 SVHCs form January 1, 2014 Product Product Name Greener Product Sales Product Product Name Greener Product Sales 2012 + Additional Materials Water Filtration CHP-270L RoHS Certificate of Conformance, 11,196 Water Filtration CHP-241N Products certified for carbon foot print 21,631 Appliance Energy Efficiency Grade 1 Appliance and size reduction/registered under CHP-06ER Energy Efficiency Grade 1 6,768 greener product supply chain 2011 + Additional Materials CHP-06EL Energy Efficiency Grade 1 48,092 CHP-010E Environmental Load Reduction 346 CHP-06EU[EOL] Energy Efficiency Grade 1 29,073 CHPI-280L Environmental Load Reduction 6,791 2009 + 13 Materials CHP-06ER-M Energy Efficiency Grade 1 2,265 CHPI-280L(V2) Environmental Load Reduction 120 CHP-06EL-M Energy Efficiency Grade 1 15,023 Air Purifier AP-1008CH Carbon Footprint Certificate 26,436 CHP-06EN Energy Efficiency Grade 1 14,317 Bidet BAS14-A(Consumer) Carbon Footprint Certificate 94,348 RoHS + 9 Materials APD-1212BH10 RoHS Certificate of Conformance, 3,195 BAS14-B(Commercial, Green Plug) Green Plug 98 6 RoHS Materials Energy Efficiency Grade 1 BAS16-A Green Plug 112 CHP-210L(RED) Low Carbon Certificate 8,753 (Consumer and Commercial, Green Plug) CHP-08AL(SILVER) Carbon Footprint Certificate 66,719 Food Waste WM03-A Eco-Label 236 2008 2009 2010~2011 2012 2013 CHP-08AL(GOLD) Carbon Footprint Certificate 5,504 Treatment WM03-B(RED WINE)[EOL] Eco-Label 38 CHP-06DL Low Carbon Certificate, 30,004 System WM05-A(Black ) Eco-Label 2 Pb, Cd, Hg, Cr6+ Antimony Asbestos Chlorinated flame retardants RoHS applied for all products (Requisite) RoHS Certificate of Conformance WM05-B Eco-Label 4,220 PBBs, PBDEs Beryllium PCBs, PCTs, Brominated flame retardants REA CH Regulated Materials CHP-06DU[EOL] Carbon Footprint Certificate 163 WM07 Eco-Label 5,049 Selenium Phthalates PVC, PFOS DMF German Food and Feed Code (LFGB) CP-07BLO(BLACK)[EOL] Carbon Footprint Certificate 19,590 Plus 6 other substances Plus 5 other substances Requirements of SEB Requirements of Sharp Total Sales 420,089 (When applicable) (When applicable) GHG Emissions Reduction from Refrigerant Collection/Sales & Refrigerant Collection Rate Environmental Management & GHG Emissions Reduction Activities in 2012 (Unit: tCO2e, KRW) R-134a R-12 Coway Internal Initiatives Reduction Volume Internal/External Benefits Unit 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Adoption of greener refrigerant 137 2,740,000 Refrigerant used for production kg 24,517 23,971 21,398 368 534 603 Waste plastic recycling 6,697 133,940,000 Refrigerant used for product disposal kg 4,759 7,891 11,552 10,387 9,737 7,568 Refrigerant-free, high-speed refrigeration system for water filtration appliances 20,720 414,400,000 GHG emissions from refrigerant in waste products tCO2e 4,948 8,207 12,014 90,566 84,907 65,993 Improved energy efficiency from vacuum insulation technology 94.44 1,888,800 Refrigerant collection rate % 22.9 21.3 26.1 24.9 33.2 22.8 Refurbishing of water filtration appliances, air purifiers and bidets 1,789 35,780,000 GHG emissions reduction from collection/sales tCO2e 1,134 1,747 3,130 22,585 28,166 15,042 Replacement to LED 3.75 75,000 Environmental Investments (Unit: KRW million) Calculating Financial Benefits from GHG Emissions and Energy Use Reduction Category 2010 2011 2012 ① GHG emissions from R-134a product disposal: 42g X GWP 1,300 = 54,600gCO2e = 54kgCO2e ⑪ Water Filtration Appliance/Air Purifier/Bidet (less Water Softener and Food Waste Treatment Facility Operations 578.33 1,052.00 1,810.20 ② GHG emissions from R-600 product disposal: 18g X GWP 0 = 0gCO2e = 0kgCO2e System) 1,789tCO2e of GHG emissions reduction System Operations 419.00 133.50 48.70 ③ GHG emissions from 2,535 units produced in 2012 (from October) with R-134a Emissions Standard: kgCO2e/unit: Water Filtration Appliance 100, Air Purifier 40, Bidet 30 Communication 1,281.70 795.60 659.40 = 2,535 units X 54kgCO2e = 136,890kgCO2e = 137 tCO2e Emissions per unit less product use phase, calculated based on the “Guide on how to assess carbon New Business 100.00 ④ KRW 2,740,000 of financial benefits generated based on KRW 20,000 per ton footprint of goods using electric power” by the Ministry of Environment Ministry of Environment Total 2,279.03 2,081.10 2,518.30 ⑤ Annual GHG emissions 222.23kgCO2e/Monthly electric power use of 37.3kwh (Water softener excluded as there is no standard) ⑥ Annual GHG emissions 93.95kgCO2e/Monthly electric power use of 16.1kwh ⑫ KRW 20,000 per ton X 1,789 tCO2e * Based on Head Office, Production Division and Environment Quality Institute ⑦ Reduction of 128.28kgCO2e/year per unit X number of units sold = 20,720tCO2e ⑬ Recycling rate for R-134a: 3,010 kg X 0.8 X GWP 1,300 = 3,130 tCO2e * Facility Operations: Replacement of old facilities, replacement to high efficiency facilities, new investments, etc. ⑧ KRW 20,000 per ton X 20,720tCO2e Recycling rate for R-12: 1,725 kg X 0.8 X GWP 10,900 = 15,042 tCO2e * System Operations: IT system implementation, internal assessment, benchmarking, certification, training, validation, etc. ⑨ 21.2kwh/month X 12 months X number of units sold ⑭ KRW 20,000 per ton X 18,175 tCO2e * Communication: Response to laws and regulations, external stakeholder engagement, campaign, event sponsoring, etc. * New business: Entry into greener business sectors, i.e. consulting, M&A ⑩ KRW 160 per kwh (based on the Energy Efficiency Labeling & Certification standards) X number of ⑮ GHG emissions reduction: Based on the Ministry of Environment Standards, using the landfill/ units sold incineration/recycling indexes ⑯ KRW 20,000 per ton X 6,697 tCO2e 70 71 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Memberships, Awards & Certifications Memberships, Awards & Certifications Membership Awards & Recognitions Name of Organization Supervised by Award Award Category Supervising Organization UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) UNGC Corporate Social Responsibility 2012 CSR Excellence (Private Corporation) Digital Chosun Ilbo, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Korea Direct Selling Association Fair Trade Commission Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Employment and Labor KSA (Korean Standards Association) Korean Standards Association Quality Competitiveness Competition 2012 Outstanding Company in Quality Competitiveness (2 consecutive years) Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Korean Fair Competition Federation Korean Fair Competition Federation Presidential Prize, Green Management Excellence Grand Prize in Green Management Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Ministry of Organization of Consumer Affairs Professionals in Business Fair Trade Commission Awards 2012 Environment Korean Society of Consumer Policy & Education Fair Trade Commission Grand Prize, Industry Leaders in Recycling Awards 2012 Ministry of Environment’s Award Ministry of Environment Korean Consumption Culture Association Fair Trade Commission East Asia 30 Korea CSR Expert Committee Awards Hankyoreh Newspaper Korean Association of Consumer Professional Fair Trade Commission CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) KOREA Carbon Management Global Leaders Club (2 consecutive years) CDP Korea ISTA(International Safe Transit Association) ISTA Commendation for New Technology Application 2012 Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy’s Prize’s Prize Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Korea Sustainability Investing Forum KOSIF (Director Ki Chun Lee, Environment Technology Institute) CEO Forum for Green Products Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Gold Prize, Vision Awards 2012 Sustainability Report League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) Korea International Trade Association Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Corporate Social Responsibility Conference 2012 Excellence in Sustainability Management (AA) Eco-Frontier, Morgan Stanley Capital International KOTRA Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 16th Energy Winner Awards Excellence in Energy Savings (“Hanbyum” Water Filtration Appliance CHP-241N), Consumers Korea Korea Electrical Products Safety Association Korean Agency for Technology & Standards, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Green Appliance Category (Bidet BA13-B) Korea Institute of Design Promotion Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) 2012 1st Prize in Water Filtration Appliance, Air Purifier, Bidet, Food Waste Treatment System Korea Management Association KAID Korea Association of Industrial Designers 51th IR52 Jang Yong-sil Award Water Filtration Appliance (CHP-241N) Korea Industry Technology Association Korea Electrical Products Safety Association Korean Agency for Technology & Standards, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy International Trade Fair Ideas Inventions Gold Prize (for anti-wrinkle retinoid derivatives (RS-2A) and cosmetic composition) International Trade Fair Ideas Inventions New Products New Products (iENA) 2012 (iENA) 2012 Pentawards 2012 Bronze Prize, High-end Cosmetics National Brand Competitiveness Index (NBCI) Water Filtration Appliance, Bidet Korea Productivity Center Great Work Place in Korea Grand Prize, General Service GWP Korea Certification Name of Certification Certification Certification Period Supervising Organization ISO Quality management system Qinyang Plant, Chinese Subsidiary 2013.06.29 ~ 2015.06.28 China United Certification Center International Design Award (ISO9001:2008) (China’s ISO9001 certification agency) New Excellent Technology Certificate (NET) Direct dispense/instant hot water system technology using platinum heating plate 2012.07.10 ~ 2014.07.09 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute (Product Code: CHP-010E) 2012 iF Design Award Low Carbon Certificate Water Filtration Appliance (CHP-210L) 2012.07.27 ~ 2015.07.26 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ① Water Filtration Appliance CHP-270, CHP-570 RoHS Certificate of Conformance Water Filtration Appliance (CHP-270L) 2012.10.04 ~ 2017.10.03 TUV SUD ② Air Purifier APM-1211GH, AP-0111LC APD-1212BH 2012.08.20 ~ 2017.08.19 SGS 2012 iF Design Award(Communication) Water Filtration Appliance (CHP-240,241N) 2012.04.03 ~ 2017.04.02 INTERTEK ③ Cosmetics Brand “allvit” Excellent Service Quality Certificate Appliance repair service 2011.09.23 ~ 2014.09.22 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ④ Cosmetics Brand “Bidan” New Excellent Technology Certificate (NET) Direct dispense/instant cold water system technology using external double tank 2010.12.28 ~ 2012.12.27 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2012 Reddot Design Award for micro size water filtration appliances ① Water Filtration Appliance CHP-240N, CHP-010E Chemical/Bio Technology: Anti-wrinkle agent containing 2011.12.21 ~ 2013.12.20 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ② Other (WHITE TRE) Bis-retinamido compounds ③ Air Purifier APM-1211GH, AM-1012AD Advanced water purification technology using MF-NF membrane filters/ 2011.11.08 ~ 2013.11.07 Ministry of Environment ④ Food Waste Treatment System WM07 optimal blending automation based on water quality data 2012 Reddot Design Award(Communication) CHP-570 WM-07 CHP-270 ISO Quality Management Systems Yugu Plant, Head Office, Incheon Plant, Pocheon Plant 2011.06.24 ~ 2014.06.23 TUV SUD ⑤ Water Filtration Appliance (ISO 9001:2008) 2012 IDEA Design Award ISO Environmental Management Systems Yugu Plant, Head Office, R&D center, Incheon Plant, Pocheon Plant 2011.06.24 ~ 2014.06.23 TUV SUD ① Water Filtration Appliance CHP-290N, Swan, CHP-240N, CHPI-280, Teeny-Weeny(Silver), Smart (ISO 14001:2004) ② Air Purifier APM-1211GH, AP-0111LC NEP Ceramic and nozzle sterilization using electrolysis for bidets (Bidet BA14 ) 2011.04.29 ~ 2014.04.28 Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy ③ Bidet Mechanic Certificate of Origin, Exporter's Certificate Acquisition of Exporter's Certificate for FTA Origin Verification System 2011.06.10 ~ 2014.06.09 ④ Other Service Brief (Silver), C-hanger, Welcome Package TR/S Mark Certificate Drinking water testing for sterilizing water filtration appliance 2011.11.09 ~ 2012.11.08 Korea Testing & Research Institute (KTR) 2012 Good Design KOSHA 18001 Incheon Plant, Yugu Plant 2010.05.25 ~ 2013.05.24 Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency ① Water Filtration Appliance CHP-240N OHSAS 18001 Yugu Plant 2011.07.14 ~ 2014.07.13 TUV SUD ② Air Purifier APM-1211GH, AM-2012AD Carbon Footprint Certificate Bidet (Model Code: BAS14-A) 2011.02.23 ~ 2014.02.22 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Low Carbon Product Label Certificate Water Filtration Appliance (Model Code: CHP-06DL) 2011.11.25 ~ 2014.11.24 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Carbon Footprint Label Certificate EL767. Food Waste Treatment System (Model Code: WM05-A/B) 2011.10.30 ~ 2013.10.29 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Carbon Footprint Label Certificate EL767. Food Waste Treatment System (Model Code: WM07) 2011.09.28 ~ 2013.09.27 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute Carbon Footprint Label Certificate EL767. Food Waste Treatment System (Model Code: WM03-A/B) 2011.09.08 ~ 2013.09.07 Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute allvit APM-1211GH 72 73 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of Coway: 4. Verified the basis of data and information presented by performing cial issues. In the Report, Coway presented these material issues The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility, which established AA1000, the international standard Coway commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) site inspection at Coway’s Head Office in Seoul and the Yugu Plant, in a fairly balanced manner. for stakeholder participation and verification, and is qualified to perform independent assurto provide an independent assurance of its 2012 Sustainability Reand verified the internal process and systems through various ance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who port (the “Report”). methods including interviews. have in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance, and com3. Principle of Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues pleted the relevant professional training. The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations Responsibility and Integrity Findings and Conclusions should be responsive to issues that may impact stakeholder perCoway is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all inIt is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report presents the sustainability formance. The Assurer found that Coway successfully identified March 2013 formation and opinions presented in this “Report”. The Assurer holds efforts and performance of Coway in a fair and accurate way. Also, the the basic, key, and ongoing management criteria as well as the Hong Jin, Chairman the responsibility which lies solely in providing a third party verification assurance verified that the self-declared requirements claimed by issues relevant to each criterion based on stakeholder needs and Korea Productivity Center of the content in the “Report”. As an independent assurance agency, Coway for the GRI Application Level A have been met. expectations, and presented a direction for sustainability manthe Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing this “Reagement. The Assurer commends Coway for taking into account port” with Coway, nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine 1. Principle of Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder concerns for sustainability management initiatives our independence. and its strong commitment to achieving balanced sustainability The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should Dongsoo Kim, management. However, the Assurer did not find specific mid to Director include stakeholders in the development and achievement of aclong term sustainability management strategies, systems and Assurance Standard and Objectives Sustainability Management Center countable and strategic responses to sustainability. Based on the plans established in connection with business operations. The AsThe independent verification process was planned and performed in findings of these assurance efforts, it is evident that Coway defined surer recommends Coway establish specific strategies and targets accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) Assurance its major stakeholders and communicated with each stakeholder in connection with business operations to achieve substantive and Standard to provide Type 1 moderate level of assurance. This was group to adhere to the principle of inclusivity. The company clearly coherent sustainable management and systematic management achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to Yang Ho Lee, understands the expectations of and communication channels for of relevant performances. The Assurer believes that such efforts Team Leader the AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality each major stakeholder group (customers, employees, central and will help Coway achieve sustainable management across its busiSustainability Management Center and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to local governments, shareholders/investors suppliers and communesses and present strategic directions, results and mid to long ascertain the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initianities). In particular, Coway established a process to incorporate term plans for each issue in the future reports. tive (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability customer feedback into business operations in an effort to achieve performance information. one of the most material issues, customer satisfaction, which the Tae Min Kim, Recommendations Assurer believes to be an excellent example of stakeholder enResearcher Assurance Limitations The Assurer commends Coway for making a variety of efforts to imSustainability Management Center gagement. Going forward, the Assurer recommends that Coway Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer perfurther enhances stakeholder engagement initiatives by managing prove sustainability and for the resulting performances, and presents formed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance the feedback collected via stakeholder communication channels the following for improving future sustainability reports and sustainduring 2012 as well as partial verification of the plan for 2013 and more comprehensively and incorporating them into broader areas ability management. data from 2011 and 2010. The scope of our procedures did not include of its business operations. verification of the reliability of data related to Coway’s financial and 1. The Assurer recommends that Coway establishes a corporate level environmental performance (including GHG emissions) and informa2. Principle of Materiality: Selection of and Reporting strategic system for managing the 2013 Sustainability Managetion linked with Coway’s website. Site inspection was performed at on Material Issues ment Framework on an ongoing basis and organizes the content of Coway’s Head Office in Seoul and the Yugu Plant, while the overseas future reports under each sustainability management strategy (i.e. The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should production sites were not included in the scope of our site inspection. DMA and KPI) to help the understanding of stakeholders. focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and Therefore, the Assurer clearly states that any additional verification 2. With increasing interest in the environment and Coway’s venture its major stakeholders. The Assurer found that Coway successconducted in the future may issue varied results. into new businesses in the sector, the Assurer recommends that fully identified issues relevant and material to the company and Coway establishes a management system for issues related to its major stakeholders through a wide range of methods such as Assurance Methodology water use, biodiversity, and GHG emissions. The Assurer recomassessment/evaluation of sustainability management, analysis The assurance was undertaken following the methodology specified mends that Coway analyzes the characteristics of each stakeholdof media coverage and web exposure, analysis of international below: er group and associated risks/opportunities to establish a strategic standards and relevant laws & regulations, analysis of SRI investstakeholder engagement process. Also, the Assurer recommends ment guidelines and performance indexes, analysis of sustainable 1. Verified if the Report satisfies requirements for GRI Application that Coway presents issues that stakeholders find important and management of leading companies/competitors, and stakeholder level A by reviewing the coverage rate of and presentation method grounds on which the company made such analysis. interview/survey. Coway also identified material areas and key isfor economic, environmental and social indicators specified in the 3. In identifying and presenting material issues, the Assurer recomsues and prioritized them by weighting some evaluation criteria GRI G3.1 Guidelines mends Coway perform a detailed analysis of the impact of the more heavily in the analysis process. “Product safety” and “cus2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and issues on the company and vice versa, and present the results. In tomer satisfaction & customer relationship management” were quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines particular, the Assurer wishes to see more detailed impact analyidentified as key economic issues, while “hazardous substance 3. Verified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and sis, performances and plans related to “product safety”, which was management and “greener products and equipment” were idencontent presented in the Report by reviewing media reports and identified as the most critical issue, and community issues, which tified as key environmental issues and “transparency and ethics performing benchmark analysis. are gaining importance at a faster pace compared to other issues. management” and “social contribution in communities” as key so74 75 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 GRI G3.1/ISO26000 INDEX GRI G3.1/ISO26000 Index ●: Fully reported ◐ : Partially reported ○: Not reported N/A: Not applicable ●: Fully reported ◐ : Partially reported ○: Not reported N/A: Not applicable Indicators GRI G3.1 ISO 26000 Subjects and Themes Page Reporting Level Note Indicators GRI G3.1 ISO 26000 Subjects and Themes Page Reporting Level Note 1. Strategy and Analysis EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights/6.6.6 20~21 ● 1.1 Statement from most senior decision-maker in organization 6.2 Organizational Governance 4~7 ● Promoting social responsibility in the value 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4~7, 13 ● chain/6.6.7 Respect for property rights/6.7.8 Access 2. Organizational Profile to essential services/6.8 Community involvement 2.1 Name of organization 8 ● and development/6.8.5 Employment creation and 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 ● skills development/6.8.6 Technology development 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 Organizational Governance 8 ● and access/6.8.7 Wealth and income creation/6.8.9 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 8 ● Social investment 2.5 Location of overseas branch offices and sites 80 ● Environmental performance indicators 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5 The environment 69 ● 2.7 Markets served 8 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use N/A 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 8 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 69 ● 2.9 Significant changes during reporting period regarding size, structure, or owneship 9 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 69 ● 2.10 Awards received in reporting period 73 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 39 ● 3. Report Parameters EN6 Reductions in energy requirements as a result of energy-efficient-or 41~43 ● 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided About this report ● renewable energy-based products and services 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About this report ● EN7 Indirect energy conservation businesses and achievements 39 ◐ 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 39 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 81 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 39 ◐ 3.5 Process for defining report content 14 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused N/A 3.6 Boundaries of report About this report ● EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 6.5 The environment 54 ◐ 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of report About this report ● protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 6.5.6 Protection of the environment & 3.8 Basis for reporting on comparability from period to period and/or between organizations About this report ● EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat 39 ◐ 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations for data, including performance index About this report ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored 57 ● 3.10 Explanation of the effects of & reasons for any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 38 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 57 ◐ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods applied in the report 38 ● EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species ○ 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 76~78 ● with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 3.13 Policy and current practices with regard to seeking external assurances for the report 7.5.3 Verification 74~75 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 The environment 39,69 ● 4. Governance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action 39,69 ● 4.1 Governance structure of organization 6.2 Organizational Governance 10~11 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 38~39, 42~43 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 10 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5 The environment 70 ● 4.3 Number of members of highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 10 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution N/A 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions to highest 11 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 69 ● governance body EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 69 ● 4.5 Compensation for members of highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 76 ● Performs regular assessment on the BOD operations EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A and activities. Board members are compensated EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed N/A fairly and appropriately based on the amount approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII EN25 Name of water bodies significantly affected by the reporting organization's 6.5 The environment/6.5.4 Sustainable resource use N/A 4.6 Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 10 ● discharges of water and runoff /6.5.6 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 10 ◐ and restoration of natural habitat 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 9 ● EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 6.5 The environment/6.5.4 Sustainable resource 40~43 ● 4.9 Procedures of highest governance body for management of economic, environmental, and social 76 ● Employees can make suggestions on economic, and extent of impact mitigation use/6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value performances social and environmental issues through the “BOD chain/6.7.5 Sustainable consumption Agenda” channel offered on the groupware. Submitted issues are discussed at BOD meetings. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5 The environment/6.5.4 Sustainable resource use 43 ◐ /6.7.5 Sustainable consumption 4.10 Processes for evaluating highest governance body’s own performance 10 ◐ EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance 6.5 The environment 77 ● Recorded zero environmental non-compliance 4.11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 13 ● with environmental laws and regulations in 2012. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 79 ● EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 6.5 The environment/6.5.4 Sustainable resource ○ 4.13 Membership in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 79 ● and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce use/6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16 ● chain 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 ◐ EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 The environment 71 ● 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 16 ● Labor practices and decent work performance indicators stakeholder group LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4 Labour practices 68 ● 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and responses to them 14 ● LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 68 ● Economic Performance Indicators LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.3 Employment and 47 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.2 Organizational Governance/ 11, 20 ● employees, by major operations employment relationships/6.4.4 Conditions of work 6.8 Community involvement and development and social protection EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to 6.8 Community involvement and development/ 37 ◐ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.3 Employment and 50 ◐ climate change 6.8.3 Community involvement/ employment relationships/6.4.4 Conditions of work 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation/ and social protection/6.4.5 Social dialogue/ 6.8.9 Social investment 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action 68 ◐ LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.3 Employment and 50 ◐ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 67 ● employment relationships/6.4.4 Conditions of work EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection/ 68 ● and social protection/6.4.5 Social dialogue locations of operation 6.8 Community involvement and development LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management 6.4 Labour practices/ 50 ◐ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value 56 ◐ worker-health and safety committees 6.4.6 Health and safety at work significant locations of operation chain/6.8 Community involvement and development/ LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 69 ● 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development/ and number of work-related fatalities 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.6 Health and safety at 36, 51 ● EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 6.8 Community involvement and development/ 68 ◐ in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members work/6.8 Community involvement and 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development/ development/6.8.3 Community involvement/6.8.4 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Education and culture/6.8.8 Health EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights/6.8 55~59 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.6 Health and safety at work 36 ● Community involvement and development/6.8.3 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.7 Human development 68 ● Community involvement/6.8.4 Education and culture/ and training in the workplace 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development/6.8.6 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning and assistance in 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.7 Human development 49 ◐ Technology development and access/6.8.7 Wearth and managing career endings and training in the workplace/6.8.5 Emloyment income creation/6.8.9 Social investment creation and skills development 76 77 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 GRI G3.1/ISO26000 INDEX/UNGC/MDGs ●: Fully reported ◐ : Partially reported ○: Not reported N/A: Not applicable ●: Fully reported ◐ : Partially reported ○: Not reported N/A: Not applicable Indicators GRI G3.1 ISO 26000 Subjects and Themes Page Reporting Level Note Indicators GRI G3.1 ISO 26000 Subjects and Themes Page Reporting Level Note LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.7 Human development 48 ● Regular performance and career development assessment is Responsibility Performance Indicators development reviews and training in the workplace limited to regular employees in administrative functions (36.1%). PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed, 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights/ 28,31 ◐ LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ 68 ◐ and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value according to gender, age group, minority group membership, 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work/ chain/ 6.7 Consumer issues/6.7.4 Protecting and other indicators of diversity 6.4 Labour practices/ 6.4.3 Employment and consumers' health & safety employment relationships PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption N/A No applicable cases in 2012 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ 68 ● concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work/ by type of outcomes 6.4 Labour practices/6.4.3 Employment and PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage 6.7 Consumer issues/6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual 40~43 ◐ employment relationships/6.4.4 Conditions of work of significant products and services subject to such information requirements and unbiased information and fair contractual and social protection practices/6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health & LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ 68 ◐ safety/ 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption/6.7.6 6.3.10 Fundemantal principles and rights at work/ Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection dispute resolution Human Rights Performance Indicators PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7.9 Education and awareness 30 ● HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include 6.3 Human rights/6.3.3 Due diligence/ 63 ◐ Recorded zero human rights non-compliance in 2012 by codes concerning product and service information and labeling thoroughly conforming to domestic laws and conventions human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity/ 6.6.6 Promoting PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 6.7 Consumer issues/6.7.4 Protecting consumers' 26~27 ● established by international labor organizations. social responsibility in the value chain customer satisfaction health & safety/ 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption/ HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening 6.3 Human rights/6.3.3 Due diligence/ 63 ● 6.7.6 Consumer service, support and complaint and on human rights 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity/ 6.4.3 Employment dispute resolution/6.7.8 Access to essential services/ and employment relationships/ 6.6.6 Promoting 6.7.9 Education and awareness social responsibility in the value chain PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related 6.7 Consumer issues/6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual 30 ● HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of 6.3 Human rights/ 49 ● to marketing communications and unbiased information and fair contractual human rights that are relevant to operations, including percentage of employees trained 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity practices/6.7.6 Consumer service, support and HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 6.3 Human rights/6.3.6 Resolving grievances/ 68 ◐ complaint and dispute resolution 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7.9 Education and awareness 30 ● 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work/ codes concerning marketing communications 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of easures customer 6.7 Consumer issues/ 78 ● Number of customer claims related to customer information leaks HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective 6.3 Human rights/6.3.3 Due diligence/ 50 ◐ privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy (1.98 million cases) in 2012 was 420 (as of March 5, 2012, cumulative) bargaining may be at significant risk 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations/6.3.5 Avoidance of PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations 6.7 Consumer issues/ 78 ◐ Conformance to relevant laws and regulations. Recorded zero complicity/6.3.8 Civil and political rights/ concerning the provision and use of products and services 6.7.6 Consumer service, support and complaint and non-compliance in 2012. 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work/ dispute resolution 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships/6.4.5 Social dialogue HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, 6.3 Human rights/6.3.3 Due diligence/6.3.4 Human 78 ● Coway categorically prohibits child labor as well as forced labor. and measures taken rights risk situations/6.3.5 Avoidance ofcomplicity/ 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR7 UNGC/MDGs Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or labor, and measures taken 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work 78 ● HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures 6.3 Human rights/6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity/6.4.3 49 ◐ concerning human rights relevant to operations Employment and employment relationships/6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 6.3 Human rights/6.3.6 Resolving grievances/6.3.7 N/A Recorded zero violation of the rights of community members in and actions taken Discrimination and vulnerable groups/6.3.8 Civil and 2012 (based on legally defined standards). UNGC political rights/6.6.7 Respect for property rights We joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in June of 2006 to comply with the 10 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ 6.3.6 Resolving greivances/6.3.9 Economic, social 63 ◐ and cultural rights/ 6.3.10 Fundamental principles principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in addition to or impact assessment HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved and rights at work 51 ◐ fulfilling our social responsibility as a corporate citizen and pursue growth. Through this susthrough formal grievance mechanisms tainability report, we assess where we stand and make pledges for the future. Society Performance Indicators SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights/6.8 57 ◐ manage the impacts of operations on communities Community involvement and development/6.8.5 Category Principle Employment creation and skills development/ Human Rights 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation/6.6.7 Respect for 02. Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. property rights Labor 03. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 6.6 Fair operating practices/ 12 ◐ SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.3 Anti-corruption 12 ◐ 04. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 12 ◐ 05. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 6.6 Fair operating practices/ 78 ◐ Presented industry opinions on public policy to government 06. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement agencies. Environment 07. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 6.8.3 Community involvement N/A 08. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. politicians, and related institutions by country 09. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 6.6 Fair operating practices/6.6.5 Fair competiton/ ○ and monopoly practices, and outcomes 6.6.7 Respect for property rights Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 6.6 Fair operating practices/6.6.7 Respect for N/A No applicable cases in 2012 for noncompliance with laws and regulations property rights/ 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 6.3.9 Economic, social and cultural rights/6.8 N/A Community involvement and development/6.8.5 MDGs Employment creation and skills development/ We are fully committed to achieving the 8 Millennium Development Goal (MDG)s. Adopted in 2000 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation/6.6.7 Respect for property rights and set to be achieved by 2015, the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant 6.3.8 Civil and political rights 57 ◐ an international pledge to reduce the world population living below the poverty line by half. The potential or actual negative impacts on local communities eight international development goals aim to 1) eradicate extreme poverty and hunger, 2) achieve universal primary education, 3) promote gender equality and empower women, 4) reduce child mortality rates 5) improve maternal health, 6) combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, 7) ensure environmental sustainability, and 8) develop a global partnership for development. 78 79 Coway Sustainability Report 2012 GLOBAL NETWORK Global Network Local Network Overseas Network Head Office/ Pocheon Plant Chinese Subsidiary Malaysian Subsidiary This report is printed on Marshmallow and Munken Polar from Doosung Paper, Design Research Center 965-1 Giji-ri, Sinbuk-myeon, Pocheon Coway (China) Living Coway (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. the environmentally-friendly, FSCTM-certified paper stocks. The Forest Stew11-17F, Joogang Daily Bldg., City, Gyeonggi-do Goods Co., Ltd. Suite 6-1 & 6-2 level 6, ardship Council (FSC) mark is only awarded to paper and pulp products that are 7 Sunhwa-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul Tel: 82-31-531-0040 produced with materials from forests which are developed and managed based Wisma UOA ⅡNO.21 Jalan on environmentally friendly standards. Also, this report is printed with soy-based Tel: 08-2-2172-1007 Cosmetics: Pinang 50450. Kuala Lumpur, ink, which helps to significantly reduce air pollution by minimizing toxic emisYugu Plant/ Room 1301, Hongyuan Bldg. No.4 Malaysia sions from printing process. R&D Center Environment Quality Institute Jiuxianqiaolu, Chaoyang District, Tel: 60-3-2059-0000 (Environment Technology Institute) 658 Yugu-ri, Yugu-eup, Gongju City, Beijing, 100020, China www.coway.com.my Coway R&D Center South Chungcheong Province Tel: 86-10-5900-6760 Contact Information National University Research Park, Tel: 82-41-850-7805 www.xiongjin.net U.S. Subsidiary Coway is fully committed to providing accurate and reliable information on its Sn 4-1 Nakseongdae-dong, 695 S Vermont Ave. #110, sustainability management initiatives to stakeholders. The preparation of this Gwanak-gu, Seoul Incheon Plant Home Wellness Appliance: Los Angeles, CA, 90005, USA report was led by the Communication Team in cooperation with other departTel: 82-2-870-5000 85B-14L Namdong Industrial Complex GuangHua SOHO, Room 1005, Tel: 1-213-480-1600 ments, including the Production Division, the Environment Technology Institute, 676-16 Gojan-dong, Namdong-gu GuangHua Road, Chaoyang District, www.coway-usa.com the Environment Quality Institute, the Marketing Division and the CS Division. We Cosmetics Research Institute Incheon Metropolitan City Beijing, 100020, China will make ongoing efforts to ensure that our sustainability management efforts Tel: 82-32-820-7019 Tel: 86-10-5900-6760 are disclosed with greater accuracy through our reports. Your valuable opinion 1103-1104 JEI-Platz, 459-11 Netherlands Logistics Center Gasan-dong, Geumcheon-gu, Seoul Tupolevlaan 48, 111 NZ will be greatly appreciated. Tel: 82-2-6711-3222 Japanese Subsidiary Schiphol-Rijk, Netherland Coway (Japan) Co., Ltd. Tel: 31-20-65-0105 Coway Communication Team 8F, Sibanikeyuraku Bldg. 16F, Jungang Daily News Bldg., 7 Sunhwa-dong, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 1-10-13, Siba Minato-ku, Guangzhou Plant (China) Total Overseas Sales (Unit: KRW 100 million) Tokyo, Japan Tel: 82-2-2172-1288 / Fax: 82-2-773-2911/ E-mail: shh@coway.co.kr Raymond, TangKang Tel: 81-3-6436-5810 2010 692 Industrial Estate, Nansha www.coway.co.jp 2011 981 Econimic and Technology 2012 1,096 Development Zone, Nansha Communication Channel Thai Subsidiary District, Gunagzhou, Guangdong, Coway (Thailland) Co., Ltd. China www.coway.co.kr www.cowayir.co.kr Local Sales by Overseas Subsidiaries (Unit: KRW 100 million) 571,R.S.U Tower 4~5F, THFL, Tel: 86-158-1718-360 www.coway.com www.cowayir.com Sukhumvit 31 Klongton Nua, Coway Corporate Coway IR Website 2010 930 Wattana Bangkok, Thailand Website 2011 1,300 Tel: 66-2-661-8640 2012 1,305 www.coway.co.th blog.coway.co.kr twitter.com/cowaystory Coway Official Blog Coway Official Twitter Netherlands Logistics Center 1 China Subsidiary 1 Japan Plant 1 Subsidiary 1 U.S. Subsidiary 1 Thailand Subsidiary 1 Korea (HQ) Subsidiary 1 Date Published May 10th, 2013 Malaysia Plant: 3 Publisher Joon Kee Hong Subsidiary 1 R&D Center: 1 Published by Coway Co,. Ltd. ●Logistics Center Planning & Coordination Jae Hoon Jeong, Hyang Hee Seo (Communication Team) ●Subsidiary Photography Hyo Eun Seung (Communication Team) ●Export Planning & Design Honey Communications Tel: 82-2-325-9889 ●Production Plant Printed by Young Eun Munhwasa Tel: 82-2-2274-9250 ●R&D Center 80 81
