COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS “Kcell” JSC 2013 INTRODUCTION “Kcell” JSC (Kcell) is the cellular operator of Kazakhstan. The mission of the Company is development in entering new markets, creating new products and services to satisfy existing and new customer needs in exciting ways. Bring the benefits and make people's lives more comfortable through innovative services based on our skills in information and communication technologies. We will actively work with nationwide state initiatives related to delivering cutting-edge technologies to serve society. Our company plays an important role in Kazakhstan as a business structure, innovative company and responsible citizen. Kcell operates with respect to local culture and traditions and with the principle of giving back to society. As an active participant of United Nations Global Compact, we are implementing the ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We will remain diligent in working towards a more sustainable business by continuously supporting the United Nations Global Compact and implementing its principles in all aspects of our business. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Ali Agan CEO “Kcell” JSC Contacts: Aida Dossayeva, Corporate Affairs Director Tel. +7 727 2582755 ext. 1945 Fax: +7 727 2582755 ext. 1013 e-mail: aida.dossayeva@kcell.kz The principle Systems Implementations Outcomes Human rights The Principle 1: Code of ethics In its day-to-day business Kcell is governed by the Currently, 1 697 employees are with Kcell Businesses and conduct Kcell code of ethics and conduct and Privacy Policy throughout Kazakhstan. should support which provide guidance for all Kcell employees in how and respect the Personnel to conduct our business with honesty, integrity and Periodically information are updated and available to protection of Policies high standards of business ethics in relation to our all the Company’s employees at the internal webinternationally customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, portal http://intra.kcell.kz, where the employees may proclaimed Salary Policy business partners and competitors, the society in which freely express their opinions upon each issue and get human rights and we operate and the environment. necessary information about the Company, Instruction on procedures, etc. The most interesting and important The Principle 2: termination of EA Internal regulations as well as instructions are placed at issues may be found in the company internal Make sure that the internal web-portal. magazine “Kcell Magazine”. they are not Vacation complicit in regulation The employment agreement is executed with each Kcell launched an initiative for transformation of human rights employee where all rights and responsibilities of the corporate culture in 2012 and designed internal social abuses Recruitment parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are network for being more open and transparent and for regulation provided. getting feedback from all employees on different matters. Regulation on In addition, the Company offers to its employees a financial social package, which includes e.g. insurance program, Regularly updated information about the Company’s assistance to soft lending in the leading banks of the country, meal projects and campaign are available to external employees service, daily transportation as well as a wide spectrum auditoria at web-sites http://www.kcell.kz and of training programs. http://www.activ.kz and in our customer care offices List of and standardized dealer points. employees’ Financial Assistance is provided to employees (up to benefits and Supervisor level inclusive) in case of serious illness or Corporate groups on the most popular social limits funeral of an employee’s immediate family member or platforms (www.facebook.com, www.twitter.com, serious illness of an employee. www.mail.ru, www.vkontakte.ru) were created for Privacy Policy feedback from our clients. Employees are granted with an unpaid leave up to 5 (five) calendar days in case of marriage registration, child birth or death of close relative (with payment in the amount of employee’s three working day current salary). Labour The Principle 3: Kcell code of The employment agreement is executed with each All new employees are involved into the orientation Businesses ethics and employee where all rights and responsibilities of the program, which allows to make the fastest should uphold conduct parties, conditions of labor, rest, labor payment etc. are acquaintenance of the company and become its freedom of provided for. integral part. As well there are continuously carried association and Labor contract out contest for the employees of the company “Best the effective Constitution of Kcell to the utmost cooperate and render assistance to Operator”. recognition of the Republic of various public associations, protecting the rights of the the right to Kazakhstan socially vulnerable wide sections of the population. The Company has in place a comprehensive collective performance review system to analyze periodically bargaining Insurance The Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan its employees’ performance (based on targets and program prohibits using the child labor and Kcell operates in competencies) in order to properly compensate, retain The Principle 4: line with the labor laws. and promote its employees. The elimination Labour Code of of all forms of the Republic of forced and Kazakhstan compulsory labour The Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour The Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment The principle 7: Kcell code of To protect the health of the Company’s employees Aiming at water saving there were installed the water Business should ethics and there used the controlled systems of air conditioning saving taps, to decrease the level of power support a conduct depending on the outdoor temperature as well there consumption there were installed the power saving precautionary performed a regular replacement of filters and cleaning fluorescent lighting, to decrease of oil and petrol approach to Kcell Green of air supply and air conditioning systems. consumption Kcell creates car pool and reduce the environmental Office Rules number of business trips by using the 3G challenges Every year each Kcell employee has an opportunity technologies and we are going to support recycling, pass medical inspection and if it is necessary during the we encourage bike riding and provide an opportunity The Principle 8: autumn/ winter time have necessary injections. to our customers and employees to use our bike Undertake parking system in our offices. initiatives to In 2013 Kcell Green Office project was launched with promote greater the purpose to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental ecological footprints of offices. Our approach: don’t responsibility, wait, start with yourself. We are planning to reduce and paper and electricity consumption, and support recycling. The Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption The Principle Kcell code of Within the framework of implementation of this For communication and fastest response to the 10: ethics and principle Kcell follows the Code of ethics and conduct inquiries of our clients the call center operates 24 Businesses conduct as well as the Anti-Corruption Policy. hours a day. should work against Anti-Corruption A Security Service was established aiming at corruption in all Policy development of the system of preventive measures to its forms, react against the corruption and fraudulent-related including practices. extortion and bribery
