The Report of Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Declaration of Global Impact 2010 Publication Date 2011 1 Publication Prepared By Yusuf Bilinç KEVİNÇ Bursa Nilüfer Municipality Plan and Project Department R&D and Foreingn Relation Office Communication Bursa Nilüfer Mayoralty Karaman Quarter. Kültür Street. No:2 Nilpark floor 2-3 16130 Nilüfer/Bursa www.nilufer.bel.tr http://kss.nilufer.bel.tr kss@nilufer.bel.tr 2 CONTENTS 1 ABOUT THE REPORT 4 2 ABOUT THE GLOBAL COMPACT 5 3 GLOBAL COMPACT DECLARATION OF SUPPORT 6 4 MAYOR’S MESSAGE 7 5 NİLÜFER COUNTY AND NİLÜFER MUNICIPALITY 8 6 OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AND APPLICATIONS 12 6A HUMAN RIGHTS IN NİLÜFER 12 6B OCCUPATIONAL LIFE IN NİLÜFER 16 6C HEALTHY AND ENVIRONMENT FRİENDLY NİLÜFER 20 6D CIVIL DEFENSE IN NİLÜFER 28 6E HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL HERITAGE İN NİLÜFER 29 6F SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT İN NİLÜFER 31 6G CULTURAL ACTIVITIES IN NİLÜFER 37 6H SPORTS IN NİLÜFER 39 3 1. ABOUT THE REPORT Its Aim and Period Included This report has been prepared in order to present the performance of the Corporate Social Responsibility signed by Nilüfer Municipality in 18 December 2006 within the Global Compact to its partners. The determination of the scope of the report has based on 2010 calendar years. Our Reporting Principles The details of the activities given in this report are being published within the Annual Activity Reports according to legal obligations and shared to public following the approval of the Municipal Council. Accelerating its challenges on redefining the Corporate Social Responsibility approach in 2007 through self-evaluation and EFQM European Quality Awards application process, Nilüfer Municipality has chosen to make C Type reporting which also includes Global Reporting Initiative indicators (GRI-G3) within the proper topics in this third Corporate Social Responsibility Report while pursuing the Communication On Progress Principals of the United Nations Global Compact. Its Scope 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Bursa Municipality of Nilüfer includes all necessary elements of Global Compact Communicaton on Progress and the report comprehends all service units of the municipality. The declaration of the Administration expressing the continuity of the support to Global Compact  The statement about the measures taken for practising the Global Compact principles  The survey about current or estimated conclusions/outputs  This report has been printed limitedly in order to minimize the environmental impact, but can be accessed by all partners over our website. 4 2. ABOUT THE GLOBAL COMPACT In the World Economic Forum held in 31 January 1999, United Nations (UN) Secretary General Kofi Annan asked the leaders of the business world to support the Global Compact which is an international initiative. This initiative aims that the companies, public institutions, United Nations organizations, vocational and non-governmental organizations come together and challenge through common vision, objectives and values. Global Impact tries to popularize the responsible citizen notion in order that the agencies and the institutions support to eliminate the negative effects of globalization by benefiting the power of collective movement. Thus, by cooperating with the private sector and the other social partners, it aims “to provide a sustainable and comprehensive global economy” which is its main vision. Global Compact is totally a volunteer movement which has two main objectives: • Mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world • Catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals The UN Global Compact is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation. Global Compact is a “network”. In its center there lies the “Global Compact” office and six UN organizations: Office on Human Rights Commission, UN Environmental Programme, International Labor Organization, UN Development Programme, UN Industrial Development Organization, UN Office on Drugs and Crimes. GLOBAL COMPACTS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employmentand occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3. GLOBAL COMPACT DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Number : C-02-108 Date : 18th December 2006 Subject : Supporting Global Compact Kofi Annan Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Nilufer Municipality supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, partners and citizens. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Please find attached some general information regarding our company as well as the contact person responsible for contacts with the office of the Global Compact. Sincerely yours, Mr. Mustafa BOZBEY Mayor of Nilufer Municipality 6 4. MAYOR’S MESSAGE 22 years passed since Nilüfer has been constituted as a provincial municipality in 1987. All services, activities and projects of us to be a model and leader local administration in Turkey, are launched for the sake of “creating a sustainable city”. In our modern and innovative administrative mentality; we have adopted a model based on “integrated urban development” and shaped with the common efforts of our employees, partners and citizens. Because; we believe that the thing that makes a place “a city”, the thing that turns a concrete heap full of houses and streets into a place having a “spirit” and “identity” is the “collective culture” of the city. And we also believe that the essential basis of sustainable development are the local authorities that are democratic, showing respect to human rights, transparent, participative and giving account before the public. Nilüfer Municipality, reflects the vision of “known internationally, being the model and leader administrative institution of Turkey” to her Corporate Social Responsibility mentality by her administrative perfection and serving standarts developing continuously. By the first Corporate Social Responsibility Report, we aim to “expose our awareness” and to “create awareness” in our society. Our goal is to sustain our leadership in local authorities and added value by advancing the participative, corporate and ethic administrative mentality and standarts. The awareness to human rights, environment and labor standarts that we declared our support by signing the Global Compact, will continue to be the basis of our administrative mentality. We will develop our efforts that we started in order to reflect this awareness to all our related partners towards our corporate principles of “transparency” and “accountability”, and spread them to our society and its corporations in the future. Foremost our employees, i feel gratitude to our city council, partners, vendors and to our citizens -who are decisive about our performancewho supported us in our success. I greet everyone who put effort on this mission. Mustafa Bozbey Mayor 7 5. NİLÜFER COUNTY AND NİLÜFER MUNICIPALITY Type of Municipality Metropolitan Municipality Central District Establishment Date 1987 Center Population (1990) 36.897 Center Population (2000) 136.311 Center Population (2008) 212.194 Center Population (2009) 269.371 Center Population (2010) 285.269 Municipal Borders Acreage 23.324 ha. Total Adjacent Area 27.432 ha. Quarters Ahmet Yesevi, Alaaddinbey, Altınşehir, Ataevler, Balat, Barış, Beşevler, Cumhuriyet, Çamlıca, Demirci, Ertuğrul, Esentepe, Fethiye, Gümüştepe, Işıktepe, İhsaniye, Karaman, Konak, Kültür, Minareliçavuş, Odunluk, Özlüce, Üçevler, Ürünlü, Yüzüncüyıl, Akçalar Kurtuluş, Akçalar Zafer, Çalıi Gölyazı Bayır, Gölyazı Merkez, Görükle Sakarya, Görükle Dumlupınar, Görükle Kurtuluş, Görükle Zafer, Görükle İrfaniye, Görükle Gökçe, Görükle Büyükbalıklı, Hasanağa, Hasanağa Kızılcıklı, Kayapa Çamlık, Kayapa İstiklal, Kayapa Zafer. Villages in Adjacent Area Atlas, Badırga, Dağyenice, Doğanköy, İnegazi, Kadriye, Üçpınar, Yaylacık, Yolçatı, Konaklı, Ayvaköy, Başköy, Çatalağıl, Çalı, Fadıllı, Güngören, Karacaoba, Korubaşı, Kuruçeşme, Maksempınar, Tahtalı, Unçukuru Memberships Union of Municipalities of Marmara Region, Union of Municipalities of Bursa, Union of International Protection of Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights, Union of Historical Towns of Turkey, Turkish Healthy Cities Association, Turkish Quality Association (Kalder), European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM), European Cycle Route Network (Eurovelo) Cities for Climate Protection Union, European Healthy Cities Network , Uluabat Lake Irrigation Union, Cylcle Friendly Cities Network, Bursa Historical Bazaar and Inn Union, Bursa Turism Advertising Union, International Patent Union, International Libraries and Library Society Federation Sister Cities Republic of Kazakistan/Sirderya, Bulgaria/ Ardino (Eğridere), Ukraine/ Nikolayev, Romania / Braila, TurkeyMuğla / Dalyan, Azerbaijan -Baku / Nizami, Japan – Tokai, Cuba Havana / 8 Cerro, Sweden / Umea ,Turkey –Bursa/Mustafa Kemalpaşa(Çeltikli), Turkey – Bursa / Orhangazi(Çakırlı), Turkey-Bursa/ Orhangazi(Yeniköy), Kosovo / Peja Gained Awards and Certificates 2000 Progressive Journalists Association Bursa Branch “Award for Contribution to Culture and Art” 2002 TS EN ISO 9001:2000 Quality System Management Certificate Atatürk Culture, Language and History High Institution Special Award 2003 Kalder Competence in Perfection Cetificate in National Quality Award 2004 EFQM Europen Local and Regional Public Administrations Jury’s Special Award Karaman Governorship “Turkish Language Award” 2005 TÜSİAD and Turkish Infirmatics Foundation “National Electronic Turkey (e-TR)” Award City and Mayor Journal “City Awards” “Mayor of the Year Award” 2006 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certificate Kalder National Quality Award Success Award Cultural Heritage and Historical Urban Fabric Protection and Sustenance Project “Promotion Award” Anatolian Local Authorities Journal “Local Administrator of the Year Award” in “Environment and Health” Category 2007 TS EN ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate 2008 EFQM European Quality Awards Finalist Certificate Personal Secretary Journal “Local Authority Award” T.C. MBBB “Environment and Infrastructure Projects Award” 2009 Bursa Young Enterprenurs and Governance Association “Mayor of the Year’ 2009 Bursa Rotary Clubs Honour at Service Award 2010 Historical Cities Union Cultural Heritage Protection, Encouraging of Project and Application Award 2010 Local Administration Journal The Most Successful Municipality Award in the Culture Art Area 2010 Turkey Healthy Citites Union Application Award in “Health Life” area 2010 Atatürkist ideology Association Bursa Branch Office “ Local Administrator Being Model to Turkey” Award 9 Our Duty “Our Mission” Provide reliable municipal services to Nilüfer citizens in modern life standards, Contribute the sustainable development of Bursa, Sharing knowledge and experience with other local administrative corporations for pioneering the excelling of local authorities in Turkey. Our Objective “Our Vision” Being the model and leader local authority in Turkey, known internationally by service standards and administral excellence Our Values  Providing human focused and privilliged services  Providing beter service for more people by using less resources through the logic that we should continuously develop what we do  In all our operating processes, effecting the nature least negatively by thinking environment friendly  In our services, through the fact that the people may have different expectations and needs according to their gender, being aware of gender mainstreaming  Operating in the awareness social responsibility that arise from being an institution which exists for serving the public Main Policies and Priorities Nilüfer Municipality, through her main goal, has achieved the excellence in service standards and management by using the European Foundation of Quality Management Model and international management systems (Quality Management System, Environmental Management System and Occupational Health and Safety Management System). We provide our services through the policies which are formed in accordance with the management systems of the municipality. Our Quality Policy Through the human focused administral approach ve commit; Providing continuous and reliable services having the quality of meeting the current and future demands of partners, Raising the urban life quality and citizen awareness, Establishing mechanisms that provide the partners active participation in administration, Revising the service process through work perfection model and improve the efficiency and productivity continuously, Increasing the satisfaction of partners. 10 Occupational Health and Safety Policy (OHS) For creating a OHS culture we commit; Taking the protection of all our employees, suppliers and visitors health and provide their safety as the prior objective, Providing sources and making proper plans for providing the determination and control of the risky situations and decreasing the occupational accidents, Respect the legal regulations and legislation about OHS, Organizing educational activities to raise the awareness of our employees about occupational health and safety, Providing continuous improvement on OHS issues by participation of all employees. Our Environmental Policy Through the fact that the nature is the common wealth of all beings we commit; To implement the policies and strategies determined for sustainable development and improvement, Establishing an environmental management system for raising the life quality and a continuous development, Establishing methods for preventing and lessening the environmental pollution before it occurs, Providing the utilization of the natural resources and energy productively, Ensuring a healthy environment for the public to live, Reducing the waste at the source and providing recycling, Raising the social awareness in protecting the environment, preventing the pollution and solving the environmental issues. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy We commit to establish and keep active the “governance” mechanisms both within and out beyond the legal obligations in order to ensure the “expediency” and “sustainability” of the activities and public oriented services of our municipality. Our Transportation Policy We commit to provide human focused transportation which covers pedesterians, women, bike riders and disadvantaged groups (disabled, elder, kids etc). Our Equality Policy Intended for integrating the gender mainstreaming approach to local governance comprehension; we commit to determine policies and strategies oriented to raise the participation of women in decision making mechanisms and improving the daily life conditions of women and to ensure cooperation and coordination with all related partners. 11 Our Disabled Policy On behalf of Nilüfer Municipality, about the disabled citizens, we commit to ensure; a)Showing respect to human dignity and individual selfrule which also includes the freedom of making their own decisions and their indenependency; b)Preventing discrimination; c)To provide the full and active participation of disabled people to the society; d)To show respect to differences and acceptance of disabled people as a part of human variety and humanity; e)Equal opportunities; f)Accessibility; g)Equality of Woman and Man; h)Showing respect to the development capacity and the right of keeping their own identities of the disabled children. Nilüfer Municipality determines her main policies and priorities in accordance with being a public institution which serves whole partners. In determination of the priorities the opinions and demands of the partners are being regarded. For determining the priorities on the basis of quarters and planning the requirements, a table of quarter information is being established by using the statistical database, survey results and records of the applications of the citizens. This table is being used in determining the strategical plan and the budget. In order to make Nilüfer a city of health, education, science, sports, culture and art and thus raising the life quality, our projects are being prioritized regarding the requirements of the quarters. 6. OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AND APPLICATIONS 6A.Human Rights in Nilüfer Nilüfer Municipality; In accordance with our urban governance commitment, “through the fact that the essential base of a sustainable development is local administrations which are democratic, respectful to human rights, transparent, participant and accountable, creating a solidarist and organized society within the framework of accountability by providing participation in decision making and implementation processes”. Our approach, includes the principles of Global Compact related to Human Rights. According to these principles Nilüfer Municipality, 12 Principle 1 Shows respect and gives support to protect the global rights (of all partners )in her domains. Principle 2 Ensures that her own institutions don’t get involved in human rights violations. Principle 3 Shows respect to the reputability, privacy and personal benefits of the individuals. Principle 4 Shows respect to the differences of the individuals such as race, origin, religion, gender, social class, nationality, age physical handicaps. Principle 5 Provides equal opportunities to whole workers about personal development and career. Principle 6 Shows respect to the union rights of her workers. Human Rights Boxes “Human Rights Boxes” are placed in Ataevler Communication Unit, in Service Desk in City Hall, in Property Tax Desk in İhsaniye and in Nilüfer City Council, in order to help citizens to deliver their complaints about human rights. Boxes are being opened once a week and the requests are delivered to Nilüfer District Governorship. Equality Unit The objectives of Equality Unit established in our Municipality are, “For implementing the gender mainstreaming approach to local management approach, determining policies and strategies aimed at increasing the participation of women decision making processes and amending the daily life conditions of women, and also providing the cooperation and coordination with all partners”. A survey has been arranged in order to measure the awareness level of the municipal employees about the gender mainstreaming and planning her activities through that direction and training topics have been determined through the results. It carried out the application and preparation term activities of the TUSEQUAL project with the R&D and EU Relations Office. On 06 January 2010, a presentation about “Gender Mainstreaming and Local Politics” had been given to Nilüfer Mayor Mustafa BOZBEY, Council Members and Nilüfer Municipality employees by Turkey Coordianator of Europe Women Lobby, İlknur ÜSTÜN. In the activitiy which had been organized in Konak Culture House, the story of Equality Unit had been told that was established under the framework of Nilüfer Municipality. 13 Disabled Service Unit Nilüfer Municipality Disabled Service Unit, which went into action in 2010 May, aiming disabled citizens and families be in part of actual life and benefit from social municipalism effectively, supplies area visits, preparation of related booklets and surveys, evaluation of working conditions according to disabled people within the scope of Work Health and Safety applications. Disabled Service Unit have not remain limited with their workings, also partner activities were organized with other establishments. ENABİS project in which 3 protocol workings were completed, organized activities with UÜ.Disabled Students Consulting Unit and Muscle Disease Association on 3 December World Disabled Day, and trainings given to nurses and midwifes by the demands of UÜ Public Health and Research Center are some of these. Disabled Social Living Support Center ( Our House ) Nilüfer Municipality which has gone so many first into action within the context of disabled people, actualise Disabled Social Living Support Center ( Our House) and Disaster Information System Project in 2011. It is aimed to give day care service to physical, sight and hearing disabled cover 9 years by Our House Project. Workshop studies for improving the skills of disabled will be done. Some personal trainings as computer and walking stick using directed at sight disabled and cooking, ironing, making up bed will be given. Nilüfer Municipality will cooperate with Boğaziçi University Kandilli Observatory Disaster Preparation Unit and Bursa City Disaster Urgent Condition Directorate. It is aimed to educate disabled people for disaster state , collect information required during / after disaster for decreasing risks in disaster state and reaching social and psychological support quickly. Knowledge Acquisition Office Proper to equality, impartiality and clarity principles, which are the requirements of democratic and transparent administration, the Office serves to the Right of Knowledge Acquisition according to Knowledge Acquisition Law Number 4982. Knowledge Acquisition Applications 2008 2009 2010 Total Application 214 56 54 Responded positively and access to documents provided 193 56 54 Responded partially positively and partially refused and access to documents provided Total refused applications 21 14 Access to documents provided after removing the secret or confident information Applications transferred to other corporations/institutions Legal objections against refused applications Ethical Commission Nilüfer Municipality Ethical Commission was established and start its actions in March 2009 on grounds of the “Regulation about the Ethical Behaviour Principles and Application Methods and Essentials of Public Officials”. Ethical Commission holds stated meetings once in every 3 months and holds extraordinary meetings in case of emergency. The stated meetings also held in 2009. In the 29th Article of the Regulation about the Ethical Behaviour Principles and Application Methods and Essentials of Public Officials, the formation and duties of the Ethical Commission are defined as follows. “In agencies and institutions, an Ethical Commission of at least 3 in-house members should be established by the top director of the agency or the instituution, in order to pose and develop the ethical culture, to conduct and consult the employees about the problems of ethical behaviour principals and to evaluate the ethical implementations. The tenure of the members of the Ethical Commission and other issues should be determined by the top director of the agency or the institution. The personal backgrounds and the contact information of the members of the Ethical Commission should be delivered to the Board in three months. Ethical Commission works in cooperation with the Board.” Activities of Committee of Inspection In our country, by the legal regulations for fighting corruption, precautions are taken through social awareness raising. As an extension of this, Committee of Inspection Directorship has been established in our Municipality. The directorship which is affiliated directly to Mayor, is responsible for periodic auditing of other directorships, preparing detailed reports about the auditing results, showing determined faults and performing legal actions about the personnel causing these faults, consulting Mayor in demanded issues, and making examinations and inspections about the issues inherited by Mayor. Action Files 2008 2009 2010 Disciplinary Proceeding 1 3 15 Inspection Report 1 2 4 Number of Inspected Directorships 10 17 18 Bidding and Merchandising Services According to current State Bidding Law No: 2886, buying, selling, hiring and carriage works done by “İ” ruler monetary limits and according to Public Tender Act No: 4734 product purchase, building and service works merchandising operation are being made. Direct supply bidding are being made. Bidding can be made by announcements on web sites or newspapers, by website of Public Procurement Agency. Postbidding contracts are made. Movable operation forms are arranged. All movable goods are being recorded and monitored. Donations are being made. Brokerage operations are being made in bidding performed by Bursa Discharging Exploitation Branch Management and in bidding sales performed by Court Bailiffs. Internal Control and Pre-Financial Control Our Municipality has launched the “Internal Control and Pre-Financial Control” system on the basis of determining the principles, works, operations and processes related to prosecution of internal control and pre-financial control operations. Through the related legislation, activities given below are being done. Internal Control Activities, include the financial and other controls including organization, method, process and internal control determined by the management for; proper to goals, objectives, determined policies of corporation and proper to legislation, prosecution of activities efficiently, aconomically and productively, protection of properties and resources, keeping the acoount records right and accurate, producing the financial and administral knowledge on time and reliable. Pre-Financial Control, include the controls about using the resources efficiently, economically and productively; coherence of budget, usable subsidy amount, expenditure programme, financing programme to central government budget law and other financial legislation. 6B. Occupational Life in Nilüfer Municipality Operations within Human Resources And Training Directorship are done depending to; Law of Civil Servants No:657, Law of Municipalities No: 5393, Law of State Retirement Fund No: 5434, Law of Labor No: 4857, Law of Social Insurance, Law of Unions, 5510 Law of Social Insurances and General Health Insurance, Law of Strike and Lockout, Circulars, Legislation, Legislative Decrees, Collective Labor Agreement and Civil Servants Union Agreement. 16 Human Resources Evaluation Board Following the 2009 local elections, working boards have been established within the Municipality and thus a different governance comprehension has been revealed in terms of transparent governance concept. The board which consists of Human Resources Manager, Plan and Project Manager, Representatives of the Labor and Civil Servant Unions congregates regularly and evaluates the following agenda.  Personnel recruiting  Personnel disemployment  Personnel translocation  Career planning  Performance evaluation  Proposal System and rewarding  Personnel lodging demands  Performance evaluation  In house personnsel activities etc. First Comes Human and Satisfaction of Workers Our policy and strategy related to Human Resources Management, is being defined in Strategic Plan and revised annually in Administrative Revision Meeting. In this context, the strategy of “being the best municipality to work for” defined in 2002, has been revised in 2004 and under the main strategic objective of “excellence of management quality”, has began being examined more detailed as “trust” and “satisfaction” objectives. Thus, moving from the point of “First Comes Human”, intended to the absence of qualified personnel employment because of the political and legal changes in public institutions, the satisfaction of our workers that we accept as service partners, has bring forward. Results of Workers Satisfaction Survey are given as % in table below. Indicators (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 General Satisfaction 76 79 71 73 Satisfaction, participation, Commitment 79 80 72 73 Priding and using the potential 86 92 86 86 Leadership and management 76 83 75 77 Determining goal, management of perfection and performance 52 60 52 53 Training and career development 72 76 67 70 Communication 84 85 84 83 17 Working conditions 72 75 65 68 Union Rights In our municipality, collective contract is being made and implemented with workers and civil servants union systematically. Collective contract is being implemented to workers since 1987 and to civil servants since 2006. Nilüfer Municipality is the first in Bursa center municipalities to make a collective contract and made significant rehabilitation in payments. Same ratio rehabilitation has been made to temporary office workers payments and the principle of “equal payment for equal work” has been adopted.. By the year 2009, whole workers (including the permanent workers who were temporary according to Law Number 5620) and %97 of civil servants are union members. By the year 2010, whole workers (including the permanent workers who were temporary according to Law Number 5620) and %97 of civil servants are union members. Personnel Situation 2008 2009 2010 Civil Servant 174 233 236 Staffed Workers 170 238 216 Temporary Union Member Workers Temporary Office Workers Contracted Personnel 2 22 25 By Vendors 168 196 213 TOTAL 514 689 690 Equal Opportunities and Equality Unit In our municipality when employing or promoting, equality of opportunities is essential. In our employment policy, no discrimination like gender, ethnic, origin, social statue, being disabled etc is allowed, educational opportunities are given to everyone. In vertical, horizontal or intra-group assignments, our priority is to use current workers. The Equality Unit that is established within our Municipality, is performing actions “for implementing the gender mainstreaming approach to local management approach, determining policies and strategies aimed at increasing the participation of women decision 18 making processes and amending the daily life conditions of women, and also providing the cooperation and coordination with all partners”. As an extension of this goal, as well as the strategic plans and services of our municipality, evaluation of intra-municipal implementings by gender equality perspective is the responsibility of the unit. Career Development and Performance Rating System (PRS) In our municipality the most important input for career development is PRS. Career development of our staff is being monitored by PRS since 2002. By the revised system in 2005, directorship-office and person based performance rating, 360 degrees behaviour surveys and management systems have started to be made on target performance level. By the latest revision in 2007 results of Strategic Plan Performance, Management Systems Discordance Performance, Informatic Performance, Budget Performance, Process Performance and Workers Satisfaction Surveys by 360 Degree Behaviour Rating and Citizens Satisfaction Surveys integrated and transferred to electronic environment. This operation is the very first in public sector and according to Workers Satisfaction Survey, the satisfaction of the personnel reached %87 in 2006 and 2007. Personnel oriented social activities Social and cultural activities are orginized to develop our municipalities personnels’ communication also outside their workplace environment.the These activities are mentioned below.  İftar meal  Establishment anniversary meal  Participation to Cultural and Social activities  Bowling tournament  Backgammon tournament  Soccer tournament Management Systems Bursa Nilüfer Municipality is using European Foundation of Quality Management (EFQM) Excellence Model, in order to “continue the corporate management approach beyond the terms determined by elections cycles” and operating through international management systems (ISO 9000 Quality Management System, ISO 14000 Environmental Management System and ISO 18000 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been integrated into Quality and Environment Management Systems and thus all exercises have been planned in common through an integrated comprehension. The studies made in 2010 is as follows. 19  Risk analyses have been done for Nilpark. In the beginning of process Work Safety Surveys have been done to employees for gaining their opinions. The important points defined in the surveys are graded according to precautions taken.  Studies which were done were reported and presented to İSG Committee  A risk analysis study was realized aimed at disabled employees. Determinations and evaluations were reported and presented to İSG Committee.  Filling, maintenance and repairing of fire extinguishers, which must be according to our legislation in our buildings, has been done periodical to related firms.  Fire protection plan that will be implemented in all buldings and facilities are updated and approved.  The controls of electricity installation and conductor has done and defined deficiencies were removed by the report prepared.  All facilities and equipments’ maintenance and controls has done.  OHSAS 18001 Management System’s all documents and revisions were done in the scope of Integrated Management System.  Search and Rescue Fire Team has done fire and emptying applications.  İSG Committee Meetings were coordinated. Health and safety conditions were evaluated.  Determination and delivery of work clolthes and protection materials required for summer and winter.  Convenience evaluations of laws and regulations concerning our establisment in the scope of Work Safety was done.  Acceptable and unacceptable accident reports have continiously evaluated. 6C.Healthy and environment friendly Nilüfer Our Approach and Commitment Bursa Nilüfer Municipality, starting from 2005, with the awareness of creating “healthy city, healthy citizen” is exercising for World Health Organization Healthy Cities Project. After a long and detailed analysis, Nilüfer City Health Profile has been completed in 2007. With the information gathered by this profile, 2008-2013 Nilüfer City Urban Health Development Action Plan has been prepared in 2008. Our approach to sustainable environment, is defined in our Environment Policy. By our environment policy, based on the fact that the environment belongs to all creatures, we commit to;  Implementing the policies determined for sustainable development and improvement,  Establishing and amending continuously an environmental management system to increase the quality of life,  Building up methods to prevent and reduce environmental pollution,  Providing the productive use of natural resources and energy,  Guaranteeing the living of society in a healthy environment,  Providing recycling and reducing the waste at the source, 20  Increasing the social awareness about protecting the environment, preventing the pollution and solving the problems. Principle 7 Nilüfer Municipality supports the precautionary approaches through environmental issues. Principle 8 Nilüfer Municipality supports all actions and constitution to raise the environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Nilüfer Municipality supports the improvement and proliferation of environment friendly technologies. Healthy Cities Project Office Within the context of Healthy City Project, in 2010, SED trainning and application, participation to Nilüfer Health Platform meetings and national and international level meetings and doing studies about Inequalities in Health subject which is DSÖ 5. Phase main theme. DSÖ Europe Healthy Cities Network Annual Work and Technical Meeting was organized in Norway Sandnes City between 19-21 June 2010. It was realized by the participation of 324 delegate. Nilüfer Municipality participated to this meeting from Turkey. Its aim Nilüfer Health Platform has been established and 7 meetings have been held. WHO Healthy Cities Network 5th Phase Membership Nilüfer Municipality has applied for the direct membership for the WHO Healthy Cities Network in May 2009, the application has been examined by the advisors and experts of the WHO and the membership has been approved on grounds of the acceptance of having the awareness of ‘Healthy City’ in 4 November 2009. The inclusive theme of the 5th Phase is ‘Health in All Local Policies and Equality in Health’. The selected cities are expected to challenge for human focused and supportive environments, healthy living and healthy urban plannings. The aim of the meeting was mentioned as equality and comprehensiveness within health. The scan was done for the projects which will be go into action between 2010 and 2011 and the necessity for doing Health Effect Evaluation related to Arena Project was decided. Arena Concert Activity Area is one of goals which is concerned to be compeleted in 2011. The aim of SED application for this project is to serve a municipality servive consisting health applications, to supply community meet with culture and art and to increase participation of public to all of the projects. During SED, which was conducted by a team consisted of specialists, responsibles, quarter representatives project was examined in detail and it was tried to determine its health effects in city scale. In consequence of SED Study that durated approximately 4 months and its report necessary findings and results were gained. 21 Environment Management System Bursa Nilüfer Municipality established ISO 14000 Environment Management System in 2007 in order to decrease and follow the effects of its activities and services and to set its works in a standard system. In this system scope, by creating Table of Environment Effect Evaluation, the environment dimensions about our 48 municipality activies which effects environment was determined. These dimensions roles importantly for determining environment policy, environment purposes and targets in followingmeasuring activities and continiuous improvement projects. Targets and realizations about environment effects of our activities are taking part in the table below. 2008 2009 2010 ENVIRONMENT TARGETS TARGET TARGET TARGET REALIZATION TARGET REALIZATION Decrasing Recyclable Wastes 118 kg/ kişi 69,2 kg/kişi 67,8 kg / kişi 53,43 kg Decrasing Dangereous Wastes 1.150 kg 1.440 kg 1.368 kg 10.428.61kg * Decrasing Consuption of Electricity 166 kw/kişi 3.683 kwh/kişi 3.500 kwh/kişi 2.359 kwh/kişi Decrasing Consupmtion of Water 3,5 m3/kişi 289 m3/kişi ** 275 m3/ kişi 225 m3/kişi Giving Training aimed at Decrasing Waste Packages 60.000 kişi 28.000 kişi 30.000 kişi 30.000 kişi Collecting Plantal Waste Oil 100% 100% 100% 100% Decrasing Amount of Waste Oil 3,15 ton 194,16 Decrasing Fuel Consumption kg/kişi 50 kg/kişi * A deviation was occured because of being renewal year of rubbishes which complete its life. ** Due to fact that water consumtion follow is not effective in 2007, the result of 2008 target is determined wrong. Food Inspection Office: The desk founded in February 2002, certify and control the sanitary workplaces, 2nd and 3rd class non-sanitary firms, recreation and amusement places open to public through the related legislation; and also controlling the hairdressers, coiffeurs and beauty parlors. In 2010 inside county borders the office made totally 3280 routine monitoring and complaint controls in food facilities and made 2534 controls to district and adjacent areas. 22 Model Workplace Project: 5 more firms that gets convenience report in all controls made for the safe shopping of our citizens and have the awareness of overstandards quality and sanitary are being gratified by “MODEL WORKPLACE CERTIFICATE”. Within this activity as by the end of 2010, 20 firms received the “Model Workplace Certificate” from where 5 of them recalled. Environment Office Activities of Analyzing and Measuring the Environmental and Natural Risks: Environment Office established in 2005, is practicing in assessment about air, water, soil, noise and electromagnetic pollution, determining the risk factors by comparing the results with European and world standards, exercising about eliminating the risks and by the measurements preparing a database and risk map. Detailed information and measurement results about the city can be found in Website of the Office (http://cevre.nilufer.bel.tr) Waste Herbal Oil Collecting Within the “Waste Herbal Oil Control Regulation” which was enured with 25791 number official gazette on 19/04/2005, the authorization sharing was done by Ministry of Environment and Forestry on 21 February 2008. Because of this regulation by 2008 January collecting waste herbal oil became a must. In 2010 brochures were distributed to houses of the sites that oil drums were left and posters were hanged on notice board. It is aimed to inform guest coming the apartments about the work of herbal waste collecting by sticking stickers on apartments’ entrance doors. 100 units Herbal Waste Oil Collecting Drum were supplied and distributed by our Municipality. Drums are present totally in 325 Sites with 54 sites which were included in project in 2010. Herbal Waste Oil Collecting Drum and posters also left to 29 Mukhtar’s office. Electromagnetic Area Pollution In May, Constituting A Sample Model for Determining and Decreasing Electromagnetic Pollution originating from Base Station in Nilüfer County project was realized by our Municipality and Sakarya University Electric-Electronic Engineering Department After this study, Regulation related to Nilüfer Municipality’s construction permit and occupancy permit of Base Stations were prepared and decided in Municipality Council Meeting for protecting existing Electromagnetic Area Level originated from existing Base Stations in Nilüfer County and for not causing Base Stations more Electronical pollution whose number are expected to rise because of technological improvement. Our forestation and saving green fields activities Green Nilüfer Week and Forestry Week celebrations, hobby gardens, Atatürk City Forest, our parks and the usage of fertile soil in parks taken from construction areas, Marital Forest. 23 Parks and Gardens Activities Table 2008 2009 2010 Care Works Total Planting Works Area (m2) 647.693 657.693 732.370 Total Public Garden Green Area (m2) 268.280 657.464 285.990 Park and Landscaping Activities Total Area (m2) 2.536 11.680 31.740 Total Public Garden (units) 7 4 7 Runway Distance (mt) 920 3730 Runway (units) 3 4 Recreation Park (units) 1 Play Ground (units) 7 4 6 Planting Activities Total Sapling (units) 6.9769 4.660 7613 Total Bush (units) 263.777 186.321 244.596 Tree Transportation (units) 265 161 176 Marital Forest (units) 906 881 765 Pavement Sides (units) 1.775 1.099 1.310 Refuge Sapling (units) Refuge Bush (units) Park Area Sapling (units) 3.823 2.519 4.912 Park Area Bush (units) 263.777 186.321 244.596 Best gardens of the year Municipality organizes gardening trainings every summer and awards the best gardens to encourage public for environment arrangement and to develop environment culture by raising their awareness about subjects like garden maintenance in Nilüfer. Participation of this traditional competition incerases every year. In Nilüfer in the Most Beautiful Garden Competition where 10 sites, 6 private houses and 4 factories competed in 3 categories as house-site and factory gardens many beautiful gardens came up. 24 Green Nilüfer Week Annually between 23-26 September, we are organizing “Automobileless City Week” in order to increase the life and health quality of our citizens, decreasing the traffic and addiction to cars, limiting their affects on climate, raising the awareness and guiding citizens to mass transportation, providing maximum citizen to be aware of benefits of mass transportation and live in a more healthy environment. Cycle House Inaugurated Nilüfer Municipality, has carried out the “100% Cycle” project which aims to bring in a life experience by producing while consuming without giving away our daily habits. The project which is the first to in Bursa has been realized in Nilüfer Municipality hobby gardens. Within the project which was supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Life Plus Youth Programme carried out by the Coca-Cola Turkey in 2005 and Nilüfer Municipality, the sample area of the project consisting of 2 hobby houses and the greenhouse has been opened to visitors. Within the project which is being executed by Başka Association and Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 in cooperation, the 70% of the power demand of the greenhouse is being generated by solar energy. The production are of 100 square meters of the greenhouse where vegetables such as tomato, pepper, cucumber are being grown, is being heated by solar energy system in winter. Indoor market place in Nilüfer Nilüfer Municipality is working hard for establishing healthy and modern market places in town. The market places are being covered by steel construction in order to provide more functionality and a more healthy atmosphere both for the tradesmen and for the citizens. Starting this project in order to improve the conditions of the current market places, Nilüfer Municipality, gives multi function to these market places by utilizing them for sports and cultural activities and as car parking area on free days. International Eskikaraağaç Stork Festival: This year Eskikaraağaç Stork Festival was realized on 22-23-24 May which orginises every year for sharing studies with public opinion about protecting storks and migratory birds that come every year to “Living Lake” Uluabat. On festival’s first day precautions for electrical lines for decreasing stork deaths were discussed by attendence of Chambers of Electrical Engineering and the cable production firms, the second day a workshop was organized in which the effects of İzmir Highway on Uluabat was talked. On the third day as every year vessel trips, folk demonstrations, children games were composed, the festival ended by Suzan Kardeş Concert. 25 Gölyazı Workshop Nilüfer Municipality, who started a series of practices in Gölyazı which is the most prosperous ancient settlement in Nilüfer District, held a workshop in 14-17 October 2009 to discuss how to evaluate this potential, the problems of Gölyazı and the solutions and the future of Gölyazı. In order to take the inventory of the vicinity, before the workshop, ‘Gölyazı Archaeological Evaluation Meeting’ and ‘Gölyazı Reconstruction Plan For Protect Evaluation Meeting’ was held with the participation of expert academicians and architects from various universities. Before the workshop which was organized in cooperation with Nilüfer Municipality, Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 and Uludağ University, series of meetings with Gölyazı citizens and tradesmen were held. The students part of the workshop have discussed “What kind of a Gölyazı do we want?” with the participation of the students from the departments of architecture, urban and regional planning and interior architecture. In the workshop where the opinions of the Gölyazı citizens also shared, workshops with topics ‘Gölyazı Architecture and Urban Planning Process and The Future’, ‘History, Archaeology and Cultural Assets of Gölyazı’, ‘Agriculture-Fishery-Employment and Economic Problems in Gölyazı’, ‘Protection of Lake Uluabat and Environmental Issues’, ‘Infrastructure and Transportation Problems of Gölyazı’ and ‘Tourism and Promotion in Gölyazı’. The goal of the workshops was to draw a road map about how the main of Gölyazı which has a great potential in terms of tourism through its historical and natural features would be solved and how this potential would be evaluated. The festival of Environment Cleaning of Gölyazı In the name of surviving Ulubat Lake, whose title is “Living Lake”, on 5 June World Environment Day conferences and movie presentation about environment organized and public were informed. In The festival, in which was shown an interest by public, environment of Uluabat Lake and Gölyazı was cleaned using gloves and garbage bags. Animal Welfare and Breeding Activities Our activities are, protecting health of animals in municipal borders of Nilüfer, caring, consultation, treatment, vaccination, castration of animals belonging to citizens, providing accommodation services through the demands, finding pet owners for estrays, foremost hydrophobia fighting epidemic diseases and all zoonosis that threats human health, improving and implementing modern methods for controlling the estrays, in Veterinary Works Directorship, insecticide fighting within pesets fighting. In our full-equipped Animal Hospital, in order to rehabilitate our animal friends, diagnosis, treatment and surgery operations are being done by consultants. Our Animal Hotel is a facility formed of open and heated closed airing areas, where pet owners can commend 26 their animals. And by the sound system in all cages, the stress of being away from home is being reduced by classical music. Activities of Fighting Epidemic Diseases 2008 2009 2010 Estrays Dogs 2043 2959 2372 Cats 370 813 884 Hydrophobia Incidents Observation 38 36 59 Negative 38 36 59 Positive Fighting with Pests 2008 2009 2010 Larval Activities 170 7.760 0 ULV Activities 382 74.032 0 Closed Area Demand Amount 225 227 146 Rat fighting Demand Amount 65 417 128 Storm drain disinfection 27.430 38.374 0 Green Area (ha) 1.260 721.145 0 Dunghill Disinfection 4.074 3.685 0 Container Disinfection 24.809 29.943 0 Animal Hospital Services 2008 2009 2010 Consultation 2.038 2352 2070 Vaccination Combination 325 465 485 Hydrophobia 279 286 264 Antiparasitic Implementation 217 272 469 Surgical Operation OHE 545 445 62 Castration 464 553 41 Surgery 186 183 39 27 Accommodation and Rehabilitation Services 2008 2009 2010 Hotel/Hostel Dogs 145 151 125 Cats 11 7 4 Alley Animals Dogs 1.548 2061 2372 Cats 323 364 884 Finding Owners Dogs 345 599 548 Cats 95 110 107 6D. CIVIL DEFENSE IN NİLÜFER Civil Defense Proficiency Activities To take precautions for minimizing the loss of life and property in natural disasters and fires, rescue activities, preparing safety plans for saving municipal workers, facilities, equipment is under responsibility of Civil Defense Proficiency. Training ,Exercise and Activities 2010 Civil Defense Establisment Anniversary Ceremony and 15 Search and Rescue exhibition Personnel Antalya City Civil Defense Experts Seminar ( 1 week ) 1 Civil Defense Expert Earthquake and Fire Evacuation Exercise 169 Personnel Nilüfer Search and Rescue Team (NAK) NAK Team which is formed by our volunteer citizens, representing 7 days 24 hours our Municipality and County, totally voluntary labor for interfering natural disaster and urgent states and delivering citizens to health units, close relatives and offices in situations required for special search and rescue skills especially in Nilüfer County, in our city Bursa, and in the whole country. NAK, being a part of United Nations Humanitarian Assistance Coordination Office and The European Transparency Initiative, will go to Budapest to sign a protocol for gaining support 28 from Budapest Center Rescue Team for disaster , urgent circumstances and doing studies together with Hungary Ministry of Internal Affairs , National Disaster Administration Office and for supporting Budapest in search and rescue operations with Budapest Center Rescue Team. NAK, arranging search and rescue operations in situations as under water, surface, wreck, traffic accidents, losts, landslide, snowslide, urban accidents ( Lift Cabin Fall and squeezing etc.) Plain , helicopter falls, building and forest fires, meanwhile supports crowd social activities as Turkey Off-Road Championship, Centennial Adventure in Cycle, National Paragliding, Distance Flying Cup for precaution. Natural Disaster Booklet of Nilüfer citizens Natural Disaster Booklet of Nilüfer citizens which is prepared by Nilüfer Local Agenda 21 Disaster Organization Work Group and Nilüfer Search and Rescue Team, have been printed 10.000 copies and delivered to citizens in the shopping malls. Illuminated and Safe Nilüfer Project: Aims to be ready for possible natural disasters by detection of power plants in official and private institutions, by creating illuminated corridors that will carry citizens to Disaster Assembling Centers with these power plants, and also educating primary school students, and gatekeepers and stuff of those institutions. 6E. HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL HERITAGE IN NİLÜFER In Nilüfer which has many significant historical values both above and below ground, Nilüfer Municipality which works hard for prevent and maintain the cultural heritage and transfer them to the future generations, is carrying out renovations all around the town. Gölyazı Saint Panteleimon Churh Gölyazı town is one of the richest ancient settlement location in Nilüfer. According to information of written resources, the ancient name of Gölyazı is Apollonia ad Rhyndacum. In real terms any archaeological digging haven’t done up to the present. But some information have acquired by examining coins which have found in the area. In the region, beside Apollonia ad Rhyndacum coins belonging to B.C. 1. Century , many Byzantine Empire coins have found. Alyos and Manastır Islands where are on both in Gölyazı and in Ulubat Lake ancient materials belonging also Byzantine Period. Saint Panteleiman Church, constructed in the second half of 19. Century, is predicted to be one of the most important ruins. Church is one of the most necessary example of hellenic classical architecture. The studies of restoration of this constructure has started in the scope of 33. Tourism Week Activities in April 2009 and nearly completed. When the construction is completed, it will be used as Culture Centre. 29 Misi Protection and Sustenance Project In Gümüştepe Quarter, formerly known as Misi, the appearance of the vicinity is changing through the renovations and frontal renewals in order to maintain the historical texture. In the vicinity which is well known with the old houses that maintained till today with their unique architecture and therefore announced as Urban SIT area in 1989, there are practices to renovate and functionalize the 27 registered building in Misi within the ‘Misi Protection and Maintenance Project’. Misi MaskemBardakçı Frontal Renewals Frontal renewals have being maintained according to Misi Protection Aimed Construction Plan in the streets which are described to be protected. In the streets where historical houses are present and in Misi where there are construction belonging to 17 th and 18 th century, frontal renewals of houses were done in Alipaşa Road, Nilüfer Street , Sultan Street in the first phase. Our efforts conducted in Misi were supported by Mention of Historical Cities Union. When our continuing frontal renewals in Maksem and Bardakçı Street is completed, Misi will be a real film plato reflecting urban texture of many centuries before to nowadays. Misi Bookstore The construction which is situated in village square, have the property of having single balcony. It is projected to functionalize as Bookstore-Cafeteria where mecanical installation and illumination are nearly completed. Misİ Nazım Hikmet House This construction is situated near mosque in village square. It was builded two layered whose ground floor is stone and upstairs is wooden. Taking life and asset safety in consideration destruction decision was approved and its construction have being continued accord with its project. It is the single construction having roof window in Misi. Demirci Mosque Another renovation exercise in Nilüfer is being carried out in Demirci Quarter. In the Demirci Mosque which is one of the registered buildings in the vicinity, a precise work is being carried out by Nilüfer Municipality over the hand-drawings which revealed after the coatings rubbed out. The goal is to functionalize this historical building through a cultural identity when the renovation is completed. 30 6F. Social Development in Nilüfer Campus of Academic Chambers: In the campus, which is a “democratic participation” project these institutions are existing; Bursa Law Society, Notary Chamber, Bursa Public Accountants and Financial Advisors Chamber, Sworn Financial Advisors Chamber, Dentists Chamber, Pharmacists Chamber, Doctors Chamber, Veterinary Surgeons Chamber, Electricity Engineers Chamber, Topographical Engineers Chamber, Construction Engineers Chamber, Chemistry Engineers Chamber, Mining Engineers Chamber, Mechanical Engineers Chamber, Architects Chamber, City Planners Chamber, Agricultural Engineers Chamber. Anatolian Arasta Nilüfer Municipality is carrying out a new project which will gather the whole prosperity of Anatolia and which will be a haunt of tourism in Bursa. The goal of the Anatolian Arasta Project which will gather the fellow countrymen associations in Bursa, is to meet up the traditional architectural features, foods, clothings namely all folkloric and unique cultural items of different cities in the same campus. In the Fellow Countrymen Associations Campus which will be constructed in Balat Quarter on about 164.000 squaremeters area; buildings that carry the typical regional civil architectural features of the 81 cities and also the Caucasus, Balkans and Western Thrace will be constructed. In the campus where regional cuisine, handicrafts, musical and folkloric features will be exhibited; the socialization of the people will be provided through training workshops, amphitheatre, multi purpose cultural centers, sports and social facilities. Association offices, conference hall, library, public training center, workshops, malls, cafes, picnic areas, outdoor sport areas, pools, market place and walking tracks will be in the campus. The foundation process of the Anatolian Arasta Tourism Development Cooperative which will embody the whole associations of the cities and the federations of Balkans and Caucasus is still continuing. Within this scope the meetings where the strategical importance of the project is being told the associations and where the information about the regional motives that will be used in the designs of the management offices are being taken, are being held. The goal is to maintain the just like samples of the houses which are significant for Turkey and for that city with their history and architecture in the Project. It’s being planned that the architecture, material and the labor of the houses would be provided by the countrymen. Two good project for disabled children Rotary Clubs and Nilüfer Municipality collaborated for the disabled children which are the most ignored part of the society and the first ‘Disabled Park’ of Bursa has been taken into service. The project was prepared by Nilüfer Municipality and the park has been built on 3.588 squaremeters area in Esentepe Quarter. 31 The center which will educate and cure the spastic disabled people who are more then 1 million in Turkey and who are mostly live without getting out of their house, will be carried out in cooperation with the Çekirge Rotary Club. Nilüfer Work Office: “Nilüfer provides employment” Nilüfer Municipality who has carried out one of the best examples of social municipalism by the employment providing training which were started in order to let off the effects of the financial crisis, has provided employment to over 1.500 people. Nilüfer Municipality is extending her challenges in this realm by collaborating with several corporations. Working for the primarily employment of Nilüfer citizens in the industrial enterprises that will be established in Nilüfer, Nilüfer Municipality is continuing to give vocational training in the fields which are being determined according to the qualified manpower demand of the employers. Nilüfer Municipality has organized vocational courses in industrial systems maintenance and repairing, medical documentation and secretary, child care, bureau management and secretary and provided employment for hundreds of people. Nilüfer Municipality provided employment for 37 people to work in the environmental cleaning, forestation, garden care, renovation and protection of cultural heritage project in cooperation with Governorship of Bursa, İş-Kur Bursa Branch. Paying attention to gender equality in all her practices, Nilüfer Municipality put the second hand shop into service which is called ‘İmece’ and of which the income will be used for the education of women in cooperation with Uludağ Soroptimist Club. In the shop which was inaugurated in İhsaniye Quarter in Şahinler Site within the slogan of “For abolishing Poverty and Deficiency’, several underused second hand stuff are being repaired and sold at a very low price. Thus these stuff are being evaluated and brought into economy and citizens have the opportunity to buy cheap goods. Vocational Courses and the number of FEMALE MALE TOTAL Participants Diction Course 21 4 25 Medical Secretary 1 78 78 Medical Secretary 2 76 1 77 Basic Computer 40 8 48 Wooden Painting (Gidaş) 18 18 House Furnishings ( Hasanağa ) 15 15 Hard Patch ( Hasanağa ) 21 21 32 House Furnishings ( Toki Hasanağa ) 18 18 Point Lace ( Kayapa ) 16 16 Hand Embroidery (Kayapa ) 15 15 Ribbon Embroidery ( Çalı ) 18 18 Point Lace ( Çalı) 15 15 Point Lace ( Demirci) 46 46 House Furnishings ( Beşevler ) 52 52 Mother Child Training Program (Beşevler) 20 20 Handicrafts (Beşevler) 17 17 Jewellery (Gidaş) 16 16 House Furnishings ( Gümüştepe ) 13 13 Point Lace ( Gümüştepe) 20 20 Hand Embroidery (Ata Çarşı ) 12 12 Wire breaking ( Ata Çarşı ) 15 15 House Furnishings ( Üçevler ) 14 14 Handicrafts ( Üçevler ) 15 15 Furnishings ( Akçalar ) 17 17 TOTAL 380 105 485 The information about job applications to Nilüfer Municipality Job and Occupation Providing Office and employing state is given below in table. State of Job Employed Education Application Primary School 773 58 Highschool 1020 75 Industrial Highschool 315 26 33 College 781 University 1417 51 2010 TOTAL 4306 210 Traditional Hasanağa Artichoke Festival 4rd Hasanağa Artichoke Festival which is the only artichoke festival around the world and which is organized by Nilüfer Municipality with the participation of nearly 2000 people in 2010; gave the citizens the opportunity to have a joyful day with the concerts, competitions and dances. The festival which aims to promote the region where the best artichoke of Turkey is being grown, the best artichoke producer is being chosen and also through the most delicious artichoke meal contest, traditional cuisine is being transferred to next generations. Çalı oil wrestling 485 wrestlers participated in Çalı Oil Wrestling which is organized for the 47th time by Nilüfer Municipality this year. Within the scope of Traditional Çalı Oil Wrestling, concerts and folk dance shows also been organized. The activities continued for 2 days. Who’s The Most Hardworking? Within the “Who is the most hardworking?” campaign which was launched by Nilüfer Municipality 4 years ago for the first time and where the top scoring students in state and private schools in Nilüfer are being awarded, this year nearly 400 students have been awarded by bicycle. Women are Closer to Life in Nilüfer In activities, which aim women be closer to social life and aim to increase their interest and awareness for books, women met with women writers. Our writers Ayşe KİLİMCİ, Ayla KUTLU, Özlem YILMAZ shared their books for this purpose in 2010, totally 513 people participate to this activity. Traditional Circumcise Feast The Mass Circumcise Feast has been organized for the 13th time in 2010 by Nilüfer Municipality. 135 children and family attended to feast, feast operations of children of the families applied, were done in Rentıp, Acıbadem and Anadolu Hayat Hospitals. After the 34 operations had completed, organization was actualized in Cha Cha Restaurant with participation of the children and their families. Traditional Çanakkale Trip Nilüfer Municipality had organized pay free visits for young generations in order to make them learn their history correctly. 1500 people from 33 quarters participated to this trip. During trip , except teachers, volunteers accompanied to trip team in buses. Nilüfer Akkılıç Library Nilüfer Akkılıç Library where was established for opening gates of bright tomorrows maintains its property of being unique library in Nilüfer. Nilüfer Akkılıç Library where realizes common library services as lent book exchange, costless internet access opportunity, daily gazette and magazine supply, arranging study saloon for researchers and readers, started rare and being first applications fit with difference and privilege principal in its service. Sight Disabled Library Talking Library service began by cooperation with Boğaziçi University Sight Disabled Technology and Training Center, was gotten rich by 45 thousand donation from Nilüfer Lions Association. International Database Opportunity of researching which could not be found in Bursa was carried to Nilüfer. Resources from all around the world and all languages are supplied for social science and literature researches. Book Services To Houses Book service was started in Nilüfer on condition that disabled and ill readers have priority. It went into service by system substructure and announcement. Writer Conversations Conversations and signing activities were done, activities in Nilüfer Akkılıç Library was actualized being reading activity. Libraries Network The first of new libraries for different regions project which was determined as very existing purpose, book were registered for Nilüfer Municipality Demirci Child Library, and labeled. Count down for the opening has begun. There will be Üçevler Library and Nazım Hikmet Poetry Library in order. 35 Bursa Library Award In 2010 year, when we lost JournalistResearcher and Writer Yılmaz AKKILIÇ, for keeping the memory of him alive , and award has begun to organise. Milk Project; Everyday 1 pack (200 ml) of UHT full fat milk is being delivered to each student in the 1st classes of primary schools in Nilüfer District. The project aims to give the milk drinking habit to the children. In 2007 3.400 students, in 2008 3.374 students, in 2009 -2010 education year 4.123 students took their daily milk packs. For 2010 – 2011 education year 3973 Milk distribution is aimed. Funeral Services Cantık and ayran distribution has being done in Funeral House to citizens residing in Nilüfer County within Funeral Services by Nilüfer Municipality. Bursaspor Memory Wall Bursaspor Memorial Wall was opened as being a gift for championship pride of Bursaspor by Nilüfer Municipality. The opening which was realized by participation of Nilüfer Municipality Mayor Mustafa BOZBEY, and some football players of Bursaspor, 500 persons was participated. Opening was done by Private Secretariat Department and budget was absorbed by Culture and Social Works Department. Three Sapling Monument For the memory of unforgetable names of democracy and illumination, Deniz GEZMİŞ, Yusuf ASLAN and Hüseyin İNAN who were executed on 6 May 1972, a first was realized and “3 Sapling Monument” was opened. 6000 persons participated to this opening. Infinity Monument Atatürk’s Bursa Speech “Infinity Monument” is covered from Culture and Social Works Department’s budget. Opening was done collective with Private Secretariat Department . 500 persons participated to opening. 36 6G. Cultural Activities in Nilüfer Winter-Spring Activities Within the scope of traditional Winter-Spring Activities organized in cooperation with Uludağ University; concerts, theater and ballet shows and selected art pieces meet with Nilüfer citizens. These activities which dynamize Fethiye Cultural Center, have became reference services not only for Nilüfer citizens but also for the whole Bursa citizens. Summer Activities Onur Akın, Fuat Saka & Grup Gündoğarken, and Feridun Düzağaç were hosted to summer concerts in 2010 which are arranged traditionally. Beside these concerts, film demonstration, THM Chorus Concerts, TSM Chorus Concerts, Public Dances Ensemble Demonstration were disposed. Our Festivals  Tango Festival ( 2 day) – January 2010  Theatre Festival (36 Play, 40 Performance) 5-27 March 2010  Stork Festival 22 -23 May 2010  Hasanağa Artichoke Festival6 June 2010  Çalı Oil Wrestling12-13 June 2010  Worker Films Festival ( Collective with STK) – 15 -20 June 2010  Black Sea Night – 14 July 2010  Ramadan Entertainment – 18 August – 7 September 2010  Akçalar Fig Festival – 19 September 2010  Cumhuriyet Walking and Concert – 29 October 2010 Ensembles  Nilüfer Folk Dances Ensemble  Nilüfer Chamber Orchestra  Nilüfer Polyphonic Chorus  Nilüfer Turkish Folk Music Chorus  Nilüfer Turkish Classical Music Chorus  Nilüfer Children Chorus  Nilüfer Women Chorus Workshop Activities  Ballet practices  Musical Training Practices  Painting workshop  Drama workshop  Photography workshop  Computer 37  Chess  Orff  Step-Plates  English Saloon Activity Activity Number Participant Number Concert 9 2.925 Theatre 7 1.085 Cinema 12 5.580 Exhibition 23 1.625 TOTAL 51 11.215 Area Activities (Summer Activities) ACTIVITY NAME ACTIVITY DATE / PLACE PARTICIPANT NUMBER Film Demonstration 18 June – 6 August 2010 / 9.780 (Eyvah Eyvah) 48 Quarters THM Chorus Concert 28 June – 6 July 2010 / 1.700 6 Quarters TSM Chorus Concert 4 July – 14 July 2010 / 1.550 5 Quarters Folk Dances Ensemble 3 July – 27 July 2010 / 3.700 Performance 10 Quarters Onur Akın Concert 7 July 2010 3.000 Beşevler Football Field Fuat Saka & Grup Gündoğarken 22 Temmuz 2010 / Ataevler 5.000 Concert Bazaar Field Feridun Düzağaç Concert 4 August 2010 7.000 38 İhsaniye Bazaar Field TOTAL 72 Activities were realized 31.730 6H. Sports in Nilüfer Sports festivals 9800 students from 75 educational institutions of Nilüfer was participated to Nilüfer International Sport Festival for making people understand the value which is supplied to human by sport. Beside 23 April National Independence and Children’s Day and 19 May Youth and Sport Day, Sports Festivals consists totally 18 different branches such as Football, Volleyball, Basketball, Handball, Athletics, Cross, Ping Pong, Court Tennis, Swimming, Carting, Dart, Petank, Bowling, Chess, Cylce, Disabled Sport Games, Folk Dances, Kite, Traditional Sport Games, Preschool Education Institution Activities. Summer Sport Schools Being Nilüfer Sport Club, sport schools were organized in our facilities inside the borders of Nilüfer Municipality in volleyball, swimming, basketball , tennis , karate , football , table tennis, tennis branches between for the youth in 06-16 age range in 3 and 4 period. 2500 teens met with sport and took sportive traning in arranged sport schools. One Sport Club Project for Every Quarter Consultancy service was given to sport clubs by demands coming from related quarters within the subjects of sport club establisment operations and declaration, general assembly, annual activitity planning etc. by a sport club project for every quarter project of Nilüfer Municipality Mayor. Sport clubs founded in 2010 year as the result studies done are, a) Nilüfer Altın Şehir Youth and Sport Club Association, b) Nilüfer Çamlıca Youth and Sport Club Association, c) Nilüfer Balat-Ahmet Yesevi Youth and Sport Club Association, d) Nilüfer Barış Youth and Sport Club Association , e) Nilüfer 100. yıl Youth and Sport Club Association, f) Nilüfer Hasanağa Toki Kızılcıklı Youth and Sport Club , 39 g) Nilüfer Gölyazı Fisher Women Aid and Solidarity Association h) Nilüfer Misi Vilage Women Culture and Solidarity Association Sport clubs whose establisment operations continues are, a) Nilüfer Konak Youth and Sport Club, b) Nilüfer Gölyazı Youth and Sport Club , c) Nilüfer Gümüştepe – Misi Youth and Sport Club Association, d) Nilüfer Karaman Youth and Sport Club Association, 40
