For the Future of People and the Earth Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report Editorial Policy On publication of the Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 The Ajinomoto Group is committed to working for food, health, and life, as stated in its group philosophy. The Group recognizes that global sustainability, food resources, and healthy living are the challenges that humanity faces in the 21st century. Finding solutions to these issues and ensuring that its businesses contribute to the development of sustainable societies is the social responsibility of the Ajinomoto Group. The Group focuses on a variety of initiatives to achieve this. Until 2011, the Ajinomoto Group reported on these activities in two separate reports, the CSR Report and the Environmental Report. From 2012 on, however, in order to more accurately reflect the Ajinomoto Group’s unified approach to achieving sustainability, these two reports have been consolidated into a single Sustainability Report. In addition to the full report, which explains all sustainabilityrelated activities in detail, a digest of the report will be published in printed form. The print edition focuses on the content in the first part of the report, with an introduction to the basic concepts behind the Group’s activities and a summary of its main initiatives. This report provides stakeholders with information on how the Ajinomoto Group is working to achieve a sustainable future for people and the earth and what needs to be done going forward. The report is one way in which the Group is working with everyone concerned to build a better future. 1 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 CONTENT S Report Content and Available Formats 1 Editorial Policy  The Ajinomoto Group’s approach to achieving sustainability Food resources 2 Contents  Healthy 3 Message from the President  living Global  Serving as a “Genuine Global Company” and sustainability Contributing to the Future of People and the Planet Community Organizational involvement The Ajinomoto Group’s Goals for the Future of Life  governance and development Fair operating Consumer practices issues Human rights Labor practices The environment 5 The Ajinomoto Group—Striving to Make a Difference, Worldwide 7 Toward Resolving Issues for 21st Century Human Society Full Report (118 pages, PDF file, website download) This report provides comprehensive information on all Ajinomoto Group activities designed to achieve sustainability. The report is available on the company’s website 9 Special Features  for download. Achieving Sustainability Print Edition (40 pages) A shorter, summary report of the Group’s fiscal 2011 11 Special Feature 1  activities, which focuses primarily on the first 32 pages of the full report, is available in printed form.  Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Website A downloadable PDF of the full report, as well as links to related pages and sites, are posted on the 19 Special Feature 2  company’s website.  Leveraging Technology and Knowledge to http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ Build a Sustainable Future 23 Special Feature 3   Working with Stakeholders to Build a Sustainable Future 27 Special Feature 4   Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Organizational scope: This report covers the Ajinomoto Group, comprised, in Sustainable Society principle, of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (“the company”) and its 110 group companies (as of October 1, 2012) including consoliFiscal 2011 Activity Report  dated subsidiaries and other group companies subject to reporting under the equity method. Where sufficient  33 Taking Responsibility for Global Sustainability Issues information for the entire Ajinomoto Group (“the Group”) was  36 Organizational Governance Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible unavailable, the limitation in scope is explicitly defined. Management The scope of reporting for the environmental section is  42 Fair Operating Practices Ethical and Honest Practices defined on page 64. 46 Human Rights Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Period covered by this report: Fiscal 2011 (April 1, 2011–March 31, 2012) 50 Labor Practices Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction When appropriate, however, exceptions to this general rule are made, as when citing past circumstances and data or 64 The Environment Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the using with recent examples for illustration purposes. Foundation for All Life 90 Consumer Issues  aking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More T Issue date: Sustainable World PDF: March 2013 Print Edition: March 2013 100 Community Growing with the People of Each Community Next scheduled issue: December 2013 Previous issues: November 2011 (CSR Report), November 2011 (Environmental Report) 114 Additional Sustainability Information 115 Ajinomoto Group at a Glance Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 2 Message from the President Masatoshi Ito Representative Director, President and CEO Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Serving as a “Genuine Global Company” and Contributing to the Future of People and the Planet In 2009, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Ajinomoto Group, we reflected on the 100 years ahead. We took this opportunity to declare our intention to find solutions through our businesses to the challenges that human society faces in the 21st century—namely, global sustainability, food resources, and healthy living. The FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan launched in April 2011 is our timeframe for laying the foundation required to accomplish this. The entire Group is committed to becoming a “genuine global company” that contributes to the creation of a sustainable society. Our unique contribution lies with refining and developing our knowledge and technologies, which are so closely connected with life itself. Each of the 30,000 Ajinomoto Group employees around the world is focused on working in their particular capacity with the people in their respective communities to discover and deliver new potential contributions to sustainability for people and the planet. Creating the future through applied to biomass and other sources of renewable energy. By “open & linked innovation” expanding the applications of feed-use amino acids, we can help Currently at seven billion, the world’s population is expected to reduce the impact of livestock farming on the environment. reach nine billion by 2050. Lifestyle innovations will be essential to Amino acids can also help address food issues in specific ensuring a healthy future for humanity in a sound global environregions by improving conditions that lead to both malnutrition ment. At the Ajinomoto Group, we are confident in our ability to and excessive nutritional intake. One way for the Group to contribute to the creation of new sustainable lifestyles through our enhance its sustainable value is by bringing innovation to its food and health-related businesses. The foundation of these existing product line through initiatives of this type. businesses lies with the Group’s amino acid technologies. We are also focused on utilizing our expertise to deliver These technologies can, for example, be used for more sustainable value in a broader range of fields. The key to achievefficient consumption of resources and energy, and can also be ing these results lies with what we call our “open & linked 3 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 innovation” approach, which involves incorporating ideas and technologies from outside of the company and working with diverse external partners to develop them. As the world’s leading amino acid manufacturer, the Ajinomoto Group has developed cutting-edge biotechnologies that have already begun to generate new value for a sustainable future by, for instance, linking textiles and tires, two very different business sectors. Joint research with corporations in different industries that aims to make nylon and rubber from plant materials by using amino acid fermentation technology has the potential to conserve fossil fuels and other natural resources. The application of our amino acid technology and expertise to blood tests essential to medical checkups has helped with diagnosing patients and potential illness. Our service that tests a single blood sample for multiple types of cancer has been introduced at some 200 hospitals around Japan. This sort of approach characterizes the essence of our aspiration at the Ajinomoto Group. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was initially founded after the work of scientist Kikunae Ikeda, who discovered the source of the unique taste sensation umami in glutamate derived from kelp, came to the attention of employees regardless of nationality or race. The Group is taking Saburosuke Suzuki, an entrepreneur who was producing iodine the steps needed to prepare for globalization by ensuring that from seaweed. These two men began a collaboration leading to 10% of new hires in Japan are non-Japanese. In addition, we are the mass production of monosodium glutamate, namely the working to upgrade our database that makes management umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®. Nearly half of the new prodpersonnel and posts visible across the Group, establishing a ucts the Ajinomoto Group has launched in the global market systematic training structure, formulating appropriate compensaemerged when we more fully developed ideas brought to us by tion policies, and creating standardized assessment systems. other people. Our future goal is to raise the share of local hires in executive At the Ajinomoto Group, we are committed to upholding this positions at group companies outside Japan to 50%. 103-year-old tradition of “open & linked innovation” as we work to create a sustainable future. Taking on challenges for the future of people and the planet Developing global human resources for growth More than a decade has already passed since the dawn of the in the future 21st century, and we now find ourselves facing an array of Approximately 30%, or more than 1,000, of all Ajinomoto Co., emerging problems. Inc. employees in Japan are researchers. No other food compaThe United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development ny in the world boasts so large a research division. As a global (Rio+20) was held in 2012 to address these issues. Discussions company operating in 26 countries and regions around the on the form that economies, societies, and the environment world, many of our researchers work outside of Japan. Some should take over the coming decade included such topics as 100 researchers each, for example, are located in China and sustainable development and moving to a green economy. At our Russia, both of which are emerging economies. Extremely booth at the conference’s Japan Pavilion, we discussed these familiar with the needs of their societies, our researchers around issues with visitors from around the world, an experience that the world bring a pioneering spirit to our research and developunderlined just how much is expected of the Ajinomoto Group. ment. We began with the discovery of umami, and today our We came away from the conference even more determined to taste-related patents number more than 180, with the Ajinomoto work with all of our stakeholders around the world to resolve Group worldwide holding 4,500 patents in a full array of sectors. issues of sustainability. Our current medium-term management plan also focuses intently At the Ajinomoto Group, we are working to do our part to on the training of researchers who will create the new businesses achieve global sustainability, secure food resources, and help of the future. people live healthy lives. We are focused on refining and develA global perspective on human resources is essential to oping the knowledge and technologies we have gained through developing the foundation necessary for growth as a “genuine our businesses in food and health, which are so closely connectglobal company.” In order to assemble a global group of capable ed with life itself. It is this expertise that we bring to our collaboand diversified talent able to help us fulfill our responsibility to the rations with other members of society as we work to discover future, the Ajinomoto Group is focused on developing global new possibilities that will lead to sustainability for people and human resources by hiring, training, and promoting diverse the planet. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 4 The Ajinomoto Group—Striving to Make a Difference, Worldwide Eat Well, Live Well. To build a better world like only a “genuine global company” can The Ajinomoto Group got its start 103 years ago with the discovery of the unique Sales intries 130 taste sensation of umami. Today, it is a global enterprise with businesses in many fields with strong connections to life, including foods, amino acids, bioscience and fine chemicals, pharmaceuticals and healthcare. The Ajinomoto Group is determined to ensure that its business operations contribute to the solution of countries problems faced by humankind in the 21st century. Ajinomoto Group Philosophy Operating in 26 We create better lives globally by contributing to significant advances in Food countries and Health and by working for Life. and regions Ajinomoto Group Vision We aim to be “a group of companies that contributes to human health globally” by continually creating unique value to benefit customers. Ajinomoto Group Way  The foundation of the Group’s businesses Create New Value Social Contribution Create value with new ideas and continuous innovaAccommodate social requirements with humility and tion based on unique technologies and science. honesty, with the objective of maximizing value for Product value creation bolstered by technology, new society through business activities. dietary proposals Resolve social issues; improve the global environment; security and safety; trustworthy production; fair, impartial, transparent and simple Pioneer Spirit Value People Continue to constantly take on the challenge of Respect the humanity of all the people involved in the Ajinocreating new businesses and markets. moto Group's businesses, and be an organization in which Tenacity, wisdom and cumulative efforts at the they can grow and display their abilities to the fullest extent. on-site level; adapt to regional culture and market Provide a workplace where people can flourish; career conditions in creating markets development, support and follow-up; fair performance evaluation; teamwork 5 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 The Ajinomoto Group’s Goals for the Future of Life To build on the world’s leading seasoning business to become a global group of food companies. 105 plants 28,245 employees Foods Amino acids Pharmaceuticals Bioscience and health and fine chemicals To become a group of To become a leading corporate health-promoting group in the science companies that takes a of amino acids and contribute scientific approach to to humankind with cutting-edge technology. enhancing taste and supporting health. Using our businesses to help resolve the issues facing humankind in the 21st century Global sustainability Food resources Healthy living Note: Figures are as of March 31, 2012. FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan  T  he three-year period starting in fiscal 2011 is the designated timeframe for the Group to lay the foundations for its emergence as a “genuine global company.” The Ajinomoto Group’s Goal 1. Growth driver development 2. Business structure reinforcement Global growth From volume to value To become a “genuine global company” Achieve growth through entering emerging and developing markets, while strengthening our domestic Strengthen cost competitiveness and migrate further to value-added business position with worldwide growth From operating income to free cash R&D leadership flow Create new value and business opportunities through Control overall capital investment and improve asset continued research investment in seasonings and a efficiency cutting-edge biotechnology platform Enhance capital efficiency to boost Leverage of external resources stockholder value 1. Contribute to the future progress of humanity Increase utilization of open innovation, alliances, and Optimize business portfolio and functional value chain M&A to capitalize on new growth platforms 2. Possess our own industry leading technologies 3. Assemble a group of globally capable and diversified talent 3. Foundation building 4. Achieve the business and profit scale of a global Global human resource development Capture abundant global and group growth opportunities Create a diverse HR mix in nationalities and careers company 5. Meet global efficiency standards to generate profit Group wide corporate governance Reinforce group management foundation for further global expansion Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 6 Toward Resolving Issues for 21st Century Human Society For the Nine Billion People of 2050 Achieving a Healthy Future for People and the Earth The population of the earth is projected to reach nine billion people by 2050. With so large a population, how will the diets and health of people around the world change? What effect will this have on agriculture, livestock farming, fisheries, resources, and the global environment? As a food manufacturer operating on a global scale, the Ajinomoto Group must consider many elements as it moves forward. True to the Ajinomoto Group CSR Policy formulated in fiscal 2011, the Group is pursuing business ventures in areas that are meaningfully tied to life itself, aiming to help build a sustainable society. The Group will continue to take on all the challenges related to this mission— for people everywhere who wish to live in good health, and for the earth that nurtures all life. Building a Building a recycling-oriented low-carbon society society Target further reductions of CO2 emitted in business activities Promote more efficient usage and Conduct carbon footrecycling of raw materials, fuel, and print research, etc. sub raw materials Further reduce water consumption and promote water recycling; obtain water consumption data through the supply chain to facilitate reduction Promote reduction, reuse and recycling of containers, Global packaging, etc. sustainability Conserving A healthy global environment is the basis of all ecosystems and life. The Ajinomoto Group takes steps to biodiversity protect and nurture ecosystems and Promote the sustainable use of ecosystem services, as well as to resources in agriculture, livereduce the environmental impact of stock farming, and fisheries its business activities. Help conserve ecosystems and biodiversity through amino acids and by-products, etc. Global Sustainability Issues Grave challenges threatening life on earth continue to Nutrition for Nutrition for people plants and emerge—abnormal weather conditions thought to be caused animals by climate change; the destruction of ecosystems and biodiversity through overfishing, overhunting and pollution; and increasing demand for water from growing populations. Raw materials Agricultural, livestock and fishery products Percentage of Projected increase in Projected increase in global ecosystem services global water demand mean surface temperature that will be lost by the by 2030, compared to over roughly the next century, 22nd century1 current level of supply2 assuming global economic For the future of people and the earth— growth and dependence on fossil fuels continue on today’s trends3 the Ajinomoto Group not only creates delicious food 1 United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment 2 Chartering Our Water Future (2030 Water Resources Group). using the gifts of nature but also works to nurture 3 Data taken from the “Working Group 1 Report” of the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). and make the best use of nature’s blessings. 7 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 The Ajinomoto Group’s Goals for the Future of Life For a healthy future for people Contributing to healthy living through and the earth Nine nutrition Provide functional food products to help prevent chronic illnesses associated with excessive nutritional intake Cooperate in the social sector to help alleviate billion malnutrition in developing countries (Projected population in 2050) Apply amino acid analysis technologies to contribute to the medical field Help solve nutrition-related problems in areas affected by natural disasters,etc. The Ajinomoto Group continues to embrace the challenge of building a sustainable future. Improving food productivity Healthy living Improve productivity in livestock Diet plays an incredibly important role in the farming and fisheries by using amino ability of people to maintain healthy lives. The acids for feedstuff Ajinomoto Group conducts its business Increase yields of agricultural resources by utilizing amino activities and implements social contribuacids and by-products, etc. tion activities to ensure that people Responding to around the world are able to attain the aging of proper nutrition and live society healthily. Improve the quality of life for elderly people Food through diet, etc. resources It is vital that the developing imbalance in supply and demand for food be restored. The Maximizing usage Ajinomoto Group is utilizing its technology of food resources and expertise to help improve food productivity and is pursuing initiatives  Promote efficient use of resources for agricultural, livestock, and that put valuable food resources fisheries products to use without waste. Upgrade technologies used by the Group to minimize impact on ecosystems Actively offer suggestions to consumers aimed at making the most of food products and ingredients, etc. Food resource issues Issues for healthy living As the world’s population grows, demand for food is increasA large number of people around the world face nutritioning. When societies become more affluent, demand for meat related problems both in terms of starvation and obesity. As rises, and more grain becomes necessary to feed livestock. populations live longer in developed and developing econoThe balance between food demand and supply is now beginmies alike, people increasingly have the need to live healthy, ning to collapse because yields in cultivated areas and per unit independent lives into their old age. harvests cannot keep up with rising demand. +40% +70% 1.5 billion 1billion 1.5 billion Projected increase in meat Projected increase in food Projected population World population Overweight adults, consumption in developing demand by 2050, compared to aged 65 and older in suffering from aged 20 and older, countries in 2030 compared to 20055 2050 6 undernourishment7 with a body mass late 1990s levels 4 index of over 258 4 World agriculture: towards 2015/2030 (FAO) 6 World Population Prospects, the 2010 Revision (United 5 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2009–2018, (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Nations) Development and UN Food and Agricultural Organization) 7 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2010 – 2019 (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and UN Food and Agricultural Organization) 8 Fact Sheet No. 311 (World Health Organization) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 8 Special Features Achieving Sustainability How can a company contribute to achieving sustainability? The Ajinomoto Group is committed to utilizing the technology and expertise its companies have developed to tackle this issue. As a food manufacturer with global business operations in the fields of food and health, the Group seeks to contribute to the sustainability of life in all its diversity. There may well be limits to what the Ajinomoto Group can accomplish on its own. The Group firmly believes, however, that greater results can be generated when all of its stakeholders take part in an exchange of views and work together, combining their respective strengths. It is in this spirit that the Group provides the following report on the activities currently being implemented and those that will be introduced in the future. 9 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 1 ▶ P11–18 Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Preparing for a world of nine billion people in 2050, the Ajinomoto Group seeks to change the way people eat in order to change the world. The key is delivering sustainably made and environmentally friendly products that improve people’s lives. This special feature details the Ajinomoto Group’s approach to ensuring that its global business activities help to build a sustainable future. Special Feature 2 ▶ P19–22 Leveraging Technology and Knowledge to Build a Sustainable Future The Ajinomoto Group’s concept of “open & linked innovation” drives its effort to discover vast new potential applications for the advanced fermentation method it uses to produce amino acids. This special feature introduces the Group’s approach to research and development, which forms the basis of its businesses and is key to the resolution of social issues. It also presents the latest results of the Group’s collaboration with various other organizations. Special Feature 3 ▶ P23–26 Working with Stakeholders to Build a Sustainable Future The Ajinomoto Group wishes to work with all of its stakeholders to define sustainability and take the action needed to achieve it. This special feature presents the Group’s various forms of communication and the events it holds to make this a reality. Special Feature 4 ▶ P27–32 Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Sustainable Society Natural disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in 2011 are a considerable threat, both to human life and to the Ajinomoto Group’s business activities. This special feature covers the steps the Group took when faced with an unavoidable disaster, as well as the actions it deems necessary for the future. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 10 Special Feature Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth From production, to cooking, to eating—change the way people eat and the whole world will change. Food is not just about flavor, or balanced nutrition. If food products are improved, people and the planet can become healthier. This is the vision of the Ajinomoto Group for a better future through food. A world of nine billion people by 2050: Helping to solve issues for people and the earth through food Given a burgeoning global population and today’s global environand manufacturing processes for a more sustainable planet, mental issues, humanity’s sustainability on this planet is threatwhile also addressing issues such as poor nutrition and excesened. The global population is now over seven billion, and it is sive nutritional intake. It will continue to provide products that expected to grow to nine billion by 2050.1 Consequently, food support human life worldwide, and will consider the most sustainability is an issue that must be addressed on a global scale. sustainable eating habits together with people around the world. Since its founding, the Ajinomoto Group has been fully By changing the way everyone eats, the whole world can be utilizing its raw materials while minimizing waste. It has estabchanged. Nine billion smiling faces gathered around the world’s lished a business model that brings a steady supply of products dining table—this idea inspires the Ajinomoto Group to work for to customers while adopting innovative ways to recycle resourcthe sustainability of the planet and society. es and nurture the bounty of nature in each part of the world. 1 World Population Prospects: The 2010 Revision (United Nations) Looking ahead to 2050 and a world of nine billion people, the Group is promoting innovations in raw materials procurement Data Sustainability issues for people and the earth Population growth Global warming Food demand Nutrition Undernourished Today Projected increase in global mean population 1billion surface temperature over roughly the next century, assuming global 4 7billion economic growth and depenProjected increase in dence on fossil fuels continue on food demand by 2050, today’s trends2 compared to 2005 Overweight population 1.5 billion 2050 9billion 5 2 3 2 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report: Climate Change 2007 (IPCC) 3 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2009–2018 (OECD and FAO) 4 OECD–FAO Agricultural Outlook 2010–2019 (OECD and FAO) 5 Fact Sheet No. 311 (WHO) 11 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 1 Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Announcing initiatives to build a better future through food at the Rio+20 Conference In June 2012, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable best use of resources and recycling; (3) achieving low-carbon Development (Rio+20)6 was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. There, business and society; and (4) providing a sustainable lifestyle. about 50,000 participants from around the world discussed Exhibit staff discussed the future of food with various stakeholdsustainable development of the global economy and community ers, including NPO/NGO representatives, experts on environfrom an environmental standpoint. mental and social issues, as well as government officials from As a global food products company headquartered in Japan, around the world. The visitors expressed great expectations for the Ajinomoto Group exhibited at the Japan Pavilion set up at the the initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group, and the staff renewed conference. The Group showed visitors its vision for a better their determination to contribute to ensure that the Group’s future through food, under the slogan of “Good eating = Green business activities contribute to a sustainable future for food. eating.” The exhibit conveyed past and present business activi6 A conference for world leaders held every decade to discuss paths towards the sustainable development of economies, societies, and the environment. Marking the third such meeting since the first in 1992, Rio+20 was ties and approaches of the Group, based on these themes: held June 20–22, 2012, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Discussions were held on the green economy in the context of poverty eradication and sustainable development, as well as on institutional frameworks for sustainable (1) protecting and nurturing natural resources; (2) making the development. Food isn’t just about flavor, or balanced nutrition. By changing how we eat, we can make people—and the planet—healthy. This is our vision for a new food-future. It’s why we believe Good eating = Green eating. From production, to cooking, to eating. Change how seven billion people eat, and the whole world changes. It is time to move from a model of food as a resource unilaterally taken from the earth, to one that involves giving back to nature that in turn rewards us with even greater bounty. Nutrition for people Nutrition for plants and animals Over the 103 years since Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was launched with the discovery of umami, we have accumulated wide-ranging expertise and technologies involving food and amino acids, the building blocks of life. Raw materials Agricultural, livestock and fishery products With our expertise, we can create a circle of life where people and other living creatures on the earth support each other, contributing to global sustainability, stable food resources and healthy living. This is the Green Economy the Ajinomoto Group is working to achieve. Participating in Rio+20 At Rio+20, a global commitment was expressed for the building of a green economy. It underlined the fact that sustainable development is the only way forward for companies. I believe that changing the way people eat can transform the world. This is why I am so determined to help realize a better future through food, together with the 30,000 employees of the Ajinomoto Group, and everyone else worldwide. Yutaka Kunimoto Representative Director, Member of the Board and Corporate Executive Deputy President Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 12 Continuing to Produce, Together with the Earth In order to ensure a continual supply of products, it is essential to make the best use of the bounty of nature without any waste, and to carry out production with minimal environmental impact. At all its production sites, the Ajinomoto Group is committed to the goal of buiding a business that works together with the earth. Making the best use of nature’s bounty without waste Glutamate, an ingredient responsible for the savory taste called been using it for over 30 years. Today, similar efforts for making umami, is found in foods such as kelp and tomatoes. However, if the most of resources are being made across all of the one tried to use these raw materials to extract enough glutamate Group’s businesses. to meet the demand for seasoning products, the resources would soon be depleted. This is what makes the Ajinomoto Group’s Data Resource efficiency in amino acid production efficient methods of producing amino acids so important. To annually produce 0.5 million tonnes of Currently, the Group has amino acid production facilities in AJI-NO-MOTO ® nine countries. Amino acids are made by fermenting agricultural products such as cassava and sugarcane, which are easy to 833 annual Kelp in Japan required if all made from dried kelp—equivalent to 25 harvests million tonnes obtain locally. The by-products of this manufacturing process are, in turn, utilized to support farming, livestock, and aquaculTomatoes required if all made from ture industries as fertilizer and feed. The Group calls this recy200 million tomatoes—equivalent to 1.6 times the annual tomato harvest cling of resources in the production process a bio-cycle, and has tonnes worldwide Bio-cycle created by the resource-recycling process for amino acid production Helps reduce CO 2 emissions caused by chemical fertilizer production Sun Covers 70% of the chemical fertilizer Chemical fertilizer (nitrogen content) required by 0.5 million hectares 0.5 million hectares of sugar cane fields Absorption of atmospheric CO 2 by photosynthesis Organic fertilizer 28 million tonnes 1.6 million Sugar cane fields tonnes Harvest Recovering by-product as useful resources Cooperative mechanism with local regions enabling sustainable production and agriculture By-product 1.6 million Bio-cycle Sugar cane tonnes 38 million tonnes Umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO ® The chart assumes worldwide annual production of approximateSugar ly 0.5 million tonnes of the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® by production Products plant the Ajinomoto Group using only sugar cane. The values for sugar cane grown and sugar production are commonly used global Raw sugar figures, and the values for resources used for producing Umami seasoning Nitrogen Cane molasses AJI-NO-MOTO® and values for by-products are based on actual AJI-NO-MOTO ® content (syrup derived from sugar cane) 4.2 million tonnes Ajinomoto Group statistics. 0.5 million tonnes 1.5 million tonnes Promoting next-generation amino acid fermentation, through even more efficient utilization of resourcmanufacturing: Lower resource fermentation es without waste. technology Since fiscal 2011, various technologies have been progressively introduced at amino acid production sites worldwide. The Ajinomoto Group is promoting R&D for the introduction of Examples of lower resource fermentation technologies lower resource fermentation technology as a new way to • Technologies to internally produce part of the main materials and to make manufacture amino acids. This will help ensure the sustainability effective use of by-products as a biomass energy source (Production of MSG1 and I+G2) (See p. 14 for details) of food resources and the planet, by reducing CO2 emissions • Technology to use non-food resources as materials (Production of and the amount of sub raw materials used in amino acid feed-use lysine) • Biotechnology to reduce the use of main and sub raw materials and energy (Production of feed-use lysine, amino acid-based sweeteners, MSG, etc.) 1 MSG: Monosodium L-glutamate 2 I+G: Disodium 5’-ribonucleotides 13 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 1 Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Using carbon-neutral energy from biomass In order to reduce CO2 emissions from energy used in manufacturing, the Ajinomoto Group is introducing technology for the utilization of carbon-neutral biomass as an energy source. The Kamphaeng Phet Factory of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Biogas recovery facility at the Biomass boiler at the Laranjal Paulista Plant Ltd. installed a biomass boiler in December 2008. It generates Kamphaeng Phet Factory energy using rice husks, which until now were unused local Reducing CO2 emissions through the use of resources, as carbon-neutral fuel. Then in fiscal 2011, as part of Data biomass fuels an initiative for in-house production of cassava starch, a raw Annual CO2 emissions reduction achieved at the material for amino acid fermentation, the factory began to use 100 kilotonnes Kamphaeng Phet Factory in Thailand, due to the 2008 the methane biogas generated by the starch-making process as a installation of a biomass boiler that uses rice husks as fuel fuel. In fiscal 2013, the facility plans to cover 10% of its steam energy requirement with this methane gas. Annual CO2 emissions reduction expected by fiscal 2013 at the In June 2012, the Laranjal Paulista Plant of Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. installed a biomass boiler 16.8 kilotonnes Kamphaeng Phet Factory in Thailand, due to the installation of a biogas facility that operates using wood chips as well as sugarcane fiber (baAnnual CO2 emissions reduction gasse) left over from the amino acid fermentation process. expected at the Laranjal Paulista Independent initiatives like these are being undertaken at group 24 kilotonnes Plant in Brazil, due to the installation of a biomass boiler in fiscal 2012 sites around the world. Pursuing zero-emissions manufacturing processes In fiscal 2005, the Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan was With the recent launch of the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group introduced to minimize environmental impact generated in all Zero Emissions Plan, further initiatives are being promoted to business operations. The plan sets strict numeral targets for the minimize environmental impact, and the target numbers and reduction of CO2 emissions, discharged water and waste, while scope are being revised as necessary. requiring management of plan performance. The Group is united in its efforts to fulfill the plan, and substantial results have been achieved. Fiscal 2011 zero emissions performance (excerpt) Resource Discharged CO2 emissions recovery ratio water 99.3% Resource recovery ratio at all of the -65% Discharged water per unit of -31% CO2 emissions per unit of production Ajinomoto Group’s production production at all of the Ajinomoto for the entire Ajinomoto Group in bases in fiscal 2011 Group’s production bases in fiscal 2011 (compared to fiscal fiscal 2011 (compared to 2005) fiscal 2005) The Group is working to control the generation of waste to In order to reduce the high concentration of nitrogen and high Among the many environmental issues related to global ensure optimum use of limited resources and is committed to BOD levels in wastewater from its amino acid production sustainability, climate change resulting from global warming making full use of waste generated. To this end, the Group is bases, the Group is implementing measures to control presents some of the most dire challenges for people around fostering the recycling of by–products as co-products and pollutant sources and develop advanced treatment the world. The Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas introducing new technologies to improve the efficiency of technologies. In addition, the Group is striving to reduce the emissions not just in the production process but across its amino acid production. use of water by developing water-saving processes. business activities. Reference See “Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal 2011 Results” on p. 70. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 14 Promoting the Bounty of Nature, and Realizing Sustainable Agricultural, Livestock and Fishery Products The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group begin with the rich bounty of nature, including agricultural, livestock and fishery products. Across its global business, the Group is committed to finding creative ways to use valuable natural resources without waste while preserving nature’s local blessings and fostering healthy living. Co-products foster bounty in the fields Once amino acids are removed from the fermentation liquid in in nine countries are used to make fertilizers, which help grow the amino acid production process, the remaining liquid still vegetables, sugarcane, corn, coffee, oranges, pineapples, rubber contains a wealth of nutritional ingredients. As an additional and more. Co-products are also product, or “co-product,” this valuable gift of nature is subseused as feed for the livestock quently used to make value-added products. The recycling rate and aquaculture industries. for by-products of the Group’s amino acid fermentation is 100%. This bio-cycle avoids depletion The co-products produced by 18 amino acid fermentation plants of natural resources. New co-products: AMIHEART and Hayane Hayaoki, launched in Initiatives Co-products used around the world Japan in April 2011 and October 2012, respectively France Vietnam United States Peru Cattle feed Liquid fertilizer for rubber trees. Cattle feed and corn fertilizer; Fertilizer for sugarcane and The Group also produces also an experimental fertilizer vegetables; cultivation trials AJITEIN® feed containing dried for tomatoes and lawns also being carried out for corn bacterial cells in the country. and wheat ● ● Japan ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Thailand AMI-AMI liquid fertilizer, which has a history of 30 years, used Bolivia Brazil for the cultivation of sugar cane Indonesia The Group reports the effects of Liquid fertilizer for sugar cane. and rice and also for the aquaLiquid fertilizer for sugar cane, the foliar fertilizer to producers AJIFOL® fertilizer is used for the culture of tilapia, etc. corn, pineapples and rice and others. cultivation of lettuces and roses. Reference See “Co-products that yield agricultural bounty” on p. 76 15 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 1 Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Feed-use amino acids foster environmentally friendly livestock farming The Ajinomoto Group has been cultivating worldwide markets animal waste by 30% for example, which helps to curtail the for feed-use amino acids for more than 40 years. With lysine, greenhouse gas effect. threonine, and tryptophan as its main feed-use amino acids, the In order to further expand environmentally friendly livestock Group has long been a leader in the markets for these products. farming based on the utilization of feed-use amino acids, the Feeds with a good balance of amino acids help to reduce Ajinomoto Group is promoting the quantification of their enviimpact on soil and water from livestock waste and greatly reduce ronmental benefits using carbon footprint (CFP) assessment. In greenhouse gas emissions. They also help to reduce the amount fiscal 2011, the CFP value of feed-use amino acids was certified of land required for feed crop cultivation. The Ajinomoto Group’s under the CFP Program in Japan. Along with preparations for feed products are gaining worldwide attention. displaying the CFP logo mark on products in that country, the Typical livestock feed is a combination of soybean meal and Group will continue to promote environmentally friendly liveenergy-giving grains like corn and wheat. However, it contains stock farming by developing similar measures worldwide. The more of certain amino acids than can be effectively used by the Group is determined to deliver products that help put meat animal’s body. As a result, amino acids are excreted as nitrogen products with high environmental value on tables worldwide. compounds. In addition to having a negative impact on soil and water quality, part of this nitrogen is released into the atmosphere as N2O, which promotes global warming. The greenhouse gas effect of N2O is 300 times greater than that of CO2. By giving low-protein feed fortified with feed-use amino acids to Lysine Threonine Tryptophan livestock, it is possible to reduce the amount of nitrogen in the See “Feed-use amino acids for livestock farming that is friendly to the Reference planet” on p. 75. Lysine for dairy cattle, a product launched in the US in AjiPro®-L 2011 Protecting and fostering sea life Initiative Helping to protect skipjack through Initiative Improving marine ecosystems with a tagging survey Environment Vitalizing Concrete Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is working to help underMarine ecosystems around Japan face various stand and conserve skipjack, an important problems including pollution and depletion of ingredient in HON-DASHI®, one of its main seawater nutrients and algae. At the bottom of products in Japan. Since fiscal 2009, the company the food chain, microalgae are essential to has been involved in the Joint Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast aquatic ecosystems. Seeing an opportunity, Skipjack together with the National Research Institute of Far Ajinomoto Co., Inc. developed Environment Seas Fisheries of Japan’s Fisheries Research Agency (NRIFSF). Vitalizing Concrete, which slowly releases amino So far the project has tagged and released about 7,500 skipjack. acids into the water. In 2012, the latest electronic recording tags (archival tags) Experiments show that Environment Vitalizing Concrete were adopted to obtain even more detailed data. In February and promotes microalgae growth and increased the number of fish April, archival tags were attached to 169 skipjack off Yonaguni and shellfish nearby. With local cooperation, the new concrete Island. By October, seven of those tags had been recovered. had been tried in about 30 river and ocean locations around They contained detailed data on the movement of skipjack over Japan by October 2012. about 500 days, representing the first survey of its kind in this ocean area off Japan. Information on skipjack migratory routes, water depths and temperatures was obtained. Through analysis of this data and the acquisition of new scientific knowledge, the researchers expect to get a better understanding of skipjack stocks and ecology, Trial artificial reef creates a Abalone and turban shellfish Ayu fish are attracted to the which will assist habitat for fish and shellfish. eat algae growing on the Environment Vitalizing concrete. Concrete (left). international skipjack resource See “Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help Reference promote marine ecosystems” on p. 77. management. Archival tag Reference See “Joint Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast Skipjack” on p. 73. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 16 Helping People Lead Healthier Lives Founded on the discovery of the unique taste sensation of umami, the Ajinomoto Group has been expanding its business globally in areas that have deep ties with food, health, and life. The Group aims to support everyone who wants to lead a healthy life, not only with its food products, but also with its various pharmaceutical and health products—all of which are driven by the Group’s expertise in amino acids. Promoting healthier lifestyles worldwide through food Food is the basis of life for all people. The Ajinomoto Group the other side of the equation, some currently delivers a wide range of food products in about 100 1.5 billion people worldwide are different countries. These include seasonings, processed and eating too much, putting them at risk frozen foods, and beverages, all prepared for each particular food of lifestyle-related diseases. culture. Through these products, the Group is striving to generThe Ajinomoto Group is making ate smiles at dinner tables everywhere. This includes Africa, the the most of its seasoning and amino Middle East and South Asia, as food forms the basis of a healthy acid technologies to address the life in every part of the globe. major global food issues of hunger However, the world is still facing various issues relating to and obesity. The Group’s goal is to food and nutrition including malnutrition and excessive help people everywhere lead healthinutritional intake. er, happier lives. Approximately one billion of the world’s seven billion people are going hungry, as they cannot get the minimum number of See “Using amino acid expertise to promote healthy lifestyles” calories required daily. Approximately two billion people are Reference on p. 22. suffering from serious health problems resulting from micronuReference See “Bringing delicious flavor to more of the world” on p. 101. trient deficiencies, meaning a lack of vitamins and minerals. On Reducing malnutrition through international cooperation programs In Ghana, the traditional weaning food is porridge, but it is not nutritionally balanced, so it causes stunted growth among children in the country. Utilizing its expertise and technologies for food product processing and amino acid nutrition, the Ajinomoto Group has been developing food products that can improve nutrition in children. The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project was undertaken by the Group with various partners including government entities such as the Ghana Health Service, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), University of Ghana, and international NGOs. The project is now aiming to set up local production of a nutritional supplement for porridge and to establish a social business model for nutritional improvement. Sampling porridge made with School meals in Bangladesh Through the Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition and Health the nutritional supplement, supported through the AIN KOKO Plus program (Photos courtesy of the (AIN) program, the Group solicits project applications from NGOs and NPOs. The apJapan Bangladesh Cultural Exchange Association) proved projects not only receive funds, but also support for nutritional education and other activities from group companies in the countries concerned. Reference See “Growing with the People of Each Community” on p. 100. Helping to curb excessive nutritional intake Excessive nutritional intake leads to obesity and chronic diseases and is found in both developed and emerging countries. The Ajinomoto Group is developing products with less salt, sugar, and fat that still taste great and satisfy hunger. The Group is also doing research with the US Department of Agriculture on how the satiation generated by umami seasoning can help people avoid eating too much. With initiatives like this, the Group will continue to develop delicious foods that can help people be healthier. PAL SWEET® Calorie Zero, a Low Salt HON-DASHI®, with 30% zero calorie sweetener with less salt and all the flavor no sugar 17 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 1 Good Eating = Green Eating: Creating a Food-future Good for People, Good for the Earth Improving health through products for medical treatment and sport Today, amino acids play an indispensable role as ingredients for pharmaceuticals and for patient nutritional support. Using its expertise and technologies relating to food and amino acids, the Ajinomoto Group is using amino acids to develop drugs that SOLITA®-T No.3 (electrolyte solution) control the digestion and absorption of food and nutrition, as Pharmaceutical well as metabolism and excretion. Based on clinical nutrition products such as infusions and dialysis solutions, as well as ELENTAL® (elemental diet) liquid medical foods, the Group provides unique products Pharmaceutical specially made for gastrointestinal and metabolic diseases. It will amino VITAL® Pro1 sports continue to help improve health and quality of life for all people supplement with 3,600 mg of amino acids suffering from illness. Utilizing the effectiveness of amino acids and natural ingredients, the Ajinomoto Group is working to alleviate various health issues prevalent today in everyone from teenagers to the elderly. It is doing this by offering fundamental foods and sports nutrition products based on scientific evidence. Glyna® supplement made from an amino acid called glycine, which can help to MEDIF® PUSH CARE® 2.5 (semisolid improve quality of rest 1 amino VITAL® Pro, amino VITAL®, amino VITAL® Amino Protein, and amino VITAL® GOLD are official licensed high dense liquid diets with 2.5 kcal/g) products of the Japanese Olympic Committee. Supporting eco-lifestyles starting from the dining table While delivering ecological food products with environmentally diary contest for elementary school students. Consumers can friendly packaging to consumers, the Ajinomoto Group is also also view and share energy saving ideas and recipes on the supporting green lifestyles at home with handy recipes and ideas company’s website. The desire is to continue promoting these for eliminating food waste. In Japan, the Group holds eco-cooking kinds of activities worldwide. classes for parents and children and sponsors an environmental Providing “Eco-Uma” Recipes Supporting an environmental diary contest for children In order to encourage consumers to begin their own eco-lifeAs part of the “Green Lane” environmental diary contest constyles, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has launched an “Eco-Uma Recipe” ducted by Green Cross Japan, the Ajinomoto Shoku-Eco Kids campaign. By offering everyday recipes and ideas for delicious Prize is awarded to youngsters that perform and write down dishes that are also environmentally friendly, the company is their fun, outstanding environmental activities relating to food. encouraging green lifestyles that begin at the dining table. The goal is to encourage children, the leaders of tomorrow, to Through this campaign, consumers can get information on a enjoy food in an environmentally friendly way. selection of environmentally considerate materials and seasonings. They can also learn how to use, cook and preserve food materials, while sharing kitchen tips and tricks at special events, online, and by other means. “Eco-Uma Recipe” website (in Japanese only) See “Proposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with the Dinner Reference Table” on p. 98. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 18 Special Feature Leveraging Technology and Knowledge to Build a Sustainable Future With over 1,000 researchers worldwide, the Ajinomoto Group is committed to research and technology development as the driver of business growth. Making the most of the technology, knowledge and connections it has in businesses such as food, bioscience products and fine chemicals, and pharmaceuticals and health, the Group is determined to help find solutions to the challenges that human society faces in the 21st century in order to create a sustainable future. Ajinomoto Group’s major research and development centers across the world ● Food ■ Bioscience products and fine chemicals ▲ Pharmaceuticals and health Note: Asterisks show R&D group companies Ajinomoto North America, Inc. ●■▲ North America Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. ● Russia ZAO “AJINOMOTO-GENETIKA Research Institute” (AGRI) ■* AJINOMOTO FOODS EUROPE S.A.S. ● Europe AJINOMOTO EUROLYSINE S.A.S. ■ S.A. Ajinomoto OmniChem N.V. ■ South America Ajinomoto Poland Sp. z o.o. ● Japan Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. ●■ Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. ● Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ●■▲ AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. ▲ China Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. ● Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Inc. ■ SHANGHAI AJINOMOTO FOOD RESEARCH AND Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. ● Number of patents owned and DEVELOPMENT CENTER CO., LTD. ●* consolidated R&D expenses AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. ● Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd. ●■ (No. of patents) Consolidated R&D expenses (million yen) Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. ● Amoy Food Ltd. ● Shanghai Amoy Foods Co., Ltd. ● Southeast Asia Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. ●■ PT Ajinomoto Indonesia ● AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES CORPORATION ● Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad ● No. of patents owned in Japan Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. ● No. of patents owned outside Japan Wan Thai Foods Industry Co., Ltd. ● Consolidated R&D expenses (Fiscal year) 19 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 2 Leveraging Technology and Knowledge to Build a Sustainable Future The role of research and development Amino acids are not only the starting point for the business of process, as well as feed-use amino acids. The Group has also the Ajinomoto Group; they are also the starting point for life. developed its own technologies related to bioscience, chemical Some of the many nutritional and physiological functions of synthesis, bioassay, and food product processing and analysis. amino acids were discovered in the R&D process that led to the Based on this solid base of original technology and knowlcommercialization of umami seasoning. This enabled the Group edge, the Ajinomoto Group is confident that it can provide new to expand its business into areas outside of food products. value and help solve the challenges that human society faces in Results of this included the development of fertilizers and feeds the 21st century. made from the co-products of the amino acid fermentation Leveraging R&D to help to resolve the issues facing humankind in the 21st century Global sustainability Food resources Healthy living Further strengthening technology Open & development capabilities linked innovation Technology and research to contribute Sustainable, environmentally Technologies for great tasting Technologies for friendly technologies food from a global perspective healthy living ● Utilizing unused biomass ● R&D into flavor seasonings and food that ● R&D for nutritional and health support for ● Developing technology to utilize unused contribute to regional food cultures seniors biomass as raw material and energy ● R&D for the efficient production of ● R&D for nutritional improvement in solutions to issues ● Developing alternative production agricultural, livestock and fishery developing countries products Development of materials with less salt, technologies for petrochemical ● products sugar, and fat to curb excessive intake ● Developing technologies to save energy ● AminoIndex ® technology that facilitates and resources prevention and early detection of disease ● Research and information provision to guarantee food safety and quality Cutting-edge bioscience Technology to support the world’s and related technologies leading seasonings manufacturer Knowledge and technologies related to food Global R&D network and amino acids developed over many years R&D foundation Highlight ZAO “AJINOMOTO-GENETIKA Research Institute” (AGRI) wins award from Russian government AGRI, a research and development company in the Ajinomoto Group, received the 2011 Russian Federation Government Prize in Science and Technology for the development of an innovative biotechnology process for producing amino acids. This is one of Russia’s most prestigious honors. It also marked the first time this award has gone to a Japanese-owned company. The prize recognized AGRI for its amino acid technologies, which are currently being commercialized around the world, and its contribution to many facets of the Widely covered in local newspapers Russian economy, including agriculture. AGRI was also recognized for its research achievements, which over the 12 years since its establishment have significantly contributed to the development of Russian science and technology. AGRI building Receiving the award Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 20 Creating the Future with “Open & Linked Innovation” The Ajinomoto Group’s “open & linked innovation” approach is designed to accelerate results in research and technology development. In fiscal 2011 and 2012, it began to pay off with new technologies for fostering sustainability, and major steps were taken toward further research and future commercialization. Developing sustainable materials with cutting-edge bioscience technology Working with Bridgestone Corporation to Developing synthetic rubber from biomass develop synthetic rubber from biomass The two main types of rubber are natural rubber extracted from Resources rubber trees (hevea brasiliensis) and synthetic rubber produced Polymerization catalyst technology Intermediate materials from crude oil. Demand for natural rubber has been rising in Raw materials tandem with automobile ownership worldwide, but it is difficult to raise production of this raw material. Synthetic polyisoprene Biomass can partially replace natural rubber in tires, but petroleum-based isoprene, an intermediate raw material for synthetic polyisoIsoprene Fermentation Synthetic rubber prene, is also in limited supply. Refining/ (polyisoprene) polymerization Addressing this challenge, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Bridgestone Corporation signed a joint research agreement in Isoprene-producing Polymerization bacteria June 2011 and began development of a new rubber raw material catalyst Processing and its application for synthetic rubber. In May 2012, using Fermentation technology bio-based isoprene made by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in an experimental process for fermenting plant-derived sugars, Bridgestone employed its polymerization catalyst technology and succeeded in the trial manufacture of synthetic rubber (polyisoprene). The joint development of bio-based isoprene rubber is a prime example of our R&D effort to ensure sustainability on Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been making this product through Earth. By utilizing the two companies’ respective strengths in fermentation for over 50 years, since 1957. Today, as the world’s joint development, we created an end product that would leading amino acid manufacturer, the company produces in the have been impossible for either company on its own. If this product can be commercialized, it will help range of 1 million tons of amino acids per year, and has state-ofpromote a low-carbon, recycling-oriented the-art fermentation technologies. On the other hand, society that is sustainable. Bridgestone is the world’s largest supplier of tires. It not only has production sites in countries worldwide, but also possesses Junichiro Kojima formidable capabilities in polymer synthesis thanks to its cuttingAssociate General Manager, R&D Planning Department, edge technology in the polymerization catalyst field. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. The two companies plan to continue putting their advantages to the best use to develop synthetic rubber from biomass, Press Releases Reference http://www.ajinomoto.com/about/press/g2012_05_31_2.html thereby ensuring the stable production of synthetic rubber from sustainable resources and helping diversify rubber resources. Bio-based nylon Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Toray Industries, Inc. about half of the raw materials for nylon to come conduct joint research on bio-based nylon from plants. In February 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Toray Industries, Inc. As it contains 1,5-PD made from plant materiagreed to begin joint research into bio-based nylon. al, bio-based nylon fiber is not only renewable, it Nylon is produced by polymerizing raw materials derived also has the same strength and heat resistance as from petrochemicals. On the other hand, bio-based nylon is conventional nylon fiber made from petrochemicals. Moreover, made using plant materials for part or all of the materials used with absorbency that approximates cotton and a soft feel on the in nylon polymerization. There are two main ingredients in skin, bio-based nylon is expected to be used for clothing. The nylon, one of which is 1,5-pentanediamine (1,5-PD). The joint two companies have already succeeded in trial manufacture of research seeks to develop an alternative to 1,5-PD manufactured this product, and are now developing a manufacturing process using an amino acid, lysine, produced by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. while carrying out usage assessment, for the commercialization through fermentation of plant material. This will enable of bio-based nylon. Press Releases Reference http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/presscenter/press/detail/g2012_02_13.html 21 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 2 Leveraging Technology and Knowledge to Build a Sustainable Future Using amino acid expertise to promote healthy lifestyles Supporting good health through AminoIndex® and breast, endocervical, endotechnology metrial, and ovarian cancers in The AminoIndex logo represents a ® Ajinomoto Co., Inc. developed AminoIndex® for the healthcare women. The widespread adoption person with arms outstretched (the “O” represents the head), seeking field by applying its vast knowledge of amino acids and its of AICS is expected to help to support everyone’s health. world-leading amino acid technology. AminoIndex® is a testing increase cancer screening service which can reveal a person’s health condition and aid in participation rates. the early detection of various diseases by analyzing the change Research is also being carried out for application of in concentration of up to 40 types of amino acids found in blood. AminoIndex® technology to determine visceral fat obesity, which could help with early detection of metabolic syndrome. In order Quick testing for multiple cancers from a single to support healthy living, the company will keep striving to blood draw develop new applications for AminoIndex® technology. In order to commercialize AminoIndex® as an aid for cancer screening, in April 2011 the company collaborated with the clinical testing provider SRL, Inc., and launched the world’s first Helping to build a health-conscious society AminoIndex® Cancer Screening (AICS) service. using amino acid technology In regular cancer screening, various tests are employed, Promoting a health-conscious society including X-rays, a fecal occult blood test, and mammography, depending on the type of cancer. As these tests are quite burdenRealizing healthier lives through amino acids some for the people being screened, it can hinder efforts to Support for Support for Support for an preventative personalized aging society medicine medicine increase screening participation rates. With AICS, however, using a single blood draw, screening Maintenance and for the risk of gastric, lung, and colon cancers can be carried out Disease prevention Disease treatment promotion of health simultaneously, along with screening for prostate cancer in men, AminoIndex technology ® AICS provides a new approach to cancer screening that is completeBy measuring amino acid levels in the body, we can now ly different from existing methods and might help to detect cancer become aware of a person’s health condition and detect earlier. As current gynecological cancer screening methods are various diseases based on metabolic changes that are not burdensome both mentally and physically, screening indicated by DNA or protein analysis. Dedicated to participation rates have ended up low. I believe that contributing to the health and well-being of the AICS could become a revolutionary cancer screenwhole family by helping to prevent diseases and ing test that can reduce medical expenses and promoting good health, we will keep working to mortality by identifying more early stage cancers. develop the AminoIndex® enterprise. Minoru Yamakado Ryota Yoshimoto Special Advisor of the Center of Multiphasic Health Testing General Manager, AminoIndex Department, and Services, Mitsui Memorial Hospital Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Partnering with Kao Corporation in the health Currently, HCC is operating a lifestyle improvement prosolutions business gram service, QUPiO, for health insurance associations in Japan. As society ages, people are becoming more concerned about The service uses medical checkup results to provide association their lifelong health. At the same time, there has been increasing members with information on the risk of lifestyle-related diseasfocus on the prevention and improvement of metabolic synes, along with support for lifestyle improvement. In the future, drome and the decreased locomotive functions with aging. the service may offer metabolic Promoting a society with active seniors who lead active lives syndrome screening using the regardless of age can also help reduce healthcare costs for AminoIndex® technology of companies and national governments. Ajinomoto Co., Inc., accompaIn order to help realize this kind of society, in May 2012, nied by the appropriate meal Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Kao Corporation signed an alliance plan information based on the agreement in the health solutions business, based on the techidea of a lifelong health nologies, products, and services of the respective companies. portal program. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. acquired a 33.4% equity interest in Healthcare Committee, Inc. (HCC), previously a wholly owned subsidiary of Kao Corporation. Directors appointed by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. are now part of the management team HCC website (in Japanese only) at HCC. Press Releases Reference http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/presscenter/press/detail/g2012_05_29.html Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 22 Special Feature Working with Stakeholders to Build a Sustainable Future The Ajinomoto Group seeks to contribute to society through its businesses and understands how important stakeholder communication is. The Group actively pursues input, studies it and incorporates it into business activities as appropriate. The Group highly values stakeholder engagement, believing that the global issues the world now faces can only be resolved when all stakeholders act together. Dialogue with sustainability expert Lester R. Brown What needs to be done to resolve sustainability issues through business? In February 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. had the honor of a visit calories, and the second is under-nutrition, people not getting the from Lester R. Brown, one of the world’s leading experts on nutrients needed for a healthy lifestyle. Interestingly, the number food and the environment. Brown offered a range of suggesof people affected by these two problems are roughly the tions regarding the action that the Ajinomoto Group can and same—1 to 1.5 billion people in each category. So, anything that should take as a corporation with global business operacan help with these problems is a major act. Amino acid fortifications in the fields of food and health. tion is an important part of food relief. The Ajinomoto Group is ideally positioned to advance public thinking on the importance Extensive knowledge of food and amino acids of this issue to help people in positions of responsibility in helps solve social issues governments and international assistance agencies to underChieko Ishijima: The Ajinomoto Group views global sustainabilstand amino acid fortification and its importance in food aid ity, food resources, and healthy lifestyles as the most challenging projects. One way to accomplish this would be research on issues facing humanity in the 21st century. We believe that the amino acid intake among populations around the world to technologies related to food, nutrition, and amino acids that we identify the amino acids of which people are not getting enough. have developed over many years can be helpful in trying to solve Ishijima: Using amino acids to address the problem of nutrition these problems. Human activity is rapidly becoming a burden on has been one of the Ajinomoto Group’s missions since its foundthe planet, and food and national security are being threatened. ing, and we are actively working on it still. Amino acids are one We are eager to hear your opinion on how the Ajinomoto Group of the building blocks of life itself. We believe that, with our can and should try to make a difference through its global extensive understanding and proper application of amino acids, food business. we can continue to provide new technologies that will help not Lester R. Brown: As I look at only with nutrition for humankind, but support all life on Earth. the world today, I see two Brown: The Ajinomoto Group talks about the importance of Chieko Ishijima nutrition problems: one is a ecosystems, and that is certainly important for agriculture and General Manager, lifestyle characterized by a food production. We see very clearly that we are overusing Environment & Safety Depertment, lack of sufficient exercise Earth’s natural systems. We are over-pumping aquifers, overAjinomoto Co., Inc. and an excessive intake of plowing land, destroying forests, overfishing, eroding the land, 23 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 3 Working with Stakeholders to Build a Sustainable Future We are now faced with saving not just the natural environment, but saving civilization itself. We are going to have to begin, as individuals and as corporations, to engage the big issues in a major way if we are to win this battle. Lester R. Brown Founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute. Born in New Jersey in 1934, Brown graduated from Rutgers University, earned a master’s degree in agriculture and public administration from Harvard University, and served as director of the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural Service. He coined the groundbreaking term “environmentally sustainable development” some 30 years ago and was dubbed by the Washington Post to be “one of the most influential thinkers in the world.” His latest book, World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse, has also been published in Japanese by Diamond Inc. and discharging carbon into the atmosphere. All of these things Japan is now at a major turning point with regard to the way the are undermining our economic future. country uses energy. What message do you have for us on We used to talk about saving the planet, but we are now this point? faced with saving civilization itself. We cannot afford to lose this Brown: What happened in Fukushima has changed energy battle. We are not going to save civilization unless we as individupolicies in countries all over the world. When we think about als and as corporations take a strong stance on solving these what might happen on the climate front, we must fundamentally issues on a global scale and push our governments to do so. re-think our future. We are clearly seeing more and more exIshijima: We pride ourselves on the fact that, as a company treme climate events like hurricanes, flooding, and tidal waves closely connected with the daily lives of people, we can help to recently that are causing major damage around the world. transform food cultures into something more sustainable. We Things are changing, and the question is, “How do we respond have the technology and expertise to do this. We hope to make a to these changes? How do we translate this into energy policy?” contribution as part of the greater social system by sharing this We must rethink these issues. know-how across the planet. Ishijima: Thank you very much for your suggestions. You bring such a wealth of knowledge to the subject and play such an Readdressing how individuals and corporations active role in so many areas. You are having such an impact on tackle global problems the future, and at the Ajinomoto Group we hope to do the same Brown: It sounds to me as though the Ajinomoto Group is taking through our business activities. some very good steps—in Thailand, for example, using boilers Brown: It has been fun meeting with a company that is even that burn rice straw as fuel to effectively use the by-products that older than I am. I am pleased to see the Ajinomoto Group incorthe company generates. But what I have not heard anything porating a basic understanding of the environment into its about is the extent to which the Group has a policy of developing day-to-day operations. We have to ask ourselves what is our role solar or geothermal or wind or other renewable energy for its as individuals and as companies like the Ajinomoto Group in own operations. I have not heard any references to a corporate changing the perception and understanding of global issues. policy of becoming carbon neutral, for example. I would suggest How do we change things at the global level? that the Group’s stance on this sort of an effort and the details of What can we do at the corporate level to change world how it will develop in this area need to be made clear. climate policy? This is the true question for our generation. I am Ishijima: You are absolutely correct. Having gone through the pleased to have had the opportunity to talk about these Great East Japan Earthquake and ensuing nuclear accident, issues today. Dialogue with CSR expert Malini Mehra (March 2012) Highlights Malini Mehra An Indian national, Malini Mehra, founder The optimal approach to sustainability for global corporations operating in and CEO of the Centre for Social Markets an new emerging economies NPO in India, has In addition to supplying products designed to support sustainability, global corpoworked on sustainability and human rights issues rations must help with efforts to transform consumer attitudes and behavior. across the world as a campaigner, educator, writer, strategist and policy maker for Collaboration with NPOs is critical to these efforts. Corporations must also be more than 25 years. Presently she advises major clear about the outcomes that they expect from such collaboration. corporations such as Unilever, Kimberly-Clark and BHP Billiton, and serves on the board of directors of the Global Reporting Initiative and Chinadialogue.net. She has worked The Ajinomoto Group’s business and human rights in the United Nations, including as an adviser to the Secretary-General on UN-civil society relations, and was the Nutritional improvement and food security are critical and basic human rights architect of the United Kingdom government’s Sustainable issues that are directly linked to the business of the Ajinomoto Group. Development Dialogues with China, India, Brazil, Mexico and South Africa. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 24 Involving All Stakeholders in Discussion on Sustainability The Ajinomoto Group believes that a sustainable future can only be achieved in collaboration with all members of society. The Group highly prioritizes dialogue on how to build the most desirable future. To encourage this type of communication, the Group creates a variety of opportunities for dialogue about what every one of us can do. Discussions on a Sustainable Future First Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum March 6, 2012 at the Ajinomoto Group Takanawa Training Center The Ajinomoto Group held its first Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum to provide a venue for discussing issues of sustainability and exploring the idea of a sustainable future. Some 300 participants, mostly members of the general public, came together to consider the relationship between the planet and life and discuss the sort of actions that begin at the dinner table that can support this relationship. The second forum was held in December 2012 at Eco-Products 2012. Keynote Address From Carbon to Nitrogen—The Age of Dynamic Equilibrium between People and the Planet Citing the latest research, Shin-Ichi Fukuoka spoke about “dynamic equilibrium,” defining it like this: “The cells in any living organism are constantly being replaced. On a material level, the ‘me’ of yesterday and the ‘me’ of today are different, but I still continue to be myself. Life is dynamic, and yet it is constantly in balance.” Expanding, Fukuoka remarked, “Life, the environment, and nature are all continuously rejuvenated in pursuit of equilibrium. On a material level, carbon gets the attention, as demonstrated by the focus on carbon dioxide emissions. But we overlook the nitrogen cycle. Nitrogen is an essential component of protein, and the global balance of it is collapsing. We need to Shin-Ichi Fukuoka restore the nitrogen cycle in order to restore the dynamic equilibrium of the planet as a whole.” Biologist Panel Discussion My Lifestyle within the Global Cycle—On a Sustainable Future That Starts at the Dinner Table The five-member panel facilitated by TV presenter and news anchor Mitsuyo Kusano reexamined the relationship between food, lifestyles and the planet. The discussion incorporated audience members’ hopes and desires with regard to the future of food, which were submitted in advance, as well as the panelists’ views on Mitsuyo Kusano what individuals can do to protect life for the future. TV presenter and news anchor With the democratization of information through Once upon a time, sustainable use of the social media, blogs, and other channels, a trend planet’s resources was the norm, but modern is emerging where individuals plan and act on lifestyles mean that we are borrowing half of the their own for a sustainable order. This is likely to resources we use from future generations. push the world toward a more autonomous Fisheries in particular are increasing their stock, social order. Passing through this phase, we are and fish breeding is impacting the environment. expected to enter a new one of naturalized Consumer behavior is equally important. When societies into which natural systems have been purchasing fish, consumers need to choose integrated. Consumers will need to change their seasonal catches, know the origin of the fish or purchasing styles, as well. We should contribute the fishery, and buy only the amount of fish they Manabu Akaike Aiko Yamauchi President, Universal Design to the creation of viable business models by Marine Programme Fishery need and at a reasonable price. We need to Intelligence, Inc. actively investing in positive initiatives. Officer, World Wide Fund for think about whether the seafood we buy is Nature Japan actually sustainable. In the 1950s and 60s, Kawasaki was a city of A food manufacturer’s business depends on considerable pollution. In the ensuing years, agriculture, livestock farming, and fisheries. We environmental technologies developed, and both must consider the sustainability of society and residents and businesses worked hard to the planet while minimizing our impact on the address the oil crisis, waste, and other problems. environment. This cannot be accomplished with Today, Kawasaki seeks to be a leader in the a single-minded focus on business. At the environment and life sciences. The city has a Ajinomoto Group, we consult with consumers in number of power plants fueled by renewable providing guidance on how to select energy, has set up recycling displays and venues environmentally friendly products. We think an for companies to present their CSR activities, ecological lifestyle starts at the dinner table. We Yoko Maki and promotes eco-cooking among residents. All Chieko Ishijima hope to involve everyone in a virtuous cycle. Director, Environment General Manager, Environof these initiatives emphasize ecological Bureau, City of Kawasaki ment & Safety Depertment, practices in a modern, industrialized city. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 25 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 3 Working with Stakeholders to Build a Sustainable Future Suggestions for ecological lifestyle Dialogue with investors Eco-Products 2011 Ajinomoto Group ESG Small Group December 15–17, 2011 at Tokyo Big Sight Meeting July 5, 2012, Tokyo The Eco-Products 2011 exhibition is the largest environmental expo The Ajinomoto Group held an in Japan, attracting more than Environment, Social, Governance 180,000 visitors over three days. (ESG) Small Group Meeting for The Ajinomoto Group set up a investors. Following a presentation on booth featuring its eco-products. the Group’s approach to sustainability, The booth also introduced ideas the 12 invited investors and analysts for an ecological lifestyle that took part in a lively discussion on a begins at the dinner table, encourrange of topics that included businessaging visitors to take part in the es and food resources in newly emergfun with quizzes and food samples. ing economies. International cooperation events Global Festa Japan 2011 October 1–2, 2011 in Hibiya Park, Tokyo The largest international cooperation event in Japan, Global Festa Japan, features some 300 participating groups. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. featured panels in its booth introducing its initiatives around the world and participated in workThe panel discussion featured the AIN program, a corporate effort involving international cooperation. shops and panel discussions. The company outlined its Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project and other international cooperation projects, as well as the support that it has More than 1,000 people visited the booth, and the provided the recovery efforts in the wake of the Great East discussions were lively. Japan Earthquake. The event was a good opportunity to engage in dynamic discussions with a variety of stakeholders interested in international cooperation, including NGOs, Workshop presentation with CARE International Japan and Plan Japan on the project in Ghana UN agencies, and students. Participating in international discussions Japan Pavilion at Rio+20 June 13–24, 2012 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil The Japan Pavilion at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20) was developed in close cooperation between the public and private sectors to address the theme, “Japan’s Green Innovation: Power of Recovery and Kizuna with the World.” As a global food company originating in Japan, the Ajinomoto Group was one of the exhibitors at the pavilion. The Group’s booth focused on discussions of sustainability, as well as tips on food resource sustainability around the world and the sustainable use of natural capital. Visitors from around the world asked questions and offered their impressions of the Group’s products and activities. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 26 Special Feature Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Sustainable Society Natural disasters are a tragic part of life. In March 2011, Japan experienced an earthquake of unprecedented magnitude, which has left a mark on the people and communities of the nation to this day. The Ajinomoto Group has integrated what it experienced and learned during the disaster, as well as in the days and months that followed, into its preparations for future natural disasters. Lifestyles that suit local conditions, preparing for business continuity worldwide The first years of the 21st century have brought many recordNatural disasters on a global scale wield a tremendous breaking natural disasters around the world. Japan, too, has been amount of energy, and humankind is not capable of preventing hit with torrential rains, tornados, and other uncharacteristic the damage they cause. It is, however, possible for us to be weather conditions. ready, minimize the damage, and take the right steps afterwards. Each of these disasters is caused by different factors, but The Ajinomoto Group took a variety of actions to cope with they are all thought to be manifestations of climate change. It the Great East Japan Earthquake and the flooding in Thailand, may therefore be possible to reduce the damage caused by both of which took place in fiscal 2011. Both in its business natural disasters by curbing global warming. activities and its social contribution initiatives, the Ajinomoto In the case of disasters that are hard to predict and Group always seeks to do what it can to protect lives and local cause massive damage, like earthquakes, it is vital to be communities when disaster strikes. prepared for the moment they strike and the action required in their aftermath. Worldwide Natural Disasters 1980–2011 Trends in data 3% Damage caused by 2% The overall number of disasters is on the rise, but the number of 1,200 natural disasters in 2011 geophysical events is not growing significantly. Number of events with trend Data indicates more disasters caused by meteorological, hydrological, 17% 25% and climatological events attributable to climate change. 1,000 Economic Total Although geophysical events account for a minority of disasters, they losses1: fatalities: cause a considerable proportion of overall damage. 19% US$ 61% 27,000 62% 800 380 billion 11% 1 In 2011 values 600 400 200 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 Geophysical events (Earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions) Meteorological events (Storms) Hydrological events (Floods, mass movement) Climatological events (Extreme temperatures, droughts, forest fires) Source: Munich Re press release, January 4, 2012 27 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 4 Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Sustainable Society Damage Caused by Great East During and after Data Japan Earthquake and Tsunami the Great East Japan Earthquake Human casualties Fatalities: 15,868; missing persons: 2,848 Learning about proper corporate response to an unprecedented disaster Structural damage (number of buildings) Completely destroyed: 129,316; partially destroyed: The Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 damaged a number of 263,845; partially damaged: 725,760 distribution and production bases belonging to the Ajinomoto Group. Total estimated disaster waste in disaster area The Group lost no time in scrambling to resume operations and restore (As of July 2012) stable product supplies. Disaster waste: 31.2 million tonnes; tsunami sediment: 9.59 million tonnes Determined never to forget the lessons learned from this earthquake, the Ajinomoto Group is preparing for other unforeseeable natural disasSource: Reconstruction Status and Initiatives (Reconstruction Agency, August 15, 2012) ters. Its enterprise continuity plans are designed to minimize damage and ensure that operations resume as quickly as possible. Safeguarding Business Continuity Developing enterprise continuity plans Ajinomoto Group Emergency Response Priorities Following the disaster, the Ajinomoto Group revised its business continuity plan (BCP) and reintroduced it as an even more 1. Person  comprehensive enterprise continuity plan (ECP). Seeking to We give the highest priority to human life, and ensure ensure that Group operations are not interrupted in the event of the safety of oneself, one’s family and colleagues. a disaster, the ECP is broader in scope and includes lifesaving 2. Society  We provide support for local community and society, on measures and support for local communities. the basis of saving human life. The ECP prioritizes disaster response: (1) person; (2) society; 3. Business  and (3) business. It lays out plans for three stages of disaster: the We make an effort for early restoration of business human safety stage, the support and recovery stage, and the activities in order to fulfill our business responsibility, as business recovery stage. In fiscal 2012, the Group compiled and the Ajinomoto Group that is working for Life. introduced concrete measures to be taken when the plan goes into effect. Improving the food product supply Raw materials:  Sharing ingredients across product formulas, simplifying product formulas, chain in Japan developing alternative manufacturing process, and securing alternative supply channels The Group’s ECP focuses on strengthening the food Production:  Developing redundant and decentralized production bases, instituting product supply chain in Japan. The plan adds decenbackup systems, and formulating plans to ensure necessary production personnel tralized operations and supplemental systems to Distribution:  Decentralizing inventory, establishing multiple distribution routes, designing ensure a stable product supply to the emphasis on flexible information systems, and looking into the potential for redundant distribution centers focused and efficient operations already in place. Damage sustained by the Energy saving initiatives Ajinomoto Group in the Great East Japan Earthquake Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office, Ajinomoto Co., Inc.  Safety of employees and their families  This office meets 100% of its energy needs with the The safety of all group employees was confirmed. in-house generation of electricity from natural gas. Since Sadly, however, some employees’ family members the disaster, employees have made great efforts to save power, enabling the and relatives lost their lives. office to supply approximately half of its total electricity production to Tokyo Electric Power Co., Inc. (TEPCO), since just after the disaster through SepDamage to production and distribution tember 2011. The office continues to supply a portion of its surplus electricity facilities to power companies other than TEPCO. Kawasaki Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Production facilities sustained only minor damage. Plants in the greater Tokyo and Tohoku electric power However, production and shipments were delayed service areas  owing to damage to an automated warehouse which The 27 production plants in the relevant service areas have taken measures stores and ships major retail products and key raw to reduce electricity consumption by 15% during peak service hours on materials. As a result, supply problems were experiweekdays. Two of these plants have also installed new in-house power enced by a large number of purchasers across the generation equipment. country. Operations were resumed completely at the center in May 2011. Ajinomoto Co., Inc.  Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has introduced Smart Energy Measures Sendai Distribution Center, AJINOMOTO designed to enforce the appropriate and intelligent use of LOGISTICS CORPORATION electric power. In fiscal 2011, the company took steps to The center was severely damaged by the tsunami. In reduce its use of electric power by introducing an extended response, distribution facilities in the greater Tokyo summer break, moving work hours earlier by an hour, region began making deliveries on March 22, 2011 and using less lighting. In 2012, the company distributed to the northeastern Tohoku region. The center the Smart Energy Handbook to all employees to serve as resumed some operations in May 2011 and is now the basis for the initiatives that the company continues back to normal. to implement. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 28 AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. has four production Applying lessons learned in the earthquake— plants in Japan that manufacture specialized medicines for Reconstruction at a group plant in Fukushima gastrointestinal diseases and metabolic disorders as well as clinical nutrition products such as infusions, dialysis solutions and medical foods. AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. delivers products that sustain life. Situated some 150 km from the earthquake’s epicenter, the company’s Fukushima Plant was unable to avoid damage from the earthquake. Committed to fulfilling the company’s responsibility to deliver products to patients, employees at the Fukushima Plant worked together diligently and recovered production in 20 days. The plant is determined to ensure that the lessons learned from this experience are not forgotten and are built into future emergency responses. The earthquake struck at 2:46 pm on March 11, 2011. In Area struck by Great Shirakawa City in Fukushima Prefecture, where the Fukushima East Japan Earthquake Plant is located, the earthquake registered higher than six on Seismic ■ scale ■ the Japanese seismic scale. The city sustained massive damage 7 ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ with landslides, liquefaction, the destruction of buildings and 6 upper ■ ■■ ■■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ 6 lower ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ houses, and interruption of utilities. 5 upper ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ Fortunately, all employees and visitors at the Fukushima 5 lower ■■ ■ ■ 4 ■ Fukushima Plant overview Plant were able to evacuate to safety, unharmed. There was, 3 ■■ ■ ■■ ■ Location: Shirakawa City, × ■ ■■ however, extensive damage to the plant, including product 2 ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ Fukushima Prefecture ■ ■ ■ 1 ■ Total site area: 67,000 m2 manufacturing equipment, warehouses, and the building itself. ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ Epicenter ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■■ ■ Total floor area: 24,000 m2 The power went out at the plant. As soon as the tremors ■■■■■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■■■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■■■ ■ ■■■ ■ ■ Employees: Approx. 250 ■ ■■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ The plant manufactures 17 original settled down, workers on all production lines were instructed to ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ products and 12 OEM products, ■ ■ evacuate the building. Employees, as they had practiced in ■■ ■ including 1 billion pills and 2,000 ■ tonnes of powders, granules, previous drills, gathered at a temporary shelter and held a roll ointments, and suppositories Source: Breaking News: Earthquake and Tsunami, call. No one was missing. 2011, Great East Japan Earthquake, Japan annually. Meteorological Agency Following the Emergency Response Manual, which had been compiled in response to the Great Hanshin Earthquake in 1995 Sharing experience from the disaster and the Chuetsu Earthquake in 2004, employees worked as a team in the aftermath of the earthquake to implement the ECP. On April 1, the plant resumed operations, and by the middle of May, all production lines were running. The Fukushima Plant continuously reviews and improves its ECP, incorporating the lessons learned from past disasters. Left: Lecture outside the company (June 2012) Disaster prevention lecture In order to help with emergency preparedness at the entire Right: Discussion after the lecture. held for group employees (August 2012) Ajinomoto Group, as well as in society at large, AJINOMOTO Support for local community PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. is actively sharing the lessons The company worked with local governments and other organizations to it learned and its experience with people both in and outside of deliver drinking water, food, liquid foods and other relief supplies. the Ajinomoto Group. Excerpt from a thank you letter “In the beginning, we could only manage to give out bread and rice balls at the evacuation center. But thanks to your donation of relief supplies, we were then able to get senior citizens and acute gastroenteritis patients the rice gruel and other liquid foods they needed.” Our obligation to deliver life-sustaining products: Using past experience to better prepare for the future Amid the frequent repeat aftershocks, we had no idea when we would be We were very fortunate that we had introduced the Emergency Response able to resume operations. I nearly lost heart a number of times. In Manual before the earthquake. Still, we learned a lot from the actual moments like these, I gained strength from the thank you postcards we disaster, and we continue to update our measures for ensuring safety. We had received from patients taking ELENTAL®, an elemental diet product regularly review evacuation routes and employee safety verification manufactured at our plant. I would remind systems, and we prepare to prevent injury and damage by updating myself that some patients get almost all of layouts and utility shutdown lists. We stay ready to resume their nutrition from ELENTAL® and that we operations quickly by prioritizing recovery themes and had an obligation to get back to production working with the local community and government. as quickly as we could for their sake. Our goal is to be even more prepared for largeEmployees from other sites rushed in scale disasters in the future. and gave 120% in their efforts to help us. For this, I am extremely grateful. Shinji Oshiguchi An enlarged image of a postcard from a patient is displayed GM of Fukushima Plant, at the plant. AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. 29 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 4 Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Sustainable Society Column Working to resume operations as quickly as possible: Timeline of Fukushima Plant action March 11, 2011 (Day of the earthquake) 2:46 pm Earthquake strikes, personnel Employees evacuate safely during blackout evacuate Following procedures from the company’s Emergency Response Manual as practiced in emergency drills and training, everyone at 3:10 pm Production floor: Water leaks, distortion in walls and ceiling, walls damaged the plant was able to evacuate to safety. The temperature • Massive earthquake confirmed outside was cold with a light snow falling. People shivered and • Part-time staff sent home • Employees gather at cafeteria, wished they had warmer clothing. where an emergency response HQ is set up Emergency Response Manual Strong aftershocks continue 1. Ensure safety  Prepare for orderly evacuation, stock water and emergency food 4:00 pm 2. Ensure uninterrupted supply of pharmaceuticals  Machine room: Pipes damaged, metal fittings damaged and fallen Stock products and materials for priority pharmaceuticals; support • Employees other than emergency response HQ staff sent home system for orders and delivery • Utilities (LPG, electric power, 3. Curtail earthquake damage  plumbing system, etc.) shut down Test structural earthquake resistance; secure equipment to prevent toppling March 12 and after Back-office area: Water leaks, ceiling collapsed, pillars and walls damaged Basic recovery policy puts safety and family first Recovery process Work to resume operations began as aftershocks continued to March 12–13, 2011 rock the area and a clearer picture of the damage in each region • Confirmed safety of employees emerged. The plant placed the highest priority on employee and • Secured plant safety: tested for gas leaks, cordoned off restricted areas, logged employee entries and exits from premises, evacuated and conducted roll calls family safety in its recovery work, to enable employees whose during aftershocks • Gathered information on plant damage and on the accident at the nearby nuclear homes had been damaged to bring the necessary physical and power plant mental energy to plant recovery work. • Secured utilities, food, and items required to make repairs • Provided information on damage and necessary support, coordinated delegation Basic Principles of Plant of responsibilities with head office Recovery Work (Compiled on March 12, 2011) Safety first  Step 1 • Working alone and/or at night is prohibited. Test safety of structure and secure infrastructure for repair work • Do not approach dangerous areas. • Structural safety test • Secure utilities needed for repair work • In the event of a major aftershock, employees are to evacuate immediately, conduct a roll • Stock gasoline and food • Secure accommodation for support call, and confirm safety. workers • Wear full protective gear. March 18, 2011 Structure declared safe Family first  • Take care of family needs first. Step 2 • Work only if able and available. Damage assessment and recovery plan Preparations for future large-scale disasters • Highest priority assigned to products for which patients have no alternative • Determine priorities based on product inventory and marketing plans Lessons learned from this experience must be integrated in plant emergency response procedures. Developed schedule for recovery By end of March 2011 R  estore tap water, compressed air, and purified water, and repair plant Ensure safety infrastructure • Secure evacuation routes (multiple routes and exits for various weather and power condition scenarios) Step 3 • First aid (for injuries, burns, hyperventilation, first-aid training) Temporary repairs, resume production • Stock emergency cell phones, compile commuting route information • Restore production environment (air conditioning, water for manufacturing, Prevent damage building repairs, etc.) • Test and improve installation of equipment, shelves in high-ceiling warehouses, furniture, fixtures, pipes April 1, 2011 and beyond • Automatically suspend certain machinery and equipment when earthquake is Resumed production in successive stages detected April 25 Restriction on supplies of ELENTAL® lifted • Update layout and safety shutdown list for gas, electricity, and other utilities May  Production lines restarted one at a time, resumed Resume operations quickly production on all lines by May 15 • Prepare for orderly evacuation, stock water and emergency food Step 4 • Compile list of priorities • Clarify objectives and delegate responsibilities Repairs complete • Cooperate with other organizations by providing goods and information and promoting regular communication July 19–August 31, 2011 Restrictions on supplies of all products lifted Final repair work finished during extended summer vacation Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 30 Supporting recovery in disaster areas through food and healthcare Food, an essential component for all life, is inevitably scarce in areas hit by disaster. The Ajinomoto Group set up the Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support Project to conduct activities in the disaster-stricken area designed to help with recovery by delivering this most essential form of aid. Through its expertise in food and healthcare businesses, the Group will continue to support these local communities as they get on a steady track to recovery. Initial support Delivering food to evacuation centers and temporary housings Employees serve meals to evacuees. Evacuees receive boxes of products. Ongoing support Health and Nutrition Seminar to help temporary housing residents stay healthy (Ongoing from October 2011) Temporary housing residents find it difficult to eat properly, which leads to Nutrition and health problems faced health and nutrition problems. To address these issues, the Ajinomoto Group by temporary housing residents introduced Health and Nutrition Seminars. These seminars provide tempo1. Increased risk of diabetes, kidney disease, rary housing residents with a place to join others in conversation as they and heart trouble share the cooking and pleasure of a delicious meal. Dedicated staff and 2. Vitamin and mineral deficiency caused by lack of vegetables employee volunteers from the Group take part in these seminars with 3. Difficulty cooking, so residents cook less various local partners. often and have less variety in meals Cooking together, eating together, sharing conversation 4. Breakdown of community ties leave 1. Coordinated with government offices, local social welfare councils, dietetic associations, and other groups residents with few opportunities to talk 2. U se special portable kitchen equipment provided by the with others Ajinomoto Group 5. Risk of alcohol dependency 3. S tructured around a simple, familiar menu made by all participants Portable kitchen Cooking together brings conversation and smiles to residents. A total of 420 employee volunteers have taken part in these seminars to date. 180 seminars with approx. 3,000 participants (As of October 2012) Volunteers learn how to cook local dishes from residents. The pleasure of cooking, eating, and talking together The Group also conducts “Cooking School for Men” These seminars are something that we simply seminars. could not do on our own. It is thanks to help from everyo ne at the Ajinomoto Group, Miyagi Gakuin Wome n’s University, and local dieticians that we have been continue to stand by and able The Ajinomoto Group will to accomplish what we have. We hope that these in this region as we work with the local residents activities will give local residents the pleasure offices and staff to do of with local government working together constructively to return to life can to pro vide the support that was before the disaster. as it everything we is needed. Sumiko Seino Seiichiro Maehara oku Chairperson, Council on Improving Eating Habits ager stationed at the Toh Watari-cho, Miyagi Prefecture Recovery Support Man ent, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Branch, CSR Departm 31 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Special Feature 4 Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Sustainable Society Supporting recovery in partnership with customers Proceeds used to aid recovery The Ajinomoto Group donates proceeds from the sales of certain products to give customers a chance to support disaster recovery. Assistance for farmers Assistance for restaurants (November 2011–February 2012 deliveries) (March–April 2012) Tohoku support campain logo Ajinomoto Co., Inc. donated one yen from During this period, the sale of each box of HON-DASHI® to Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., relief funds. The proceeds were used to Inc. donated one yen from finance the Kamaishi Kitchen Car Project, the sale of each of its gyoza a project to help damaged restaurants Donations through the Nippon Foundation dumpling products (photo assist a strawberry farm in Miyagi along the coast of Iwate Prefecture Prefecture. In July 2012, employee below) to three aid groups volunteers helped renovate a restart their businesses by loaning them strawberry greenhouse. assisting with agricultural mobile kitchen equipment (photo above). recovery efforts in the Tohoku region (total donaTohoku support campaign logo (top) and HON-DASHI® package tion: 21,257,000 yen). Assistance for potters (March–October 2012) We launched this project because we believed that the best way to help our customers support the Tohoku region is through sales of our gyoza, the best selling item in our line of frozen food. The campaign is still ongoing, with updates on the local situation posted on our website. Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. donated part Tetsushi Tateno of the proceeds from the sale of Blendy Section Manager, Sales Planning Group, Retail instant coffee to help repair three pottery Products Department, Marketing Division, Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. facilities in Tohoku that were damaged. Purchasers also had a chance to win a coffee Blendy Tohoku support cup made by one of these potteries. campaign logo (top) and the refill package Highlight Facing floods in Thailand Thailand suffered widespread, serious damage in the major flooding that occurred October–November 2011. Five production sites of the Ajinomoto Group suffered major damage. While working to recommence production quickly, the Group also supported flood victims in the recovery process by implementing assistance programs with various local partners. 8000 packs of relief goods for evacuation centers  The Ajinomoto Foundation in Thailand set up the “Heart to Heart…for Flood Sufferers” project, delivering 8,000 packs of relief goods filled with 11 items including products made by the Ajinomoto Group, hygiene products and T-shirts to evacuation centers. The Foundation also contributed about 24 million baht in direct relief funds. Some 600 employees of the Ajinomoto Group in Thailand helped to pack and distribute the relief goods together with Thai royal officials, students, and the mass media. The Foundation continues to provide assistance that suits the needs of Thailand’s society and people. On behalf of the recovery assistance working team, as well as all employees affected by the flooding, I would like to express our deep appreciation for the support from Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. I believe that this support has really enhanced the recovery for people in the affected areas. Amornrat Kotawong, Ajinomoto Foundation Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 32 Fiscal 2011 Activity Report Taking Responsibility for Global Sustainability Issues The Ajinomoto Group recognizes that it has a corporate social responsibility to help build a more sustainable world. The Ajinomoto Group Philosophy guides the Group’s efforts to help solve three issues facing 21st century human society: global sustainability, food resources, and healthy living. The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group naturally involve solving various challenges confronting customers, business partners, communities, the global community, and the ecosystems without which none of these could exist. Meeting these social expectations is a vital element of the Group’s corporate responsibility. Across all of its business activities, the Ajinomoto Group is determined to contribute solutions to various social challenges, doing its part in building a sustainable future for people and the planet. Since fiscal 2011, the Ajinomoto Group has been utilizing the ISO 26000 guidance standard on social responsibility as a tool for assessing its sustainability initiatives and identifying further issues to address. Food resources Healthy Issues for 21st living century human society Global sustainability Community Organizational involvement and governance development Seven core Fair operating Consumer subjects of issues practices Human Labor The ISO 26000 rights practices environment 33 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Contents This section of the report describes the Ajinomoto Group’s fiscal 2011 activities under the seven core subjects of ISO 26000. Organizational I ncreasing Corporate Value through  nsuring the Planet’s Sustainability, E The Environment Governance Responsible Management as the Foundation for All Life P37 Strengthening and Instilling Corporate Governance P65  he Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy T and Basic Environmental Policies P38 Compliance Framework P67 T  he Ecological Business Model of the P41 CSR Management Ajinomoto Group P68  nvironmental Initiatives through the Entire E Product Lifecycle P69 A  jinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Fair Operating  Plan and Fiscal 2011 Results Practices Ethical and Honest Practices P70 A  jinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal 2011 Results P43 Pursuing CSR Procurement P71 Fiscal 2011 Input and Output Balance P45 Ensuring Fair Competition P72 Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity P45 Painstaking Anti-corruption Measures P74 D  eveloping Technologies and Products that P45  rotecting and Properly Using P Contribute to Global Sustainability Intellectual Property P78 D  evelopment of Environmentally Friendly Packaging P82 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions  especting the Rights of Everyone R Human Rights Our Business Touches P84 Conserving Water Resources P85 Reducing Waste P47 Basic Initiatives for Human Rights Protection P86 Initiatives in Logistics P48 Further Strengthening and Expanding Initiatives P87 Environmental Management P89  roviding Environmental Education and P Fostering Awareness  uilding a Company Where B Labor Practices Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction  aking a Consumer-driven Approach T Consumer Issues to a More Sustainable World P51  eveloping and Promoting Diverse Human D Resources from a Global Perspective P91 Delivering Reliable Quality P54 Labor-Management Relations P96 Communicating with Customers P55 Improving Work-Life Balance P98 P  roposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with P57 Ensuring Employee Health and Safety the Dinner Table  rowing with the People of Each G Community Community P101 D  elivering Delicious Foods That Enhance Local Dietary Culture P104 C  ollaborating with Diverse Partners to Build a Better World Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 34 Sharing a United Approach to Sustainability With the revision of the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy to mark the Group’s 100th anniversary in 2009, the Ajinomoto Group Way and the Ajinomoto Group Vision were established and the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct were revised. Today, all of these are being implemented under the name, “Ajinomoto Group Principles.” The Ajinomoto Group Principles not only clarify management objectives, but also guide the Group’s efforts to make a unique, even broader contribution to the three issues of global sustainability, food resources, and Reference See “Compliance Framework” on p. 38. healthy living. They also represent the Group’s public commitment to making a real difference in all Link Corporate Philosophy / Vision http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/ three areas. Ajinomoto Group Philosophy We create better lives globally by contributing to significant advances in Food and Health and by working for Life. Ajinomoto Group Way Create New Value Social Contribution Create value with new ideas and continuous innovation based on Accommodate social requirements with humility and honesty, with unique technologies and science. the objective of maximizing value for society through business activities. Pioneer Spirit Continue to constantly take on the challenge of creating new Value People businesses and markets. Respect the humanity of all the people involved in the Ajinomoto Group’s businesses, and be an organization in which they can grow and display their abilities to the fullest extent. Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct (excerpt) Purposes The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct (hereafter the “Standards of Conduct”) show the conduct that each of us must understand and endeavor to practice every day in order to implement the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy in accordance with the Ajinomoto Group Way. The Ajinomoto Group companies pledge to use their efforts to implement and comply with the Standards of Conduct. 1. For Customers 5. For Shareholders and Investors In order to put our customers first and create better lives globally by contributing Ajinomoto Group companies shall use their best efforts to conduct sound manto significant advances in Food and Health and by working for Life, Ajinomoto agement practice, to return appropriate profits to shareholders and to increase Group companies seek to develop and provide safe, high-quality products corporate value. and services. The Ajinomoto Group will use its best efforts to disclose information having a In order to establish and maintain the trust and expectations of our customsubstantial effect on corporate performance and other operations in a timely and ers and ensure their satisfaction, we endeavor to provide appropriate information proper manner in order to allow shareholders and investors to make informed about our products and services and deal honestly with inquiries. decisions. In addition, the Ajinomoto Group seeks to deal fairly and honestly with shareholders and investors. 2. For Society We handle non-public information obtained in the course of business careIn addition to contributing to society through our business activities as part of fully. We do not engage in insider trading, which is the buying or selling of corpohealthy local communities, we strive to enhance our communication with society rate shares or other securities using such information for one’s own benefit or the and to contribute to the economic, cultural and educational development of each benefit of a third party. community where we conduct our business. As a part of healthy local communities, Ajinomoto Group companies encour6. Fair and Transparent Transactions age each officer or employee to participate in social contribution activities. We constantly strive to dedicate ourselves to fairness and transparency in all our transactions and maintain fair business practices, recognizing our counterparties 3. For the Global Environment as business partners. We endeavor to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society where all We endeavor to recognize fully and comply with laws and regulations conpeople of future generations can enjoy an abundant natural environment and cerning competition in all countries in which we operate as part of the globally better living. active Ajinomoto Group. We understand that our business activities are built upon the blessings of We make decisions on business partners by fairly comparing and evaluating nature. We seek to reduce our negative impact on the global environment and terms such as price, quality and service when selecting subcontractors and supecosystems and to promote recycling-oriented business activities that use pliers of raw materials, products or services. resources and energy more effectively. We attempt, together with our subcontractors and suppliers of raw materials, products and services, to fulfill our social responsibilities including environmental 4. For Employees preservation and protection of human rights. Ajinomoto Group companies endeavor to respect the diversity, character and indiWe comply with all laws prohibiting illegal political contribution or inapproprividuality of employees and to ensure a safe and favorable work environment in ate payments or gifts to public servants and we work to maintain sound and nororder to realize a fulfilling work-life balance for each employee. mal relations with politics and government. Ajinomoto Group companies attempt to provide opportunities for employWe endeavor not to have relationships with any anti-social influence or orgament and for the development and expression of skills, and to encourage employnization that poses a threat to the order or safety of civil society. ees to place importance on teamwork from a global point of view, demonstrate creativity and work to contribute to the Ajinomoto Group’s development. 7. Protection and Management of Company Assets and Information Ajinomoto Group companies strive to conduct honest interaction with We seek to protect strictly and manage confidential information and tangible and employees, either directly or through representatives, and to create a free and intangible company assets, including intellectual property rights. lively corporate culture with a pioneer spirit by pursuing new ideas and We endeavor to respect the legitimate intellectual property rights of continuous innovation. third parties. Each employee is expected to establish and maintain a positive workplace in which people respect each other’s humanity, without discrimination or harassment, and which promotes open communication. 35 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Organizational Governance Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Corporate governance is a vital element of business Contents P37 Strengthening and Instilling Corporate Governance management. It ensures that organizations are held • Corporate governance system responsible for their decisions and the impact of • Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan their activities and helps them to integrate social P38 Compliance Framework responsibility into everything they do. •A dhering to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Corporate governance is the bedrock of the • Business Conduct Committee promotes compliance Ajinomoto Group’s efforts to help build a more • Compliance education for employees • Information security sustainable world. The Group has built a robust corP41 CSR Management porate governance system and pursues ethical, • CSR implementation structure responsible management with great transparency. It • Systematically examining CSR materiality understands that strong, careful corporate governance improves corporate value. Group companies worldwide not only comply with all applicable laws and regulations, but also follow the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. The Ajinomoto Group has spelled out the essence of its social responsibility in the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. Determined to deliver, the Group is keenly focused on social contribution, one of the four commitments of the Ajinomoto Group Way (see pages 5 and 35). The Ajinomoto Group also stays in constant dialogue with internal and external stakeholders, ensuring that its initiatives are precisely targeted to meet the expectations of society. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 36 Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Strengthening and Instilling Corporate Governance For Ajinomoto Co., Inc., strong corporate governance is a top priority, both for improving competitiveness and for establishing a positive presence in society. The company is creating an effective system of business execution and supervision that incorporates global best practices and retains the positive aspects of Japanese-style management. Emphasizing group-wide management and efforts to strengthen business competitiveness, this system is strategically designed to increase corporate value. Corporate governance system Board of Directors and Management Committee Auditing and super vision The Board of Directors of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is the highest Outside directors have been appointed to supervise business decision-making body within the management structure. The execution from a neutral, independent standpoint. In addition, board makes decisions on matters relating to laws and ordithe Internal Auditing Department follows internal auditing rules nances and the company’s by-laws as well as other important and implements planned operational audits of the company as matters, and supervises the work of the directors and corporate well as the management and operation of group companies. executive officers. Corporate audits are conducted by five appointed corporate The Management Committee is comprised of senior execuauditors, three of whom are outside auditors. The Board of tive officers who are also directors. The committee deliberates Corporate Auditors conducts a preliminary review of the agenda on basic policies regarding management of the company of the Board of Directors, in addition to discussing and sharing and makes decisions on important matters regarding its opinions on the status and results of the activities of each business execution. corporate auditor. The business management organizations are divided into corporate, operational, and production groups. Each group is Nominations and compensation under the direction and supervision of a responsible executive Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established advisory committees on officer and focused on its particular area of operations. executive appointments and compensation to strengthen transparency and objectivity. Each committee, composed of sevCorporate governance organization eral directors including outside directors, discusses and advises the Board of Directors on appointment plans and compensation General Shareholders’ Meeting of candidates. Board of Corporate Board of Directors Compensation Management & supervision Internal controls Auditors Advisory Corporate Auditors Chairman of the Board Board of Directors Outside Corporate Committee Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established a group-wide internal control President · Highest decisionAuditors Nominating making body system for financial reporting in accordance with Japan’s Directors Advisory · Supervision of Corporate Auditor’s Outside Directors Committee business execution Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and regularly reviews Office and seeks to improve its performance. The company identifies potential risks by analyzing business processes and establishes Management Committee Business execution internal controls for each critical risk. Continuous monitoring President and Chief Executive Officer Management Committee helps the company to maintain a sound internal control system. Member of the Board, Corporate Executive Deputy President · Formulation of fundamental Using this system, the company has been assessing the effecMember of the Board, Corporate Senior Vice President management policies · Decision-making tiveness of its internal controls through operating tests, mainly Member of the Board, Corporate Vice President on key issues conducted by the Internal Control Assessment Group of the Internal Auditing Department, which is independent from the Corporate Sector Operational Sector Production Sector Corporate company’s day-to-day operations. These assessments of internal Corporate Corporate Corporate Executive Executive Officers Executive Officers Executive Officers Officers controls were also audited by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC. · Business execution Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries and Subsidiaries and The assessments conducted in fiscal 2011 verified the effecgroup companies group companies group companies tiveness of the Ajinomoto Group’s internal controls as of the end of the fiscal year. These activities demonstrate the company’s commitment to Internal controls & Investment, risk management fulfilling its corporate social responsibility to maintain effective Internal Business Risk Loan and Auditing Conduct Management Business internal controls and ensure the reliability of financial reporting. Department Committee Committee Scrutiny Committee Corporate Governance/Management Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ir/about/corp_gov.html 37 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Managing risk and creating a new enterprise continuity plan The Ajinomoto Group established its Risk Management In fiscal 2011, a plan for the human safety stage and a new Committee in 2002 to carry out comprehensive risk managedisaster management manual were prepared. Plant equipment ment. The committee plans crisis response measures and identiwas seismically reinforced based on the ECP, and the Shizuoka fies risks in advance in order to avert a crisis. Sales Office of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was relocated due to the likeAfter the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Ajinomoto Group lihood of a major Tokai earthquake in the future. The Group also revised its group-wide business continuity plan (BCP), reintrostarted looking into the decentralization of logistics bases. In fisducing it as an even more comprehensive enterprise continuity cal 2012, more specific measures are to be established for dealplan (ECP). Under the new ECP, the response priorities in an ing with a major earthquake in Japan, and in fiscal 2013, the emergency are: (1) person; (2) society; and (3) business. It Group will start expanding its pandemic response plan to include includes plans for three disaster stages: the human safety sites outside Japan. stage, the support and recovery stage, and the business recovery stage. Reference See “During and after the Great East Japan Earthquake” on p. 28 and “Initiatives for disaster management” on p. 62. Compliance Framework For the Ajinomoto Group, compliance means not only following the law, but also adhering to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. With the aim of becoming a “genuine global company,” the Group will work to consolidate the framework which undergirds all of its compliance efforts. Adhering to the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct define Ajinomoto Group Principles and the Group Vision model conduct for all employees and describe how to practice it on the job. The standards are in keeping with the shared values set out in the Ajinomoto Group Way and support the realization of the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. The Group is working to ensure full awareness of the standards among employees and Ajinomoto Group Lev gs managers at group companies both in and outside Japan. The Philosophy izat gin Business Conduct Committee also checks various initiatives and ion era corporate activities. ptim tren ss gth o Ajinomoto Group sa bus Way nd ine e gen Ens rati urin g ng Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Group ben Standards of s Business Vision efit Conduct Codes of conduct Standards, regulations, etc., for each field Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/group/ Reference See “Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct” on p. 35. Brochure on the Ajinomoto Group Principles Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 38 Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Business Conduct Committee promotes compliance In May 1997, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. established the Business increasingly important in recent years, while also listening to Conduct Committee, giving it the tasks of ensuring that all peropinions and discussing problems concerning harassment and a sonnel are well informed of the Ajinomoto Group Standards of diversifying workforce. Business Conduct and verifying that business activities are comThe main group companies in and outside of Japan have now pliant with the standards. The committee plays a central role in also set up business conduct committees focusing on their own promoting compliance-related activities. unique issues. They are taking steps to increase employee Members of the Business Conduct Committee attend review awareness of the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business meetings at worksites and exchange views on relevant topics. Conduct as well as their own codes of conduct, which are formuFor example, the committee continues to discuss workplace lated with respect for the culture and characteristics of each issues relating to information security, which has become particular country. Role of the Business Conduct Committee Secretariat (General Affairs & Risk Management Department) Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Management Committee Also secretariat for Risk Management Committee Business Conduct Committee Ajinomoto Group companies (Contact: Business Conduct Committee secretariat) Mission Members 1. Keep all employees informed of Chairman: Executive Vice President corporate ethics and the Committee: 17 members Standards of Business Conduct Business sites of (Reports/instruction) (including 1 union representative), 2. Address topics related 1 corporate auditor as supervisor Ajinomoto Co., Inc. to the standards Meeting frequency: (Contact: Section in charge of general 3. Provide training and education Once every 3 months affairs or human resources) 4. Manage the standards and associated tools Established: May 1997 Hotline Whistleblower hotline Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established a whistleblower hotline, an methods. The Hotline Operation Rules clearly state that the priimportant means of ensuring compliance among all employees. vacy of personnel using the hotline is guaranteed and that users The hotline enables employees to make reports or seek advice will not be subject to any form of adverse treatment as a result of on possible compliance violations at the company, using their reports. telephone, e-mail, facsimile, letters and other communication Compliance education for employees The Ajinomoto Group is improving its education and training to meetings in the workplace to identify potential issues. Each comensure that employees are thoroughly aware of the Ajinomoto pany works to resolve any problems through its own business Group Standards of Business Conduct. Information is distributed conduct committee, general affairs and risk management departthrough manuals, posters, and the Group’s intranet. These stanments, legal department, and other relevant departments. dards were initially available in ten languages including Outside of Japan, each group company formulates its own code Japanese, English, French, and Chinese. In fiscal 2011, they of conduct and promotes understanding and practice of the were also made available in Arabic, Turkish, Bengali, and Khmer Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct. to match the Group’s recent expansion into emerging markets. Group companies in Japan regularly monitor the status of compliance with the standards, using questionnaires and review 39 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management Compliance training in fiscal 2011 Training Participants Content Risk management and 384 line managers in the corporate sector Risk management and compliance relating to labor, legal affairs, quality compliance training at group companies and information management, and intellectual property (6 sessions) 518 sales staff from 18 sales organizations Legal compliance training Personal information protection law and consumer campaigns of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan 44 human resources staff from Ajinomoto Labor risk management and compliance, labor management, legal Ajinomoto Group labor seminar Co., Inc. and group companies in Japan background (basic and advanced training) Risk management and All managers at Ajinomoto Vietnam Ajinomoto Group Principles compliance training Co., Ltd. Employee startup screens show conduct reminders. Poster to promote awareness of the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct Information security Guided by the Ajinomoto Group Information Security Policy, the Management Regulations and Information Management Ajinomoto Group ensures information security by providing Guidebook and distributed them to all employees in fiscal 2011. employee education to foster full knowledge of regulations and Information security training sessions were held six times for a standards. The Group also restricts equipment use to prevent total of 384 managers from group companies. An information leaks of company data, keeps records of company database security comprehension test was also given to all employees of access, and monitors for attempts at unauthorized access from Ajinomoto Co., Inc., using its e-learning platform. the outside. A system has also been implemented to quickly Addressing the increased personal and business use of social detect and shut down any external attacks on the media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, the Group formulated Group’s websites. its Guideline on Social Media in October 2011. The Group is Seeking to make its information security measures even working to ensure employees are familiar with these guidelines, more effective, the Ajinomoto Group revised its Information which define the proper conduct when using social media. The Ajinomoto Group Information Security Policy Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/securitypolicy/index.html Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 40 Increasing Corporate Value through Responsible Management CSR Management The Ajinomoto Group sees realizing the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy as a key part of its responsibility to society. By adding the concept “working for life” to the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy in 2009, the Group declared its aspiration to respect all living creatures, and the environment of the planet that supports them, and is unified in its efforts to realize this philosophy. CSR implementation structure The Ajinomoto Group has spelled out the essence of its social management systems, including ISO and the occupational health responsibility in the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. Determined to and safety assessment series (OHSAS). Its efforts are based on deliver, the Group is keenly focused on social contribution, one the company’s Environmental Regulations, Disaster Prevention of the four commitments of the Ajinomoto Group Way. The and Safety Management Regulations, and Quality Assurance Group’s FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan declares Regulations. The Ajinomoto Group maintains systems like these a focus on three issues for 21st century human society: global and seeks to integrate their operations. sustainability, food resources, and healthy living. With its busiIn fiscal 2011, CSR staff from the main group companies in ness closely related to these fields, the Ajinomoto Group is Japan began holding liaison meetings to ensure coordinated uniquely positioned to make a significant social contribution by reconstruction assistance activities after the Great East Japan addressing these challenges through its business activities. Earthquake and to address other issues. The Ajinomoto Group Overseeing the Group’s efforts, the CSR Department at is now even more united in its effort to promote CSR activities. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. provides information on the Group’s CSR iniCross-organizational monthly meetings are also held to promote tiatives and offers support for specific initiatives by individual active communication in and outside the company, concerning organizations. With respect to the core CSR priorities of environthe Group’s CSR initiatives. ment, safety, and quality, the company has implemented various Systematically examining CSR materiality Seeking to identify targeted initiatives to ensure that the Group’s Working with stakeholders to create a sustainable future business activities help solve the three issues of global sustainThe Ajinomoto Group recognizes the importance of hearing ability, food resources and healthy living, in 2010 relevant staff diverse opinions, providing information at events, and engaging from the business and R&D divisions gathered for an interdein direct dialogue with stakeholders. Dialogue enables the Group partmental workshop to consider the Group’s future course. to adjust its course to better meet the expectations of society. It The course of action that emerged from the meeting was is so important that it has been built into the decision-making included in the Ajinomoto Group CSR Policy after dialogue with process for CSR implementation. outside experts. The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct also The Group had already implemented ISO 9001 and ISO mandate that every stakeholder group be treated with respect. 14001 management systems as well as the Ajinomoto Group Accordingly, the Group has a basic policy for managing and proStandards of Business Conduct to ensure business optimization viding appropriate information to customers, the public, as well and contribution to sustainability. Looking to confirm whether as investors and shareholders. its steps were meeting the requirements of the global community, the Group reexamined its initiatives against ISO 26000, issued in 2010, which highlighted some new opportunities for improvement. While continuing to use its existing management systems, the Group will also utilize ISO 26000 in a complementary fashion. Relevant departments will consider which matters and social issues need to be addressed in light of ISO 26000. The Group will also hold theme-based dialogues with stakeholders to 1st Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum Small meeting with investors focusing on environmental, social, and governance issues deepen its understanding of what society expects. See Special Feature 3, “Working with Stakeholders to Build a Reference Sustainable Future” on p. 23. 41 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Fair Operating Practices Ethical and Honest Practices The prerequisite for a stable, sustainable world is Contents P43 Pursuing CSR Procurement ethical conduct in every business relationship and a • Cooperating with suppliers on CSR initiatives commitment to transparency. The Ajinomoto Group, • Ensuring sustainable procurement of critical raw materials which conducts transactions worldwide in a vast P45 Ensuring Fair Competition value chain, takes these responsibilities seriously. P45 Painstaking Anti-corruption Measures For the Ajinomoto Group, fair business practices P45 Protecting and Properly Using Intellectual Property means more than just complying with the applicable laws worldwide. The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct incorporate the principles of the UN Global Compact as their basic approach. Based on these standards, group companies around the world have also established their own codes of conduct, which provide examples of model conduct for the circumstances of each country. The Ajinomoto Group uses this two-tiered system to ensure fair business practices in all of its activities worldwide, pursuing CSR procurement, complete anti-corruption measures, fair competition, and respect for intellectual property rights. Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) 6. Code of conduct concerning fair and transparent transactions 7. Code of conduct concerning protection and management of 6.1 Compliance with antitrust laws, etc. P45 company assets and information 6.2 Fair purchasing transactions 7.1 Management of company assets 6.3 Social responsibilities in purchasing transactions 7.2 Management of information 6.4 R  easonable socialization and courtesies with internal and external 7.3 Protection of intellectual property rights affiliated parties and business partners P45 6.5 Prohibition of inappropriate payments or gifts to public servants P45 Note: The Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct has been established in line with the Ajinomoto Group Standards of 6.6 Elimination of relations with anti-social forces Business Conduct. Likewise, the group companies have established their own codes of conduct and follow 6.7 Management of exports and imports both the group standards and their own code. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 42 Ethical and Honest Practices Pursuing CSR Procurement The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group are supported by a wide range of business partners, not to mention ecosystem services and various natural assets including agriculture, livestock, and fisheries. The Ajinomoto Group takes the approach of CSR procurement based on consideration of quality, the environment, human rights, occupational safety, and anti-corruption, throughout its supply chain. Cooperating with suppliers on CSR initiatives The Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy was established Purchasing,” from the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy, in fiscal 2006. It calls for CSR to be practiced as part of transacworking to create new CSR procurement guidelines. The new tions, and requires suppliers and other business partners to take guidelines, when complete, will guide the Group’s efforts with their own CSR measures. suppliers to implement CSR procurement. With the aim of building awareness of the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy, group companies outside Japan were surveyed in fiscal 2010, to determine whether human rights and Formulating CSR procurement guidelines labor standards were being respected. The Group continues to In order to strengthen CSR implementation throughout the supmonitor to ensure no child or forced labor is being practiced. ply chain, the Ajinomoto Group plans to establish CSR procureFrom a quality perspective, the Group regularly carries out ment guidelines in fiscal 2012. These guidelines will provide quality audits to increase supplier understanding of the quality more detail on the CSR-related points from the Ajinomoto Group requirements of the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance Basic Purchasing Policy. They will be made up of codes of con(ASQUA). In the Supplier Partnership Program (SSP), which duct covering the entire supply chain including the Group, and was launched with the aim of strengthening relationships with procurement guidelines for each type of raw material. For particbusiness partners, audits are not just conducted on traditional ularly important raw materials, procurement guidelines and quality assurance points; information is also shared with suppliactions plans will be established, and the Group will carry out ers from a CSR perspective, in areas such as the environment, CSR procurement that includes upstream surveys in the safety, and food defense.1 Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. consupply chain. ducted audits with a special focus on food defense. In fiscal 2012, the Group further detailed sections on “Requests to Suppliers and Other Business Partners” and “Practice of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 1 Measures to prevent the intentional introduction of foreign matter into food products. Monitoring is carried out in every stage from raw material procurement to product sales, in order to prevent anyone from adding poisons or other substances to food products. Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy (excerpt) 4. Requests to Suppliers and Other Business Partners • The Ajinomoto Group requests suppliers and other business partners to understand the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy and cooperate as members of the supply chain. • The Ajinomoto Group requests suppliers and other business partners to comply with laws and regulations, and issues especially strict cautions with regard to such acts as inhibiting free competition by fixing prices, etc. • The Ajinomoto Group requests suppliers and other business partners to make efforts to suggest economically reasonable rationalization and other ideas. • The Ajinomoto Group requests suppliers and other business partners to understand CSR-based management and to cooperate in the quality and safety assurance of raw materials, green procurement and protection of human rights. Reference See “Rigorous supplier audits and quality control” on p. 92. Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/aboutus/vision/purchase/ 43 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ethical and Honest Practices Ensuring sustainable procurement of critical raw materials The business of the Ajinomoto Group is supported by a variety of enables new understanding of where and how deep they swim, natural assets. Particularly important raw materials include palm and the corresponding water temperatures. By analyzing the oil, shrimp, skipjack, and raw materials for fermentation. The data obtained and amassing scientific knowledge, the Group is Group conducts surveys and confirms information in order to helping to improve international skipjack fisheries management. ensure a stable supply of these materials. The entire Ajinomoto Group will continue to promote worldIn July 2012, the Group surveyed agricultural sites and prowide initiatives to ensure the sustainable procurement of vital cessing plants outside Japan that produce cassava and tapioca (a raw materials. starch extracted from cassava), which are used as raw materials for amino acid fermentation. In this way, the Group initiated steps for ascertaining the entire situation surrounding this crop, including economic, environmental, and social aspects such as labor conditions. The entire Group is also studying the sustainable procurement and use of palm oil. The group company, J-OIL MILLS, INC., has been participating in the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)2 since November 2011. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. also became a member of RSPO in August 2012. Regarding the procurement of shrimp, one of the main raw materials used by Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc., the comTagging and release survey to track skipjack movement pany has been introducing requirements for ecosystem consideration in its procurement procedures. 2 A non-profit organization whose purpose is to promote the production and use of sustainable palm oil by Skipjack is one of the most important raw materials for developing certification standards that are trusted globally and ensuring the participation of stakeholders. It is operated cooperatively by the seven groups involved in the palm oil industry: growers, processors and traders, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Together with the National Research consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks/investors, environmental NGOs, and social NGOs. Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF) of the Fisheries Research Agency, the company has been conducting an ongoing skipjack tagging survey since fiscal 2009. This survey not only Reference See “Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity” on p. 72. monitors the routes that skipjack travel in the ocean, but also Highlight Participating in the RSPO to help ensure sustainable procurement of palm oil Palm oil is used for various purposes such as food and speThe Ajinomoto Group also procures and uses palm oil for cialty chemical products. With a global annual production of the production of food and specialty chemical products. more than 50 million tonnes, it is the world’s most abundantly Although Ajinomoto Co., Inc. uses approximately 3,000 tonnes produced vegetable oil. Production of this oil has been increasof palm oil and related raw materials each year, the company ing year by year to meet food demand from the growing global had not procured CSPO in the past. However, with the aim of population, and as an alternative to fossil fuel resources such participating in the global movement to mainstream CSPO, the as petroleum. As the oil palm is a tropical plant, about 85% of company joined the RSPO in August 2012. A group company, the world’s production comes from Indonesia and Malaysia. J-OIL MILLS, INC., has been a member of the RSPO since While the importance of palm oil expands globally, environNovember 2011. Working closely with other RSPO members mental and social problems arising from its production have and supply chain participants, the Group plans to complete the also emerged. These include the cutting down of tropical switch to CSPO by 2015. rainforests and the loss of wetland ecosystems to make room for new oil palm plantations, the reduction of wildlife habitat, the creation of severe working conditions, infringement of The 9th Annual Roundtable Meeting on Sustainable Palm Oil held in human rights and impact on traditional lifestyles. November 2011. Attended by representatives of Ajinomoto Co., The RSPO was established to address these issues, and is Inc. and J-OIL MILLS, INC. promoting the sustainable production and use of palm oil by providing certification standards that are trusted globally. Palm oil that meets the RSPO standards is called Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). Although the production of CSPO is growing slowly, it still only accounts for 10–15% of total global production. Proactive measures need to be taken by all stakeholders involved in the production and use of palm oil. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 44 Ethical and Honest Practices Ensuring Fair Competition The Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct were established to ensure that business transactions are fair and transparent, and to require employees worldwide to recognize fully and comply with laws and regulations concerning competition. The group companies have established their own specific Codes of Conduct based on these standards. In Japan, the Group has also implemented guidelines for compliance with antitrust law, which are based on its Standards of Business Conduct and Codes of Conduct. Under the Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy, the Group requests suppliers and other business partners to comply with laws and regulations, and issues especially strict cautions with regard to such acts as inhibiting free competition by fixing prices, etc. Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) Raising employee awareness Group companies regularly conduct training on antitrust law. In 6.1 Compliance with antitrust laws, etc. fiscal 2011, training sessions on local competition law were held 6.1.1. The company endeavors to comply with antitrust laws, competition laws and other laws and ordinances intended to in Brazil, Peru, and Indonesia. As an e-learning activity, a test on ensure fair competition in each country in which the company comprehension of the Act on Prohibition of Private Monopo­ transacts business, as well as the related internal guidelines, and to promote free and fair business activities. lization and Maintenance of Fair Trade was also given to about 6.1.2. T he company pursues policies to ensure it does not jointly 6,000 employees at the company and eight group companies arrange prices or sales/production volume, etc., with competitors or engage in behavior to limit competition (including in Japan. participating in cartels) or bid-rigging. 6.1.3. T he company pursues policies to ensure it does not use unfair means, either alone or with other parties, to eliminate competitors from or block their entry into the market. Painstaking Anti-corruption Measures Bribery and corruption not only erode trust in a company, but can also hinder the development of a region by inviting human rights violations, poverty, and environmental destruction. These behaviors cannot be tolerated. The Ajinomoto Group strives to prevent bribery and corruption by implementing the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and the codes of conduct of each group company. Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) 6.4 Reasonable socialization and courtesies with internal and 6.5 Prohibition of inappropriate payments or gifts to public external affiliated parties and business partners servants 6.4.1. The company encourages its officers and employees to act with good 6.5.1. The company pursues policies to prohibit its officers and judgment regarding gifts, entertainment and other business-related employees from providing gifts, entertainment, money or other customs and courtesies. benefits that could be considered bribes to public or 6.4.2. T he company pursues policies prohibiting officers and employees from quasi-public officials. engaging in conduct such as offering inappropriate gifts, entertainment 6.5.2. T he company pursues policies to prohibit its officers and or money to customers or suppliers for the purpose of building or employees from providing gifts, entertainment, money or other maintaining business relationships. benefits to foreign public or quasi-public officials in order to obtain 6.4.3. T he company pursues policies prohibiting officers and employees from unfair business advantages related to international engaging in conduct such as asking suppliers for gifts, entertainment or commercial transactions. money for our personal benefit. Reference See “Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct” on p. 35. Protecting and Properly Using Intellectual Property The Ajinomoto Group recognizes that intellectual property is an important asset. Along with ensuring its proper use, the Group takes special care not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. The Group has also established an invention compensation program that rewards employee inventors. Compensation for inventions Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its group companies strive to contribute applications when employee inventions are transferred to the to human health globally by continually creating unique value company, and for patent registrations when inventions are registhat benefits customers. The company is working to protect and tered. It also pays performance-based compensation when inveneffectively utilize intellectual property rights, including original tions are implemented by the company. Most group companies technologies, content, and brands, in order to strengthen its techthat produce inventions have implemented similar programs. nological expertise. The company pays compensation for patent 45 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Human Rights Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Although it is widely recognized that companies is prohibited. have a responsibility to respect the basic human At the same time, the Ajinomoto Group recogrights of all people, in 2011 the United Nations nizes that it must make further efforts in ascertainendorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and ing its situation with regard to a wide range of Human Rights,1 renewing awareness of the issue. In human rights issues of social concern, and its speresponse, the Ajinomoto Group is stepping up its cific response activities. The world is faced with the efforts to ensure that it is in no way infringing on issues of climate change, biodiversity, natural dihuman rights, even indirectly or unintentionally. sasters, and other challenges relating to global “Working for life,” which is the aim of the sustainability. There are also food resource shortAjinomoto Group Philosophy, and “valuing people,” ages due to drought, and the worsening of health part of the Ajinomoto Group Way, are both based issues due to poverty. Threats to the basic human on the Group’s concept that respect for human right to life may also be on the rise. The Ajinomoto rights must be the foundation of its corporate acGroup recognizes these as social challenges facing tivities. The Group also supports freedom of assohumankind in the 21st century. By helping to reciation and collective bargaining, the elimination of solve these issues through its business activities, discrimination, forced or compulsory labor, the Group can also help protect human rights. and child labor per the International Labour In order to help solve various human rights isOrganization (ILO) and the Universal Declaration of sues, the Ajinomoto Group intends to stay in diaHuman Rights. In the Ajinomoto Group Standards logue with stakeholders in and outside the of Business Conduct, the Group declares its supcompany. It will pursue initiatives based on their port for the UN Global Compact. Each group comsuggestions for addressing human rights issues pany also has a code of conduct calling for from an even broader perspective. compliance with the laws and regulations of that 1 Prepared by John Ruggie, Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General on business and human rights specific country or region and respect for the local cultures and customs. Discrimination on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, creed, place of origin, sex, age, or physical disability Contents P47 Basic Initiatives for Human Rights Protection • Human rights in employment • Increasing employee awareness of human rights P48 Further Strengthening and Expanding Initiatives • Understanding the issues through dialogue with experts • Improving assessment tools • Establishing CSR procurement guidelines Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 46 Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Basic Initiatives for Human Rights Protection The Ajinomoto Group strives to “value people” as stated in the Ajinomoto Group Way, while “working for life,” part of the Ajinomoto Group Philosophy. The Group also works to protect human rights based on the Ajinomoto Group Standards of Business Conduct and codes of conduct of each group company. Human rights in employment The Ajinomoto Group respects the values and abilities of each Expanded employment for persons with disabilities individual as mandated by the Ajinomoto Group Standards of At 29 major group companies in Japan, the average workforce Business Conduct. While striving to treat all people fairly, the rate for persons with disabilities was 1.7% in fiscal 2011. Six of Group actively hires human resources around the world who feel the companies achieved a workforce rate that met or exceeded an affinity for the values of the Ajinomoto Group Way: create the Japanese government’s mandated rate of 1.8%. new value, pioneer spirit, social contribution, and value people. In anticipation of a revision to the mandated rate in fiscal 2013, the Ajinomoto Group respects the principle of normalization, and will prioritize initiatives for hiring persons with Reemployment system for retiring human resources disabilities, including recruitment and creating accessible Each group company in Japan has introduced its own reemployworkplace environments. ment system for retiring employees, and is providing career support after the mandatory age of retirement. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been providing a reemployment sysAjinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) tem for retiring human resources since April 2006. The system is 4.1 Provision of equal employment opportunities open to all staff and managers, including seconded employees, 4.1.1. The company accepts and develops the human resources that who desire to be reemployed after reaching the mandatory support the future of the Ajinomoto Group across national and retirement age of 60. The only condition is that the employee be regional boundaries. 4.1.2. T he company provides independent, growth-oriented individuals healthy in both mind and body and fit for work. Among employwith equal opportunities to develop and deploy their skills. ees who have met this condition, 90% applied for reemployment at the company in fiscal 2011, and they continue to work enthusiastically under the system. Increasing employee awareness of human rights The Ajinomoto Group carries out activities at each group comto submit slogans for increasing human-rights awareness. In fispany worldwide to promote understanding of the Ajinomoto cal 2011, 4,207 entries were received from 2,570 people. Group Standards of Business Conduct and individual companies’ In fiscal 2012, with the aim of fostering employees with an codes of conduct, both of which prohibit any form of discriminaeven deeper awareness of human rights across the Group, the tion or harassment. As a part of initiatives, the Group provides Ajinomoto Group will continue to offer various kinds of human awareness trainings on human rights for employees, introducing rights training along with the slogan competition. the latest human rights topics and seeking to raise sensitivity to human rights issues. In fiscal 2011, this training was provided to Slogans chosen for honorable mention by the all new hires at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo The company carries out an annual survey on workplace harassment for all employees. This year, the results of the surProtecting human rights protects you too Masayoshi Miyatake vey were compiled with opinions and cases reported in previous Shikoku Plant, Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. surveys and distributed to all employees. A smile is a universal language beyond words Prior to Human Rights Week each December, the Group Family of Tsutomu Ishizaka, Gunma Plant, Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Inc. holds an annual event encouraging employees and their families 47 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Ajinomoto Codes of Conduct (excerpt) A hotline for early detection of compliance issues The Ajinomoto Group has established a whistleblower hotline for 4.3. Prohibition of discrimination and harassment employees in Japan, and is striving for the early detection of 4.3.1. The company attempts to, and encourages its officers and employees to, respect the laws and culture of each region, and problems related to human rights and other compliance issues. pursues policies to prohibit discrimination against anyone on the The hotline enables employees to make reports or seek advice basis of race, ethnic group, nationality, religion, belief, birthplace, gender, age, disability, or for any other reason. on possible compliance violations at the company by way of tele4.3.2. T he company pursues policies which prohibit its officers and phone, e-mail, facsimile, letter, or other means. User privacy is employees from engaging in sexually suggestive language or behavior toward any person in the workplace which negatively protected and users are not subject to any form of adverse treatimpacts his or her work environment. ment as a result of their use. 4.3.3. T he company pursues policies which prohibit its officers and employees from using job positions to abuse the human rights of others in the workplace. Reference See “Whistleblower hotline” on p. 39. 4.3.4. T he victims of discrimination or harassment, or any person who sees or hears any discrimination or harassment, are encouraged to report such behavior to their superior, the human resources department or other liaison designated by the company. The company pursues policies to ensure such persons are not given unfavorable treatment for having filed the report. Further Strengthening and Expanding Initiatives In recent years, there has been a clarification of the wide range of human rights issues that society expects global companies to address. New initiatives have also been undertaken by the Ajinomoto Group, such as human rights dialogues and the upcoming establishment of CSR procurement guidelines, in order to better meet social expectations. Understanding the issues through dialogue with experts The Ajinomoto Group pursues wide-ranging dialogue with exterUN as a means for corporations to ensure their business operanal experts, seeking to better understand global perspectives on tions fully respect human rights. In July 2012, the company also human rights and then enhance its own initiatives. met with a senior advisor from the Danish Institute for Human In October 2011, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. arranged a meeting Rights (DIHR), an organization that supports corporations in with John Ruggie, Special Representative of the United Nations their efforts to tackle human rights issues. Secretary-General on business and human rights, to ask his The Ajinomoto Group is leveraging the knowledge it gains input on key human rights expectations for corporations. through conversations like these to identify the specific human Another topic of the conversation was human rights due dilirights issues that the Group is expected to address. The Group gence, which has been endorsed by Ruggie and approved by the continues to assess and enhance its human rights initiatives. Highlight Identifying global human rights issues through dialogue Ajinomoto Co., Inc. arranged a dialogue with DIHR in July 2012, seeking to gain a clearer picture of the human rights issues that face global corporations. The company assessed its human rights initiatives using tools created by DIHR, and used the results to seek specific advice on human rights issues and risks that the Ajinomoto Group faces in doing business in developing nations and other countries. DIHR stressed how important it is for the Frank Seier, Senior Advisor, DIHR Ajinomoto Group, as a food business, to be aware of human rights issues related to the use of land, including agricultural land, the use of water, labor conditions and the supply chain. The Ajinomoto Group will continue to seek advice from DIHR on the global-level human rights issues that it should specifically address. This will help set the direction for the Group’s human rights initiatives—all part of its efforts to address human rights comprehensively through social dialogue. Staff from the CSR Department, Group Procurement Center, and Human Resources Department of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. meet with DIHR advisor. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 48 Respecting the Rights of Everyone Our Business Touches Improving assessment tools The Ajinomoto Group has been carrying out quality, environGroup will pursue even more proactive approaches by further mental and various other assessments when constructing a new incorporating human rights issues into its various assessment plant or office, and when launching a new product or business. tools, as the issues which a global company must address are Human rights have been taken into consideration by evaluating clarified in human rights dialogues. the impact on people and the local community. In the future, the Establishing CSR procurement guidelines The Ajinomoto Group not only watches the impact of its own The Group is now formulating CSR procurement guidelines business activities, but also recognizes the importance of protectin order to further clarify the social responsibilities of its suppliing human rights throughout the supply chain. ers including the protection of human rights. The new guidelines The Ajinomoto Group Basic Purchasing Policy states that the are expected to take effect in fiscal 2013. Starting in fiscal 2012, Group “confirms that the products it purchases directly are free the Group began conducting surveys of its principal raw material of any connection to the violation of human rights, including suppliers covering social issues such as labor conditions in addichild labor and illegal employment, during either production or tion to economic and environmental issues. distribution.” Accordingly, the Group has required its suppliers Reference See “Pursuing CSR Procurement” on p. 43. to cooperate in the effort to protect human rights. Highlight The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project implements efficacy study while respecting children’s rights Children around the world have the right to receive proper nutrition and healthcare. In developing countries, however, many children lose their lives to various diseases caused by poor nutrition. The aim of the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project, now being promoted by the Ajinomoto Group, is to protect the rights of these children and use the power of business to deliver the needed nutrition to them. Extreme care needs to be taken in the areas of culture, society, and human rights in particular when developing products in regions where a company is doing business for the first time. The Ajinomoto Group plans to launch a new product in Ghana, namely, KOKO Plus, a nutritional supplement for children during the weaning period. An efficacy study is being conducted for the product, checking its nutritional benefits for children there. In addition to ensuring the safety of the product trial, ethics committee meetings were held at the Ghana Food & Drug Board, a government agency, at the Ghana Health Service, which is in charge of the country’s public health centers, and at the University of Ghana. A thorough impact evaluation was conducted concerning the product ingredients and the testing method. The Ajinomoto Group is also striving to respect human rights and local communities by providing careful explanations of the trial to mothers who will use the product. Participants taste-testing the nutritional supplement KOKO Plus Reference See “The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project” on p. 103. 49 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Labor Practices Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction The Ajinomoto Group employs about 30,000 people In 2009, the Group expressed its support for the worldwide. The Group prioritizes initiatives to enUN Global Compact, reflecting its components in sure the health and safety of employees, and also the basic approach of the Ajinomoto Group Stanoffers helpful career development, HR developdards of Business Conduct. The entire Group ment, and work-life balance programs throughout strives to thoroughly implement the compact’s the Group. The Group aims to ensure that its busiprinciples relating to labor worldwide, based on ness activities make a positive difference in the global standards. world. One of the keys to this is ensuring that all 1 The Ajinomoto Group’s basic approach to work, outlined as common values shared throughout the Group: create new value, pioneer spirit, social contribution, and value people. employees enjoy job satisfaction, are able to lead fulfilling lives, and maintain good physical and Contents mental health. P51 Developing and Promoting Diverse Human Aiming to build a corporate group that contribResources from a Global Perspective utes to human health globally, as called for by the •A  jinomoto Group HR Platform for optimal personnel assignment globally Ajinomoto Group Vision, the Group believes that • Various initiatives for global HR development people are its most important management • HR development in Japan resource. That is why the Group sees human reP54 Labor-Management Relations sources management as a vital element of manage• Ajinomoto Group initiatives in Japan ment strategy. This belief is also put into practice P55 Improving Work-Life Balance • Development and utilization of related programs using the principle of valuing people found in the P57 Ensuring Employee Health and Safety Ajinomoto Group Way.1 •P  romoting a medium-term plan from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety • Fiscal 2011 occupational health and safety initiatives • Occupational health and safety management • Occupational health and safety education for employees • Initiatives for disaster management • Supporting the physical and mental health of employees • External evaluation of occupational health and safety activities Main results for fiscal 2011 Training for all Up about Share of workforce outside Japan: 60% 28,425 employees 20% (fiscal 2011) from previous year Share of local hires in executive positions Started providing Ajinomoto Group Number of employees that take the at group companies outside Japan: Way Sessions for all employees childcare leave and use the childApprox. 40% P52 care short-time work systems P54 P56 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 50 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Developing and Promoting Diverse Human Resources from a Global Perspective To become a “genuine global company,” an objective stated in the Group’s FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan, the Ajinomoto Group strives to realize world-class talent diversity and profit-generating efficiency. The Group encourages all employees to implement the Ajinomoto Group Way, while developing and promoting diverse human resources regardless of nationality or career track. Ajinomoto Group HR Platform for optimal personnel assignment globally The Ajinomoto Group has established a platform for human In fiscal 2011, a core resources database called A-Talent was resources management designed to enable the recruiting and made available to top management and HR executives at main development of diverse leaders from group companies worldgroup companies outside Japan. In fiscal 2012, the listing of job wide and to put the right people in the right jobs. The platform is descriptions is to be completed, and will then be used for individmade up of mechanisms to make management personnel and ual career development. The Group also plans to establish a new posts visible, along with systematic HR development programs, compensation policy along with procedures and rules for interand compensation policy. national personnel transfers. Various initiatives for global HR development Training for leaders Job grades The Ajinomoto Group has been carrying out five types of trainGroup Executive Manager GMs of divisions, GMs of HR and financial departments, and ing for developing leaders corresponding to job grades. The top executives at group companies worldwide training is based on the Group’s three fundamentals for global Job Grade 1 Deputy GMs of head office business divisions, and executives and deputy GMs at group companies worldwide human resources: the Ajinomoto Group Way, the Ajinomoto Job Grade 2 Section managers at head office, and GMs of departments at group companies worldwide Global Leadership Competencies, and a global mindset. Small unit managers and upper-level individual contributors at Job Grade 3 head office, and section managers at group companies worldwide Training for developing leaders Training Participants Frequency and number of Content participants Group Executive Coaching Executive — Personalized training on top management execution Manager Ajinomoto Global & Group Leader Seminar Once a year; approx. Action learning about global issues faced by the Group, Job Grade 1 (GGLS) 25 people presentations to the HR Committee Lectures by top management, lectures on cross-cultural Ajinomoto Global Future Leader Seminar Once a year; approx. Job Grade 2 communication, planning of strategic scenarios using (AGFLS) 25 people internal case studies Managers in Self-assessment, review of a leader’s role in an organizaAjinomoto Group Leader Seminar (AGLS) Once a year; 20 to 30 people Japan tion, planning of individual objectives as a leader Once a year at each regional Self-assessment, training on coaching and Ajinomoto Regional Leader Seminar (ARLS) Job Grade 3 division; approx. 30 people cross-cultural communication Participants at Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto Regional Leader Seminar Leader Seminar 51 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Developing human resources through global conferences and training The Ajinomoto Group is providing human resources developThe Group also conducts various types of division-specific ment for group employees working worldwide, through training worldwide. regular global conferences and training for each function. Examples of global conferences and training Name Details Participants Knowledge sharing using case studies and group 18 people from 15 companies in Ajinomoto Group Global Procurement Conference discussions on procurement issues 11 countries Presentations on initiatives for preventing occupaAjinomoto Group Safety Convention 224 people from 6 countries tional accidents and safety activities and solutions Lectures on management trends including the latest Ajinomoto Group Management and Technical quality assurance measures, and presentation and 398 people from 5 countries Conference on Quality information sharing on quality-related technologies Target sharing for the realization of global HR Conference management objectives, and acquisition of the Ajinomoto Group Global HR Meeting 43 people from 18 companies necessary skills and knowledge for target achievement 20 people from Europe, North Knowledge sharing relating to IT systems Regional IT Managers Meeting America, South America, ASEAN, and discussions and China Lectures on PR from a global standpoint, case Ajinomoto Global PR Conference 18 people from 11 countries study presentations, and group work Knowledge sharing using case studies and discusGlobal Meeting for Accounting Personnel 44 people from 14 countries sions on various accounting issues Introductory training for marketers with limited 31 people from 2 companies in Ajinomoto Marketing Training Program (Basic Course) Training experience Brazil and Peru Ajinomoto Marketing Training Program 19 people from 12 companies in Advanced training for brand and product managers (Intermediate Course) Asia and South America Ajinomoto Marketing Training Program Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention (Intermediate Course) Highlight Holding Ajinomoto Group Way Sessions to raise awareness of the Group’s shared values Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been holding sessions on the Ajinomoto Group Way since fiscal 2011. These sessions take place during leadership and grade-specific training and involve video education and group work. The aim is to promote deeper awareness of the Ajinomoto Group Way, which forms the basis for human resources development in the Group and is a required element for global employees. Many participants Viewing a DVD on reacted favorably after attending sessions. the Ajinomoto Group Way Starting in fiscal 2012, sessions on the Ajinomoto Group Way are also planned for group companies worldwide. The goal is to have all managers at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. attend a session by the end of fiscal A session on the 2012, and all group employees (approx. 28,000 people) to attend a Ajinomoto Group Way, including group session by the end of fiscal 2014. discussions on how employees can implement the Ajinomoto Group Way in their daily work Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 52 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction HR development in Japan Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is actively developing and supporting HR development programs at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. employees that undertake challenging goals. This is based on the concepts that the growth of individual employees forms the Awareness basis of corporate growth, and that everyone is the actor in their Grade-specific programs own personal development. The company has implemented various training programs so that employees can achieve the careers Learning the standard abilities needed for each role/year they envision for themselves. Training for managers Career Development Guide supports the growth of Training for non-managers individual employees On-the-job training, evaluation sheet creation and interviews, Listed in a Career Development Guide on the company’s career support programs, promotions/transfers, and site/division-specific training intranet, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has training programs for each stage of an employee’s growth. The programs fall into three Site/division-specific training main areas: grade-specific programs (new managers’ training, follow-up training, new employee training, etc.), elective proEnhancement grams (e-learning/correspondence courses, a logical thinking Elective programs course), and global programs (internal training for developing Further improvement of core abilities and business skills leaders, external programs). In addition, the company offers a variety of specialized training provided by individual sites On-site training: Development of core abilities and divisions. Correspondence education and e-learning programs for developing business skills On-the-job training, evaluation sheet creation and interviews, career support programs, and site/division-specific training Further advancement Global programs Faithfully following the Ajinomoto Group Way, having a broader perspective, and demonstrating abilities Development program for global leaders External programs On-the-job training, promotions/transfers, and site/division-specific training Highlight Fourth most attractive employer in Japan In May 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. was ranked No. 4 overall, and No. 1 in the food industry, by the Randstad Award Japan 2012.1 This survey ranks companies in terms of their attractiveness as a place to work. The company received especially high marks in the areas of pleasant working environment, long-term job security, and financial health. The company will continue to implement the principle of valuing people, specified in the Ajinomoto Group Way, in order to maintain its position as a trusted company that attracts the very best people. Award ceremony held on May 28, 2012 1 The survey was begun in Belgium in 1999 by Randstad Holding NV of the Netherlands, a multinational human resource consulting firm. The recent survey in Japan was the first of its kind Ten points of the employer brand index and questionnaire items and was conducted by Randstad Japan. The survey asked 8,004 participants aged 18 to 65 to evaluate 170 companies in terms of recognition and their desire to work for the company. The • Opportunities for career advancement • Good training opportunities rankings were then adjusted using a ten-point employer branding index applied by Randstad worldwide. This resulted in a comprehensive ranking of companies according to their employer • P  leasant and stimulating working • Strong management brand and corporate attractiveness. environment • P  rogressive policies concerning the • Long-term job security environment and society (CSR) • Good work-life balance •  ompetitive salaries and C • Financial health employee benefits • Interesting job content 53 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Labor-Management Relations The Ajinomoto Group endeavors to create a stimulating and rewarding work environment for its employees. The Group maintains direct dialogue and good-faith consultation with employees and their representatives, based on the applicable laws and circumstances in each country. Ajinomoto Group initiatives in Japan The Ajinomoto Group in Japan has established a laborLabor-management consultations management council where management policies are regularly Eight meetings of the central labor-management councils discussed as well as a labor condition assessment committee. In fiscal 2011, top management met with labor union represenMain labor-management consultation themes tatives at each group company for a lively exchange of views on Theme Details progress made on the FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Agreement on a new bonus calculation formula, Plan and the future outlook. At Ajinomoto Co., Inc., labor and Bonuses valid for three years starting in the first half of 2012 management have been working together on a Work-Life Balance Company housing Review and agreement on revisions to the company Improvement Project since 2008. system housing system Review of the current status of programs and future HR programs joint review plans for comprehensive improvement Main initiatives of fiscal 2011(Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Expatriate work Review on systems and scope of the hardship allowance for employees posted outside Japan and issues Spring labor-management negotiations health management leave Labor-management consultations were carried out based on Introduction of Agreement to investigate the introduction of defined defined contribution union requests regarding specific initiatives for achieving the contribution pension plans pension plans Medium-Term Management Plan, while responding to changes in the business environment. Reference See “Improving Work-Life Balance” on p. 55. Employee Data (As of March 31, 2012) Number of managers2 Male Female Total Number of employees Ajinomoto 840 59 899 Co., Inc. Full-time employees Temporary Japan staff Group Male Female Total 1,642 63 1,705 companies Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 2,355 945 3,300 338 Asia 896 410 1,306 2 Managers: Employees in the position of section Group companies Europe and Africa 220 73 293 manager, a position 5,985 1,908 7,893 6,274 equivalent to section in Japan manager, or a position The Americas 363 89 452 higher than section Group companies 12,278 4,774 17,052 7,233 Total 3,961 694 4,655 manager (excluding outside Japan executives) Total 20,618 7,627 28,245 13,845 Full-time employees Number of new hires Number of personnel (incl. new graduates) in year with disabilities Average Average years of Average annual Paid leave Employment age employment working utilization turnover hours rate3 rate Total Percent of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 98 Total workAjinomoto Co., Inc. 40.6 17.3 1,988 72.5% 0.9% force Group companies rate Group companies 33.6 8.2 289 outside Japan in Japan Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 78 1.73% 3 Including managers’ utilization rates. Group companies Group employees by in Japan 184 1.63% Number of retirees and re-employed persons in year region Re-employed after Number of retirees retirement5 Europe and Africa 7% The Americas Resigned for After 1,926 16% Japan Retired personal reasons4 After retirement resigning for personal 4,392 reasons Total number 40% of group employees 11,193 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 39 31 35 0 28,245 Group companies Local hires in Asia in Japan 140 171 161 – executive positions at group companies 38% 4 Contract staff not included in this category. outside Japan 10,735 5 Re-employed from retirees and personnel resigned for personal reasons such as job transfer of spouse. 39.0% Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 54 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Improving Work-Life Balance The Ajinomoto Group is working to realize the Ajinomoto Group balance and to prepare for implementation. The initiatives will be Work-Life Balance Vision. Its aim is to contribute to the prospergradually undertaken, and regular review is part of the plan. ity of society and the realization of fulfilling lives for its employees by supporting both the growth of every employee and the further development of the company. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has launched the Work-Life Balance Improvement Project, a joint labor and management initiative. The company is steadily improving its work environments and helping employees to gain more appreciation for work-life balance and change the way they work. In fiscal 2012, it articulated three objectives in the area of work-life balance and four initiative themes for joint labor-management implementation. Discussions were held at each workplace to raise awareness of work-life Discussion to raise awareness of work-life balance in the workplace Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision Slogan Contribute to the prosperity of society and the realization of fulfilling lives through the growth of every employee in the Ajinomoto Group and the ongoing development of the company Creating a corporate group with stimulating and rewarding work environments Aiming to Realize Work-Life Balance at the Ajinomoto Group The Ajinomoto Group supports employees in pursuing rewarding lives, and strives to create a positive environment enabling employees to work to the best of their abilities and skills. These efforts facilitate the mutual and sustainable development of employees and the company. Ajinomoto Group Work-Life Balance Vision Aiming to create a work-life cycle for individual employees and the Group Enjoying life and job satisfaction as active Becoming a group that is regarded as a good corporate citizen members of our companies, families and communities and can be proudly passed on to the next generation Contributing to the Group by improving skills, demonstrating abilities, and creating new value Individual employees Ajinomoto Group Staying healthy in body and mind Respecting the diverse values of individual employees Undertaking personal growth through work and self study Placing importance on communication and teamwork Always aiming to achieve challenging targets and Hiring talented employees and providing various opportunities better productivity for their growth Always striving to find a good balance between Fostering mutual respect among employees across work and personal life the Ajinomoto Group, and creating workplace cultures Respecting colleagues within the Ajinomoto Group, and environments that enable everyone to improve together regardless of one’s company, organization, Always contributing to society through the creation of or position, while working toward mutual growth new value and becoming a group that is regarded as a good corporate citizen Providing support for the improvement of individual growth and job satisfaction through the provision of diverse career choices 55 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction FY2012–2013 initiatives at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 1. To achieve satisfaction with personal work methods Objectives for employees of 2. To realize high productivity Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 3. To be a self-reliant member of society and work to achieve a life plan Four labor-management initiative themes 1. Raising awareness of actual hours 2. Encouraging the use of leave 3. Improving workplace management 4. Realizing dependable life plans spent working (being more produc(utilizing time off beneficially) through the participation of all utilizing the company’s employee tive at work) employees (strong teamwork) support programs (life plan achievement) Main initiatives Management of work method goals Campaign for using time off in a Making the most of workplace Understanding and utilization of positive way1 meetings employee support programs2 Accurately ascertaining one’s actual working hours Encouraging the use of leave in Implementing meetings for entire Creating opportunities for employees order to secure growth workplaces in order to create and to learn about and better understand Implementing productive work opportunities for employees improve work environments based their support programs, while building methods using planning charts on friendly competition and mutual a workplace culture that encourages Enhancing time off for every support program use employee through activities such as volunteer work and self study Holding discussions using work-life balance progress sheets for each workplace 1 A government campaign known as “Positive Off” which aims to encourage workers to enjoy their time off 2 Including support programs for child and family care, in a positive way. Along with many other companies in Japan, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. supports the campaign. education, and volunteer work Development and utilization of related programs Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is developing and implementing creative proThe Kurumin Mark certification for companies complying with childcare support standards was acquired for a second term on October 27, 2009. grams to make workplaces as supportive and rewarding as possiIt acknowledges the target achievements of the company’s action plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising ble. Fiscal 2011 saw about 20% more employees take parenting Next-Generation Children, and actions taken along other guidelines. leave and use the part-time parenting and work program than the previous year. The company continues to encourage more employees to take advantage of programs like these. Employee usage programs offered by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. related to work-life balance in fiscal 2011 Program or initiative Details Employees who have used the program Leave can be taken until the last day of April following the child’s 1st birthday (can legally be 130 (including 11 male Parenting Leave extended for 6 months). A total of 15 days paid leave from the first day of leave is provided. employees) Part-time work is allowed until the child enters the 4th grade of elementary school. Leave can be Part-Time Parenting and Work 124 taken up to 2 hours and 30 minutes per day. Employees with children who have not yet entered junior high school can take up to 10 days of Childcare Leave 47 childcare leave per fiscal year per child. Leave can be taken in half-day units. Absences or suspension of work can be taken to care for a spouse, parents, or family within the Family Care Leave 0 second degree of kinship whom the employee supports. Leave can be taken up to 1 year. Part-time work is allowed when certain family members are in need of nursing care. Leave can be Part-Time Family Care and Work 2 taken up to 2 hours and 30 minutes per day until the family member no longer needs care. A maximum of 40 days of accumulated paid leave can be taken in half-day units to care for or Accumulated Paid Leave visit in hospital family members within 2nd-degree of kinship who are suffering from a non-work88 related illness or injury, or who need care due to temporary school closure. Rejuvenation leave can be taken once during each age category (25–32, 33–40, 41–48, 49–56) Rejuvenation Leave for the specified number of days from 9 to 30 days, and can be combined with paid leave and 150 weekends. Up to 8 days of volunteer leave can be taken per fiscal year by qualified employees. Eligible volunteer work includes helping people with disabilities, providing nursing care of seniors, Volunteer Leave 20 helping children, protecting the environment, providing disaster relief, and donating bone-marrow. Employee may register for re-employment in the event that retirement was unavoidable due to 29 (Number of Re-employment system childbirth and newborn care, family and child care, or relocation because of marriage or spouse’s employees registered job transfer. as of April 1, 2012) Initiative to reduce working hours Holding no-overtime days at business sites. — Initiative to improve rate of taking Implementation of paid leave usage campaign at business sites. — paid leave Financial assistance for Provides employees with 1,500 yen each occasion a babysitter is hired. 10 babysitter hire Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 56 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Ensuring Employee Health and Safety The Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy and Policies set out the Group’s conviction that disaster prevention and occupational health and safety are among its most important responsibilities. Accordingly, the Group takes great care to create environments where employees can work with confidence. Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy We, Ajinomoto Group companies respect each person and act on the recognition that “disaster prevention and occupational health and safety” are one of the most important components of corporate activities. Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Policies (Established April 1, 2011) The Ajinomoto Group: 1. Identify and evaluate potential risks, and take preventive actions 3. Strengthen the corporate system and facilitate quick response to using management resources, under the Occupational Safety and minimize damage in the event of an emergency and/or disaster. Health Management System, in order to achieve the complete 4. Proactively provide support for each employee so they work safely elimination of disaster and incident. and in good health. 2. Take initiatives to continually improve occupational health and safety activities by thoroughly complying with public regulations and in-house rules and encouraging mutual efforts to do so. Ajinomoto Group Health and Safety Slogan1 “Be brave enough to ‘Stop.’ ‘Check’ first whenever you are not sure.” (Fiscal 2011–2013) 1 Selected from submissions by group employees Promoting a medium-term plan from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2013 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety Each day, the 30,000 employees of the Ajinomoto Group perform safely at the end of each day. In order to steadily realize this phivarious operations around the world. Every moment of every losophy, a three-year Ajinomoto Group Occupational Accident day poses the risk of natural disasters, health hazards, traffic Prevention Plan has been established, and the Group is working accidents, and occupational accidents such as falls, burns, and to achieve the medium-term targets of the plan from fiscal 2011 being caught in machinery. to fiscal 2013. This plan clarifies the current issues relating to Based on the Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and occupational accidents, and activities are being promoted that “Occupational Health and Safety” Philosophy and Policies, the focus on these issues. Group is working on the identification, evaluation, reduction, and Unifying and streamlining the Group’s targets worldwide has elimination of these risks. The aim is to reduce the number of also made it easier to cooperate and exchange information globoccupational accidents to zero, ensuring that all employees and ally while implementing and improving initiatives. other people working on the Group’s premises can return home Occupational health and safety management system in fiscal 2011 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Safety and Disaster Management Committee Prevention Committee Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Group companies Secretariat: Environment & Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Safety Department, Corporate Sector Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Food Products Division AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. Execution Bioscience Products & AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS Safety and Disaster system Prevention Promotion Headquarters Fine Chemicals Division CORPORATION Secretariat: Environment & Production Sector Calpis Co., Ltd.3 Promotion Safety Department, system Ajinomoto Co., Inc. China Business Strategy & AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS Subcommittee meeting for Planning Division2 CO., LTD. safety managers from each division 2 Removed from the system in April 2012 due to business changes 3 Removed from the system in October 2012 due to business changes 57 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Fiscal 2011 occupational health and safety initiatives Falling and getting caught/trapped are the two most common Examples of activities to prevent accidents occupational accidents in the Ajinomoto Group. Consequently, involving getting caught/trapped Hands-on safety training using a “dummy hand” the Group places priority on the elimination of these accidents, as shown by the aims of the fiscal 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Occupational Accident Prevention Plan. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal 2011 serious accidents caused by getting caught/trapped were reduced by 92% compared to the previous fiscal year. This dramatic improvement has been attributed to thorough hands-on safety training and safety measures for packing equipment, mainly at group companies Malaysia Vietnam outside Japan. Unfortunately, however, falling accidents doubled in fiscal 2011 compared to the previous year. The Group is redoubling its efforts to keep walking surfaces dry and free of ice, since slips are the major cause of falling. Coated part The Ajinomoto Group will Examples of activities to prevent falling continue to strengthen its Adoption of Non-coated part slip-resistant footwear Anti-slip coating applied to floors group-wide cooperation and accelerate its initiatives to eliminate the two most common types of occupational accidents. At the same time, the Group will also keep working on health and safety education, legal compliance, and preventing traffic Slip-resistant sole (left) and conventional sole Before improvement After improvement accidents at work. Data for accidents resulting in time off work in the Ajinomoto Group (as of March 31, 2012) Frequency of accidents resulting in time off work Frequency of accidents resulting in time off work in Japan outside Japan Frequency Frequency 3.33 1.4 3.5 1.15 1.12 1.2 0.99 0.98 1.05 3.0 1.0 1.09 2.5 1.90 1.90 1.84 0.8 0.91 2.0 1.61 0.80 0.89 0.89 0.6 1.5 Ajinomoto Group 0.4 1.0 in Japan 0.2 0.5 Ajinomoto Group Manufacturing industry 0 outside Japan 0 in Japan 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Note: Frequency rate (accident occurrence rate) = Number of occupational accident victims who required time off work of one day or more / Total actual operating hours x 1,000,000 Severity rate of accidents resulting in time off Severity rate of accidents resulting in time off work in Japan work outside Japan Severity rate Severity rate 0.12 0.30 0.1 0.1 0.10 0.09 0.25 0.08 0.08 0.187 0.08 0.20 0.154 0.149 0.06 0.051 0.15 0.04 0.10 Ajinomoto Group 0.02 0.022 0.025 0.042 0.016 0.029 in Japan 0.02 0.05 Ajinomoto Group Manufacturing industry 0 outside Japan 0 in Japan 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Note: Severity rate (accident severity) = Total lost working hours / Total actual operating hours x 1,000 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 58 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Occupational health and safety management During the many activities performed at work every day, there is preliminary checks are carried out for actual worker positioning always the risk that a moment of inattention could lead to a seriand traffic flow. ous accident. Prevention is the key. The Ajinomoto Group carries out assessments whenever a plant is constructed or equipment is Safety checks and audits installed or modified. In the event of a major accident, emerIn the event of a major accident, the Ajinomoto Group performs gency safety checks are performed in order to determine the on-site emergency safety checks, in order to confirm the causes causes and prevent any similar accidents in the future. of the accident, determine remediation measures, and prevent similar accidents from happening again. Safety assessments In fiscal 2011, the Group established a system for detecting The Ajinomoto Group performs safety assessments to prevent potential major accidents, which involves performing safety occupational accidents. The assessments are mainly performed checks whenever smaller incidents occur. In order for safety in the planning stage for new product manufacturing, production staff to learn from a large number of safety activity examples, increases, manufacturing process changes, new substance develreciprocal safety audits are carried out with the participation of opment, and for the construction or removal of buildings, strucsafety staff from different sites. This creates opportunities for tures, and equipment. In addition to confirmation based on legal them to learn about good practices and differences between requirements or lessons learned from previous major accidents, regions and operations. Occupational health and safety education for employees In order to ensure the safety of every employee, it is essential to This kind of educational activity is also being implemented at provide routine education and training tailored to various group companies worldwide in an all-out effort to prevent employee grades. occupational accidents. The Ajinomoto Group provides occupational health and In fiscal 2008, the first Safety School was held by Ajinomoto safety training designed specifically for each job. This includes (China) Co., Ltd. for employees of group companies in that counhealth and safety seminars for upper management, and hazard try. Instructors from Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan also participrediction for manufacturing floor supervisors. In addition, each pated in the training. At group companies in Thailand, Brazil, group company provides a wide array of safety education activiPeru, Vietnam, and Nigeria, basic education on hazard predicties to suit its operations. These include hands-on safety training tion is being provided, along with hands-on safety training. on each piece of equipment used in manufacturing, packaging or Trainees from the group companies outside Japan were weltransportation. Group companies also provide safety education comed to Japan recently, and education on construction safety to new hires using their own safety videos. was also carried out in Japan and Thailand. Although attitudes Ajinomoto Co., Inc. provides four hazard prediction examples and approaches to occupational health and safety vary by counevery month in the form of educational materials, so that trainers try and region, employees throughout the Ajinomoto Group, at each group company can deliver specific instruction in including those outside Japan, are learning the importance of each workplace. occupational safely. The aim is for every employee to return safe and sound to their families at the end of each work day. Education provided at all group companies in Japan Name of training Purpose Basic training in leading safety activities, given to manufacturing floor supervisors and Hazard prediction training employees to be posted outside Japan (held three times a year) Occupational health and safety Education focused on safety, given to top managers at group companies in Japan (once a seminar for top management year) Training for human error prevention Training on types of human error and basic prevention measures (once a year) Training for new internal auditors for Basic education for checking Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycles for the occupational health OHSAS and management system and making recommendations for improvement (four times a year) Hazard prediction training Level-up seminar for OHSAS internal Education to improve internal auditors’ abilities to focus on significant problem points and make auditors recommendations (once a year) Education at packaging group companies outside Japan Name of training Purpose Education for machine operators simulating potential dangers posed by equipment (first Hands-on safety training provided by Ajinomoto Co., Inc., later conducted by each group company) Specialized education for employees at group companies in China, for preventing occupaSafety School (China) tional accidents (Held once a year based on a different theme—introduction of practices, mutual safety patrols, etc.) Education support for group Instructors dispatched from Japan to actively support safety education upon request from a companies outside Japan group company outside Japan The 4th Safety School (China) 59 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Site-developed educational materials used for hazard prediction training E.g. Hazard prediction for packing lines Situation Situation Hazard Prediction Training Sheet You are handling a You are handling a package of raw materipackage of raw materials on Line A als on Line A What are the hidden hazards? Example: Potential dangers “Factors of hazard + consequences” Since you did not signal the forklift operator by raising your hand, you were surprised when it almost hit you. What would you do? Since you did not signal the forklift operator by raising your hand, the pallet got lowered onto your foot. Since you walked backwards without looking behind, you hit your foot on the pallet. Risk identification at a Zero Accident Community meeting Traffic safety seminar Management system meeting Safety School (Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd.) (Tokyo Branch, (West African Seasoning Co., Ajinomoto Co., Inc.) Ltd.) Highlight The 2nd Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention Further improving safety initiatives worldwide To foster a culture of safety throughout the Ajinomoto Group, the Group seeks to address issues through occupational health and safety activities and make efficient progress at each site. Toward this end, the Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention is held once every two years to create solutions by sharing information on successes and failures at various sites. At the 2nd Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention held in October 2011, there were 224 participants from six countries. With the aim of achieving the targets of the Ajinomoto Group Safety Convention Poster Session during the second part Occupational Accident Prevention Plan, the participants shared many ideas for resolving issues with safety activities. They also shared examples of initiatives to eliminate accidents involving falling and getting caught/trapped. The convention was able to further deepen cooperation within the Group. Among the presentations made by 13 participating sites, two were especially well received. Representatives from the Osaka Report on the Safety Convention plant of Komec Co., Ltd. discussed the differences in awareness presentations, for distribution between those that provide and those that receive safety educagroup-wide tion. Meanwhile, employees from Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. Presentation by Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. gave a presentation on hands-on safety training for subcontractor construction workers. Earning very positive feedback from participants, the daylong convention resulted in a new determination to protect employee safety group-wide, and will be held regularly in the future as one of the Group’s safety activities. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 60 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Highlight Preventing construction accidents: Safety training for construction work at group companies outside Japan “Proactively providing support for each employee so they work safely and in good health” is part of the Ajinomoto Group “Disaster Prevention” and “Occupational Health and Safety” Policies. In fiscal 2011 however, some employees of construction subcontractors suffered accidents on the premises of the Group. In late May 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. held training sessions for construction safety personnel in both Japan and Thailand, looking to prevent similar construction accidents. Construction safety staff from Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. and PT Ajinomoto Indonesia (two members from each company) also participated in the training and learned about construction safety methods they could use in their own countries. Reviewing items for hazard prediction at the Participants from PT Ajinomoto Indonesia Listening intently at a lecture construction site Making construction safer after the training: Initiatives at the Mojokerto Factory of PT Ajinomoto Indonesia After attending the training for construction safety staff, the two participants from PT Ajinomoto Indonesia returned and immediately began implementing construction safety initiatives. They started in August 2012 with the morning meetings. Every morning, a total of about 300 construction employees of the Mojokerto Factory and subcontractors gather in the factory yard for a morning safety meeting. Once a month, top Morning meeting management participates in the meeting to provide safety instruction. Safety awareness is being further improved through work demonstrations by construction staff and awards for outstanding safety activities. In order to make the numerous, complex construction safety manuals easier to understand, the Mojokerto Factory is also working to make safety rules more visible. For example, safety signs have been posted throughout construction sites, tailored to location and operation. These Construction task demonstration signs make it easy to recognize the applicable safety rules at a glance. The factory has made a big step in preventing construction accidents on company premises. Signs convey information at a glance for each Signs indicating construction rules type of construction 61 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction Initiatives for disaster management In accordance with its Disaster Management Basic Policies, the from each group company and site and gives instructions as Ajinomoto Group considers measures to deal with natural disasneeded. In addition, training on employee safety confirmation, ters and implements the necessary training. evacuation, and first aid are also carried out at each group company and site, along with first-response fire fighting training. Disaster Management Basic Policies Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, each group company and site has been revising its emergency procedure manuWe set priorities as 1. Person, 2. Society, and 3. Business: 1. We give the highest priority to human life, and ensure the als, while updating and improving training. This process safety of oneself, one’s family and colleagues. included a review of the expected seismic impact area of a future 2. We provide support for local community and society, on the major earthquake, as well as revision of communication and basis of saving human life. 3. We make an effort for early restoration of business activities in evacuation instructions for the time of a tsunami warning after order to fulfill our business responsibility, as the Ajinomoto an earthquake. The Group also plans to implement training Group that is working for Life. based on the assumption of secondary disasters following a Disaster prevention drills major earthquake. The Ajinomoto Group carries out group-wide disaster prevention drills every September. The Group’s General Headquarters gathers information on employee safety and site damage conditions Group-wide disaster prevention drill Highlight Disaster prevention lecture Report after the Great East Japan Earthquake: A disaster prevention lecture A disaster prevention lecture to improve the awareness of employees has been held every year since fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011, the 4th one was held at the Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., given by the general manager of the company’s Tohoku Branch. Commenting on lessons learned from the Great East Japan Earthquake, the speaker talked about the situation in Tohoku after the disaster struck, the recovery and support activities, and the importance of emergency preparedness. About 150 group employees, including disaster prevention staff, attended the event. A similar lecture was also given at the Tokai Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. to further improve disaster prevention awareness. The lecture impressed the participants by communicating the gravity of the matter and renewing their sense of urgency about constant preparedness. Lectures will be held again in fiscal 2012 and onward. See Special Feature 4, “Overcoming Natural Disasters to Build a Reference Sustainable Society” on p. 27. Supporting the physical and mental health of employees Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is promoting employee health initiatives with Japan. In addition to follow-up interviews for health maintenance, a focus on the importance of good self-care. Since new hires, midthe system enables these employees to receive health-related career employees, and managers face different health issues, advice pertaining to immediate family members living with industrial physicians offer training for each kind of employee. them overseas. New managers and mid-career employees not only learn about The Group is also looking into the potential for area-based health management, but also about specific ways to identify signs integrated health management systems that would include reguof health problems among subordinates and colleagues. lar checkups and health management measures for group comOnce or more a year, industrial physicians, nurses and panies in Japan. Starting in fiscal 2012, some group companies hygienists provide guidance on physical and mental health mainwill begin trial joint implementation of annual checkups in the tenance to all employees of group companies in Japan via interKyushu region.1 views, based on their results of health checkups. In 2010 and 1 Group companies participating in the joint initiative in the Kyushu region: Ajinomoto Co., Inc., AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD., Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc., GABAN 2011, mental health training sessions were held for the general Co., Ltd., AJINOMOTO NUTRITION FOODS Co., Ltd., Ajinomoto Engineering Corporation manager of the Wellness Promotion Center and industrial physicians from all ten sites of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in Japan. The parHealth promotion system at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ticipants learned how to detect signs of mental health issues in 8 industrial physicians, 11 medical staff members (nurses employees, and deepened their understanding of how to deal and hygienists), a Wellness Promotion Center general with these issues. Employees posted outside Japan also receive manager, and 9 staff members annual checkups, and the results are checked by medical staff in Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 62 Building a Company Where Employees Can Reach Their Full Potential and Enjoy Job Satisfaction External evaluation of occupational health and safety activities Employees at sites in the Ajinomoto Group have received a lot of accidents. The winning slogans were distributed to companies in external recognition for the health and safety activities that they that city, and were used as part of city-wide activities to prevent carry out on a daily basis. With a constant focus on a culture of occupational accidents. safety, accident records at each site continue to improve, and Yoshikazu Endo of the Environment & Safety Department at results can also be seen in the efforts of individual employees. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. also received an award from the Director of Each year, a number of group employees win awards in comthe Chuo Labor Standards Inspection Office in Tokyo, for contripetitions sponsored by local governments to create occupational bution to the community as a coach for occupational accident health and safety slogans. In fiscal 2011, Minoru Meguro of the prevention activities. Kawasaki Plant of Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. and Kumiko Sato of the The Ajinomoto Group will continue its initiatives to eliminate Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. each won awards in a occupational accidents and work to foster a culture of safety Kawasaki City slogan competition to help prevent occupational among employees and local communities. Main awards received in 2011 and 2012 for disaster prevention and occupational health and safety activities Kumiko Sato (left) Recipient Award name Details and Minoru Meguro (right) received Recognition for comprehensive disaster preparedness awards from Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Takatsuki City Fire Prevention Association drills, with no accidents or violations for five years or Kawasaki City. Co., Inc. outstanding site award more Site Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Ibaraki Labor Standards Association Recognition for record of zero accidents resulting in four Co., Inc. outstanding safety activities award or more days off work General Manager Kawasaki Plant, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Japan Industrial Safety & Health Association Recognition for many years of employee safety Fiscal 2011 (JISHA) zero accident commendation education with the aim of achieving zero accidents Yoshimi Nagano Yoshikazu Endo, Environment & Recognition for contribution to the community as an receives the Chuo Labor Standards Inspection Office commendation Safety Department, Ajinomoto Co., occupational accident prevention leader in Chuo-ku, Director’s award from JISHA. Inc. Tokyo for many years Individual Kimiharu Eto, Kawasaki Plant, Knorr Kanagawa labor health and safety Recognition for many years of meritorious service in the Foods Co., Ltd. achievement award field of occupational health and safety Minoru Meguro, Kawasaki Plant, Kawasaki City occupational accident Recognition of the best accident prevention slogan The Kansai Plant of Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. prevention slogan competition, grand prize Ajinomoto Kumiko Sato, Kawasaki Kawasaki City occupational accident Packaging Co., Inc. Recognition for an outstanding accident prevention Administration & Coordination prevention slogan competition, excellence slogan Office, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. prize received multiple awards. Recognition for four-year record of zero occupational Kansai Plant, Ajinomoto Packaging Osaka Labor Bureau Director’s award accidents resulting in four or more days off work with Co., Inc. active participation of part-time employees Higashi-Ohgishima Refrigerated Fiscal 2012 Recognition for employee teamwork that halted the Yoshikazu Endo Transport Office, Chuo Ace Kawasaki City Rinko Fire Chief’s award spread of a nearby fire receives the award. Site Logistics Corporation Sekijuku Refrigerated Transport Recognition for five-year accident-free record due to Office, Chuo Ace Logistics Chiba Labor Bureau Director’s award active initiatives to prevent forklift and traffic accidents Corporation Honored for six-year record of zero accidents resulting Kanto Plant, GABAN Co., Ltd. Tochigi Labor Bureau Director’s award in four or more days off work since its launch Note: Sites or individual employees of the Ajinomoto Group in Japan Highlight Chuo Ace Logistics office receives Kawasaki Message from Mitsuhiro Ichijo, Office Manager City Rinko Fire Chief’s award We always work as a team, and we try to foster a culture Around 12:30 p.m. on August 2, 2012, Yoshitake Katakura was on his where we come together to solve problems. If it hadn’t been way to work, when he saw smoke rising from a field nearby a sales for the sharp eyes of our staff, we wouldn’t have been able office of Chuo Ace Logistics Corporation. Initially, he thought it might be to catch the fire in the early stages. a controlled burn to clear vegetation, but he promptly reported it to his By taking the initial steps to fight this fire, I was remindfellow employees in the office break room. ed of our regular training. I think it is very significant that we Upon hearing the story, Section Chief Masaki Iijima thought it joined forces to help minimize the fire. It also made me strange and went to have a look. Since the office had received no prior realize that it is extremely difficult to completely put out a fire notice of a controlled burn, he decided that it was in fact a fire. As a with just buckets of water, or even a fire extinguisher. In result, seven employees from the office gathered up some buckets and addition to planning joint training with the fire department, set out to extinguish it. we will continue to properly manage our fire protection Soon, the fire appeared to be out, but about 50 minutes later, equipment, and do our best to remain vigilant on a another employee noticed that flames were rising from about the same daily basis. location, so they began fighting the fire using an outdoor fire hydrant. The Rinko Fire Station was called, and the firefighters succeeded in extinguishing the fire. Although the fire had burned about 20 square meters, its spread was effectively halted thanks to the efforts of 12 employees. On August 29, 2012, the office received a certificate of commendation from the Kawasaki City Rinko Fire Station, for promptly reporting (Left) After the fire was out. Site where the fire was (Right) Office Manager Ichijo (left) and Section Manager halted, now overgrown the fire and taking the proper initial steps to help extinguish it. Iijima (right) attribute their success to teamwork and again with grass regular training. 63 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 The Environment Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Contents P65 The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and P78 Development of Environmentally Friendly Packaging Basic Environmental Policies Fiscal 2011 performance overview P67 The Ecological Business Model of the Ajinomoto Group System for promoting environmentally friendly containers and packaging  elping to resolve the issues of the 21st century based on a H partnership with the earth and society Cooperation with outside organizations Development of environmentally friendly packaging P68 Environmental Initiatives through the Entire Promoting “Aji-na-Eco” mark products with environmental Product Lifecycle packaging P69 Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan P82 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Fiscal 2011 Results Fiscal 2011 performance overview P70 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Initiatives at production sites and offices in Japan Fiscal 2011 Results Switching to clean energy 2  011–2013 Ajinomoto Zero Emissions Plan and performance on Management of fluorocarbons targets in fiscal 2011 P84 Conserving Water Resources P71 Fiscal 2011 Input and Output Balance Fiscal 2011 performance overview P72 Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity P85 Reducing Waste Initiatives with external stakeholders Fiscal 2011 performance overview Column • Joint Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast Skipjack P86 Initiatives in Logistics Initiatives as a consignor P74 Developing Technologies and Products That Contribute Initiatives of the ALC Group to Global Sustainability P87 Environmental Management Creating businesses that contribute to the environment Group-wide environmental management Assessing the environmental impact of the entire product lifecycle Group-wide environmental management activities Columns Implementing environmental assessments • Feed-use amino acids for livestock farming that is friendly Disaster prevention systems and response to to the planet environmental accidents • Co-products that yield agricultural bounty P89 Providing Environmental Education and • Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help Fostering Awareness promote marine ecosystems Education and awareness-raising activities Specialized education and training Scope of the environmental report This section of the report covers the environmental initiatives of the 112 companies subject to the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Management Measures as defined in the company’s Environmental Regulations (101 companies are fully subject to the regulations, and 11 are partially subject, as of March 2012). These companies include Ajinomoto Co., Inc., its consolidated subsidiaries, and other group companies that play a considerable role in the Group’s environmental management. Performance statistics are for the 112 major business sites (the number of sites has increased by two since last year’s report, following site reorganization as well as plant dissolution and new construction), which substantially represent the environmental performance of the entire Ajinomoto Group1 under the consolidated financial accounting system. 1 The Ajinomoto Group refers to Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and group companies subject to financial reporting under the equity method. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 64 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies The Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies were revised in 2006 in light of trends in compliance and efforts to minimize the environmental impact of business activities. They express the Group’s commitment to contributing to a sustainable society as a responsible global company. Since the revision, issues concerning the sustainability of the global environment and human societies have become even more serious. It is clear that the expectations of the Ajinomoto Group are higher, amid significant changes in the circumstances and structures surrounding corporate activities. On its centenary in 2009, the Ajinomoto Group pledged to work for life. In order to further articulate this pledge and state even more explicitly its determination to ensure that its business activities help to build a sustainable global society, the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies were revised again in April 2011. In addition, the Group established the Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda in February 2012. Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/e-philosophy/ Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy and Basic Environmental Policies Environmental Philosophy Preamble The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group are sustained by the trust1 of international society and people in each region of the world, and rely upon a healthy global environment2 and people living in peace and prosperity.3 Health and prosperity are closely related to the local diversity of ecosystems and society. Modern society, however, continues to expand beyond the limits of what our planet can sustain—in terms of the use of resources and energy, as well as environmental impacts and emissions such as greenhouse gases, waste, and chemical substances. Human activities are threatening biodiversity, causing climate change, and increasing the scale of natural disasters, water shortages, food shortages and other problems. These threats are leading to a crisis for all life, and they affect human daily life. Rapid economic development in developing countries is also escalating the seriousness of global environmental issues.4 The world needs models of economic development that do not diminish local diversity.5 The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group also have impacts and are affected by those impacts. We strongly hope that society will continue to need what the Ajinomoto Group can offer. For that to occur, we believe it is necessary to conduct business activities that contribute to the transformation of modern society into a low-carbon, resource-recycling society in harmony with nature. Main Text The Ajinomoto Group works to benefit all life (hence our slogan “Work for Life”) and contributes to the realization of sustainable society. We conduct our business activities and grow together with society, while aiming to sustain the interrelationships between the functioning of unique and diverse forms of life in each region on Earth, and to ensure that all people, including future generations, are able to enjoy a better life in a healthy global environment. Basic Environmental Policies Understanding Interdependence and Impacts lives of people, and to life on Earth, by preserving with stakeholders, and through this dialogue verify At both the global and local levels, we ascertain and nurturing food sustainability and ecosystems, whether the self-evaluations of our activities are and evaluate in a timely manner the state of the aiming for the transformation of modern society accurate, and consider necessary improvements global environment and society upon which the into a low-carbon, resource-recycling society in and new initiatives. Ajinomoto Group’s business activities depend. We harmony with nature. We do this by making use of We make an effort to ensure that each of our also ascertain and evaluate, both quantitatively the knowledge, technologies, capacities, and facilities seeks to see things from the local and systematically, the impacts that the Ajinomoto assets of the Ajinomoto Group.9 community perspective and has an open attitude Group's business activities have on them. to the public. Cooperating with Others Minimizing Impacts We work to have a positive impact on the global Managing Our Group We fully comply with environmental regulations in environment and society through our business In order to conduct these activities effectively, each country and region, and adhere carefully to activities with related parties in the supply chain, systematically, and sustainably, and to make international standards and codes. We also including customers, suppliers, and others.10 At greater contributions, the Ajinomoto Group makes establish our own voluntary standards to the global and local levels, we promote meaningful use of environmental management systems in all challenge and achieve,6 and seek to minimize collaboration and cooperation with a variety of of its member organizations. We integrate these the impacts on the environment and ecosystems stakeholders, such as non-governmental environmental management systems with other that arise from all business activities7 of the organizations, specialized institutions, local management systems and work to make Ajinomoto Group. communities, and more. We contribute actively to continuous improvements. We strive to achieve optimal efficiency in the dialogue and consensus-building in our society We engage in systematic education and use of resources and procure natural resources by offering proposals on the creation of new awareness-raising activities so that each member in amounts and with methods that conserve societal frameworks.11 of the Ajinomoto Group understands his or her biodiversity and ecosystems.8 role and required competence, and this Providing Information understanding leads to concrete action. Providing Value We systematically summarize and regularly report Revised in April 2011 We offer products and services and propose on the approaches, programs and achievements technologies and systems that contribute to the of the Ajinomoto Group. We engage in dialogue 65 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life 1 Society’s license that permits corporations to exist, operate and grow. 8 Under the Aichi Targets—the new strategic plan adopted by the 10th 11 Examples: Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in 2T he ecological (environmental) resources needed to continue • Policy proposals October 2010—one strategic target agreed through international operating. These include the essential raw materials, energy, and consensus was to keep the impacts of the use of natural resources • P articipating in international conferences, being involved in the genetic resources necessary for the productive activities of the well within safe ecological limits by 2020, at the latest. establishment of international codes, standards, guidelines, etc. Ajinomoto Group, and also the very basis of life on Earth that provides diverse and abundant ecosystem services so essential for human life. 9 Examples: • D emonstrating initiative (leadership) through cross-sectoral voluntary Healthy ecosystems support and maintain biodiversity. activities • M aking greater richness of taste possible and bringing greater 3T he social and economic resources needed to continue operating. The happiness to society, even with less c  onsumption of food resources • P articipating in the initiatives of international, expert, business segments of the Ajinomoto Group—including food, non-governmental, and non-profit organizations, etc. • C ontributing to the recovery and restoration of ecosystems and bioscience and fine chemicals, and health and pharmaceutical ecosystem services products—are in markets that have an important role in human lives. • P roviding and proposing useful products, services, technologies, and 4D eveloping countries have ecosystems that play important roles within systems that when used will result in significant reductions (i.e., the total Earth system. Developed countries have already followed a substantially positive impacts) that can offset the use of resources and path that places an excessive burden on ecosystems. If rapid energy due to our business activities (i.e., substantially negative economic development in developing countries follows the same path, impacts). Ideally, the net effect of all impacts will be positive the result will lead to risks to the fragile local ecosystems and the local (i.e., “net positive”). communities that depend upon them, and ultimately, to global risks. • T he development of products and technologies that use life sciences 5W hen pursuing efficiencies at the global level, the challenge is to avoid knowledge and technologies to utilize the functions of ecosystems losing diversity at the local level as one of the negative impacts of and biological resources. economic globalization. 10 Examples: 6T he entire scope of our businesses, including supply chains and the lifecycles of our products and services. • S upport to secure safe and sustainable food resources for primary producers of agricultural, livestock, and fishery products 7 Example: • Proposing environmentally friendly options for consumers • Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group are hugely reliant on natural blessings such as agricultural, livestock, fisheries resources and genetic resources. These natural blessings are brought by ecosystems and biodiversity, which are formed and supported by diverse creatures and their mutual interactions. Biodiversity is one of the most essential elements for the continuation and development of our business, therefore, it can be said that biodiversity serves as the “basis of business activities.” Biodiversity is also the “basis of all life on Earth” which supports human life and living. In recent years, however, biodiversity is being lost at an unprecedented rate, and biodiversity conservation becomes one of the most urgent global issues. In the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Philosophy, we, the Ajinomoto Group, pledge to work to benefit all life. We wish to make a contribution to realizing the sustainable society in which people can lead healthy and prosperous lives in peace, and wish to meet the expectations of society and our customers now and in the future. To do this we recognize that it is one of the most important tasks for the Group to undertake initiatives in biodiversity. We will tackle the challenges of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of biological resources, since biodiversity is the “basis of business activities” and “basis of all life on Earth.” We define hereby the Biodiversity Action Agenda as follows: Biodiversity Action Agenda [Addressing biodiversity issues] [Managing supply chains] • With the aim of the improvement both on the 1. Issues of biodiversity are closely bound up with 5. We promote the use of raw material that is basic functions of business sites and their other environmental issues such as climate produced with consideration for ecosystems surrounding ecosystems, we design, construct change, dwindling water resources, and waste and biodiversity. and manage landscapes, flora and fauna in treatment. They are interconnected and cannot • We comprehend the situation of regions the premises. be considered separately. With the recognition supplying raw material. • We manage the use of water resources of the interrelations, we take initiatives to • We avoid procurement from sources or supply including water withdrawal, consumption and address the issues: conservation of biodiversity chains that involve the destruction of discharge, with the consideration of regional and sustainable use of biological resources, ecosystems or biodiversity. water cycle. reduction of green gas emissions, efficient use • We contribute to stock assessment and of resources, waste reduction and reduction of management of natural fishery resources [Cooperating with others] other environmental impacts, so that the result and others. 9. We promote initiatives for biodiversity of our activities can produce multiple 6. We apply transportation methods to conserve conservation in cooperation with the society. beneficial effects. ecosystems and biodiversity. • We disclose our activities and the situation 2. We ascertain the relationship between the • Bearing in mind the issues of invasive alien concerning biodiversity conservation and business activities of the Group and species, we give consideration to selecting sustainable use of biological resources, and biodiversity. In other words we will have a clear transportation methods not to disrupt local make use of the feedback from the society to grasp of how the activities are dependent on ecosystems by bringing non-native species improve our activities. and what impacts they have on ecosystems through transportation of raw material • We cooperate with governments, specialists, and ecosystem services. or products. NGOs, local communities, other companies, 3. On the basis of this understanding, we strive to etc., in order to develop our initiatives for reduce impacts of the business activities on [Providing value] biodiversity conservation more efficiently. biodiversity, and improve the activities to be 7. We develop products, services, technologies 10.We contribute to promoting the understanding conducted both within the reproduction and systems, which contribute to life of people of biodiversity not only amongst our employees capacity of ecosystems and the capacity of and life on Earth with minimal impact on but also at all levels of the society, through material cycle. We recognize that impacts of ecosystems and biodiversity. educational activities and other means. the business activities can become net Established in February 2012 positive12 and aim to contribute to restoration [Managing premises] of ecosystems. 8. We create our business sites that are 4. We comply with international rules and harmonious with local ecosystems and 12 Having a positive impact after considering all the positive and all the negative factors regulations concerning biodiversity. communities in terms of the environment. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 66 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life The Ecological Business Model of the Ajinomoto Group The job of the Ajinomoto Group is to add extra value to the nourishing gifts of nature and deliver them to customers. The greater the scale of this job, the more the Group can contribute to the creation of a healthier global environment and more prosperous world community. The ecological business model of the Ajinomoto Group aims to ensure that the Group’s business activities help to resolve the issues facing 21st-century human society. Helping to resolve the issues of the 21st century based on a partnership with the earth and society The Ajinomoto Group is promoting environmental initiatives for While being aware of the need to promote sustainable societthe entire product lifecycle, based on a partnership with the ies, the Ajinomoto Group seeks to learn from the broader society earth and a partnership with society. and make a positive impact. While utilizing opinions and outIn aiming to make an environmental contribution through its standing mechanisms from various social organizations and business activities, the Ajinomoto Group is actively involved in companies, the Group strives to increase the environmental helping to create a sustainable global environment and society. value of existing products and services, and to create new enviThis means that the Group’s efforts are not limited to its own ronmental value to ensure its core business is socially useful. business operations, but broadly focused to include upstream The Group also helps to promote ecological business practices and downstream parts of the supply chain. and eco-lifestyles in various ways, including advertising and inIn the past, the manufacturing industry saw resources and store promotions. raw materials that come from the planet and its ecosystems Based on a partnership with the earth and a partnership with merely as something to be purchased. However, in order to society, the Ajinomoto Group is working to help realize a sustainpromote a healthy and sustainable global environment, the able future for people and the planet. It will do this by increasing Ajinomoto Group believes it is important to strengthen cooperaits own environmental efficiency and value, while minimizing its tion with primary industries such as agriculture, livestock, and environmental impact and maximizing its social and environmenfisheries, making the most of its technologies and other advantal contributions. This is the definition of the Ajinomoto Group’s tages for this purpose. ecological business model. The ecological business model of the Ajinomoto Group Sustainable society Building a low-carbon society Partnership with society Ensuring a B2S sustainable Business to society food supply To create a rich, sound and sustainable society. Products To promote delicious, happy and healthy eco-lifestyles. and services Information The Ajinomoto Group will strengthen communication with various organizations and stakeholders while promoting provision Partnership provision of environment-friendly products, services and with society technology. Building a B2S: Business to society recyclingoriented society Communication and Emissions and dialogue waste Business activities of the Ajinomoto Group Partnership with Partnership with the earth the earth B2N: Business to nature B2N Business to nature To create a rich, sound and sustainable global environment. To address various global environmental issues. Conserving ecosystems and Raw The Ajinomoto Group will reduce environmental impacts biodiversity materials generated by business activities while promoting developSustainable ment and provision of products and technology that contribute to addressing environmental issues. In addition, the global Group will make greater efforts to collaborate with businesses engaged in agriculture, livestock farming and fisheries as well as suppliers to enable sustainable procurement of environment raw materials. 67 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Environmental Initiatives through the Entire Product Lifecycle Rather than limiting efforts to its immediate business operations, the Ajinomoto Group is promoting environmental initiatives throughout the product lifecycle, from the procurement of raw materials, to transport, production, sales, consumer use, and disposal. With an eye on environmental impact and contribution value for all its business activities, the Group is cooperating with various external stakeholders to pursue even more diverse initiatives. Key initiatives Procurement • Conservation of biodiversity Making efforts to achieve sustainable • Partnering with and supporting agriculture, fisheries, P72 procurement and livestock farming • Effective utilization and diversification of raw materials Key initiatives Development • Basic research Developing environmentally friendly busi• Business and product development (assessment) P74 nesses, products and technologies with • Life cycle-CO2 research environmental contribution characteristics Key initiatives Production activities (at plants and offices) • Increasing the value of by-products so that they can Making the most efficient use of materials be fully utilized P82 and minimizing environmental impact • Building a business system based on recycling • Zero emissions • Improving eco-efficiency Key initiatives Logistics • Fulfilling responsibilities as a consignor Improving the efficiency of logistics to • Collaboration with logistics companies P86 reduce environmental impact • Efficient shipping and delivery Key initiatives Products and services • Development of environmentally friendly products by Providing highly eco-efficient and functaking advantage of the functions of amino acids P75 tional products to create a sustainable • Contribution to eco-living through food products society Key initiatives Communication • Promoting eco-living starting at the dining table Listening to public opinion and providing • Contributing to the creation of social frameworks P98 helpful information for eco-living • Exchanging views with stakeholders Foundation for initiative promotion Ascertaining Environmental Raising environmental environmental effect management awareness of employees (Ascertaining environmental impact (ISO 14001 certification, auditing, education, (Smile Earth campaign, etc.) throughout the entire life cycle) performance evaluation, etc.) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 68 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan and Fiscal 2011 Results The Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan is re-established every three years, and forms the basis for the Group’s environmental initiatives. Activities are currently being promoted based on the plan for 2011–2013. How the Ajinomoto Group should be The Ajinomoto Group contributes to issues of human society—global sustainability and food resources—and fosters the pursuit of healthy lives through its business. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Medium-Term Environmental Plan Main objective Priority points Fiscal 2011 results and future challenges Business to nature: Partnership with the earth Each organization/company incorporates the 2011–2013 Zero Initiatives for the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan progressed steadily throughout the Emissions Plan into its own three-year plan for implementation Group, except CO2 emissions reduction per unit of production lagged due to the nuclear plant accident Minimize emissions generated by Encourage acquisition of CO2 emissions credits (such as CDM) in in Japan. It will be important to secure a stable supply of energy with low environmental impact, such business activities, anticipation of the emissions trading scheme as natural gas. and promote the Assess products and their entire lifecycles based on carbon footprint Product category rules (PCR) were officially established for amino acids. Based on this, CFP values Zero Emissions (CFP) and utilize such assessment were certified for 9 items in 2012. Plan Progress made according to plan at each site for the introduction of fermentation processes with low Develop energy saving processes environmental impact. Apply the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR) to vital raw Electronic tagging survey of skipjack in cooperation with the fishery industry was conducted according materials to plan. Conserve • New program on aquatic resources such as skipjack biodiversity and • Established the Ajinomoto Group Guidelines for Procurement of Environmentally Responsible Paper use sustainable Establish procurement guidelines on raw materials with high risk (e.g., and the Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda. ecosystem rainforest products), assess land use, and implement monitoring tools • Sustainable palm oil: Ajinomoto Co., Inc. joined RSPO in October 2012. services • Sustainable land use: Began assessing the situation using monitoring tools. Develop lower resource fermentation process (utilization of inedible Progress made according to plan on use of inedible raw material in fermentation. raw material, etc.) Business to society: Partnership with society—contribution to environmental issues Each organization/company considers ways to contribute to the • Environmental contribution using amino acids: Low-protein feed fortified with feed-use amino acids environment through business activities, products, and services, and was certified by the CO2 credit scheme of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, after incorporates the ideas into business policies/plans for implementation certification under the Ministry of Environment’s J-VER scheme. Use limited to pig feed. Challenge is Contribute to the • Environmental contribution using amino acids now to expand use to poultry. environment • Development of products/services to help reduce consumers’ • Eco-friendly packaging: Prepared the 3R plan including indicators (refill containers, stickers easy to through business “eco-concern” and more eco-friendly packaging remove, and introduction of new materials) with the aim of improving value for consumers. activities, • Establish networks for promoting harmony with local communities products, and • Continued R&D on environmentally friendly products, including Environment Vitalizing Concrete services Foster cooperation between R&D departments and divisions to using amino acids and joint research for bio-based nylon; began sales of AjiPro®-L lysine for dairy develop products that contribute to the environment and save cattle and enriched agricultural material by using co-product. resources, in order to achieve new growth • Started supplying “humus,” defatted soybean residue to Kawasaki Biomass Power Corporation as a fuel; received the Japanese Environment Minister’s award for this initiative. • The Environmental Report 2011 received the Green Reporting Award Third Prize at the 15th Green Reporting Award, as well as the Sustainability Report Award Grand Prize at the Environmental Communication Awards. Since fiscal 2006, the Environmental Report has won awards for 6 consecutive years. Disclose as necessary information on business contribution to food • Environmental and CSR advertisements received the Japanese Environment Minister’s Award at the resources and global sustainability, and reduction of environmental Nikkei Advertising Award. impact through business activities; implement mechanisms for Promote • Participated in Japan-China Green Expo in Beijing (June 2012). incorporating external feedback into operations information • Joint exhibit by 5 group companies at Eco-Products 2011 (Dec.). provision as well • Exhibited at the Rio+20 Conference in Rio de Janeiro (June 2012), to promote dialogue with the as communication international community. The Group will continue dialogue from an environmental and CSR and collaboration perspective. with society As a leading food company, the Group understands the importance of • 1st Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Forum was held: 300 participants and the panelists explored environmental impact reduction and contribution through food. It ways to involve consumers in achieving a sustainable future under the theme of food. strives to take the initiative and provide support in these areas. • Increased number of products with the “Aji na Eco” mark to 110, as of April 2012 (an increase of 31 products compared to the previous fiscal year). Activities for eco-living starting at the dining table: Promoting • Expanded publicity activities for “Eco Uma” Recipes from websites, email magazines, and maga“Eco Uma” Recipes and encouraging environmental awareness zines to include magazine-books, local newspapers, and satellite TV programs. Steady management Strengthen compliance with Strengthen systems to ensure each division/department complies with Acquired information on law revision developments and shared it with relevant divisions. laws and laws and regulations, based on ISO 14001 regulations Steady implemenEstablish EMS networks on a business, operational, or regional basis Began cooperation on waste disposal in the Tokai and North Kanto regions. tation of EMS Encourage integrated management of safety, quality, and environmengroup-wide Standardized target forms and operation units; also consolidated reviews. tal targets Make improvements and Establish EMS so that environmental issues and risks are visible to the Raised the level of environmental accounting, and developed databases. evaluations based Group and top management on indicators • Promote education and awareness throughout the Group including top management • Provided education for new environmental administrators and staff, showed environmental education Maintain capacity • For EMS activities outside Japan, local staff are expected to take the videos, and carried out other activities according to plan. to promote EMS lead in providing education and practice opportunities under the • Conducted education and training at each group company outside Japan, according to plan. guidance of managers posted from Japan 69 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and Fiscal 2011 Results With the aim of minimizing environmental impact arising from its various business operations, the entire Group is now implementing the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan. While checking progress via a performance review every six months, the Group also revises the scope and targets whenever the plan is updated in order to further reduce impact. 2011-2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan and performance on targets in fiscal 2011 The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan is being Environmental award system for excellent business sites implemented as part of the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group The Ajinomoto Group is united in its efforts Medium-Term Environmental Plan. While maintaining the to further reduce environmental impact in framework of the previous 2008–2010 plan, the current Zero all business areas. In order to provide addiEmissions Plan contains new targets for emissions reduction. tional incentive for such activities, business For example, in the area of water resource conservation, sites that have made the biggest contribuin addition to the previous targets for wastewater emissions, tion to achievement of the 2011–2013 targets for water consumption reduction were added. In Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan are the area of waste reduction, new targets were added to include honored as “excellent business sites.” non-production sites. Based on the criteria of establishing a In the first fiscal year of the 2011–2013 Zero Emissions Plan, roadmap and steadily promoting it, as well Plaque presented to the excellent business sites targets for total CO2 emissions in Japan and resource recovery as achieving numeral targets, the Group ratios were achieved, just like in the previous year. Targets were honored ten sites that had saved energy in their offices or logisalso mostly achieved for water consumed per unit of production tics operations in fiscal 2011. and discharged water per unit of production. On the other hand, progress slowed on the targets of CO2 emissions per unit of proExcellent Business Sites (Office Division) duction, and waste per unit of production. The Group will conKanto Low Temp. Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION Tohoku Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION tinue working to achieve all the targets by the final year of the Chubu Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION plan, fiscal 2013. West Japan Main Office, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION Head Office, AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Health Insurance Center, Ajinomoto Health Insurance Society (Kawasaki) Kawasaki Plant (laboratories), Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Logistics Planning Dept., Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Excellent Business Sites (Logistics Division) Logistics Controlling Dept., AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION Key targets and results for the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan Item Scope Targets to be achieved Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2010 results results Concentration of pollutants in Target achieved at Target achieved at discharged water: BOD and All production sites of BOD ≤ 10 ppm, TN ≤ 5 ppm 24 sites out of 20 sites out of the Group total nitrogen (TN) 39 sites 39 sites Water Water consumed per unit of All production sites of Reduce by at least 70% (compared to resources production the Group fiscal 2005) 65% reduction 64% reduction Discharged water per unit of All production sites of Reduce by at least 70% (compared to 69% reduction 65% reduction production the Group fiscal 2005) Entire Group (producCO2 emissions per unit of tion sites + nonReduce by at least 35% (compared to 31% reduction 32% reduction production fiscal 2005) CO2 production sites) emissions Total CO2 emissions All production sites ≤ 493 kt (reduce by 7% compared to fiscal 433 kt 427 kt in Japan 1990 and by 8% compared to fiscal 2005) Entire Group (producResource recovery ratio (waste + by-products) tion sites + non≥ 99% 99.3% 99.1% production sites) 3Rs of waste Entire Group (producReduce by at least 20% (compared to Waste per unit of production tion sites + non10.3% reduction 11.9% reduction production sites) fiscal 2006) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 70 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Fiscal 2011 Input and Output Balance The Ajinomoto Group is working to minimize its impact on the environment, based on its Medium-Term Environmental Plan and Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan. It always pursues the most efficient use of the resources needed for its business activities, including raw materials, energy, and water. Input and output balance Consolidated net sales (reference) Scope of reporting: Others The 112 business sites including Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and consolidated subsidiaries that Fermentation The Ajinomoto Group’s play a significant role in the Ajinomoto Group’s environmental management. Increased by 21% 26% business segments are two business sites compared to fiscal 2010, due to the consolidation of business sites categorized according to the characteristics of the and other reasons. Consolidated net sales: environmental impact incurred about by the various manufacturing Reporting period: 1.01 methods, excluding trillion yen cooperative ventures, such as April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 edible oils and coffee products. These categories are different Reported data: Food from the business segments based on consolidated Estimated values are included. The sum of all values in a graph may not equal the total 53% financial accounting. Their due to the effect of rounding. scope of reporting is different from the scope applied to the input and output balance. Ajinomoto Group input and output balance Input: energy, water, raw material Input of energy Water consumption Raw material consumption 36,456 TJ 1 109,882 kilotonnes 4,551 kilotonnes Logistics, services, others 2% Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, packaging packaging Pharmaceuticals, specialty 15% 3% Food 21% chemicals, Food packaging 15% 8% Food Fermentation Fermentation Fermentation 26% 59% 75% 75% Purchased electricity 2.07 million MWh (7,447 TJ) River water 44,197 kilotonnes Raw material Purchased steam 1,140 kilotonnes (3,081 TJ) Industrial water 39,338 kilotonnes Main raw material 2,150 kilotonnes Gas 402 million m3 (17,933 TJ) Well water 21,120 kilotonnes Sub raw material 1,822 kilotonnes Oil 111 million liters (4,390 TJ) Tap water, municipal water 5,224 kilotonnes Acids/alkalis 653 kilotonnes Coal 69,106 tonnes (2,052 TJ) Others (rainwater, etc.) 2,592 tonnes Other 1,169 kilotonnes Biomass 1,553 TJ Packaging material 1 TJ: terajoule, T (tera) = 1012 Plastic 82 kilotonnes Paper, cardboard 119 kilotonnes Other 298 kilotonnes Output: release to atmosphere, discharged water, waste CO2 emissions Discharged water By-products/waste emissions 2,301 kilotonnes 90,801 kilotonnes Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, packaging 2,606 Logistics, services, others 3% Pharmaceuticals, 2% Food kilotonnes specialty chemicals, Fermentation Pharmaceuticals, packaging 4% 94% specialty chemicals, 18% packaging Food 7% 18% Food Fermentation Fermentation 20% 62% 72% Co-products/resources recovered Waste disposed (external disposal) 2,587 kilotonnes 19 kilotonnes Resource recovery ratio 99.3% CO2 Combustion 1,399 kilotonnes Discharged to: Purchased energy 876 kilotonnes Public waterways (indirect cooling water, etc.) Vehicle fuel 26 kilotonnes  45,478 kilotonnes Volume of production NOx SOx 2,294 tonnes 1,924 tonnes Public waterways (discharged after treatment, etc.)  28,158 kilotonnes 2,571 Pharmaceuticals, specialty chemicals, packaging Soot and dust CFCs 2,478 tonnes 10.8 tonnes Public sewerage Water for irrigation use 14,542 kilotonnes 2,622 kilotonnes kilotonnes 5% Food Fermentation BOD 872 tonnes 46% 49% Nitrogen 822 tonnes 71 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Conserving Ecosystems and Biodiversity The business activities of the Ajinomoto Group involve a deep relationship with the bounty of nature, and they influence ecosystems and biodiversity in a variety of ways. The Group is promoting initiatives to “monitor life and foster life,” in order to conserve biodiversity and realize sustainable procurement of ecosystem services. Fiscal 2011 results of the Ajinomoto Group Joint Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast Skipjack Using electronic tagging (archival tags), the survey has succeeded in generating detailed records of the geographical coordinates (longitude and latitude) and swimming behavior of skipjack by every thirty seconds, over a period of about 500 days.2 2 As of October 2012 Reference P73 Initiatives with external stakeholders In order to promote a business model that can utilize biological joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), followed resources in a sustainable way, the Ajinomoto Group is undertakby Ajinomoto Co., Inc. in August 2012. ing initiatives according to its 2011–2013 Medium-Term With the aim of ensuring that its business sites develop in Environmental Plan. Efforts are focused on the following priority tandem with local communities and ecosystems, the Group has themes: (1) developing systems for sustainable procurement of also begun to consider how it should best use the land on which raw materials; (2) avoiding risks associated with the destruction its business sites are located, including participation in the Japan of forest ecosystems; and (3) promoting sustainable land use. Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB). The Ajinomoto In order to maintain stable operations and grow the business, Group is developing biodiversity conservation initiatives it is crucial to understand the specific connection between busiwith an even more global reach, through cooperation with ness activities and ecosystem services, as well as changes in external stakeholders. these services, and then strategically incorporate this understanding into business plans. Using the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR) method, in fiscal 2010, the Ajinomoto Group began identifying the relationships between all of its main business areas and ecosystem services, and has selected priority Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity http://www.jbib.org/en/ initiatives based on this effort. To better understand and analyze the relationship between its business activities and ecosystem services, the Group brought together various stakeholders not only from the environment sector, but also other external experts, researchers and NPOs. A great deal of time was spent JBIB Guidelines for Sustainable Business Sites interviewing staff engaged in practical operations and holding strategic planning workshops in order to develop an objective awareness of the actual situation. As fisheries and forests are so important to ecosystems and its business, the Group places special focus on procurement initiatives related to these resources. In the area of aquatic resources, the Group promotes initiatives such as ecosystem protection measures at shrimp cultivation and processing sites, and a skipjack tagging survey carried out with the National Research Institute of Far Seas Fisheries (NRIFSF) of Japan’s Fisheries Research Agency (FRA). In the area of forest resources, the Group is developing proScientific Committee of the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC) curement methods that help conserve ecosystems. The Group has investigated paper procurement guidelines with the WWF See “Ensuring sustainable procurement of critical raw materials” on p. 44 and Reference Japan. In November 2011, group company J-OIL MILLS, INC., “Ajinomoto Group Biodiversity Policy and Action Agenda” on p. 66. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 72 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Column Joint Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast Skipjack In February and April of 2012, about 3,000 As the essential ingredient for making dashi soup stock, skipjack were tagged offshore Yonaguni Island, the skipjack is an intrinsic part of the Japanese diet. However, the southwestern extremity of Japan located near Taiwan. Of ecology of this fish still remains largely unknown. In order to these, 169 fish were given the latest archival tags, which monitor skipjack as it migrates through the vast Pacific Ocean record data including daily geographical position, water depth, and maintain this important resource, it is necessary to get a water temperature, and body temperature every 30 seconds. deeper understanding of its ecology. The devices can operate for a year, and only recently have Since 2009, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has been part of a Joint they become small enough to be attached to skipjack. Likely Tagging Survey into Pacific Coast Skipjack. The study aims to the first time that this technology has ever been used for still track the movement of skipjack as they follow the Kuroshio small skipjack anywhere, there has never been this kind of Current, which flows north from the southwest islands up the large-scale electronic tagging of skipjack in the waters of west coast of Japan. Based on a plan covering 2011 and 2012, southwestern Japan. this large-scale tagging survey is being carried out using Seven tagged skipjack were recovered by October 2012. electronic archival tags. It is a challenging endeavor and the Once the data has been analyzed, researchers expect to have a lot first trial of its kind in the waters of the Kuroshio Current. of valuable new information. Naturally, the project has generated a lot of interest among academics and fisheries stakeholders. Outline of the survey Electronic The attached tag can measure daily archival tag geographical position, • The purpose is to clarify the routes that skipjack take in Fingertip-size water depth and Japanese waters, and the migratory characteristics. recording device temperature, and body temperature every 30 • So far 1,000 to 3,000 skipjack have been tagged and released seconds for a year or each year, mainly in the southwest islands. more, enabling a detailed understanding • Introduced the latest electronic archival tags in 2012. In of skipjack migration. February and April, 169 skipjack were tagged offshore Yonaguni Island, and seven were subsequently recovered. Successful recovery of seven skipjack with Swimming depth behavior over 10 days Water electronic archival tags temperature (°C) 35˚N Tagged fish No. 2 Recovery Ocean depth (m) Date: May 11, 2012 Location: West of Kuchinoshima Island Fork length: Approx. 43 cm 30˚N Usually returns to the surface at night, and performs Tagged fish No. 1 Diving to 400 meters repeated diving and surfacing during the day. Sometimes Release or deeper the fish dives below 400 meters. Date: Feb. 20, 2012 Tagged fish No. 1 Location: Offshore of Recovery Yonaguni Island Date: April 19, 2012 Location: South of Surface temperatures in waters where Fork length: 44 cm Yakushima Island skipjack travel Fork length: 46 cm 20 Succeeded in recording 25˚N movement over a total of High frequency: about 500 days (first time 15 21–30°C in this ocean region) Frequency Tagged fish No. 2 Tagged fish No. 1 10 Release Low frequency: Date: April 8, 2012 Tagged fish No. 2 Less than 21°C Location: Offshore of 5 Yonaguni Island Fork length: 42 cm 20˚N Discovered that skipjack usually 120˚E 125˚E 130˚E 135˚E 0 stay in waters with a temperature 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 of 21–25°C Note: The map shows probable migratory routes, since there is a large margin of error Water temperature (°C) when estimating positions from data. Posters and t-shirts to raise awareness of the project among fishery stakeholders Release of survey data By releasing the data to international fisheries management organizations and academic societies, the survey will contribute to the sustainable use of skipjack resources. 73 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Developing Technologies and Products That Contribute to Global Sustainability The Ajinomoto Group is promoting research and technology development to enhance the environmental value of its products and business activities. In addition to ascertaining environmental impact throughout product lifecycles, the Group is using its knowledge to create new businesses that contribute towards global sustainability. Creating businesses that contribute to the environment While pursuing R&D to reduce the environmental impact of Principal research and technology development existing business activities, the Ajinomoto Group also strives to areas for contributing to global sustainability provide new environmental value. The Group has established Sustainable, environmentally friendly technologies priority research themes for new business areas, including environmental technologies and more effective use of resources. • Utilizing unused biomass Making the most of its own knowledge and technologies, the Developing technology to utilize unused biomass as raw material and energy Developing alternative production technologies for petrochemical products Group is also incorporating outside ideas and technologies in • Developing technologies to save energy and resources order to develop new products and materials that can contribute to global sustainability. It calls its effort to achieve fast results Effective use of resources “open & linked innovation,” and often pursues joint development. • Adding value to by-products from the amino acid fermentation process Reference P76 Starting with the early results of joint research into the manufacture of synthetic rubber and nylon from sustainable plant Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions • Carbon footprint assessment of emissions throughout Reference P74 materials, the Ajinomoto Group is still pursuing a variety of techthe business and product lifecycles (LC-CO2) Reference P83 nologies that have the potential to contribute to global sustainabil• More energy savings ity by leveraging the Group’s extensive expertise in amino acids • Utilizing unused biomass resources Reference P14 and food products as well as related fermentation technologies. Reduction of the environmental impact of discharged water • Saving water by developing highly efficient amino Reference See “Creating the Future with ‘Open & Linked Innovation’” on pp. 21–22. acid fermentation technologies • Developing advanced wastewater treatment technologies (such as biological denitrification) Reference P84 Eco-friendly designs for containers and packages • Design based on the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle) • Using sustainable materials • Utilizing unused biomass resources Reference P78–81 Assessing the environmental impact of the entire product lifecycle In order to reduce the environmental impact of products while with the 1990, 1995, 2000, and 2005 edition of the Embodied increasing their environmental value, a company must underEnergy and Emission Intensity Data for Japan Using Inputstand not only the impact during the production process, but also Output Tables (3EID). This database, which covers basic LC-CO2 the impact throughout the product’s entire lifecycle. This data regarding food materials and ingredients, is used by and extends from the extraction of raw materials and their processhighly rated by industrial, academic and government organizaing at factories, to the distribution of the product, and consumptions and researchers. tion and disposal by the consumer. The Ajinomoto Group has The Ajinomoto Group began carbon footprint (CFP) assessbeen carrying out lifecycle assessments (LCA) for many years, ment of its products early on. For nine amino acid-based prodand is actively taking part in related research. ucts including feed-use lysine, the Group finished acquiring One of the keys to achieving a low-carbon society is monitorcertification of its CFP calculation standards and CFP values ing total CO2 emissions during the product lifecycle (LC-CO2). under the Carbon Footprint Program of the Japan Environmental Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has become a member of the Food Study Management Association for Industry in Group run by the Institute of Life Cycle Assessment Japan to May 2012. The Group has also introduced study LC-CO2. LC-CO2 assessment as a standard for enviThe study led to development of the Ajinomoto Group ronmental assessment of product containLC-CO2 Emissions Factor Database for Food-related Materials, ers and packaging. which has been on the company’s public website since April 2007. The latest version, released in October 2010, is compatible Reference See “Container and packaging environmental assessment” (chart) on p. 79. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 74 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Column Feed-use amino acids for livestock farming that is friendly to the planet Feed-use amino acids are gaining attention worldwide as a way to ensure amino acid balance during feeding. In addition to greatly reducing greenhouse gas emissions and lowering the impact of livestock waste on soil and water, these amino acids reduce the amount of land needed for feed crop cultivation. The Ajinomoto Group is working to assess the environmental benefits of these products and new products under development, in order to promote environmentally friendly livestock farming worldwide. Contributing to the environment with feed-use Expanding use of newly developed lysine amino acids product for dairy cattle feed Amino acids are essential nutrients for living things. In In April 2011 Ajinomoto Heartland, Inc., which particular, amino acids that cannot be synthesized within the conducts the feed-use amino acid business in body—known as essential amino acids—must be obtained the United States, began selling AjiPro®-L develthrough diet. Conventional livestock feeds given to pigs and oped for cows. AjiPro®-L chickens are usually comprised of corn and wheat for The Ajinomoto Group had developed feedenergy, and soybean meal for protein. However, since the use amino acids mainly for pigs and chickens. amino acid balance is not optimal for the growth of these Ajinomoto Heartland, Inc. was the first group company to sell a animals, it is difficult to maximize the health and growth of product for cows. Cows have four stomachs and when they livestock only by using these feeds. Such conventional feeds consume conventional feed-use lysine, it is broken down in the contain excess amino acids and nitrogen. rumen and not absorbed as lysine. Ajinomoto Heartland sought Feed-use amino acids, represented by lysine, threonine, to create a product that would enable enough lysine to be and tryptophan, are used to compensate for these deficienabsorbed for protein synthesis. It came up with a technology cies in raw materials. By adding these amino acids to ensure that enables the bovine small intestine to absorb lysine. The the amino-acid balance of conventional feeds, other amino new product is now becoming more popular. acids that previously went to waste when metabolized can There are nine million cows in the United States alone, and now be more effectively used by the animal. This will conthe product is believed to have great potential both in terms of tribute to the solution of food and environmental problems. business and environmental performance. The “Barrel Theory” of amino acids By adding lysine, which tends to be Assessing carbon footprint to verify environmental <Unbalanced barrel> <Barrel with added lysine> lacking in the feed ingredients, all benefits of feed-use amino acids other amino acids can be used To popularize environmentally friendly livestock farming, liveAmino acids that cannot Phenylalanine Leucine + effectively. Phenylalanine Tyrosine + Tyrosine stock farmers will have to be informed about how greenhouse Valine Isoleucine Valine gas emissions can be reduced by using feed-use amino acids. be used effectively Methionine + Cysteine Tryptophan The farmers who use feed-use amino acids will also have to Threonine Methionine + Cysteine benefit in some way from the emission reductions they achieve. Isoleucine The Ajinomoto Group took on the challenge of assessing Leucine Lysine Threonine Tryptophan When animals are given feeds that are deficient in even one of the amino acids Lysine the carbon footprint benefits of feed-use amino acids and needed, the body cannot effectively use the other amino acids for their growth. establishing an emission offsetting credit scheme to encourage livestock farmers to use feed-use amino acids. In Japan, the N2O cycle Group made great progress with regard to the scheme in fiscal 2010 and 2011. Based on the encouraging results, the Group N20 believes it is possible to establish a global system that is similar The amount emitted by the oxidization to the one promoted in Japan, thereby achieving great benefits. Ammonia NOx or reduction of ammonia and NOx generated from manure accounts for Currently, the Group is participating in a project to analyze 8% of the total. The amount emitted environmental contribution of feed additives in the livestock Feces and urine Manure treatment process N20 from the manure treatment process industry being driven by the International Food Industry Urea nitrogen (composting, wastewater accounts for at least 70% of the total. Federation (IFIF). The Group is providing data on the environtreatment, etc.) The amount emitted from mental benefits of feed-use amino acids Nitrite and nitrate N20 soil and surface water accounts for 19% of it has gathered in Japan. the total. Groundwater Soil Rivers/seas Presentation at the IFIF • Reducing the impact caused by livestock waste to soil and water quality A deficiency of just one amino acid reduces the effectiveness of all Visualizing the N2O reduction effect of using low-protein the other amino acids for growth, and they end up being excreted feed fortified with feed-use amino acids as nitrogen compounds, which might burden soil and damage July 2010: Certified by the Offsetting Credit (J-VER) Scheme of the water quality. Supplementing the deficient amino acids with Ministry of the Environment (Japan) feed-use amino acids helps to improve the nutrition balance of the March 2011: Certified as a project under the domestic credit system of feed and decrease the excretion of nitrogen, thereby reducing the the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry environmental impact caused by livestock waste. (Japan) September 2011: CFP values certified for feed-use lysine • Helping to suppress greenhouse gas emissions under the CFP Pilot Project of the Ministry of Nitrogen compounds from animal waste are oxidized or reduced in Economy, Trade and Industry (Japan) CFP value logo soil and air, with some nitrogen being released into the atmosphere as nitrous oxide (N2O). The greenhouse effect of N2O is about 300 • CO2 emissions at each stage of Distribution times that of CO2. The use of feed-use amino acids can contribute to the lifecycle for feed-use amino 1% Raw materials the fight against global warming by reducing the amount of nitrogen acids (L-lysine) procurement contained in animal waste, which causes the generation of N2O. 33% Manufacturing CFP Program of the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry 66% Link http://www.cfp-japan.jp/english/ 75 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Column Co-products that yield agricultural bounty The Ajinomoto Group manufactures “co-products” such as fertilizers and feed using nutrient-rich by-products generated from the fermentation process in the manufacturing of amino acids and nucleic acids and then adding value to them. The Group’s business seeks to utilize nature’s local blessings as materials and tries to make the most efficient use of them in the agricultural, livestock, and fishing industries. Developing valued-added co-products Global product development of AJIFOL® foliar fertilizer The Ajinomoto Group has been making amino acid products AJIFOL® foliar fertilizer enables plants to effectively absorb for over 30 years, based on bio-cycle mechanisms that fully nutrients through their leaves, and is a prime example of a utilize food resources and return by-products to the agriculvalue-added co-product. Originating in Brazil, AJIFOL® has tural sector in the form of co-products. About 90% of bybeen on the market since 1988, and is currently used for crops products are transformed into co-product fertilizer, which is such as soybeans, corn, fruit trees, and cotton. Since 2007, the mainly used in farming. In order to meet the various needs of business was expanded to Peru, Thailand, China, Indonesia, each agricultural region based on their natural environments Vietnam, and the US, and manufacturing and sales also began and crop characteristics, the Group has been researching in Japan in fiscal 2012. Small amounts of the product enable co-product usage methods that are suitable for the crops and plants to absorb nutrients effectively, and there are also reports agricultural practices of each region, and has been investigatthat it is effective in raising resistance to disease. Further ing their benefits. investigation is being carried out concerning ingredients and In fiscal 2010 the Group named its agricultural material spraying methods, to meet the needs of different crops related project that focuses on the use of co-products the and regions. A-Link project. To add more value to co-products, it is accumulating more knowledge and expertise, including methods to make more effective use of co-products in each region and for each crop, while promoting the global use of amino acids and nucleic acids in the field of nutrients for plants and animals. Several value-added co-products have already been created, and the business is expanding worldwide. For example, by-products generated from the fermentation process have been used in a foliar spray. The minerals and amino acids in this co-product not only help grow healthy Spraying grape leaves crops and increase yields, but they also protect crops from disease, based on the unique ingredients. Grapes grown using AJIFOL® Slow–release solid fertilizer Foliar fertilizer Dried bacterial cells Silage modifying agent Solid fertilizer Liquid fertilizer Liquid feed Fermentation by-product AJIFOL® sold in Brazil Used for various Tanks (left) to crops in different store AMI-AMI regions including liquid fertilizer, sugar cane, and delivery vegetables, fruit, truck (right) and coffee Full-scale sales of value-added co-products in Japan Lettuce grown without Lettuce grown using using AMIHEART AMIHEART Development and sales of new fertilizer for home use, with its co-products are also advancing group company J-OIL MILLS, in Japan. The liquid fertilizer INC. It uses by-product rapeseed AMIHEART, which was develoil cakes from J-OIL MILLS, INC. oped at the Kyushu Plant of with AMIHEART absorbed into AMIHEART Ajinomoto Co., Inc. using bythem. The cakes increase the product liquid derived in the effect of fertilization ingredients Lettuce seedling root growth process of fermenting starch into contained in AMIHEART. This nucleic acids using natto bacteproduct was released in the ria. The fertilizer is rich in nucleic spring of 2012. acids and has proven effective in In October 2012, the fostering the rooting of plants, Ajinomoto Group released the Hayane Hayaoki root increasing crop yields, and Hayane Hayaoki root stimulator stimulator shortening time required for jointly developed with Berg Earth growth. AMIHEART began to be Co., Ltd., a firm with the highest sold in June 2011 for use in output of vegetable grafted Traditional Competitor Hayane growing melons, strawberries, seedlings in Japan. More new rooting product Hayaoki method tomatoes, bell peppers, eggproducts are on (water) plants and tea. the way. Pamphlet for Ajinomoto Co., Inc. also agricultural material developed a horticultural exhibition Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 76 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Column Joint development of Environment Vitalizing Concrete to help promote marine ecosystems Ajinomoto Co., Inc., which has profound expertise in amino company has been developing Environment Vitalizing Concrete acids, began conducting research to develop concrete in jointly with Nikken Kogaku Co., Ltd., a leader in wave dissipawhich the amino acid arginine is mixed to foster the growth tion blocks, and the University of Tokushima’s Department of of algae, believing that the use of the acids would contribute Ecosystem Design (headed by Professor Yasunori Kouzuki). to the revitalization of marine ecosystems. Since 2009, the “Organic concrete” improves the compatibility of natural and manmade objects In recent years the pollution of rivers and seas, the oligotrophication (or nutrient depletion) of seawater and the deserti• Shift the focus from shape to fication of coasts due to global warming, a phenomenon in material which algae become depleted, have become serious prob• Turn inorganic concrete into organic lems, especially in Japan. Since microalgae are one of the concrete keystones of the food chain, encouraging their growth will • Make manmade objects and nature/ lead to the vitalization of the seas and rivers. Amino acidecosystems interface in a more harmonious manner mixed Environment Vitalizing Concrete releases amino acids • Create an environment in which microalgae, which represlowly into water. Experiments have shown that arginine is sent a keystone of the food chain, can grow easily by the best amino acid to mix with concrete and that it fosters providing them with a steady stream of nutrients the growth of microalgae, which are one of the keystones of • Support the creation of the food chain and ecosystems the food chain, by five to ten times the usual growth level. In • Organic concrete is expected to foster the absorption and the experiments, Environment Vitalizing Concrete attracted fixation of CO2. ayu fish and eels in the rivers and abalone and sea cucumbers in the sea. By turning the inorganic concrete used in seas and rivers into an organic material, the hope is to improve the compatEnvironment Vitalizing Concrete ibility of natural and manmade objects and help to support the food chain and ecosystem. The use of this concrete is also expected to contribute to the absorption and fixation of CO2. Amino acids Turn inorganic concrete into organic concrete Comparison results for algae growth Joint research based on collaboration between Amount of chlorophyll, which serves as an different industries Environment indicator for the amount of algae Vitalizing Concrete Ordinary concrete Environment Vitalizing Concrete has been The amount of algae 20 attached to the concrete developed through Nikken Kogaku Co., Ltd. surface remains large joint research Development of environmentally even after between Nikken compatible materials and products 15 10 months have passed. Kogaku Co., Ltd., Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 10 and the University Environment Vitalizing Concrete of Tokushima Experimentation and evaluation of the Contribution to the environment and 5 environment recovery food resources through functions of the seas the provision of amino acids 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Number of the months that have passed Experiments are under way in 30 water areas across Japan Project implemented off the coast of Ito, Shizuoka Prefecture (from July 2011) As part of the joint research, experiments are being In recent years, the number of places where fish and shellfish can hide has conducted to check the effect of the Environment been decreasing due to the expansion of sandy areas on the sea floor and Vitalizing Concrete on the growth of algae and the decreases in seaweed beds in adjacent waters. The joint development attraction of fish and shellfish in a total of 30 sea and team began to implement a project to provide fish and shellfish with an river areas across Japan as of October 2012, receivartificial fish reef. ing cooperation from local communities and fisheries cooperatives. For the practical use of the concrete in a range of water environments, the joint development team is also asking external experts to conduct tests on the durability of the concrete as a construction material, while evaluating the mechanism and speed of releasing the amino acid. The team aims to spread the use of this innovative concrete, which will be effective for both disaster prevention and revitalization of water environments, across Japan and beyond. An artificial fish reef made from the Fish such as surfperch, bottom perch, Environment Vitalizing Concrete was installed stripey, and damselfish, and also abalone on the sea bottom, which was eight meters and turban shellfish, are attracted to the deep, about one kilometer off the port of Ito artificial fish reef. On the wall of the in Shizuoka Prefecture. structure, microalgae are growing and eaten by visiting fish and shellfish. 77 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Development of Environmentally Friendly Packaging Unlike transport packaging, whose role is finished as soon as the product is delivered, food containers and packaging have a very important role in preserving and protecting their contents from the moment the customer purchases the product until the contents are consumed. In recognition of their importance, the Ajinomoto Group began to pursue environmentally friendly designs for containers and packaging early on, seeking to minimize their environmental footprint. The Group is taking the initiative to disclose information about packaging materials to stakeholders and cooperate in this area with industry organizations. Breakdown of container and packaging types in household garbage Fiscal 2011 results for Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Waste other than Paper containers and packaging 9.6 % 49.9 Paper use Plastic use % Plastics Increase of about per unit of production 5.5 % Decrease of about per unit of production 0.2 % Other 0.1% 34.8 % Metal Glass 4.1% 1.4 % Survey on Containers and Packaging Waste (volume comparison) by Ministry of the Environment (fiscal 2010) Fiscal 2011 performance overview Total plastic and paper use reduction up to fiscal 2010 far resource recycling initiatives. The respondent preferences exceeded the targets in weight under the fiscal 2005–2010 were summarized as follows: packaging for less waste, packaging Containers and Packaging 3R Promotion Plan of Ajinomoto Co., that is easy to separate, packaging that can be refilled, and Inc. Although the target for paper reduction per unit of producpackaging that is ecological while ensuring that products are reation was also met, the same target for plastic was not achieved, sonable, convenient and delicious. Based on the idea that all these as there was an increase of 6%. needs can be met, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has begun under taking Consequently, the second Containers and Packaging 3R the second Containers and Packaging 3R Promotion Plan. Promotion Plan (fiscal 2011–2015) was introduced. In addition to Communication will also be promoted to ensure that customers just setting reduction targets, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. surveyed conget a sense of the environmental value that is being provided sumers on packaging in order to have them better understand its through the new initiatives, and to help alleviate ecological con3R promotion activities for containers and packaging, as well as cerns in cooking and make it easier to recycle. Major goals and results of the second Containers and Packaging 3R Promotion Plan (fiscal 2011–2015; base year fiscal 2010) Reduction target Introduction of new materials Reduce plastic and paper use per unit of production by 2% and technologies and 5%, respectively, by fiscal 2015 Results Results • Polyethylene made from sugarcane • Paper use per unit of production (g/kg) Fiscal 2011: Used in part of the cap for the umami seasonIncreased from 58.1 g/kg in fiscal 20101 to 61.3 g/kg (up ing AJI-NO-MOTO® (prototype for 5.5%) in fiscal 20112 the Eco-Products Exhibition) • Plastic use per unit of production (g/kg) Fiscal 2012: Used for part of a new plastic bottle of Decreased from 55.9 g/kg in fiscal 20101 to 55.8 g/kg CALPIS® (down 0.2%) in fiscal 20112 • Shrink film made partly from polylactic acid, derived from corn Reuse target Already used with the AJIPANDA® jar for the umami seaPopularization of refill containers soning AJI-NO-MOTO® Results Fiscal 2012: Use with containers of PAL SWEET® Calorie Enhanced for seasoning products, such as Zero liquid type, AJI-SHIO® salt (60 g and 110 g), AJI-NO-MOTO®, HON-DASHI®, and YASASHIO salt (90 g), Seto no Honjio salt (100 g) Ajinomoto KK Consommé Providing information to consumers Recycling target Providing information to encourage consumers to choose Packaging materials that can be easily separated for sorting products that contribute to the 3Rs and waste separation and recycling Results Results “Aji na Eco” mark3 labeling (for 128 products as of the end of Promotion of smaller box design with perforations October 2012), events, lectures, presenting the company’s best practices 1 Differs from the figure determined in fiscal 2010 due to matching with fiscal 2010 product line. (Fiscal 2010 2 Fiscal 2011 figure is preliminary. determined figures from the previous 3R plan: Plastic use per unit of production: 55.4 g/kg; paper use per unit 3 The Japanese term for “Aji na Eco” is a registered trademark of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. of production: 58.3 g/kg) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 78 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life System for promoting environmentally friendly containers and packaging Before a product is released under the Ajinomoto brand, the In addition, by integrating this containers and packaging product is required to undergo a quality assessment, which assessment system with the 3R management system, the company includes an evaluation of containers and packaging. The assesscan now: (1) use the data on the weight of used packaging materials ment is implemented according to the Eco-Index for Containers indicated in the Eco-Index for the calculation of recycling fees; and Packaging, the company’s original set of assessment stan(2) disclose data on the internal portal site; and (3) update data on dards. Under these standards, each product is checked from the weight of used packaging materials every month. This integrafour perspectives—(1) Reduction in weight of packaging materition of the systems has not only resulted in facilitating the calculaals, (2) Selection of materials, (3) Recyclability, and (4) Labeling tion of recycling fees and the promotion of 3Rs at the company, but (and extra information for customers)—to promote eco-friendly also in making it possible to implement reporting within and outdesign of containers and packaging. side the company and provide accurate data to distributors and recycling organizations on a real-time basis. Container and packaging environmental assessment since 1991 Design data Block copy data (computerized in 2005) Eco-Guidelines Since 1994 Score sheet for Eco-Index Lifecycle-CO2 data Since 1991 Since 2003 Internal portal site Integrated in 2009 Storage Compilation, analysis Storage system completed in 2005 Browsing system completed in 2009 Packaging materials data Fundamental data Product code 3R management Total emissions Creation of reports Since 2000 Distribution Emissions per unit of Public databases (information provision) Sales data system production Environmental CommitOutside the company tee (management) Presentation of the Since 2004 3R Promotion Commitcompany’s 3R best Recycling fees tee (by Company) practices Packaging material data for each product Payment to the Japan Containers and Environmental Report Participation in Packaging Recycling Association contests Lectures Eco-Index for Containers and Packaging (Household edition ver. 8 and business edition ver. 4) Recycling outsourcing expenses and weight Purpose Evaluation item of containers and packaging by material type Weight of disposed packaging materials for products Efficient use Reduction in Weight reduction ratio Weight (kilotonnes) Recycling outsourcing expenses (millions of yen) of resources weight of Degree of over-packing 30 600 packaging materials Availability of refill Reduction of products environmental 25 impact Transport efficiency 24.2 20.7 20.4 Reduction in lifecycle-CO2 emissions Combating 20 18.5 450 global Use of materials derived warming from plants Selection of Use of environmentally friendly Recycling fees 15 361 materials materials Cardboard Utilization ratio of recycled products 292 Metal cans 10 300 264 268 Environmental labeling Paper Promotion Adaptability to separated-waste Glass bottles 5 of recycling collection Contributing to a Plastic recycling-oriented Recyclability Adaptability to recycling systems society PET bottles 0 0 Reduction in volume for recycling and (for beverages) 2004 2010 2011 2012 (Fiscal year) disposal Availability of environmental labeling External Labeling (Availability of environmentally promotion conscious labeling) Cooperation with outside organizations Nowadays, it is difficult for consumers to tell which type of packLecture • Gravure Research Group, Japanese Society of Printing Science aging is environmentally friendly, given the diverse materials and and Technology forms of containers and packaging on the market. In order to Journal contribution address environmental problems relating to packaging across • Journal of Printing Science and Technology, Japanese Society of Printing Science and Technology our entire society, it is important that consumers choose environPresentations mentally friendly products based on an understanding of the • Containers and Packaging Diet Declaration in Nine Municipalities • Presentation of 3R best practices to recycling promotion organizations functions and roles of packaging. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is actively • Eco-Products Exhibition taking opportunities to promote 3R activities in cooperation with • 5th Appreciation Day at the AJINOMOTO STADIUM • Minato Ward 3R Action Conference the industry organizations. 79 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Development of environmentally friendly packaging Reduce: Making packaging lighter Main developments in fiscal 2011 Since the Ajinomoto Group uses many forms of packaging forYear-on-year Product Initiative mats, it is working to make them lighter using various means. reduction The Group seeks to use lighter packaging for everything from HON-DASHI Jar weight reduction Glass: 9.8 t Nimono-Jozu jars, plastic film, and plastic bottles to cardboard and paper Upgraded and redeboxes for products. SLIM UP SUGAR signed packaging, Plastics: 7.3 t (sticks) inner box, and Paper: 6.1 t Reuse: Offering more refillable products cardboard Cook Do® Reduced width of Plastics: 10 t The Ajinomoto Group offers a wide range of refillable products (Chinese stir-fry sauce) pouch seal including the HON-DASHI® and Ajinomoto KK Chuka Aji sea500 ml and 900 ml: Plastic bottle weight sonings, as well as the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO . ® CALPIS Water® reduced PET Plastic: 172 t Plastics: 9 t 1.5 L: Lighter shrink Recycle: Making packaging easier to separate film for recycling Reduced weight of corrugated cardboard CALPIS SODA® Cardboard: 19 t The Group is developing packaging that is easy for the customer boxes for 1.5 L ribbed plastic bottles to separate and recycle. In fiscal 2012, labels were introduced that are easy to peel off, and they have already been adopted for Ajinomoto KK Chuka Aji and Ajinomoto KK Marudori Gara Soup. SLIM UP SUGAR At the time of product redesign, the packaging was also revised from an environmental standpoint. For instance, the shape was changed from a gussetted pouch to a standing pouch, along with the materials. This resulted in a reduction in usage of about 7.3 tonnes annually. Also, through the redesign of the inner and outer boxes to match the smaller pouch size, paper use was also reduced by about 6.1 tonnes per year. Highlight Utilizing plant-derived bio-plastics for packaging Now used in containers of 24 household products In September 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. launched an New AJI-NO-MOTO® jar made with only initiative to replace heat shrink labels and cap shrink wrapeco-friendly packaging ping used on containers for food products and sweeteners. Along with PLA labels, in fiscal 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. also plans to The conventional petrochemical-derived plastic is being use eco-friendly plastic for the cap of the AJIPANDA® jar (75 g) of the replaced with carbon-neutral polylactic acid (PLA) derived umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®. The plastic for this purpose from biomass. contains biomass polyethylene made from sugarcane. Along with The company plans to use the PLA film for all 24 of its glass containing a high percentage of recycled material, this step will household products by the end of fiscal 2013, starting with enable packaging that is completely environmental. In order to make the AJIPANDA® 75 gram jar for the umami seasoning the improvement easier for everyAJI-NO-MOTO®, as well as PAL SWEET®. one to recognize, the company plans to launch a limited-edition The world’s thinnest PLA labels design of green caps2 before As the newly adopted PLA film contains over 25% (by full-scale production. weight) material derived from feed-use corn, it has yielded the world’s thinnest1 PLA labels at 35 micrometers (μm). In Prototype containers get a positive reaction from visitors at the Eco-Products Exhibition in December 2011. addition to introducing the world’s thinnest PLA labels as the first such trial in the industry1 for seasoning and sweetener  doption of carbon neutral packaging materials A packaging, the simultaneous switch to PLA labels for a contributes to CO2 emissions reduction company’s entire product line is unprecedented in Japan.1 Use of PLA labels and biomass-plastic caps is expected to reduce As such, it represents a very progressive and significant annual CO2 emissions by 100 tonnes3 and 55 tonnes,3 respectively, initiative for contributing to a recycling oriented society. leading to a total reduction of 50% or more compared to the Repeated testing was carried out to facilitate the switch previous year. from the old petrochemical-derived labels (40 to 60 μm in By introducing the world’s thinnest PLA labels for all products, thickness). The company succeeded in discovering the there will be an average 24% reduction in plastic packaging weight. optimal conditions for PLA label mounting and heat treatAfter switching to environmental plastic for all 24 targeted products, a ment processes, enabling the first initiative of its kind in total weight reduction of over 10 tonnes per year3 is expected. the industry. The company’s own “Aji-na-Eco” mark will also be displayed on packaging to make it easier for consumers in stores to recognize the 1 Survey by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. as of August 31, 2012. environmental contribution being made by these everyday products. 2 Limited release began in December 2012. The aim is to help raise environmental awareness in daily life, while 3 Calculated by Ajinomoto Co., Inc. using a formula based on fiscal 2011 sales volume (compared to the previous year). promoting green purchasing and the use of ecological products. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 80 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Promoting “Aji-na-Eco” mark products with environmental packaging Modern product packages are already small and thin, so it is environmental features of the packaging, and one to show an often difficult for customers to notice changes made in package environmental feature of the product (self-defrosting frozen weight, thickness, and size and materials used. However, when food). The marks are now shown on 128 products, an increase of the enormous sales volume of products is taken into account, 49 compared to the same period last year. these efforts can result in significant environmental benefits. Today’s consumers want to purchase the most environmen1 The Japanese term for “Aji na Eco” is a registered trademark of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. tally friendly products, so the Ajinomoto Group introduced its unique “Aji-na-Eco”1 mark in autumn 2010 to show the ecoWhat is “Aji na Eco”? “Aji na Eco” is a term describing the Number of friendliness of its product packages. Details are now being added smart and ecological products or “Aji na Eco” information provided by the mark products alongside the mark, indicating features such as refillable, recyAjinomoto Group, and the logo cled paper used, no tray, reduced packaging, and plant-based mark evokes the image of our green planet, the pleasure of eating, 128 tray. As of October 31, 2012, there are a total of six different and a global environment made even As of the end of better through food. October 2012 types of “Aji-na-Eco” logo marks. Five types to indicate different (Ajinomoto Group) Refillable No tray By using refillable These frozen food products, the glass products are packaged in container can be used a large bag without a tray for a long time, thereby inside. It reduces the reducing amount of waste, thereby CO2 emissions. lowering CO2 emissions by about 20% to 50%. Recycled paper Reduced packaging Recycled paper is used in the The outer packing box is boxes of these products. For environmentally friendly and does gift package products, the lid not contain any partitions. By contains 80% waste paper, and eliminating these partitions, CO2 the cardboard does not contain emissions are lowered by 30% any coating agents. Ecological annually. Box strength was for both the gift giver enhanced by making it octagonal and recipient. at the corners. Plant-based tray By using a product tray made from plant material, this packaging reduces petroleum consumption and CO2 emissions. Survey on environmental consciousness of customers Ajinomoto Co., Inc. conducted a survey to gauge consumers’ daily dietary behaviors and environmental consciousness. The survey found that many consumers feel guilty about generating waste or buying something that has an ill effect on the environment. I sometimes feel that our I feel stressed when I feel that excessive packaging is leading Examples of individual household waste is too much. I dispose of garbage. to increased garbage, thereby having a opinions negative impact on the environment. • Garbage becomes bulky. • I’m concerned that too much incombustible garbage is being generated. • Unnecessary packaging is 73% 71% often used for gift products, 95% which I think is not ecofriendly. Respondents: Homemakers in their 20s to 50s; survey area: nationwide; sample size: 300; Outline of the survey method: web survey; period: November 6–8, 2010; research organization: Dentsu Research Inc. 81 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Among the many environmental issues related to global sustainability, global warming and climate change present some of the most important challenges for people around the world. The Ajinomoto Group is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions not just in the production process but across its business activities. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan2 Fiscal 2011 performance Entire Group Entire Group CO2 emissions per Annual CO2 CO2 emissions per Annual CO2 CO2 emissions unit of production emissions in Japan unit of production emissions in Japan from fossil fuels 35 reduction % 493 kilotonnes or less (7% reduction compared to fiscal 1990, 31 reduction % 433 kilotonnes (60 kilotonnes less than target) 2,300 8% reduction compared to fiscal 2005) kilotonnes (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) 2 See p. 70 for details. Fiscal 2011 performance overview Out of all the greenhouse gases, the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group kilotonnes, up roughly 2.5% compared to the previous year. Zero Emissions Plan places particular focus on CO2 from fossil Meanwhile, total CO2 emissions were 2,300 kilotonnes, up about fuels and aims to achieve 35% reduction of CO2 emissions per 65 kilotonnes compared to the previous year. CO2 emissions per unit of production compared to fiscal 2005 for the entire unit of production remained largely unchanged from the Ajinomoto Group. In addition, production sites in Japan are also previous year. required to reduce their total CO2 emissions by 7% compared to Several factors prevented reduction in total CO2 emissions, fiscal 1990 levels to 493 kilotonnes or less. This includes an extra including the following. While factories in Indonesia and Brazil 1% per year added to Japan’s target of a 6% reduction compared have been promoting a transition to energy sources with low to 1990 by 2012, the final year of the first commitment period of environmental impact, there was insufficient supply of natural the Kyoto Protocol. gas and biomass-derived energy in fiscal 2011. Also, the Kyushu In fiscal 2011, CO2 emissions per unit of production for the Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. had to operate a generator to deal entire Group were almost flat compared to fiscal 2010. Also, total with the electrical shortage caused by the shutdown of the emissions from production sites in Japan were about 60 kiloGenkai Nuclear Power Plant. This resulted in increased use of tonnes above the reduction target, and reduced by 18% compared fuels such as heavy oil that have higher CO2 emission factors. to fiscal 1990. Progress was made on achieving the reduction tarIn order to achieve future targets, the fermentation-related gets of the Kyoto Protocol by 2012. divisions in particular, which account for about 70% of the Looking at the energy consumption of the worldwide Group’s CO2 output, will continue to work on process improveAjinomoto Group, there was an increase of 2.9% compared to the ments for better yield and productivity. Additional efforts will be previous year. However, energy consumption per unit of producmade to ensure stable supplies of energy sources with low tion was 1.3% lower, despite production volume reaching 2,570 environmental impact. Total CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions per CO2 emissions by business CO2 emissions by unit of production (fiscal 2011) region (fiscal 2011) CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per unit of (kilotonnes/year) production (tonnes/tonne) 2,500 2,360 1.6 3% 4% Logistics, services, others 2,230 2,300 2,300 China 2,140 7% Pharmaceuticals and 2,000 1.4 specialty chemicals South America10 % 1.31 1,500 1.2 Food 18% North America 13% Southeast Asia 41% Fermentation Emissions from 1,000 1.0 72% Europe Japan 0.90 production sites in Japan 0.89 0.85 11% 21% 540 Total emissions 500 430 430 400 0.8 490 CO2 emissions per tonne of product 0 0.66 0 2005 2010 2011 2013 target 2020 target (Fiscal year) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 82 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Initiatives at production sites and offices in Japan In light of the current energy situation, the Ajinomoto Group in CO2 emissions at the Head Office Japan continued to implement its Smart Energy Measures in fisof Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (Tonnes/year) cal 2011. This effort is based on appropriate and intelligent use 1,800 of energy in order to contribute to society while properly carrying out business activities. In accordance with an overall policy 1,302 1,354 for the Ajinomoto Group in Japan, concrete measures were taken 1,030 throughout the year at each group company and site there, and 1,000 even greater efforts were made in the summer months from July to September. 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Overall policy for Smart Energy Measures at the Ajinomoto Group in Japan 1. When taking concrete measures based on this policy, priority will be placed on ensuring systems for securing employee health and fulfilling product supply responsibilities. 2. Energy-saving measures will be proactively taken with employees throughout the year by optimizing the overall balance of electricity and other energy usage. Shifting the focus from electricity to all forms of energy, and from summer to the entire year. Smart living involves the smart use of energy. 3. During the summer months of July to September, when energy consumption is highest, the Group and employees will make extra efforts to save energy. 4. Efforts will include daily steps to maximize the reduction of energy use. Switching to clean energy The Ajinomoto Group has long been committed to using clean continues to recover methane gas from a city landfill and is using energy, including switching the fuel used at its plants from heavy it as a fuel. Plants in France have launched an ESCO project for oil, which generates comparatively high CO2 emissions, to natubiomass cogeneration with a view to starting operation in 2013. ral gas. In fiscal 2011, the percent of petroleum of total energy These and other efforts will be continued in the future. used was about 12%, up 1 percentage point compared to the previous year. The ratio for biomass-derived energy was 4% (down 1 point year on year), and the percent of gas of total energy used Energy composition of the Ajinomoto Group was 49% (down 1 point year on year). Composition (%) 50 50 48 49 All of the Group’s plants will continue to strive to secure stable supplies of energy sources with low environmental impact, 40 while ensuring reliable production. Further steps will also be 30 taken to develop and implement processes that save energy and Purchased electricity 20 21 20 resources. The Kamphaeng Phet factories of Ajinomoto Co., 20 Gases 13 14 13 12 14 (Thailand) Ltd. continue to carry out stable operation of biomass Oil 11 10 5 5 4 boilers, and have now slashed about 100 kilotonnes of CO2 Other1 Biomass 0 emissions per year compared to the year before the adoption. 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) The North Carolina Plant of Ajinomoto North America, Inc. 1 Includes purchased energy (steam) and coal Management of fluorocarbons The Ajinomoto Group uses fluorocarbons as refrigerants for Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. aim to switch over to non-fluorefrigeration equipment. The 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero rocarbon equipment by 2020, and 11 such units are already introEmissions Plan sets goals for discontinuing the use of CFCs2 and duced. In addition, the Ajinomoto Group has become an industry replacing refrigeration equipment that use HCFCs3 and HFCs4 pioneer with the adoption of a new technology combining two with models that use natural refrigerants. refrigerants: ammonia and CO2. The use of CFCs has already been discontinued in Japan. 2 CFC: Chlorofluorocarbon. Manufacture of CFCs, which are ozone-depleting substances, was banned in developed countries in 1996 under the Montreal Protocol. Also sometimes referred to as “specified fluorocarbons.” Some sites outside Japan that still have CFC equipment plan to 3 HCFC: Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. Manufacture of HCFCs, which are ozone-depleting substances, will be phased out in developed countries under the Montreal Protocol by 2020. Also sometimes referred to as discontinue their use by 2013 in line with local laws and regula“designated fluorocarbons.” 4 HFC: Hydrofluorocarbon. HFCs do not destroy the ozone layer and are known CFC alternatives. Due to their tions. Nine group plants in Japan including the four plants of global warming potential that is thousands of times higher than CO2, reduction of HFC emissions is included in the Kyoto Protocol targets. 83 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Conserving Water Resources To reduce the high concentration of nitrogen and high levels of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in process effluent from the production of amino acid fermentation-related products, the Ajinomoto Group has implemented measures to control pollutant sources and developed advanced treatment technologies best suited to the quality of effluent water at each site. In addition, the production of fermentation-related products requires large quantities of water—about 50 times the weight of the products. The Group’s production plants are located in areas with rich water resources, but based on its belief that it is vital to minimize water usage, the Group is committed to developing water-saving processes. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan4 Fiscal 2011 performance Reduction of biochemical Water consumed per Water consumed per Water consumption oxygen and nitrogen unit of production unit of production content of discharged water 70 % or more reduction 65 % reduction 112 million tonne reduction BOD ≤ 10 ppm (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) (compared to fiscal 2005) Discharged water per Discharged water per Discharged water Total nitrogen ≤ 5 ppm unit of production unit of production 4 See p. 70 for details. 70 % or more reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) 69 % reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) 113 million tonne reduction (compared to fiscal 2005) Fiscal 2011 performance overview Water consumption was reduced by about 50%, and water conWater consumption sumed per unit of production was reduced by approximately 65%, (Fiscal year) compared to the base year of fiscal 2005. Discharged water also decreased by about 55% and wastewater volume per unit of produc2005 151 26 40 222 tion declined by approximately 69%. As a result, progress was River and well water for 5 indirect cooling made according to plan. In the fermentation-related divisions, River and well water for 2011 45 20 39 110 use in processes water usage for indirect cooling was 45 million tonnes, which is 5 Industrial water less than one third of the water used for that purpose in fiscal 2005. Other 0 50 100 150 200 250 At the Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., trial operation (Million tonnes) began at a new wastewater treatment facility in January 2012. The plant expects to achieve the Group’s zero emission target for Discharged water (Fiscal year) discharged water pollution load in fiscal 2012. 2005 151 47 204 6 Discharged indirect 2011 45 28 17 91 cooling water Wastewater performance Discharged after treatment Other (public sewage, etc.) 0 50 100 150 200 250 Discharged water Production volume Discharged water per tonne (Million tonnes) of products Discharged water (millions of tonnes/year) Discharged water per unit of production Production volume (10,000 tonnes/year) (tonnes/tonne) 400 200 Discharged water by business 8% 300 150 326 12% 18% 113 257 265 2011 200 251 100 FY Total discharge: 204 20% 91 million 62% tonnes 177 Fermentation-related 100 39 50 35 34 Food-related 28 98 91 90 Other 80% 92 0 0 FY2005 2005 2010 2011 2013 target 2020 target Total discharge: 204 million tonnes (Fiscal year) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 84 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Reducing Waste The Ajinomoto Group is working to minimize waste to ensure optimal use of all resources. Meanwhile, the Group is also committed to effectively utilizing waste and by-products, with the aim of recovering 99% of it as resources. In amino acid production, the Group utilizes by-products as resources and seeks to improve production efficiency by introducing new technologies. In food production, it is also making a range of efforts, such as improving the precision of sales forecasts and conducting fine-tuned procurement, to minimize wasted raw materials and the amount of packaging materials used. 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan1 Fiscal 2011 performance Resource recovery ratio Waste per unit of Resource recovery ratio Waste per unit of (entire Group) production (entire Group) production 99 % or more 20 % or more reduction (Compared to fiscal 2006) 99.3 % 10.3 % reduction (Compared to fiscal 2006) 1 See p. 70 for details. Fiscal 2011 performance overview In the 2011–2013 Ajinomoto Group Zero Emissions Plan, new Looking at the results by business field, in foods, pharmatarget values have been established for waste per unit of producceuticals, and specialty chemicals, where minimal by-products tion for the entire Ajinomoto Group. The aim is to reduce waste are produced, there was an improvement in waste per unit of as much as possible in production activities group-wide. The production. The fermentation-related divisions, where initiatives effort includes waste generated by all operations, including have been focused on transforming by-products into co-products, production and non-production sites. The base year for these targenerate a comparatively small amount of by-products, and waste gets is fiscal 2006, when detailed waste data first started to be that cannot be turned into co-products is increasing on a pergathered worldwide. unit-of-production basis. In fiscal 2011, the Group achieved a 99.3% recycling rate. A new initiative to decrease waste per unit of production Waste generated was 204 kilotonnes, and by-product emissions began in fiscal 2012. Each site will ascertain its waste situation, were 2.4 million tonnes, for a total of 2.6 million tonnes. While and devise and execute business plans with an awareness of the waste increased by about 28% compared to the base year, producneed for waste control. The Ajinomoto Group will also carry out tion also rose by 2.5%. As a result, waste per tonne of product steady process management to minimize wasted product and was 0.79 tonnes, representing a decrease of roughly 10% compromote initiatives in each area to achieve targets. pared to the base year. Volume of waste and by-products, Waste and by-products per unit of Waste (excluding by-products) per resource recovery ratio, and waste2 production, by business unit of production, by business per unit of production Resource Fermentation-related Fermentation-related By-products Waste recovery ratio Waste per unit of production Food-related Food-related Waste and by-products Pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals Pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals Resource recovery ratio (%) (kilotonnes) Waste per unit of production (tonnes/tonne) Waste per unit of production (tonnes/tonne) 3,500 98.6 99.1 99.3 100 2.5 0.5 0.45 3,000 89 78 79 1.83 2.03 1.96 0.39 80 2.0 0.4 0.35 2,500 60 1.5 0.3 2,000 2,005 2,404 2,402 40 1,500 1.0 0.2 20 0.57 0.44 0.40 1,000 0.5 0.1 0.03 0.05 0.06 159 196 204 0.18 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.06 500 0 2006 2010 2011 0.0 0.0 2006 2010 2011 2006 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2 Excluding by-products (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) 85 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Initiatives in Logistics The Ajinomoto Group has been working hard to reduce environmental impacts that occur in logistics, from the procurement of raw materials to the delivery of products to customers. With regard to the reduction of transport-related CO2 emissions in particular, the Group is taking proactive measures, including establishing a more efficient delivery system and pursuing modal shift and eco-driving. Fiscal 2011 performance As a consignor: Performance of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. CO2 emissions per unit of sales Modal shift percentage3 during transport and delivery 0.7 % increase (compared to fiscal 2010) 31.38 % 3 The percent of total transport volume accomplished using modes of transport with low environmental impact. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. began in earnest in fiscal 1995 to introduce the use of railway container shipments, which produce only one eighth of the CO2 emissions of truck shipments. AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION Initiatives as a consignor Japan’s revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy enforced in In fiscal 2011, however, emissions increased by 0.7%. The April 2006 obliges specified consignors to reduce CO2 emissions disastrous earthquake on March 11, 2011, caused damage to the incurred through transport and delivery associated with their Group’s logistics division in the Tohoku area and to product business activities by at least 5% on a per-unit basis within five warehouses in the Kawasaki area. Logistics efficiency fell as a years from fiscal 2006, and report the results to the government. result of ad-hoc distribution measures taken to supply products. This requirement applies to Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Ajinomoto The specified conCO2 emissions per unit of sales Frozen Foods Co., Inc., AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS signors in the CO2 emissions per unit of sales = Energy used/Weight of products sold CO., LTD., and Calpis Co., Ltd. Group will continue 55 By the end of fiscal 2010, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. had reduced to promote efforts the emissions by 5.9%, which greatly exceeded the legal requireto fulfill their 50 ment for specified consignors. This is attributable to the consoliresponsibility for 50.6 50.5 50.1 dation of delivery centers and joint deliveries with group annual emissions companies and other food manufacturers, as well as modal shift, reductions of 1%. 45 which the company has been advancing since 1995. 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Initiatives of the ALC Group To fulfill the reporting obligation required by the revised Act on ensure understanding of the environmental management system the Rational Use of Energy, AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS across all levels of the Group. CORPORATION (ALC) and its group companies provide energy The Ace Logistics Corporations, which are consolidated subuse data to the group’s customer consignors. In 2010, the ALC sidiaries of the ALC Group, equipped their entire fleet with drivGroup introduced a calculation method based on distance transing recorders to monitor the driver’s eco-driving performance, ported and fuel economy of the transport vehicles and applied such as cutting out unnecessary idling. The equipment has the method to direct delivery services from the ALC Group’s disproved effective in reducing accidents while driving, and curbing tribution centers. The ALC Group held seminars on ISO stansudden starts, acceleration, and stops. dards and relevant laws and regulations for its employees to Instilling eco-driving habits Chuo Ace Logistics Corporation, which handles refrigerated transport for the Ajinomoto Group in the Kanto region, has been working to instill environmentally friendly driving habits in all its employees. In addition to training drivers on the road, the company is striving to raise the awareness of employees through efforts such as quantifying and posting daily fuel consumption improvement targets for each vehicle. This ongoing initiative has been well received, and in fiscal 2011 the company was honored with an award in the Eco Drive Contest, organized by the Ministry of the Environment. Eco Drive Contest award certificate and related article Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 86 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Environmental Management The Ajinomoto Group has introduced an ISO 14001-compliant environmental management system (EMS) at most of its sites in and outside Japan to meet environmental laws and regulations and prevent environmental problems, and to ensure that further efforts will continue to be made at each site to conserve the environment. Fiscal 2011 performance Environmental management ISO 14001 certification had been acquired at 123 (As of March 2012) sites, or 92 % of all target sites Group-wide environmental management The Ajinomoto Group has established an environmental manageenvironmental audits, and collection of environmental data. ment structure headed up by the Management Committee to Pledging to “work for life” on its centenary anniversary in 2009, ensure that measures are implemented uniformly across the the Group revised the Ajinomoto Group Environmental Group. This management structure forms the base for a range of Philosophy and Basic Policies in April 2011 as a statement of environmental management activities, such as the formulation of its determination to promote business activities and products environmental plans (three-year medium-term plan and annual that contribute to the environment and to stay in dialogue plan), implementation of environmental assessments and with society. Group-wide environmental management activities As of fiscal 2011, 123 out of 133 target sites have acquired ISO Performance (ASREP) to efficiently collect environmental data 14001 certification. Consistent efforts are now being made by on CO2 emissions, waste, discharged water and other items from the remaining sites to acquire certification. all its sites. Collected data is utilized in compiling the Group’s In promoting group-wide environmental management, it is environmental performance statistics, in progress control of the important to have a way to quantitatively identify both environZero Emissions Plan, and in developing information to be dismental impact and contribution. The Ajinomoto Group has develclosed through the Carbon Disclosure Project. oped the Ajinomoto System for Reporting of Environmental Ajinomoto Group EMS organization (As of September 30, 2012) Management Committee Environmental Committee Chairperson: Food Products Division Production sector Director responsible for environmental management Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Designated group companies (unit organizations in charge) Person administering production Division GM technology & engineering Members: EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental Environmental Environmental administrator administrator EMS secretariat: administrator administrator Corporate Executive responsible Environment & Safety Dept. Environment & Safety Dept. for production technology and engineering Other unit organizations and group companies AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. GM of each unit organization: Bioscience Products & Fine Chemicals Division Food Products Division Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies GM of Environment & Safety Dept. President Bioscience Products & Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental Environmental Fine Chemicals Division Division GM Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator administrator administrator EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental Wellness Business Division Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator General Affairs & Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Risk Management Dept. Environment & Safety Dept. Chief environmental administrator: President Unit organization Group companies Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Wellness Business Division EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization President CSR Dept. Environmental Environmental EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental Environmental administrator administrator administrator administrator Production Management Dept. Environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies Presidents of designated group Division GM EMS secretariat: Environmental Environmental companies Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION Calpis Co., Ltd.2 Personnel appointed by Chairperson Chief environmental administrator: President Unit organization Group companies Chief environmental administrator: Unit organization Group companies EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization President Environmental Environmental EMS secretariat: Umbrella organization Environmental Environmental Secretariat: Environment & Safety Dept. administrator administrator administrator administrator 2 Excluded since October 2012 87 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Implementing environmental assessments When the Ajinomoto Group launches new products and busiEnvironmental assessment items nesses or changes the use of conventional raw materials in proSeven types of Air pollution, water pollution, noise, offensive odor, soil typical pollution contamination, oscillation and ground subsidence duction processes, it assesses the environmental impact of business plans before they are implemented and takes necessary Proper waste disposal, responsibilities of waste Waste disposal generator, etc. measures to minimize future environmental risks and impacts. Global environmental Global warming, biodiversity conservation, Environmental assessments are performed by departments issues acid rain, etc. responsible for the proposed plans, and their results are Management of Substances subject to PRTR, asbestos, new chemical hazardous substances, etc. reviewed by the Environment & Safety Department before final substances approval by management. In April 2010, the authority to conduct Creation of a 3Rs, resource and energy conservation, control of recycling-oriented waste generation, etc. environmental assessments was partially delegated to some busisociety ness sites outside Japan to allow assessments to reflect the local Effects of buildings Right to light, radio disturbance, etc. environmental circumstances more appropriately. Purchase and sale of Soil contamination, accountability, guarantee against real estate defects, etc. With regard to business performance evaluation, environNew science and Chemical and microbial contamination, etc. mental items are included in the Ajinomoto Group’s business technology performance evaluation for each business unit. These items, alloCorporate social Action guidelines, information disclosure, communicaresponsibility tion with the community, etc. cated 5%, are evaluated according to the achievement level of the Eco-design, raw materials procurement, logistics, life environmental targets. This arrangement is clear proof that the Product development cycle assessment, etc. Group prioritizes the environment. Disaster prevention systems and response to environmental accidents The Ajinomoto Group seeks to open its sites to neighborhood Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. There was also discharge of residents while developing joint disaster prevention systems with untreated wastewater into a river by the Shimizu Plant of local communities. The Kawasaki Plant has launched EnvironAJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Aside from these mental Monitor Meetings, in which community residents notify three serious incidents, five other accidents and incidents were the company immediately upon experiencing something reported in and outside Japan, but none of these had a serious unusual, such as a strange odor. In May 2010, these efforts to impact on the environment. The Group investigates the causes of maintain close communication with local residents were recogproblems and “close calls,”3 in order to prevent recurrence. nized by the Kanagawa Environmental Conservation Association. 3 Close call (near miss): Finding of an incident that did not lead to a serious disaster or accident, but was one step short of such a situation. For example, an accident in which processing solution which has leaked from a Plants outside Japan, such as those belonging to Ajinomoto Co., storage tank is prevented from spreading from the vicinity by a secondary containment facility or emergency shutdown system. (Thailand) Ltd. and Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd., conduct plant tours for community residents. Legal violations in fiscal 2011 The Group has established a system for prompt implementa• Omission of status report on manifest issuing for industrial waste tion of measures needed to address violations of environmental treatment at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. laws, and environmental accidents and incidents. The list on the • Manifest loss at FFA International Co., Ltd. • Transporting industrial waste across prefectural boundaries after a right shows the legal violations that occurred in fiscal 2011. All of validity period agreed with local authorities in advance by the Kawasaki Plant of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and the Osaka Plant of them were reported to the governments, and countermeasures Komec Co., Ltd. were taken to prevent reoccurrence. Serious incidents included • Failing to conduct an advance consultation with government authorities necessary for transporting industrial waste across ammonia leakage from refrigeration equipment at Xiamen prefectural boundaries by AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. Ajinomoto Life Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. and at the Kyushu Plant of • Failing to carry out the duty of rainwater drainage monitoring by Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. Steady efforts worldwide based on ISO 14001 Serious incidents in Number of comfiscal 2011 plaints (fiscal 2011) Japan Outside Japan Outside Japan Japan Air pollution 0 0 Air pollution 0 0 Water 1 4 Water 0 1 pollution pollution Waste 2 0 Waste 0 0 Noise, 0 0 Noise, 21 3 oscillation oscillation Offensive 0 1 Offensive 1 3 odor odor Other 0 0 Other 3 2 Bulletin board at FD Green Tour of deodorizing equipment (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Total 3 5 Total 25 9 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 88 Ensuring the Planet’s Sustainability, as the Foundation for All Life Providing Environmental Education and Fostering Awareness Ensuring that every employee has a strong environmental awareness is the starting point of all environmental protection efforts at the Ajinomoto Group. The Group provides its employees around the world with various opportunities for systematic environmental education and fosters better awareness to encourage them to take specific action in their respective workplaces. Education and awareness-raising activities For years, employees of the Ajinomoto Group have been asked In order to ensure that the Environmental Philosophy and to obtain the environmental knowledge needed for their specialBasic Environmental Policies and all plans and goals are commuties and job functions. In fiscal 2011, the Group began renewing nicated across the Group, environmental education videos are its required environmental education programs for each emproduced and distributed every year. The theme was global susployee grade. The goal is for all employees to be aware of the tainability in fiscal 2012, to reflect the Rio+20 Conference. Every challenges involved in building a society that values sustainable year since fiscal 2007, the Group has conducted a campaign to development while overcoming problems facing humanity. foster greater A new education program was created in fiscal 2012 to environmental improve environmental risk management. It was added to the awareness. Each existing compliance education for managers organized by the group company general affairs and risk management departments. The Group plans and carries provides grade-specific environmental education, linked with the out its own activieducation offered by the Human Resources Dept. of Ajinomoto ties as part of it. Co., Inc. Reference See “Smile Earth! Global Citizenship Activities for the Future” on p. 105. Specialized education and training It is vital for employees to acquire more technical and practical In recent decades, environmental concerns have evolved knowledge and improve their skills so they can take the right from conventional pollution control measures, to protection of environmental actions in their workplaces. The Ajinomoto Group the global environment. This has led to many legal changes. The provides the ongoing education needed for employees to perAjinomoto Group must remain continually up-to-date with these form their jobs. This includes education for environmental mandevelopments and steadily implement response measures. agers and staff in each organization, as well as environmental The Group offered environmental law basic training in assessment training for members of each division and research fiscal 2011 to provide relevant employees with specialized knowldepartment in charge of developing new businesses and prodedge on environmental laws. The Group is also enhancing its ucts. Training to become an internal environmental auditor is practical education on compliance in the area of chemical also provided. substance management. Basic training on Structure and programs of environmental education environmental law The first session was held in March 2012. General education Specialized education The theme was waste management, which Group-wide Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Training for new environmental has particular significance for the Group’s When Training for new recruits EMS persomanagers and staff Environmental education video nnel business. It was attended by relevant perCampaign for fostering hiring Mid-career hires training Internal environmental auditor lecture environmental awareness Staff in Environmental assessment seminar sonnel from each group company in Japan, ManageTraining for newly ment appointed managers each Chemical management seminar level area Environmental law training who enthusiastically participated in lecCompliance training Training for Japanese Site and Seminar and qualification training for tures and exercises concerning legal obliOther staff to be posted factory environmental conservation outside Japan Skills improvement training, etc. gations for waste management and changes to applicable laws. Future trainEnvironmental education policies, plans and goals ings will have different themes. 89 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Consumer Issues Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World The Ajinomoto Group strives to meet the diverse Group seeks to help solve the issues of global needs and expectations of consumers with the sustainability and food resources. products and services it provides. The Group Striving to change the future of food, by changbelieves that taking the consumer’s perspective is ing the way 9 billion people will eat—the Ajinomoto the key to building a more sustainable world. Group will continue to work with food to build a Painstaking quality assurance is the top priority more sustainable world. for a company that provides food products; nothing is more important to the Ajinomoto Group than ensuring that consumers can enjoy its products Contents with confidence and peace of mind. In addition P91 Delivering Reliable Quality • Quality assurance system of the Ajinomoto Group to thorough quality management in the raw • Human resources development to raise quality materials procurement and manufacturing processassurance levels es, the Group is working to improve safety and • Providing information related to quality quality throughout the product lifecycle. These P96 Communicating with Customers • Listening to and learning from customers efforts include providing better information on • Rigorous management of personal information packages and on the web, as well as product P98 Proposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with the designs that make it easier for customers to use Dinner Table • Featuring products with the “Aji na Eco” mark products correctly. • Providing “Eco-Uma” Recipes To drive the continual improvement of these • Helpful advertising initiatives, a Customer Service Center has been established at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. to ensure optimum communication with customers. The valuable customer feedback obtained here is used on a daily basis to help improve the company’s products and services. By 2050, there will be more than 9 billion people living on Earth, which could require a 70% increase in the production of food. Unless sufficient steps are taken to expand the food supply, serious food shortages may occur. This is why the Ajinomoto Group is promoting “sustainable lifestyles, starting with the dinner table” to consumers. By influencing consumer behavior as well as creating and applying its own unique measures for food sustainability, the Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 90 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Delivering Reliable Quality It is only natural that food product companies are held responsible for the safety and quality of their products. The Ajinomoto Group applies its own quality assurance system, the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA), to all of its products and services. This ensures strict quality assurance from raw materials procurement to product sales. Ajinomoto Group Quality Policies We contribute to a better life for all throughout the world by providing safe and high-quality products and services. Policies 1. We pay full attention to the request of our customers, and provide 4. We assure quality through the Ajinomoto System of Quality products and services meeting with their satisfaction. Assurance (ASQUA), based on the concepts outlined in the 2. We actively provide appropriate information to our customers and international ISO standard. continue to improve our trustworthiness. 5. Under the leadership of our management, each one of our 3. We make no compromises with regard to safety, conducting company’s employees makes the greatest effort to provide safe surveys and research as thoroughly as possible, faithfully and high-quality products and services through work at all levels, complying with applicable laws and regulations, and always from research and development to production, distribution, sales delivering products and services of uniform quality. and services. Quality assurance system of the Ajinomoto Group Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA) ASQUA framework Established in 1997, ASQUA is the Ajinomoto Group’s own qualManufacturing standards ity assurance system. It is based on ISO 9001, the international International standard for quality assurance HACCP quality management system standard, as well as manufacturing ISO 9001 GMPs management standards like Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), a food hygiene management standard, and The Ajinomoto Group’s own rules good manufacturing practices (GMPs). The system also Various requirements for the Ajinomoto Group incorporates the Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Policies, Quality Assurance Regulations, Regulation for Quality Assurance, Quality Standards, and other rules and requirements established ASQUA by the Group or each internal organization. With ASQUA, the Group carries out painstaking quality assurance activities worldwide, from the procurement of raw materials to the sale of products, always pursuing even higher quality manufacturing. Customer requests and expectations are also promptly utilized to ASQUA components improve products, services and business operations. Basic rules relating to quality assurance Ajinomoto Group of products sold or Quality Policies provided by the Common compliance rules Ajinomoto Ajinomoto Group of the Ajinomoto Group Quality Assurance Regulations Ajinomoto Group Regulation for Quality Assurance (ISO 9001 and the Ajinomoto Group’s requirements) Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards (a total of 25 standards including HACCP and GMPs) Separate standards and guidelines of each group company, division, and plant (various procedures, product standards and other documents) 91 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards The Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards are designed to standards covering a wide range of areas including training, ensure that products meet the level of quality expected of the labeling, packaging, and traceability and so on. Ajinomoto Group’s brand. The Group has also set 25 strict 1 Foods permissible to eat under Islamic dietary restrictions. Ajinomoto Group’s Quality Standards (examples from among the 25 standards) 2 Foods permissible to eat under Jewish dietary restrictions. 3 Good Manufacturing Practices: Standards relating to manufacturing management, which have been adopted for products sold by the Ajinomoto Group. • Standard for Quality • Standard for Safety and Sanitation • Standard for Responding 4 Measures to prevent the intentional introduction of foreign Assessment of Food Packaging Materials to Complaints matter into food products. Monitoring is carried out in every • Standard for Educational • Standard for Food GMP3 • Standard for Determination stage from raw material procurement to product sales, in order to prevent anyone from adding poisons or other Training on Quality • GMP Standard for Pharmaceutical of Responding to Quality substances to food products. • Standard for Halal1 Control Drug Products Emergencies • Standard for Kosher2 Control • Standard for HACCP • Standard for Food Defense4 • Standard for Product Labeling • Standard for Quality Control of • Standard for Traceability • Standard for Quality Control of Subcontracted and Procured Raw Ingredients Products Organizational framework for ASQUA implementation Comprised of members of senior management and reporting to ASQUA implementation system the Management Committee, the Quality Assurance Committee Ajinomoto Group is the highest body for quality assurance in the Ajinomoto Group. Considering customer feedback, it drafts basic policies Management Requests, Committee complaints and plans relating to the Group’s quality assurance, and after Quality assurance regulations, policies approval by the Management Committee, promotes their impleand targets of the Ajinomoto Group mentation at group companies worldwide. Every six months, the Secretariat: Quality Assurance & Quality Ajinomoto Co., Inc. External Scientific Affairs Assurance Quality Assurance Committee reviews the status of policy and Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Committee Customers plans implementation throughout the Group. Thorough This framework ensures that everyone—from top manageimplementation of Products, Quality audit Quality Quality Standards ment to frontline employees working in production and sales— assessment services, information, maintains a strong awareness of product quality and a total etc. commitment to providing safe products that are worthy of Product Sales consumer trust. Factories Labs control branches divisions Group companies worldwide Rigorous supplier audits and quality control The Ajinomoto Group conducts a wide range of transactions with Quality audits of raw material suppliers in fiscal 2011 business partners in and outside of Japan, including the outDepartment conductNumber ing the audit Audited items of audits Notes sourcing of production, purchase of goods, and the purchase of 29 audits of food items raw materials. The Group manages its suppliers based on the Group Procurement Raw material 54 and 25 audits of related items bioscience products ASQUA standards, just like its own manufacturing sites. Center, Ajinomoto Co., and fine chemicals Inc. Packaging The Group requires all suppliers to establish quality materials 25 control standards and quality requirements in accordance with Joint audits of GSM5 8 suppliers outside ASQUA, and performs regular evaluations and quality audits of Japan Ajinomoto Frozen 230 audits were these suppliers. Foods Co., Ltd. undertaken onsite by Raw material 230 the Purchasing The Ajinomoto Group has established a worldwide system related items Department and plants. called Global Supplier Management5 (GSM) for carrying out Raw material 17 joint quality audits at companies outside Japan. By training and AJINOMOTO related items PHARMACEUTICALS Products appointing over 60 GSM auditors around the world, the Group is CO., LTD. manufactured by 3 subcontractors further strengthening quality management. Raw material 10 related items Calpis Co., Ltd. Packaging materials 10 5 A joint auditing system covering suppliers of the Ajinomoto Group worldwide. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 92 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Addressing customer complaints and reducing quality issues The supply of safe products to customers is the most vital misstages in new business areas. Exhaustive investigations were sion for the Ajinomoto Group. The Group carries out measures conducted on the underlying causes for each complaint received, designed to reduce quality-related problems in every operational and product improvements and other relevant countermeasures process, from product design and materials procurement were implemented to prevent recurrence of similar complaints. through production and sales. As a result, the number of complaints received throughout fiscal In fiscal 2011, the Ajinomoto Group improved its framework 2011 trended from 5% to 10% lower than the previous year. for assessing quality at the product design and development Product recalls In fiscal 2011, two voluntary product recalls were carried out by the Ajinomoto Group. In August 2011, it was discovered that frozen vegetable gyoza (dumpling) packaging was mistakenly used for frozen seafood gyoza made and sold by Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. About 700 cases of the product were publicly recalled1 in that country. Since the problem was caused by insufficient confirmation at the time of packaging switchover, management of this process has since been strengthened. In March 2012, liquid separation due to mold contamination (identified as a strain with minimal affect on the human body) was discovered in CALPIS Lacto drink sold by Ajinomoto Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd., and about 20,000 cases of the product were recovered from wholesalers and retailers. The cause was identified as a problem with the container cleaning process at a contract manufacturer (outsourcing due to the impact of the flooding in Thailand on the company’s own manufacturing facilities). The product was discontinued thereafter. 1 Product recall was publicized using company announcements and press releases. Human resources development to raise quality assurance levels The Ajinomoto Group leverages its human resources developmanagers were invited from Brazil, the Philippines and Taiwan ment programs to improve quality worldwide. to spend two weeks studying a wide range of topics related to In fiscal 2011, the Group held its annual top management quality assurance and participate in opinion exchanges among study session on quality, addressing group-wide quality assurmanagers. The Group also carried out training on quality assurance activities and the Medium-Term Quality Assurance Plan ance in the ASEAN region, South America, China and Africa, and covering fiscal 2011 to 2013. It was attended by division heads of provided the ASQUA School2 training program in each region. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and presidents of group companies. The Designed to improve quality assurance levels at group compaGroup also held the 32nd Ajinomoto Management and Technical nies, sessions were held in Indonesia for 29 employees from 12 Conference on Quality. A total of 398 employees participated in subsidiaries in five ASEAN countries; in Brazil for 38 employees the conference, discussing the latest initiatives and reaffirming from that country as well as Peru; in Shanghai, China, for 29 the importance of quality assurance activities. employees from 13 subsidiaries in the country and Taiwan; and The Ajinomoto Group is also focusing on training employees in Nigeria for 17 employees from Africa and Europe. of its companies outside Japan. The 11th Quality Management 2 Training for the purpose of improving knowledge and sharing expertise relating to quality assurance, with a focus on the Ajinomoto System of Quality Assurance (ASQUA). System (QMS) Training Course was held in fiscal 2011. Five Quality assurance education system and program examples General training Specialized education Group-wide Group-wide worldwide Group-wide in Japan Individual sites Ajinomoto Management and Technical QMS Training Course Top management study session on quality Implementing a Conference on Quality ASQUA School Customer satisfaction training program variety of education programs relating to ISO 9001 internal auditor education quality in areas Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. (acquisition of new qualifications) including ISO 9001 Training for Japanese staff posted overseas Quality assessment study session Quality audit seminar standards, and (ASQUA standards) Basic course for understanding Study session on food product labeling various types of GMP Training for new hires (customer satisfaction education) ASQUA, etc. Briefing on trends in government initiatives Compliance training (quality assurance activities) on food product labeling 93 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Providing information related to quality The Ajinomoto Group has been increasing its emphasis on pubUnder this PR initiative on quality, liaison meetings on genlic relations concerning matters of quality assurance since fiscal eral consumer products are held twice a year among the 2008. This initiative aims to strengthen awareness of the quality Ajinomoto Group’s companies in Japan, based on the Group’s of the Group’s products in order to promote consumer configuidelines on provision of retail product information. At these dence and better meet their needs. The Group is also striving to meetings, participants discuss the current situation and issues provide comprehensive information on matters such as its with the provision of quality information on packages and on the approach, policies and ongoing activities, aiming to ensure conweb, seeking to further improve the quality of information prosumers are well informed about its commitment to providing vided to customers. products of exceptional quality. Sharing a wide range of quality information online The Ajinomoto Group has been working to improve the conThis quality assurance website has been recognized as tent of its website on quality assurance initiatives (currently an outstanding site in the corporate information and IR catein Japanese only), aiming to provide more relevant informagory of the 5th Japan Web Grandprix, which is judged by tion to consumers. This includes sections on safety topics of corporate website administrators. The site was praised for public concern in Japan, including: the company’s efforts to providing quality information that is easy to understand and produce safe and reliable products at every stage of operaplenty of other useful information. tions, including raw material management, product development, and production; food allergies and food additives, with explanations by independent experts; and advice on understanding product package labeling. The website also provides information on the unique approaches and initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group in areas that are of particularly high interest to consumers. A sampling of the content is provided below. Quality Assurance Initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group (Japanese only) Link http://www.ajinomoto.co.jp/products/anzen/ Web page on Quality Assurance Initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group Sample content Approach to food additives and GMOs The Ajinomoto Group conducts strict checks on the safety, As a manufacturer of food products, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. usefulness and legality of food additives and genetically strives to avoid labeling methods that may give consumers modified organisms (GMOs), and takes a firm stance doubts about GMOs and food additives recognized as safe against irresponsible labeling using these terms. In recent based on government standards and scientific research. years, the number of processed foods companies label as The Ajinomoto Group believes that inviting unnecessary “Additive XX-free” or “No XX” on the market has increased. confusion is not beneficial for the consumer. Use of food additives Food additives not only enhance dietary lifestyles by selects appropriate food additives for use in product develimproving the taste, aroma, nutritional content, and storage opment and production based on the latest research findstability of food; they also play an important role in the disings on safety and other relevant issues. The Group is also tribution and effective utilization of food resources. They committed to clear and accurate labeling of food additives are subject to stringent testing under the supervision of govon its product packaging, in accordance with standards stipernments to confirm their safety. The Ajinomoto Group ulated in relevant laws. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 94 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Use of GMOs GMO technology is expected to play an important role in Office and the Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare. the alleviation of environmental problems and food shortLabeling standards have been established in order to proages. For instance, crops genetically modified for insect vide necessary information to consumers, and Ajinomoto resistance may not need as much pesticide. At this time, it is Co., Inc. faithfully complies with them. The Ajinomoto also important to thoroughly confirm the safety of GMO Group also uses its own detection technology to prevent foods. In Japan, stringent safety assessment of GMOs is inadvertent contamination with unapproved GMOs. conducted by the Food Safety Commission of the Cabinet Radioactive contamination The Ajinomoto Group works to ensure strict quality assuran initiative to prevent distribution of food products that ance from raw material procurement through product sales, exceed regulation values. Going one step further, the Group based on its Quality Policies. In Japan today, the safety of uses measurement equipment and reputable analytical techmanufactured foods is being confirmed through continuous niques to check, if necessary, for radioactive materials, monitoring for radiation by government agencies, as well as especially in raw materials. Traceability The Ajinomoto Group has created a traceability system for management, which is essential for obtaining accurate raw the history of raw materials and products. In each stage of material information. production, processing, and distribution, information is This dependable traceability system facilitates the recorded and stored concerning raw material and/or prodrapid handling of customer inquiries and any incidents that uct suppliers, delivery destination, and product manufacturmay arise, allowing consumers to purchase products ing so that the movement of all raw materials and products with confidence. can be traced. The Group also carries out proper supplier Allergens In order to protect people with certain allergies, the Ministry allergens. The Ajinomoto Group in Japan not only labels the of Health, Labour and Welfare requires food products in mandated seven allergens, but also lists all 18 others on all of Japan to display information on whether they contain seven its products for household use. Following government guidcommon allergens: wheat, milk, peanuts, eggs, buckwheat, ance, it is also working to establish analysis and verification shrimp and crab. It also recommends disclosure of 18 other systems which use the legally mandated analytical methods. Pesticide residue Pesticides play a vital role in the cultivation of healthy vegeStill, depending on the usage method, in rare cases some tables by preventing pests and diseases and by controlling pesticide may remain on harvested crops. growth of plants. Pesticide usage standards define the quanIn order to ensure the safety of the vegetables it uses tity, timing, method, and maximum number of applications. as raw materials, the Ajinomoto Group implements When these usage standards are followed, crops will not careful management of cultivated fields, including contain pesticides exceeding the maximum residue level. pesticide management. 95 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Communicating with Customers The Ajinomoto Group strives to put the customer first by offering excellent service and providing innovative, high-quality products that are always safe. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. created its Customer Satisfaction Promotion Policy and Customer Satisfaction Code of Conduct based on ISO 100021 to guide its efforts to deliver customer delight. The Ajinomoto Group is committed to delivering products and services that more than satisfy all of its customers. 1 International guidelines for a complaint management system which set requirements for an organization to meet in responding appropriately and promptly to customer complaints in order to improve customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Promotion Policy To ensure that we continue to provide products and services that satisfy our customers, we will listen to customers, see problems from their point of view, and focus all of our resources on creating the solutions customers need. Above all, our aim is to be an honest company that customers can trust. Customer Satisfaction Code of Conduct 1. We provide safe and reliable products and services to our customers. 2. We respond to complaints, requests and inquiries from our customers precisely, promptly and politely. 3. We respect the voice of the customer, and strive to use all input to add value to our products and services. 4. We actively disclose appropriate information to our customers. 5. We comply with regulations and voluntary in-house standards related to protecting the rights of our customers. Listening to and learning from customers The Customer Service Center of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. strives to Main initiatives of the Customer Service Center deliver superior customer satisfaction by responding precisely, of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. promptly and politely to inquiries. The center also records and Main initiative Details analyzes customer feedback and inquiries daily. Customer opinEmployee education Ongoing education and training to enhance program for improved ions are shared with business divisions and product development 1 customer service communication skills and improve customer service quality departments to spur the development of better products and serquality vices. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. understands how important every • Timely sharing of feedback in meetings and reports to improve products and services communication opportunity is. The company works constantly • Internal sharing of all improvements; disclosure Improvements for to improve customer relations and raise satisfaction, not only of selected cases on the website 2 sharing customer • Product evaluations based on feedback in feedback when providing products and services, but across all of its other assessment meetings at the product development stage to identify and eliminate possible business activities. customer dissatisfaction Comments and inquiries received from customers are dis• When feedback is received about a product, the tributed throughout the company, including to top management. company investigates the matter and reports findings to the customer. A satisfaction questionBusiness divisions, quality assurance departments, and producImproving responses naire is also included with the company’s 3 tion sites cooperate to provide the informative responses needed to customer feedback written response. • Results of the satisfaction questionnaire are used to give customers peace of mind. The Ajinomoto Group is also to improve customer service and future reports back to customers. strengthening cooperation among the divisions in charge of cusAppropriate programs for departments and tomer service at group companies in Japan and taking steps to services are provided: raise the quality of customer service efforts group-wide. (1) Lectures on customer perception In-house training on (2) One-day training on answering customer calls 4 customer satisfaction (3) Workshops on customer feedback analysis (4) W  orkshops on use of the customer feedback portal (5) Sales department customer service training Lectures featuring external speakers and regular Improving cooperation review meetings enable group companies to share 5 among group their initiatives, to increase customer satisfaction companies in Japan group-wide. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 96 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Customer feedback in fiscal 2011 Customer feedback in Topics of inquiries fiscal 2011 In fiscal 2011, a total of about 44,000 customer contacts were (Approx. 44,000 contacts received, representing an increase of 16% compared to the previfrom customers) Proposals1% ous year. This included about 9,000 inquiries about manufacturComplaints Praise1% Product varieties / price 8% 4% ing dates and raw materials contained in products due to Requests concerns over radioactive contamination following the nuclear 9% Other 19% Expiration date accident caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. 31% Although there was a slight decrease in regular contacts, Inquiries elderly customers continued to report concerns with single-use 85% Preparation methods Retailers products such as Cook Do®. Many asked for a smaller package 10% 16% Raw materials / suited for a person living alone. The Customer Service Center manufacturing methods 16% forwarded the feedback to relevant company departments, which will use the information for future improvements. Universal design initiatives The Ajinomoto Group respects the principles of uniCustomer call centers connect customers directly with versal design. Every group company is working with the Ajinomoto Group (Calls from Japan only) universal design to create product packaging that is Customer Service Center at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. easy for anyone to use. Seasonings, processed food products, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has established universal gift products, other  0120-688181 design guidelines that cover topics including use of Sweeteners, sports nutrition, color to distinguish product varieties and ways to amino acid supplements  0120-160505 improve readability of print. In recent years, the comNutrition care food products pany has been focusing on creating designs that (Medimeal®, Aminocare®, etc.)  0120-814222 make information as easy to understand as possible. Medical food products The company identifies the information of particular (MEDIF®, PEM Vest®, AQUASOLITA®, etc.)  0120-814127 interest to the people who use each product and then AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD.  0120-917719 carefully creates package design elements addressAjinomoto General Foods, Inc.  0120-178651 ing the purchase, usage, and disposal phases. The result is packaging that is attractive and accessible Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc.  0120-303010 for an even wider range of people. Going forward, J-OIL MILLS, INC. the company will go beyond enhancing basic packHousehold cooking oil  0120-211228 age function and use universal Household margarine  0120-936734 design to improve both environmental YAMAKI Co., Ltd.  0120-552226 and economic performance. Usage indication in large print Customer Service Center contact Product type clearly indicated information in large print Rigorous management of personal information The Ajinomoto Group’s information management rules clearly prior confirmation is made to ensure that the contractor has define which customer and other personal information is subject equally high management standards. A personal information manto management. The Group then implements consistent, systemagement database is used to register and manage all personal atic management of this information. information. In December 2011, a comprehensive inspection of The responsibilities for managing personal information are the database management conditions was completed. specified in the Information Management Regulations, which are In March 2011, an inspection of the Ajinomoto Group’s perbased on Japan’s Act on the Protection of Personal Information sonal information management system was performed by an and other related laws. Specific procedures are outlined in the external information security consultancy. It included inspection Personal Information Management Guidelines.1 Operation and of operational risks, management practices, and IT technology maintenance rules for the handling of personal information are risks. All issues revealed by the inspection have been completely based on the ISO 27001 (information security management) addressed. The Group will continue to pursue even better manapproach. Human error is also managed by ensuring that key peragement and protection of personal information. sonal information operations are done by two people supervising 1 The Personal Information Management Guidelines provide clear rules for operation, based on the operational knowledge gained since the relevant laws and regulations came into force. each other. When personal information handling is outsourced, 97 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Proposing Sustainable Lifestyles, Starting with the Dinner Table As a food manufacturer, the Ajinomoto Group not only has the responsibility to deliver delicious and healthy foods; it also has the opportunity to help people embrace more eco-friendly lifestyles. Truly good nutrition is wholesome not only for families, but also for the earth. The Ajinomoto Group aspires to nothing less and has made this a central pursuit. The Group will continue to develop eco-friendly products and propose environmentally considerate recipes and tips, aiming to popularize eco-lifestyles—starting right at the family dinner table. Data 90 million tonnes Agricultural, forestry and fisheries products procured for human Food losses in Japan 20% consumption from within and outside Japan Japan generates about 19 million tonnes of food waste each year. Food waste from house19 million tonnes Amount of food wasted holds accounts for 11 million tonnes. Of this, 2 to 4 million tonnes are said to be edible— 60% leftovers, edible parts of ingredients excessively removed during preparation and cooking, food simply thrown away. To minimize these food losses in households, it is important to 11 million tonnes Amount of food wasted by households 20 to 40% help individuals respect the value of food and enjoy meals enough to finish them. 2 to 4 million tonnes Towards Reducing Food Waste (March 2009), Ministry of Amount of edible waste Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Featuring products with the “Aji na Eco” mark Modern product packages are already small and thin, so it is often difficult for customers to notice changes made in package What is “Aji na Eco”? “Aji na Eco” is a term weight, thickness, and size and materials used. However, when describing the smart and Number of ecological products or “Aji na Eco” the enormous sales volume of products is taken into account, information provided by mark products these efforts can result in significant environmental benefits. the Ajinomoto Group, and the logo mark evokes the 128 Modern consumers want to purchase the most environmenimage of our green planet, the pleasure of As of the end of tally friendly products, so the Ajinomoto Group introduced its eating, and a global October 2012 environment made even (Ajinomoto Group) unique “Aji na Eco”1 mark in autumn 2010 to display the ecobetter through food. friendliness of its product packages. 1 The Japanese term for “Aji na Eco” is a registered trademark of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. See “Promoting ‘Aji-na-Eco’ mark products with Reference environmental packaging” on p. 81. Providing “Eco-Uma” Recipes Everyday cooking is actually a chance to start eco-living at home, today. This is why Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has launched activities to spread environmentally friendly, delicious and smart “Eco-Uma”2 ideas and recipes for everyday cooking. The company is offering consumers information on a selection of environmentally considerate materials and seasonings, Cooking demonstration at the Ajinomoto Group’s and how to use, cook and preserve food materials, as well as booth during the Eco-Products Exhibition sharing tips and tricks used by customers via events, the Internet, and other means. 2 The Japanese terms for “Eco-Uma” and “Eco-Uma Recipe” are registered trademarks of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. An awareness campaign underway at the “Eco-Uma Recipe” website (in Japanese only) Head Office cafeteria at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 98 Taking a Consumer-driven Approach to a More Sustainable World Helpful advertising The Ajinomoto Group also conveys its positive message about eco-lifestyles by proposing various new ideas via corporate advertisements, events, and many other occasions. “EDO Period, ECO ideas” “Recycle newspapers for more delicious meals” Showing the traditional wisdom of using old newspapers to keep “Mottainai (Don’t Waste)” vegetables fresh Awards received include: Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize and Best Partner Prize in the Advertisements are used to make recommendations and give hints about eco-lifestyles, Magazine Advertisement Category of the Advertisements Beneficial to Consumers Contest covering various situations such as shopping, menus, cooking, and eating. Highlight Corporate advertising of the Ajinomoto Group In fiscal 2010, the Ajinomoto Group started to use print media, including newspapers and magazines, to communicate how its environmental and CSR initiatives are helping to bring environmentally friendly products to the dinner table. The goal is to increase public understanding of the Group’s efforts. Newspaper advertisements introduced the Group’s seven major initiatives, aiming to give a diverse readership a chance to appreciate the extensive efforts of the Ajinomoto Group to build a more sustainable world. Newspaper ad Presenting environmental and social initiatives for sustainable living The activity for sustainability Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/sustainability/ 99 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Community Growing with the People of Each Community The Ajinomoto Group seeks to form close relationcommitted to community-oriented business pracships with the communities where it operates and tices and will ensure that its products contribute to always pursues mutual prosperity. The Group’s local communities. employees around the world—roughly 30,000 of The Ajinomoto Group strives to be very knowlthem—are involved in a variety of ways in the comedgeable about social issues such as diet and munities in which they live both through their nutrition in the communities where it operates. In business activities and as citizens of the local area. addition to finding solutions to these issues through In the 103 years since its founding, the Ajinomoto its own business activities, the Group participates Group has grown to operate business units in 26 in many social action programs. It partners countries and regions, providing a variety of prodwith local communities, NGOs, and others to ucts that enhance the lives of people in 130 help improve nutrition in developing and newly countries around the world. emerging economies. The Group presently markets food products that The Ajinomoto Group will continue to forge close are essential to daily life in about 100 of those counrelationships with local communities to ensure tries and, when developing products, always seeks mutual prosperity everywhere it operates. to respect the unique and diverse dietary customs in each area. The Ajinomoto Group delivers products Contents that make local cuisines even more delicious. The P101 Delivering Delicious Foods That Enhance Local Dietary Culture Group’s products are developed and produced in •F  rom the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® to food the countries where they are sold through local product businesses specific to each region • Products available at the right size and price for everyone channels. With business activities closely tied to • Local production using local materials, working with local people local communities from production through distribuColumn tion, the Ajinomoto Group supports the farmers who • The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project produce the raw materials, boosts local economies P104 Collaborating with Diverse Partners to Build a Better World by creating jobs, and helps local distributors realize • Smile Earth! Global Citizenship Activities for the Future a profit by supplying merchandise. As it continues to • Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition grow globally, the Ajinomoto Group will remain and Health (AIN) program • Initiatives in individual countries Main results for fiscal 2011 Products delivered to 100 cworldwide ountries 59 projects 208 business  with sites participation 130countries worldwide 10billion packets in12 countries of 8,000 Annual sales reach and volume for the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® with 80,000 Group employees Worldwide clean-up activities around business facilities beneficiaries under the Smile Earth! Global Citizenship Activities for the Future campaign Support for AIN program (1999–April 2012) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 100 Growing with the People of Each Community Delivering Delicious Foods That Enhance Local Dietary Culture Dietary cultures and customs vary greatly by country and region. The Ajinomoto Group develops food products and seasonings by gathering specifics on the ingredients, tastes, and recipes of the local area. This philosophy ensures that the Group brings just the right foods and seasonings to tables all around the world. From the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® to food product businesses specific to each region The cornerstone of the Ajinomoto Group at its founding, the The Group has expanded its food product business beyond umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®, was born 103 years ago out of its umami seasoning to produce other seasonings and processed a desire to improve the nutritional intake of Japanese people at foods, as well. Its food products are currently available in about that time. Umami is the Japanese word for a delicious component 100 countries, and this business is expected to expand even of taste that people everywhere recognize and enjoy. The Group more in the future. In fiscal 2011, the Group established new has introduced its products worldwide with the intention of business facilities in Bangladesh, Turkey, Egypt, and Côte improving nutritional intake by enhancing the flavor of tradid’Ivoire and launched its products on these markets. tional dietary lifestyles worldwide. Today, AJI-NO-MOTO® is an To achieve its goal of bringing smiles to even more faces at indispensable seasoning not only in Japan, but in kitchens mealtime, the Group plans to expand sales into new areas in around the world. No matter where it goes, it makes traditional Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia, further enhancing the dishes taste even better. The Group now delivers some 10 billion flavor of local dishes in these regions. packets a year to approximately 100 countries. Bringing delicious flavor to more of the world Principles of Global Business Development under the Ajinomoto Group FY2011–2013 Medium-Term Management Plan Turkey Europe North America East Asia Middle East Worldwide packages of the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® South Asia ASEAN Africa Egypt Latin America Myanmar (Plan) Bangladesh Egypt Côte d'Ivoire Bangladesh Existing market New market Establishment of new local subsidiaries Turkey Côte d'Ivoire Examples of region-specific products Flavor seasoning Menu-specific Menu-specific Instant noodles Sugarless powdered seasoning seasoning Frozen foods carbonated drink Masako® SAMSMAK® CRISPY FRY® Ros Dee® Menu FIT® Indonesia The Philippines Thailand Poland United States Brazil 101 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community Products available at the right size and price for everyone The Ajinomoto Group ensures that its products are true to these its products to both rural and urban areas by creating unique three principles: easily affordable for anyone, always available in networks in these regions, with local employees delivering prodany shop, and ready to enhance the flavor of any kind of cooking. ucts to individual shops. Getting products to shops in this way Thanks to product development by local employees and regionalso helps these retailers generate more profits. specific packaging and sales methods, the Group offers just the In these regions, the Group concentrates on small, inexpenright products to people in every region. sive, single-use packets. In Nigeria, for example, 10-gram pack­Due to distribution challenges, many rural areas in developets of the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® sell for 10 naira ing and newly emerging economies have less access to products (US$0.06). These small packets were first introduced in the and services than in urban areas. Most shops in these areas Philippines in the 1970s and are still sold in many parts of the are small retailers selling mainly locally made products. The world, with slight variations in packaging that take into account Ajinomoto Group employs a distribution structure that delivers regional differences. Small packets on sale in India Market in Côte d’Ivoire 10-gram packet of 5-gram packet of MaDish Local employee makes delivery to retailer. Market in Nigeria AJI-NO-MOTO® sold in flavor seasoning sold in Nigeria Nigeria Local production using local materials, working with local people The basic philosophy of the Ajinomoto Group is to manufacture using local crops in manufacturing, as well as boosting the products in the country where they will be used. It is important incomes of local farmers and other primary producers by procurthat locally hired people using local materials make the products ing materials from the area. that will meet the needs of the people in the local community. The Group also supplies local farmers with nutritionally rich For example, since the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO® by-products from the amino acid fermentation process at a low can be made from abundantly available local crops such as sugar cost. This practice improves farmers’ incomes by significantly cane, cassava, or corn, it can be manufactured locally at plants in improving crop yield and contributes to sustainable farming, many different countries. The Ajinomoto Group takes as its misas well. sion the creation of local jobs by building plants in the area and AJIFOL® foliar fertilizers made from by-products See pp. 13, 15, and 76 for more information Reference on by-product applications. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 102 Growing with the People of Each Community Column The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project Working to end malnutrition among children in Ghana The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project was conceived of understanding was signed with the Ghana Health Service as a social business to end malnutrition in weaning babies, to cooperate in efficacy studies on products, providing which is a serious social issue that plagues developing education on nutrition, and other activities. Agreements countries. Under the project, the Ajinomoto Group’s were also made with two international NGOs, CARE strengths in food product technology and amino acid International Japan and Plan Japan, and the Swiss foundanutritional expertise will be used to develop and provide tion Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) to colsupplements that help end malnutrition. laborate on efficacy studies and marketing. Then, in May In Ghana, the traditional food fed to weaning infants is a 2012, a memorandum of underporridge made with fermented corn, called koko. Unforstanding was signed with the tunately, koko is deficient in energy, protein and micronutriUnited States Agency for ents and is one of the causes of stunted growth among International Development children in the country. Recognizing the need to improve (USAID) and the Japan nutritional intake as a way to resolve this problem, the International Cooperation Agency Ajinomoto Group developed KOKO Plus, a nutritional (JICA) to forge a private-public supplement to be added to traditional koko. sector alliance among the three organizations to work on improvForging an array of partnerships ing nutrition among weaning The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project is a program infants in Ghana. KOKO Plus officially recognized by the Ghanaian government. The project began in 2009 through collaboration between Ajinomoto Co., Inc., the University of Ghana, and the Nevin Reference See “Helping People Lead Healthier Lives” on p. 17. Scrimshaw International Nutrition Foundation, a non-profit See “The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project implements organization in the United States. Reference efficacy study while respecting children’s rights” on p. 49. The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project also engages in a variety of other partnerships. In 2011, a memorandum Fiscal 2009–2010 (Phase 1) Fiscal 2011–2013 (Phase 2) From Fiscal 2014 (Phase 3) Develop nutrient-fortified food Build full-scale production Implement full-scale for weaning children, and complete structure sales and marketing prototype products Conduct efficacy study Examine feasibility of expansion Carry out market surveys Conduct effectiveness study to other West African countries Conduct consumer tests such as Nigeria Progress of project The Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project has moved into Phase 2. The construction of a dedicated building for the project was completed at Yedent AgroProcessing Venture Ltd., the company contracted to carry out production, which began in June 2012. Preparations for the following two types of studies are currently underway. 1. Efficacy study Nutritional supplements will be added for one year to food given to weaning infants aged 6–24 months and the benefits (for growth, MOU signing with USAID and JICA health, and other factors) will be measured. In October 2011, the Ghanaian government granted the project permission for product testing. In collaboration with the Ghana Health Service, villages were selected for the efficacy study, and surveys were conducted. In May 2012, the study was approved as ethical and safe by the Institutional Review Board of the Ghanaian government. Porridge made with the nutritional 2. Effectiveness study supplement KOKO Plus The effectiveness study is designed to assess the feasibility of the project as a business capable of effectively improving nutrition. The study is also looking at the possibility of collaboration with international NGOs and other organizations that help women in rural communities become self-supporting to build a sales system Taste-testing in Ghana to set women in these areas up as sales agents. The study will be conducted with technical and financial support from GAIN, as well as collaboration from USAID on developing an effective marketing framework. The project aims to build additional partnerships with various organizations, establishing sustainable businesses that will Training at the manufacturing plant improve nutritional intake among children in Africa. 103 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community Collaborating with Diverse Partners to Build a Better World The Ajinomoto Group pursues good corporate citizenship in all the countries and regions where it operates. The Group aims to grow together with these communities as a total team player, and it collaborates with government bodies, universities, NGOs, NPOs, and other partners on social action. Ajinomoto Group Corporate Citizenship Activities Mission In cooperation with its diverse stakeholders, the Ajinomoto Group carries out foodand nutrition-centered initiatives around the world to contribute to the healthiness and vitality of societies. Being a good corporate citizen, worldwide In addition to the globally implemented Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition and Health (AIN) program, the companies of the Ajinomoto Group also work to help solve issues in local communities around the world. Individual group companies develop their own social programs and their employees also participate in the joint corporate citizenship program, Smile Earth! Global Citizenship Activities for the Future. Working with group companies, the Ajinomoto Group has also established foundations in Japan and three other countries that award scholarships and engage in other initiatives tailored to the local culture and lifestyle, seeking to meet the specific needs of each country. Smile Earth! Foundations established Global Citizenship in four countries Activities for the Future Working with local group Group employees around companies in four countries, the world participate as the Group operates foundavolunteers in activities that help the environment. tions that offer scholarships and run other programs. P108~ P105~ AIN program The Group engages in international cooperation with NPOs and NGOs in the fields of food and nutrition. P 107~ Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 104 Growing with the People of Each Community Smile Earth! Global Citizenship Activities for the Future The employee volunteer program, Smile Earth! Global Group-wide campaigns Citizenship Activities for the Future, has been underway since 1. Worldwide clean-up activities 2007. Group employees around the world take part in foodor around business facilities environment-related social action in their local communities to 2. The Eco Action Campaign 3. T he Mottainai (What a waste!) help build more sustainable societies. Through the program, Campaign employees engage with issues affecting their communities and the larger global environment. 1. W orldwide clean-up activities around business facilities Employees around the world help clean up the areas around their business facilities on a certain date each year. In fiscal 2011, this campaign took place on October 20 with some 8,000 group employees at 208 business facilities throughout the world participating in the clean-up program. Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. Roughly 650 employees worked as volunteers to refurbish a local Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Head Office temple in Ayuthaya where this company operates. About 250 employees not only engaged in the usual trash collection, but also swept, wiped, and weeded in the nearby area. AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION This company has particiAJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES CORPORATION pated in clean up activities Some 110 employees worked together to collect trash and sweep since 2009. This year, the premises and suremployees from Tohoku Ace roundings, building Logistics Corporation, which stronger ties and sustained damage in the raising awareness of Great East Japan Earthquake, the environment and also took part. local community. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. Some 400 kg of trash Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. was collected in the This company began taking part in the clean-up campaign in fisvicinity of the plant by cal 2011 with all other 110 employees. group companies in Brazil. Ajinomoto Bangladesh Ltd. In June 2012, all 26 Ajinomoto (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. employees and temporary About 375 people, including employees, council members, junior staff of the Tongi Plant high school teachers and students help clean up and weed cleaned up the area around the business facility and local schools. around the facility. This plant plans to hold cleanup activities twice a month. 105 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community 2. Eco Action Campaign Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. Under this campaign, local events and programs to raise aware• Clean Dish Campaign ness about environmental issues are independently planned and This annual campaign started in 2007 and is run in cooperation implemented by individual workplaces around the world. A total with a lunch service company. Every time an employee eats of 16 facilities worldwide participated in the campaign in fiscal everything on his or her plate, 40 grams of food is donated to 2011, providing lectures on global environmental issues, recyorphanages and other institutions. cling campaigns, volunteer clean-ups, art contests, and campaigns to reduce leftovers at meals. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A., Lima office and plant • Environmental protection art contest for children This company held an art contest to educate employees about the importance of protecting the environment. Art works made by 22 children of group Gaban Spice Manufacturing (M) SDN.BHD. employees were featured on • River clean-up campaign company Christmas cards This company participated in the Cleaner Greener Penang this year. Campaign in Penang, Malaysia. As part of the campaign, volunteers made some 25,000 balls of mud containing enzymes, rice husks, and other ingredients used to purify river water. Ajinomoto Heartland LLC, Eddyville Plant and Ajinomoto Food Ingredients LLC, Iowa Plant Ajinomoto Co., Inc. • Electronics recycling Employees brought unwanted electron• Provided “Eco-Uma” lunch menus in ics (a total of 2,567 kg) from their workemployee cafeteria. places and homes to be recycled. • Organized environmental exhibitions and lectures. 3. Mottainai (What a waste!) Campaign In place since 2007, the Mottainai (What a waste!) Campaign aims Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. to put old books, stamps, coins, paper currency, and other materiEmployees organized a garage sale of unwanted items to raise als stored away unused in employee homes and workplaces to money for a charity organization. practical use. In 2011, 59 business sites around the world participated in the campaign. Materials collected from group companies in Japan were donated to relief organizations working to help Ajinomoto Group in Japan areas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Unwanted items collected at group companies in Japan (including postcards, prepaid Ajinomoto (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. cards, stamps, and books) were Employees brought in donated to help with recovery shirts, pants, shoes, and efforts for victims of the Great other clothing that they no East Japan Earthquake. longer use to be donated to residents of Kantork Comment from an NGO Kahang Tbong village in The donation from the Ajinomoto Group this year will go a long Kandal Province. way toward helping a nursery center that was washed away by the tsunami following the Great East Japan Earthquake, in Kamaishi City, Iwate Prefecture. The fund will be used to provide mental health care to children and construct a new building. We sincerely appreciate your kind generosity and support. PT Ajinomoto Indonesia Employees donated clothing, used textbooks, and other items to Yoshiyuki Igota relief organizations working with street children. Secretary, Terra People ACT Kanagawa Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 106 Growing with the People of Each Community Ajinomoto International Cooperation Network for Nutrition and Health (AIN) program AIN program As a group of companies that contributes to human health globResults (1999–April, 2012) ally, the Ajinomoto Group considers the improvement of nutrition in developing countries an important mission. This is why it Number of projects No. of beneficiaries launched the AIN program in 1999, the 90th anniversary of the  Approx. 59 in12 countries 80,000 company’s founding. The AIN program solicits project applications from NGOs and NPOs around the world, and then determines which projects (Bangladesh, Brazil, Cambodia, India, to give development assistance to based on investigations by Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Peru, Total funds Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam) experts and onsite inspections by employees of the Ajinomoto Group. After a project commences, one of the Ajinomoto Group’s 190 million yen companies in the same country provides various kinds of local support, including education on nutrition, with the aim of raising the level of the project’s activities. Projects supported under the AIN program in fiscal 2011 Period of Target group (no. of support from Project name Implementing organization Country persons) the Ajinomoto Group THE EDUCATION FOR Agriculture for School Lunch Project and Teachers and students DEVELOPMENT Thailand 2011–2012 Dissemination of Nutrition Education (1,475) FOUNDATION (EDF) Nutrition Improvement Project through Construction of a Nutrition Education/Meal Midwives and healthPeoples’ HOPE Japan Indonesia 2010–2011 Service Center and Development of Vegetable care volunteers (4,050) Gardens Empowering Women through Home Gardening Women in rural OISCA International Indonesia 2011–2013 and Home Industry communities (250) Helping Indigenous Orang Asli Women Improve Universiti Putra Malaysia Women and local the Health and Nutrition of Infants and Young Malaysia 2011–2013 (UPM) residents (1,000) Children School-based Nutritional Intervention to Promote Healthy Eating and Physical Activity to Prevent Ho Chi Minh City Students (2,500) Vietnam 2011–2013 Non-communicable Chronic Disease in Primary Nutrition Center School Pupils Food Education through School Lunches and Teachers and students LOOB JAPAN Philippines 2010–2011 Organic Vegetable Gardens (2,200) Ragi—To Support Indian Farmers and Team Peace Challenger Students (680) India 2011 Dalit Children Promotional Program for Health and Nutrition in Miyazaki International Local residents (5,000) India 2011–2012 Kalimpong Volunteer Center Creating a System for Sustainable School Japan Bangladesh Cultural Lunch—A Model for Local People’s Participation Students (300) Bangladesh 2010–2011 Exchange Association and Cooperation “Shokuiku” (Food and Nutrition Education) Program for Improvement of Nutritional Status of Hunger Free World Local residents (200) Bangladesh 2010–2012 Mothers and Infants in Poor Rural Areas Promotion of Healthy Dietary Habits in SALUS ASSOCIACAO PARA Populations of High Social Vulnerability—East and ASAUDE NUCLEO SALUS Local residents (300) Brazil 2011–2012 South Regions of São Paulo PAULISTA (CREN) Project for Network Development and Community Mothers and children Empowerment for Promotion of Good Practices in AMDA-MINDS Peru 2009–2011 (1,840) Nutrition Improving Nutrition Balance via Family Garden to ADRA Japan Local residents (1,250) Peru 2011 Reduce Anemic Children in Peru 107 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community Initiatives in individual countries The Ajinomoto Group is committed to making social contributions all around the world. The Group’s AIN Program and other efforts focus on the fields of food and nutrition. Thailand Building 50 canteens at 50 schools In 2010, the Ajinomoto Foundation in Thailand launched a project to build canteens at 50 schools to mark the 50th anniversary of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. This is an initiative to help make children healthy by building 50 canteens at 50 schools over five years to provide a hygienic dining environment. In the two years from fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2011, 20 school canteens in 13 provinces were completed in partnership with Thailand’s Ministry of Education, local boards of education, local governments and NGOs. About 2,100 students are already using Students enjoying the canteens. lunch at a newly built canteen The Ajinomoto Foundation plans to build canteens at a further ten schools in fiscal 2012, the third year of the project. Through its support for better diet and health among children, the project is putting into practice the concept on which Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. is based: Twenty school canteens in 13 provinces completed by fiscal 2011 “Ajinomoto always grows with Thais.” I really feel that this program is doing more than just Main activities of the Ajinomoto Foundation building canteens, and that providing a hygienic and healthy dining environment for children actually contrib(Established in Thailand in 1976) utes to improved quality of life. I feel proud to be a member of the project every time I see • Runs a project to build canteens at 50 schools to mark the the children’s happy faces. 50th anniversary of Ajinomoto Co., (Thailand) Ltd. • Provides support (scholarships) for students majoring in science, technology and engineering Piyawan Unakorn, • Offers assistance for the construction of educational facilities Ajinomoto Foundation in Thailand to schools • Provides support for natural disaster relief and social welfare (600 employee volunteers took part in flood relief in 2011) Malaysia Improving nutrition among indigenous people AIN Program There are concerns about the health of Malaysia’s indigenous people (Orang Asli), particularly women and children, due to poverty and lack of knowledge about diet and nutrition. To address this, since 2009 Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad, working through the AIN program, has been supporting a project run by Universiti Putra Malaysia to improve the nutritional status of the Orang Asli. So far, with the cooperation of local governments and authorities, the project Employee volunteers help has trained Orang Asli women as local community volunteers and improved renovate a vacant house. awareness of health and nutrition issues. In March 2012, the company renovated two unused vacant houses in the Orang Asli village for the use as centers for provision of information on nutrition and health to the Oran Asli people. Forty employee volunteers took part in this activity. In addition, the employees also donated clothing, toys and books for the community that day. An Orang Asli child with clothing donated by employees Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 108 Growing with the People of Each Community Indonesia Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project to improve nutrition among children In 2011, PT Ajinomoto Indonesia commenced a three-year project in cooperation with Bogor Agricultural University (Institut Pertanian Bogor or IPB) to provide support for growing children in eating safe and nutritionally sound meals. In fiscal 2011, a basic survey of nutrition among students at the target elementary school found that girls, in particular, had serious vitamin and mineral deficiencies. In fiscal 2012, the project started providing students, teachers, parents and guardians with information about great-tasting food that is safe and highly nutritious, and then began educational activities on leading a healthy lifestyle. Employees of PT Ajinomoto Indonesia are taking part in lectures for children as volunteers with university staff to assist in the teaching of subjects such as nutrition and hygiene. Children learn about nutrition and hygiene. Cassava High-Yield Cultivation Project PT Ajinomoto Indonesia and Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ran the Cassava Sumatra High-Yield Cultivation Project in the Indonesian province of Lampung Sukadana County, from 2005. The project aims to improve the livelihoods of cassava East Lampung region, farmers and to spread high-yield cultivation techniques for sustainable Lampung, Indonesia community development. Cassava is a major food resource in Southeast Asia as well as being one of the fermentation raw materials used Jakarta to make the umami seasoning AJI-NO-MOTO®. The two firms have Java worked with the Lampung Bureau of Agriculture and community development specialists to provide working funds for the project, cassava cultivation techniques and community development knowhow. As a result, production per unit of land increased 2.5 times over five years, and the incomes of farmers also rose significantly. The project ended in fiscal 2010. However, another onsite visit was conducted in May 2012 to check on the sustainable effects of the project. The number of members of the farmers’ cooperative, known locally as koperasi, which stood at about 200 at the end of the project, has increased to 465. The koperasi helped farmers to reduce costs Cassava through the joint purchase of fertilizer and the joint distribution of harvested cassava, and also provided farmers with up-to-date price information to help them determine the best timing for sales. This confirms that the project resulted in an independent and sustainable system led by local farmers. Members of the koperasi farmers’ cooperative Received CSR Award PT Ajinomoto Indonesia placed in the top three in the 2nd CSR Award held by Seputar Indonesia National Newspaper, Indonesia’s biggest newspaper company. CSR Award plaque The award is given in appreciation of companies that are involved in socially and environmentally conscious activities. PT Ajinomoto Indonesia was highly rated for such initiatives as its Ajinomoto IPB Nutrition Project and the plant Zero Emission Project. At the awards 109 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community Vietnam School Meal Project In fiscal 2012, Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. began a five-year School Meal Project, starting in Ho Chi Minh City. The project aims to make school meals available throughout Vietnam by 2016 in partnership with Vietnam’s Ministry of Education and Training. Among the challenges in Vietnam, there are some regions where school meals are not provided. Even at primary boarding schools in urban areas where school meals are provided, it is difficult to develop a variety of menus that are suitable for the age of the students and meet the monthly fees for school meals. There also is an issue with lack of adequate information about nutrition and importance of daily food intake among students. The project develops school meal menus and nutrition education tools for Students try menus developed by the project members. students and will also provide school meal facilities and canteens, using Japan as a model, aiming to improve the diet and nutrition of students by increasing the provision of school meals and enhancing their content. As a preparation for launching the project, nutrition and health education seminars were held in fiscal 2011 to train school meal supervisors, chefs, teachers, and students’ parents. Establishment of endowed training course for Vietnam’s first dieticians and nutritionists In August 2012, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. concluded an agreement with Vietnam’s Hanoi Medical University and the National Institute of Nutrition to endow a training course1 at Hanoi Medical University for the purpose of training dietitians and nutritionists such as nutritional researchers in Vietnam. Formerly, with no national training programs, Vietnam had no qualification system for dieticians and therefore lacked these professionals. Under this endowment agreement, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. donated funds to support training courses which begun in October 2012. Going forward, the training course will support the establishment of a nutrition department offering a four-year bachelors degree in dietetic science and nutrition at Hanoi Medical University. In September 2013, the dietetic science and nutrition bachelor course with a four-year course of study will start to enroll the first students at Hanoi Medical University with the aim of producing about 40 dieticians annually. This will result in a national qualification system with an educational framework to help develop professional dieticians in areas such as hospital nutrition management and school meal programs. 1 Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has worked with the Vietnam National Institute of Nutrition and the Japan Dietetic Association on preparations for the commencement of the endowed courses. The signing ceremony China Recovery support for earthquake-stricken mountain village in Sichuan Province In response to the Great Sichuan Earthquake that struck in May 2008, group companies in China joined with the NGO Grassroots Community to provide recovery support for an earthquake-stricken mountain village called Longchi in 2009. Entering its third year in 2011, the multifaceted project encompasses economic, cultural, and educational activities. It has helped local residents to get back on their feet, while also attracting support from volunteer student groups from universities in Sichuan Province. A total of 17 employees of group companies in China have participated in local volunteer programs during their extended leave. Each year the area has seen major upheaval, such as additional damage in the stricken area caused by mudslides and victims having to move from temporary to permanent housing. To ensure economic recovery, local residents started growing tea and kiwi, and recently added embroidered craft production to their activities. The project officially ended in 2011, but group companies will continue to Employee volunteers plant trees. provide support through the Grassroots Community organization. Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 110 Growing with the People of Each Community India Educating on health and nutrition in mountain villages AIN Program In fiscal 2011, the AIN Program initiated support for a health and nutrition project designed to educate people in rural communities along the steep slopes of the mountainous area of West Bengal, where elevations are as high as 2,000 meters. Leaders from 12 villages (a total of 48 people) were selected to take part in training aimed at helping residents cultivate healthy dietary lifestyles on their own. In addition, 650 residents of these villages participated in nutritional training at clinics and activities, learning about nutritional meals made from vegetables and grains grown in family gardens. Working with local self-help organizations, the project also developed training programs and textbooks on nutrition to raise awareness among residents about nutritional balance and health. The AIN Program will continue to support these Village residents listen to a talk on nutrition. (Photo courtesy of the Miyazaki International Volunteer Center) activities in fiscal 2012. Bangladesh  uilding a system for sustainable school lunch—a model of citizen participation B and cooperation AIN Program The AIN Program supported this project, which promoted school lunches throughout Bangladesh for two years starting in 2010. Factors such as poverty and the lack of a broad-based system for providing school lunches make malnutrition among children a major issue in Bangladesh. To address this problem, the project worked with local government offices in a particular rural area of the country to set up a model program to provide nutritionally balanced school lunches, hold seminars on nutrition for teachers and parents, develop a food bank system for a continuous supply of food from donations by local residents, and create school gardens at two local elementary schools (300 students). The project boosted attendance among students, and at the same time, reduced the number of malnourished students by about 80%. Children enjoying school lunches (Photo courtesy of the The project came to a close in fiscal 2011, but the activities remain in Japan Bangladesh Cultural Exchange Association) place with the ultimate goal of introducing school lunches throughout Bangladesh. France Seminars on Japanese cuisine spotlight Japanese food culture Since 2007, Ajinomoto Europe S.A.S. has regularly held seminars on Japanese cuisine designed to showcase Japanese food culture at Maison de la Culture du Japon à Paris, the largest Japanese cultural institute in Europe. When the institute first installed kitchen equipment for the purpose of bringing authentic Japanese food culture to the people of France, itself a proud culinary culture, certain imitation Japanese foods were becoming popular in the country. Ajinomoto Europe S.A.S. held its first event in 2007 to present the basic concepts and techniques of authentic Japanese cuisine. Since then, the company has held more than 20 seminars and demonstrations on key points of the cultural background of the Japanese diet, ways of using dashi and Japanese seasonings, and cooking methods that bring out the umami of Japanese ingredients. Demonstration at the seminar These seminars and demonstrations are attended by a broad spectrum of people—from beginners interested in Japan to professional French chefs who wish to bring Japanese culinary skills to their French cuisine. The events provide a venue for Japanese-French cultural exchange through the world of food. 111 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Growing with the People of Each Community Brazil Nutrition Education Project for children and young people In fiscal 2011, INSTITUTO AJINOMOTO in Brazil began a Nutrition Education Project in partnership with the local NGO Aldejas Infantis S.O.S. The project provides support for people who are involved with nutrition education and activities related to diet and nutrition aimed at improving quality of life for about 700 children and young people aged from 0 to 17. In fiscal 2011, lectures and workshops were held for people involved in food preparation such as cooks, nurses, social workers and volunteers, economical recipes that use ingredients without waste were developed, and kitchen equipment, ingredients, and medical scales were provided. In fiscal 2012, the project is reviewing changParticipants in lectures and workshops on nutrition es in the health and nutrition status of the participating children and young people in order to evaluate the nutritional effect of the recipes that had been developed. Main activities of INSTITUTO AJINOMOTO The project took advantage of the expertise and (Established in Brazil in 1989) resources of the Ajinomoto Group to inform local people about the importance of nutrition, and I feel • Operates Nutrition Education Project in partnership with NGO that it has been extremely worthwhile. I would like • Implements activities to contribute to the local to work with a variety of partners involved with diet community (Provides support for establishment of and nutrition in the future to help improve quality facilities related to food and health; donates school supplies to public schools) of life for many people. Evelyn Tribuci • Provides support (scholarships) for students majoring in Ajinomoto do Brasil Ind. e Com. de Alimentos Ltda. food chemistry and dietetics • Provides support for disaster relief and rehabilitation Peru Improving the nutrition of residents of fishing villages using local seafood AIN Program Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. supported a project to improve the nutrition of residents of Supe Puerto district by evaluating and reintroducing locally available food. The project, operated by the Environmental Sustainability Center of Cayetano Heredia University, was supported for one year starting in April 2011. The project aimed to improve the diet and nutrition of fishing village residents in Supe Puerto district, an under-resourced area. It provided education on nutrition and cooking lessons enabling women to prepare meals focused on promoting the uptake of local seafood, particularly anchovies, which are cheap and packed with nutrients. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. cooperated in activities Local women take part in nutrition workshop. such as the production of a recipe book that uses seafood and seasonal ingredients based on recipes from local residents. The recipe book included photos of dishes prepared by well-known Peruvian chefs. The mayor of Supe Puerto stated, “This project has been extremely significant, since different social institutions like a private company, a university, and the community were able to work in partnership to improve health.” Umami Charity Dinner In December 2011, Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. and the Umami Information Top chefs from Japan and Peru participate in the Umami Charity Dinner. Center hosted the Umami Charity Dinner at Lima’s United Nations House, with the support of the FUNDACION AJINOMOTO PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA COMUNIDAD. Main activities of FUNDACIÓN AJINOMOTO The event featured Peru’s top chefs along with Nobuyuki PARA EL DESARROLLO DE LA COMUNIDAD Matsuhisa, and Yoshihiro Murata, chef and owner of Kikunoi, a (Established in Peru in 2003) traditional Japanese restaurant in Kyoto. About US$29,000 was collected from over 250 participants • Hosts Umami Charity Dinner and donated to the United Nations World Food Programme to • Holds Health and Nutrition workshops and lectures (172 symposiums in fiscal 2011, with approx 3,800 participants support a nutrition and education project in a rural area which in total) aims to prevent malnutrition in children by promoting use of • Provides economic support (scholarships) for students locally available food. majoring in dietetics • Promotes and supports social welfare activities Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 112 Growing with the People of Each Community Japan Table for Two + Tohoku: Supporting Great East Japan Earthquake recovery efforts A social contribution project originating in Japan, the Table for Two program provides school lunches to children in developing countries by donating 20 yen, the cost of a school lunch in these countries, for each healthy meal served at cafeterias. The Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Head Office and the Kawasaki Administration & Coordination Office have adopted the Table for Two + Tohoku program at their cafeterias, which directs 10 yen of each 20-yen donation to food assistance for three earthquake-stricken Tohoku prefectures. In fiscal 2011, the program raised 347,020 yen by serving 17,351 meals. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. is committed to developing similar programs at other offices and group companies in the future. School Tour of Education on Eating Table for Two poster at Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Head Office Since 2006, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. has organized the School Tour of Education on Eating to get children more interested in food and teach them more about Japanese cuisine, the traditional uses of dashi, and the excellence of umami. The tour involves visits to elementary schools by company employees who give students lessons on delicious taste, the secrets of flavor, and the importance of dashi and umami in Japanese food, as well as firsthand experience making dried bonito shavings. In fiscal 2011, the school tour included 381 visits to schools across Japan, with some 10,400 students participating. The program now has 1,000 employees, including executives, enrolled as lecturers. Ajinomoto Co., Inc. plans to continue the program to enable even more children to discover the wonders of dashi and Children learn how to make dried bonito shavings. umami and the joy of good food. Foundation initiatives Ajinomoto Foundation for Dietary Culture Ajinomoto Scholarship Foundation Established in Japan in 1989 Established in 2005 (Forerunner Suzuki ScholarMain activities ship Foundation established in 1957) • Operates the Dietary Culture Library Main activities • Plans and runs food culture forums • Provides educational support • Holds public symposiums and public lectures • Publishes and distributes vesta®, a magazine on food • Awards scholarships to international students from ASEAN culture, and other materials and other countries to study in Japan • Collects information, and exhibits material related to • Grants scholarships and student loans food culture The Ajinomoto Foundation for Dietary Culture focuses on Among its other social contributions, the Ajinomoto Group activities that enhance understanding of food culture. It seeks to support the development of global human aims to enrich food culture by supporting academic reresources. One element of this effort is the Ajinomoto search into food and publicizing the results. Scholarship Foundation, which has been granting In fiscal 2011, the foundation published issues 82 scholarships to international students from ASEAN counthrough 85 of the food culture magazine, vesta®. It also held tries since 2010. the Food Culture Exhibition featuring the theme, “Sumo The scholarship program grants funds for a total of and Food.” Exploring food culture from the perspective of three years of study (one year as a research student and sumo wrestling, this unique exhibit attracted 3,000 viewers two years as a master’s student) at the University of Tokyo over the three-month period of the exhibition. The foundaGraduate School of Science to students from five ASEAN tion also holds regular public symposiums that encourage countries. These countries—Indonesia, Malaysia, the discussions on food culture with the general public. Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam—are seeing remarkable growth, and the region as a whole is important to the Ajinomoto Group’s business vesta® issue 85 outside Japan. In April 2012, (February 2012 issue) a total of five students—one from each of these countries—enrolled at the University of Tokyo with scholar“What Will We Eat in ships from the foundation, the Future?” lecture at now in its third year. the 2011 Food Culture Symposium Welcoming new scholarship (November 2011) students in 2012 113 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Additional Sustainability Corporate social responsibility Information The sustainability initiatives of the Ajinomoto Group are presented in a variety of formats, aside from this report. Visit these websites to discover a wealth of additional information. This website provides detailed information on the many ways the Ajinomoto Group is helping to realize a sustainable future for people and the earth. Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ Ajinomoto Movie Channel Ajinomoto Group’s activities for Advertising sustainability Watch video clips on the corporate activities of the Easy-to-understand information on the Group’s A gallery of the Ajinomoto Group’s ads featuring Ajinomoto Group, the science of amino acids, and activities relating to food and its initiatives for various messages concerning eating, food education, other information. fostering ecosystems and minimizing waste while and environmental activities. utilizing the bounty of nature. http://www.ajinomoto.com/ http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ http://www.ajinomoto.co.jp/ Link Link Link features/movie/ activity/sustainability/ kfb/cm/ (Japanese only) Environmental conservation Eco-lifestyles starting with the Corporate citizenship activities everyday dining table Reports and other information on the various “Eco-Uma” Recipes and other tips to help consumers A website featuring the Group’s corporate citizenship initiatives of the Group designed to help resolve adopt green lifestyles starting at home with the activities that contribute to “food, health, and life” global environmental issues. dining table. around the world. http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ http://www.ajinomoto.com/jp/activity/ http://www.ajinomoto.com/ Link Link Link activity/environment/ environment/eco/index.html (Japanese only) en/activity/citizenship/ Quality assurance initiatives Research and development initiatives Customer Service Center Detailed information on initiatives for product quality This site presents information on the Ajinomoto Answers to commonly asked questions, and assurance that give top priority to consumer safety. Group’s R&D strategy and organizational structure, as customer contact information. well as its research fields. http://www.ajinomoto.com/ http://www.ajinomoto.co.jp/question/ Link Link http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/rd/ Link en/activity/csr/customer/ okyakusama/ (Japanese only) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 114 Ajinomoto Group at a Glance Ajinomoto (China) Co., Ltd. (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou) ● Ajinomoto Co., (Hong Kong) Ltd. ● Global Network Amoy Food Ltd. ●▲ HENAN AJINOMOTO AMINO ACID CO., LTD. ●▲ Lianyungang Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Ltd. ●▲ Lianyungang Ajinomoto Ruyi Foods Co., Ltd. ●▲ Shanghai Ajinomoto Amino Acid Co., Ltd. ●▲ S.A. Ajinomoto OmniChem N.V. ●▲▲▲ SHANGHAI AJINOMOTO FOOD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER CO., LTD. ● Europe & Africa Division ● Shanghai Ajinomoto Seasoning Co., Ltd. ●▲ AJINOMOTO EUROLYSINE S.A.S. ●▲ Shanghai Amoy Foods Co., Ltd. ●▲ AJINOMOTO EUROPE Ajinomoto Poland Sp. z o.o. ●▲ Shenzhen Amoy Foods Ltd. ●▲ S.A.S. ● Xiamen Ajinomoto Life Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. ●▲ AJINOMOTO FOODS ZAO “AJINOMOTO-GENETIKA Research Institute” ● Xiamen Ajiraku Ideal Foods Co., Ltd. ● EUROPE S.A.S. ●▲ OOO “AJINOMOTO” ● Ajinomoto Sweeteners Hamburg Moscow Europe S.A.S. ●▲ London Warsaw Amiens Louvain-la-Neuve Ajinomoto Istanbul Food Sales Ltd. ● Ajinomoto Korea, Inc. ● Paris Beijing Ajinomoto Bangladesh Ltd. ●▲ Istanbul Xiangcheng Seoul Lianyungang Ajinomoto Foods Egypt S.A.E. ● AJINOMOTO INDIA PVT. LTD. ●▲ Japan ●45▲33▲8▲4▲3 Shanghai Chengdu Cairo Xiamen AJINOMOTO TAIWAN INC. ● Guangzhou Taiso Commerce Inc. ● Dhaka Hanoi Taipei AJINOMOTO AFRIQUE DE L’OUEST S.A. ● Ayutthaya Hong Kong AJINOMOTO PHILIPPINES CORPORATION ● Kamphaeng Phet Bangkok West African Seasoning Co., Ltd. ●▲ Chennai Manila Global Cebu Foods Corporation ▲ Ho Chi Minh Flavor Food Products International, Inc. ▲ Lagos ASEAN Division ● Phnom Penh Abidjan Ajinomoto Co., Ajinomoto (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. ●▲ Kuala Lumpur Ajinomoto Vietnam Co., Ltd. ●▲▲ (Thailand) Ltd. ●▲▲▲▲▲ Singapore ABBT Co., Ltd. ●▲ Jakarta Ajinomoto (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. ● Ajinomoto Betagro Frozen Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ●▲ Surabaya Ajinomoto Betagro Specialty Foods Co., Ltd. ●▲ Ajinomoto Frozen Foods (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ●▲ Ajinomoto Sales (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ●▲ FD Green (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ●▲ Fuji Ace Co., Ltd. ●▲▲ Wan Thai Foods Industry Co., Ltd. ●▲ PT Ajinomoto Indonesia ●▲▲ PT Ajinex International ●▲ Global network: 26 countries and regions (including 103 manufacturing and packaging plants in 17 countries and regions) (Japan: 48; other countries: 55) ● Companies and offices ▲ Food plants 72 Ajinomoto (Malaysia) Berhad ●▲ ▲ Amino acid and specialty chemical plants 21 Gaban Spice Manufacturing (M) Sdn. Bhd. ▲▲ ▲ Pharmaceutical plants 4 ▲ Other plants 6 Note: Overseas consolidated subsidiaries and group companies accounted for by the equity method: 54 companies (as of October 1, 2012) Company profile Business segments Company name Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Food products sold in Japan  AJI-NO-MOTO®, HON-DASHI®, Cook Do®, soups, mayonnaise and Head office  15-1, Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, mayonnaise-type dressings, frozen Tokyo 104-8315, Japan foods, beverages, etc. Tel +81-3-5250-8111 Food products sold outside Japan  AJI-NO-MOTO®, flavor seasonings, soups, instant noodles, beverages, URL http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/ umami seasonings for processed food Foundation May 20, 1909 manufacturers, nucleotides, etc. Bioscience products & fine chemicals Aspartame, PAL SWEET®, specialty Establishment December 17, 1925 chemicals, amino acids for feed-use, Paid-in capital 79,863 million yen (as of March 31, 2012) pharmaceutical-use, food-use, etc. Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals, medical foods Number of employees  3,300 (non-consolidated), Business tie-ups Edible oils, coffee products 28,245 (consolidated) (as of March 31, 2012) Others amino VITAL®, distribution, various Fiscal year-end March 31 services, etc. 115 Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 Network in Japan North America Division ● Tokyo Ajinomoto Frozen Foods U.S.A., Inc. ●▲ Tokyo Branch Ajinomoto Heartland, Inc. ●▲ National Account Sales Dept. Ajinomoto North America, Inc. ●▲▲ Amoy North America, Inc. ● Ajinomoto Animal Nutrition Group, Inc. AJINOMOTO BAKERY CO., LTD. Ajinomoto Communications, Inc. Ajinomoto Engineering Corporation Ajinomoto Frozen Foods Co., Inc. Ajinomoto General Foods, Inc. AJINOMOTO HEALTHY SUPPLY CO., INC. AJINOMOTO LOGISTICS CORPORATION AJINOMOTO PHARMACEUTICALS CO., LTD. Ajinomoto Trading, Inc. Ajinomoto Treasury Management, Inc. GABAN Co., Ltd. JINO Co., Inc. Chicago J-OIL MILLS, INC. Portland Eddyville New Jersey Kawaken Fine Chemicals Co., Ltd. Los Angeles Raleigh Mexico City Ajinomoto de México, S. de R.L. de C.V. ● ■ Hokkaido Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Ajinomoto del Perú S.A. ●▲ Lima São Paulo Tohoku Branch Latin America Division ● Ajinomoto do Brasil Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos Ltda. ●▲▲▲▲▲ ■ Nippon Protein Co., Ltd. Nissin-Ajinomoto Alimentos Ltda. ●▲ Hokuriku Branch Kanto Branch ■ Delica Ace Co., Ltd. Nagoya Head Office Branch Chugoku ■ Kawasaki Branch Osaka Branch NRI System K  awasaki Administration & Techno, Ltd. Coordination Office Shikoku Kyushu Branch Ajinomoto Fine-Techno Co., Inc. Branch ● Tokai Plant Ajinomoto Packaging Co., Inc. Knorr Foods Co., Ltd. ■ YAMAKI Co., Ltd. ● Kyushu Plant Ajinomoto Co., Inc. ● Head Office ● Branch offices ● Regional branch offices & ■ Okinawa Ajinomoto Co., Inc. other sales facilities ● Administration, coordination ■ Group companies office & plants Net sales by Net sales by Consolidated financial highlights business region Net sales Operating income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Others 6% 80 1,500 1,500 69.4 72.680 1,200 1,216.5 Europe 1,190.4 1,170.9 1,207.7 1,197.3 1,200 1,216.5 1,190.4 1,170.9 1,207.7 1,197.3 60.5 64.0 60.5 Business tie-ups The Americas 8% 60 60 15% Food products sold in Japan 9%900 900 40.8 40.8 40 40 Pharmaceuticals 37% Asia 7% 15% 600 Japan 600 Bioscience products & 68% 20 20 fine chemicals Food products 300 300 17% sold outside Japan 0 0 19% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 0 2007 2008 (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) Ajinomoto Group Sustainability Report 2012 116 Inquiries: CSR Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Address: 15-1, Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8315, Japan Tel: +81-3-5250-8165 Fax: +81-3-5250-8314 E-mail: csr_info@ajinomoto.com URL: http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/csr/ Inquiries related to environmental activities: Environment & Safety Department, Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Tel: +81-3-5250-8169 Fax: +81-3-5250-8943 E-mail: en_soshiki@ajinomoto.com URL: http://www.ajinomoto.com/en/activity/environment/ Unauthorized copying or reproduction of this document is prohibited. ©Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 2012 Printed on paper made with wood from forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-Kai” (Forest Neighborhood Association)—Supporting sound forest management. This report is printed on Forest Vegetable-based ink derived from Stewardship CouncilTM (FSCTM) certified vegetable oil and non-VOC ink were used paper, which is made from trees grown in the printing of this publication, in order in responsibly managed forests. to reduce the emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), a cause of air pollution.
